Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3414
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
MALAWI LILONGWE LAND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM PHASE III
(CREDIT 550-MAI)
April 7, 1981
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oflicial duties. Its contents miay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
ADMARC      -   Agricultural Development and Marketing
Croporation
LLDP        -   Lilongwe Land Development Program
MANR        -   Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
NRDP        -   National Rural Development Program
RMEA        -   Resident Mission in East Africa



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
MALAWI LILONGWE LAND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM PHASE III
(CREDIT 550-MAI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  ......................................................                                         i
Basic  Data  Sheet  ...............................................                                    ii
Highlights  ....................................................                                       iv
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
I.     SUMMARY  .............................................                                    1
The  Program  .....................................                                 1
Major Findings  of Audits  for  Phases  I and  II  ....                             2
II.     Main  Issues  .........................................                                   3
A.   Relative  Emphasis  on  Infrastructure  Development..                                3
B.   Institution Building  ............................                                  4
C.   Program  Production Targets  ......................                                  5
D.   Monitoring  and  Evaluation  .......................                                 9
E.   Supervision Missions  ............................                                   9
III.      Conclusion  ..........................................                                  10
ATTACHMENT:
(1)   Covering  Note  to  the  PCR  prepared  by RMEA  ....                   .......          12
(2) PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1.     Introduction  and  Summary  .......................                              17
2.     Background  .....................................                                18
3.    Formulation  ....................................                                 19
4.    Implementation  .................................                                 21
5.    Impact  .........................................                                 36
6.    Financial Performance  ..........................                                 53
7.    Institutional Performance  ......................                                 55
8.    Rate  of Return  .................................                                62
9.    Discussion  and  Conclusions  .....................                               64
Annexes        1 -  8                                                             68-139
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may-not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
MALAWI LILONGWE LAND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM PHASE III
(CREDIT 550-MAI)
PREFACE
This is a performance audit of Phase III of the Malawi Lilongwe Land
Development Program for which Credit 550-MAI in the amount of US$8.5 million
was approved in March 1975.  The final disbursement was made on July 11, 1979
and the credit was closed on June 30, 1979, as planned.
The audit report consists of an audit memorandum prepared by the
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and a Project Completion Report (PCR)
dated November 1979.  The PCR was prepared by the Government of Malawi.  RMEA
contributed the project overview to the PCR.  The Audit Memorandum is based on
a review of the Appraisal Report (No. 652-MAI) dated February 28, 1975, the
President's Report (No. P-1583-MAI) of March 10, 1975,  the Credit Agreement
dated May 27, 1975 and the PCR. Correspondence with the Borrower and internal
Bank Memoranda on project issues as contained in relevant Bank files have been
reviewed.    Bank staff  associated  with  the project  have  been  interviewed.
An OED mission visited Malawi  in October 1980.   The mission held
discussions  with officials  of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural  Re-
sources and project management.   A field trip was made and discussions held
with  farmers  and  community  leaders.   The  information obtained  during  that
mission was used to test the validity of the conclusions of the PCR and
permitted discussion of project design and institutional aspects.
A copy of the draft report was sent to the Borrower on December 29,
1980 for comments but none were received.
The PCR is thorough and frank in its assessment of project achieve-
ments and shortcomings, but the audit has reservations on some of the causal
relationships  presented  in  the report.   The issues discussed in the audit
memorandum are selected on the basis of their importance to the Government and
future Bank work.
The assistance provided by the Government and the project staff in
the preparation of this report is gratefully acknowledged.



I
S0



- ii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET
MALAWI LILONGWE LAND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM, PHASE III
(CREDIT 550-MAI)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal        Actual or
Item                                 Expectation    Current Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)                       12.03             13.26
Cost overrun (%)                                         -               10.2
Credit amount (US$ million)                             8.5                8.5
Disbursed   )                                           8.5                8.5
Cancelled   )  September 30, 1980                        -                  -
Outstanding )                                           8.5                8.5
Date Physical Component Completed                      3/78              3/79
Time Overrun (%)                                         -               33
Economic Rate of Return /a (%)                         13                25
DISBURSEMENT
(US$ 000)
1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79
Appraisal Estimate
Yearly                                     870      3,270        2,580       1,780
Cumulative                                 870      4,140        6,720       8,500
Acutal
Yearly                                  1,441       2,580       2,516        1,963
Cumulative                              1,441       4,021        6,537       8,500
Actual/Estimate (%)                         165         0.97        0.97        100
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original                        Actual or
Item                           Plan        Revisions       Estimate Actual
Board Approval                                                          03/20/75
Credit Agreement Date                                                   05/27/75
Effectiveness Date                     08/29/75                         08/12/75
Closing Date                           06/30/79                         06/30/79
Borrower                                     Government of Malawi
Executing Agency                             Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources
Fiscal Year of Borrower                      April 1 to March 31
Follow-on Project                            National Rural Development Program
Credit Number                                Cr. 857-MI
Credit Amount                                US$22 million
/a   For all three phases of the program.



I



- iii -
MISSION DATA
Month    No. of       No. of   Man-    Date of
Origin      Year    Persons    Weeks    Weeks   Report
Supervision X T/          RMEA       11/75        1          2         2
Supervision               RMEA       02/76        2           1        2    03/08/76
Supervision XII           RMEA       09/76        1          1         1    10/29/76
Supervision XIII          RMEA      1-2/77        2          3         6
Supervision XIV           RMEA                    1          4         4    03/14/77
Supervision XIV           RMEA    9-10/77         1          2         2    01/09/78
Supervision XV            RMEA       06/78        1          1         1
Supervision               RMEA       07/78        1          1         1    09/12/78
Completion_/b             RMEA       03/79        1          2         2    04/11/79
Completion                RMEA       10/79        1          1         1    10/29/79
RATES OF EXCHANGE
Name of Currency                                  Malawi Kwacha (MK)
Appraisal Year Average 1975                     Exchange Rate US$1 = MKO.83
Intervening Years Average                                      US$1 = MKO.86
Completion Year Average 1979                                    US$1 = MKO.81
/a   Supervision mission numbers pick up the series started in Phases I and II.
/b   Government estimates that the preparation of the PCR required 20 manweeks.
In addition, RMEA devoted to it 3 manweeks of field work. Bank expecta-
tions for the preparation of PCR's is about 10 manweeks.






- iv -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
MALAWI LILONGWE LAND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM PHASE III
(CREDIT 550-MAI)
HIGHLIGTS
The Lilongwe Land Development Program (Credit 550-MAI) was designed
in 1966 to help create a suitable environment for increased crop production in
a then depressed, but high potential area of Malawi.   The program extended
over the period 1968-1978 and was implemented in three phases.  Program costs
amounted to US$27.7 million to which IDA contributed three credits totalling
US$21.7 million.   The program aimed at a target population of about 109,000
farm families  and covered an area of about  1.2 million acres.   The audit
reviews progress during the third and final phase of the program. However, as
may be expected, the issues raised and the results analyzed are the product of
actions taken over the three phases.   Similarly, Government has made a com-
mendable effort in preparing the Project Completion Report and the Bank's RMEA
has done an excellent job in encouraging and assisting in the effective
handover of this responsibility.
Phase III of the program consisted of a continuation of infrastruc-
ture development, including land development, reorganization and registration,
construction of marketing and storage facilities, office space and staff
housing, provision of extension, training and credit services, initiation of
the integration of livestock and crop production activities, provision of
health services in the program area, and program monitoring.
The physical implementation of the program was a success.   Govern-
ment gave qualified and motivated expatriate staff support and the needed
flexibility to direct an efficient and timely construction of project works.
Within the constraints imposed by the policy framework and the country overall
conditions, project management also succeeded in providing farmers with
reasonably efficient  extension,  credit  and marketing  services.   The major
shortfall of this program is that despite the progress made, it did not go far
enough in lessening Malawi's dependence on outside technical assistance and in
contributing to the creation in Malawi of an internally generated, self-
sustained development process. Morever, many lessons learnt from this experi-
ence still remain to be incorporated in other development activities in the
country.   The reestimated rate of return is 25% compared to the initial
appraisal estimate of 13/4.
The following points may be of particular interest:
-    Government  did  not contribute  the  full policy input needed
for successful implementation of tne program (PPAM paras. 19
to 22);



a



-v -
the shortfall in achieving yield targets of the program may
be attributable to the lack of sufficient adaptation of tech-
nological advice given to farmers and to on-farm economic
considerations rather than to the inefficiency of the extension
service (PPAM paras. 17 to 19; PCR paras. 5.5.1 to 5.5.4); and
involvement of target  population in the development process
through village committees was successfully initiated (PPAM
para. 27, PCR paras. 5.13.1 to 5.13.6).






PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
MALAWI LILONGWE LAND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM PHASE III
(CREDIT 550-MAI)
I. SUMMARY
The Program
1.        The Lilongwe Land Development Program (LLDP) was prepared in 1966
for an area of recognized high agricultural potential in response to (i)
threatening soil erosion due to rapid deterioration of the natural vegetation
cover and (ii) population pressure on the land base which was reinforcing land
fragmentation and the subsistence nature of agriculture.   The program objec-
tive as stated in the Phase I Appraisal Report was "to raise agriculture
production (maize, tobacco, groundnuts) by increasing yields and ensuring the
effective use of all suitable land, and by furthering the transition from a
subsistence  to  a market  economy.       The program-s intermediate  objectives
included infrastructure development (feeder roads, marketing facilities,
domestic water supply, soil conservation works and buildings) and provision of
services to farmers (extension, marketing, credit, input supply, land use
planning,  land  registration,  and  health).    These  intermediate  objectives
remained consistent over the three phases, except for the addition of support
for livestock activities starting in Phase II and for health facilities in
Phase III.  The LLDP emphasized rural infrastructure development, implemented
through capital intensive technology, with heavy reliance on expatriate
management operating virtually independently of existing public institutions.
2.        The  LLDP was  implemented  over  the ten years  1968-1978  in three
phases:
IDA Credit
Amount       Total Cost
Phase           Number       (US$ M)        (US$ M)         Period
I           113-MAI         6.00           7.00          1968-72
II            244-MAI        7.25           8.59          1971-75
III            550-MAI        8.50          12.10          1975-78
21.75          27.60
The difference between total program costs and IDA credits was financed from
internal sources except for a grant of US$1.6 million from the United Nations
Capital Development Fund during Phase III.  The Phase I Credit Agreement was
closed, fully disbursed ahead of schedule, in August 1972 (Project Performance
Audit Report No. 751, dated May 23, 1975).  The Phase II Credit Agreement was
closed, fully disbursed on schedule in March 1976 (Project Performance Audit
Report No. 1597, dated May 17, 1977).



-2-
3.         Phase III, the subject of this report, was appraised in 1975 as a
three-year investment representing the final phase of the program which was
broadly defined  in 1966-67.   The area covered by LLDP  increased  from the
Phase I target of 500,000 acres to 1.0 million acres in Phase II and 1.2
million acres in Phase III. The LLDP was initially planned to directly affect:
the lives of an estimated 53,500 families by 1978-79. As a result of the area
expansion  the  target  population  increased  to  about  109,000  farm  families
representing about 10% of the country's rural population. A detailed descrip-
tion of the Project is provided in Annex III(a) of the PCR.  The major innova-
tion in Phase III was the expansion of livestock activities to cover poultry
and dairy development programs and the inclusion of funds for the expansion
and improvement of health facilities in the program area.   An agreement for
a credit of US$8.5 million was signed on May 27, 1975, became effective!
August 12 of the same year, and was closed fully disbursed in June 1979, as
expected.
Major Findings of Audits for Phases I and II
4.         On basic project design, the PPAR for Phase I raised the question of
whether a less capital-intensive approach could have been adopted at least for
part of the infrastructure development.  The financial and time advantages of
the capital intensive approach were recognized but "an opportunity seems to
have been missed to stimulate a powerful local commitment to the program and
to promote early on a sense of local self-identity. Indeed, in some cases the
program actually pre-empted the activities of local people who had organized
themselves to provide their own conservation works."
5.         The Phase I PPAR also found that built-in monitoring and evaluation
had failed to provide the necessary material for evaluating accomplishment at
LLDP on the basis of appraisal½s principal yardstick, crop yields. Because of
wide variation in yields, the PPAR recommended that analysis of the mean
values be complemented with analysis of weather variables and presented in the
form of statistical distributions indicating the breadth of impact the project
may be having.
6.        Finally,  the Phase I PPAR found  the frequency of IDA supervision
missions adequate, possibly even excessive since project management complained
about the time required to show people around and the diversity of opinions
expressed to Government on behalf of IDA.  However, supervision missions were
narrow in scope and there was room for more thorough follow-up supervision to
specifically assist with the problems that arose during implementation and
that  were  likely  to affect  future phases and  the continuation of program
activities after the investment period.
7.        The extensive literature written about LLDP indicates that outside
observers appear to agree that a major characteristic of the program has been
its "rather strong and flexible management, adapting to changing circum-
stances"  (PPAR,  Phase  II).   Yet,  judging  from what has happened over  the
years, this audit finds that the strength and flexibility of management was an



- 3 -
effective tool for achieving the construction part of the program, but not in
incorporating lessons from past practices in order to achieve the ultimate
objective of the program.   In fact, the same conclusions reached during the
review of Phase I continued to be relevant at the end of Phase II.
8.        The major finding in the PPAR for Phase II was that no convincing
evidence was yet available to repudiate or to confirm the economic viability
of the investment undertaken.   Hence, LLDP could not yet be called a success
by appraisal standards. The PCR for Phase II, specifically, recommended that
"If some accurate measure is to be required of the project-s impact on farm
incomes and farm family well-being, which are the ultimate objectives of the
program, the nature of such measure, the means by which it can be obtained,
and the resource implications of the data gathering and analysis process
should be discussed and agreed with project management as soon as possible."
This was not done.
II. MAIN ISSUES
9.        The PCR for LLDP Phase III was prepared by Government and was the
first of its kind in East Africa. The report is highly detailed and surpris-
ingly quantitative, considering the quantity and quality of data available.
Comments are given below on issues and conclusions of importance for future
work which are either insuffficiently discussed in the PCR or not discussed at
all.
A.   Relative Emphasis on Infrastructure Development
10.       LLDP was conceived as a "planned" rural development program in the
sense that it attempted to balance infrastructure development and long-term
area resources availability and potential.   This approach is still viewed by
Government as desirable and economical in the long run, but it is increasingly
accepted as "unaffordable" in the short and medium runs because of the heavy
burden it imposes on the country-s development and recurrent budgets. Govern-
ment is, therefore, increasingly favoring projects with a minimum of physical
infrastructure and possibly lower construction standards in order to meet the
budgetary constraints and spread the benefits of the limited development funds
to a wider area in the country. The National Rural Development Program (NRDP)
initiated in 1978 was meant to reflect these Government concerns. The ration-
ale underlying Government concerns is primarily financial, but it seems to
suggest either that LLDP could have included less infrastructure and/or could
have used lower construction standards or that the same results could be
obtained from rural development programs under similar conditions as LLDP but
with less investment in infrastructure.
11.       Given the objectives set for the LLDP program, this audit found no
evidence to suggest that the 18% of total costs initially allocated for
infrastructure development was beyond the minimum required for opening up an
area with deteriorating land resources and, previously, with basically no



- 4 -
access to the market and to the most basic social amenities (drinking water
and health). Furthermore, based on data reconstructed from information in the
various appraisal reports, this audit found that expenditures on infrastruc-
ture development amounted to about US$107 per family directly benefiting from
LLDP, as opposed to about US$94 per family in the case of NRDPl/.  Given the
particular emphasis Government put on minimizing expenditures on infrastruc-
ture development in the case of NRDP, the small difference supports the
finding that (i) LLDP was not overdesigned in terms of infrastructure develop-
ment, and (ii) under the conditions that prevailed in Malawi, minimum invest-
ments in rural infrastructure of the type undertaken under LLDP and NRDP were
necessary to make farmers' participation in these programs feasible and
beneficial.
12.       On  the  issue  of  construction  standards,  the  program management
elected to use road construction standards lower than those accepted nation-
ally. As a consequence, there remain 1800 kms of roads which the Ministry of
Public Works (MPW) refuses to take over for maintenance on the basis that they
do not meet national standards.   MPW was not involved in selecting construc-
tion standards and was not consulted on the trade-off between construction
costs in the short run and maintenance costs in the long run.   This audit
supports the judgment that, in environments with weak institutions and narrow
basis for generating public revenues, it is more economical in the long run to
opt for relatively high standard construction as a means for minimizing the
medium term impact of the investment on the recurrent budget and limiting its
demand on overburdened public institutions.
13.       With regard to both construction and maintenance of infrastructural
facilities, the issues relating to the social cost and benefits of alternative
degrees of capital intensity and the lessons learnt from LLDP were not given
proper consideration by either Government or IDA in the design of new programs
(such as NRDP and others).   This was in contrast to the particular attention
given to the budgetary implications of different degrees of emphasis on
infrastructure development.
B.   Institution Building
14.       Despite the substantial progress made in strengthening local insti-
tutions, Malawi today remains heavily dependent on outside technical assis-
tance for conceptual work.  Considering that LLDP was conceived 12 years ago,
a deliberate bias toward institution-building in project design could have
resulted in the country being more self-reliant institutionally than it is
today. First, the program did not provide for any training beyond that needed
for performing project related specific tasks, despite the fact that this pro-
gram was initially regarded as the precursor and model for future rural devel-
opment programs in the country.   As a result, Malawi could have developed
1/   Both expressed in constant 1978 dollars.



- 5 -
further its own conceptualizing capability, which could make its rural devel-
opment programs fully responsive to the needs of the people and to the con-
straints the country faces.  Second, the program was implemented by a manage-
ment unit which, for all practical purposes, operated independently of exist-
ing institutions. This was done in the interest of efficiency in the physical
implementation of the project but the institution building impact was fore-
gone.  As a result, Malawi also remains short of institutional capability to
maintain  on-going  activities  and  implement  new development  programs.    In
conclusion, this audit finds that, from Malawi-s point of view, it would have
been worthwhile to sacrifice some degree of efficiency in the physical and
timely implementation of the program as a price for building a local capabil-
ity and local institutions to conceive and implement future development
programs.
15.       A major example was the establishment of a Project Construction Unit
as opposed to reliance on MPW or the use of contractors.   The decision was
based on the recognized lack of technical and managerial capability in MPW,
the absence of local Contractors, the absence of supervisory capability to
oversee local or international contractors, the anticipated lower cost and
more timely implementation.   These are legitimate reasons for the decision
taken.  The only shortcoming was that insufficient allowance was made in the
program for remedying these deficiencies so that the country might acquire the
capability to efficiently implement subsequent construction programs. Project
Construction Unit staff indicated that several opportunities to involve and
encourage small local contractors were foregone because program management was
not given enough flexibility to adapt its procedures which tended to emphasize
strict  financial  risk aversion and timely implementation.   The same staff
members also indicated that one major reason for the delays in the takeover of
responsibilities by MPW for road maintenance is the fact that MPW was not as
closely associated with the program as were the agencies responsible for
Project marketing and health services, for example.
C.   Program Production Targets
16.       The appraisal of the three phases of the program chose increased
production as the principal yardstick against which to measure success of
LLDP.  Higher production was to be realized through higher productivity, area
expansion and an increase in marketable surplus.  Compared to the pre-program
situation, the average yield of maize achieved during Phase III increased by
about 20%, the average yield of groundnuts declined by about 20% and the
average  yield  of  tobacco increased  by about 150%.   Compared  to appraisal
targets the program achievements fell far short of expectations in the case
of maize and groundnuts and exceeded expectations in the case of tobacco.
Estimates of the crop yields achieved may have been higher if it was possible
to account for the flow of produce across the border into Mozambique and
Zambia where prices were higher.



-6 -
Yield Estimates (lb/acre)
Pre-program    Appraisal Program    End of Program
Estimate/a         Target/a            Estimatefb
Maize                         1,100               2,000                1,339
Groundnuts                      500                 650                  404
Tobacco                         200                 400                  506
/a   Appraisal Report, Phase I, Report No. TO-610a, January 3, 1968.
7b   Average achieved during Phase III, 1975-79.
The PCR attributes the shortfall in achieving yield targets to ineffective
extension and marketing services as well as to a conservative price policy.
This audit differs with the PCR on the relative importance of these factors in
explaining yield shortfalls.
17.       The audit found that extension was the prime mover in the implemen-
tation of the program and the unit most deserving of credit for what was
achieved rather than blame for what was not achieved.  Extension was success-
ful and effective in the case of technological improvements which had been
proven as technically feasible under farm conditions and economically desir-
able and to which farmers had access.   As a result of extensive discussions
with program extension staff and limited discussions with farmers, this audit
identified many instances where technological improvements, perceived by
Government and program management as technically feasible and economically
desirable, did not meet farmers expectations and hence were not accepted
despite the efforts of extension staff.
18.       For example, in the case of groundnuts (PCR, para. 5.4), the audit
mission was informed that the recommended plant density had changed three
times during the program period. Moreover, recommendations on density did not
fully take account of farmers- concern for risk due to weather variations.
They also aimed at increasing the quantity with little concern for the quality
of the nuts produced (high plant density reduces the size of the confectionery
nut, creating problems with marketing).   The second major recommendation for
groundnuts was the use of sulfur dust, which was hindered by poor quality
products distributed to farmers in the early years. In the case of maize, the
program concentrated for some time on the introduction of varieties which did
not meet local taste standards, and which were more vulnerable to insect
attacks in storage.  In the case of both maize and groundnuts the recommenda-
tions on weeding did not fully take account of the limited family labor supply
and the competing demands of other crops.   The success of extension in the
case of tobaccco was not due to a bias in the practices of extension staff (as
indicated by the PCR, para. 5.5), but rather to the fact that tobacco tech-
nology was proven from the beginning and met farmers  expectations.  Extension
was well organized in trying to pass technology improvements to the farmers



-7-
but made insufficient efforts to review problems with research people and
farmers when they failed to adopt recommended practices and take the necessary
remedial action to solve such problems in the following season.  Generally,
better liaison with research and closer evaluation of farmers acceptability
could have enhanced the already good performance of the extension service.
19.       LLDP was designed on the assumption that proven technology accept-
able to farmers was available or could be developed and that the policy
framework to make the use of such technology attractive to farmers also
existed.  During implementation, however, neither one of these assumptions was
found completely valid.   On the technology side there was a mixture of prac-
tices some of which were both acceptable and desirable from the farmers- point
of view, some of which were acceptable but farmers found them undesirable
because of prevailing policy constraints (prices, input supply), and some of
which were neither acceptable nor desirable from the farmers  point of view.
In other words, program staff had to implement an extension program which was
substantially different from that conceived at appraisal. Under these condi-
tions LLDP extension staff have performed remarkably well.
20.       Marketing,  both for inputs and outputs, was the responsibility of
the Agricultural  Development  and  Marketing  Corporation (ADMARC).   The PCR
attributes to it some blame for the shortfall in yield achievement (PCR, para.
7.3).   The audit found that, although ADMARC could substantially improve its
present practices, a major share of its ineffectiveness in serving the program
could be attributed to factors outside the control of ADMARC management. Such
factors include delays at foreign ports of entry for imported goods, supply
controls imposed nationally, disturbances in the local transport system due to
political events in neighboring countries, and inefficient planning by program
management (late orders).  Here again, the issue should not be whether ADMARC
was to blame or not, but rather whether conditions which prevailed during
implementation were foreseeable at appraisal and the extent to which uncer-
tainty and the attendant flexibility were incorporated in project design.
ADM4ARC appears to have performed as well as it could possibly have performed
under the conditions that prevailed during project implementation by adapting
to changing country conditions to the extent that its management capability
allowed it.
21.       Price policy has been an issue since the identification stage of the
program. Despite repeated recommendations by appraisal and supervision
missions, Government has been very reluctant to utilize price policy as a
means to increase production and bring about a change in the relative impor-
tance of crops away from tobacco and towards more maize and groundnuts.  For
example, the program was intended to change maize from being a predominantly
subsistence crop to a cash crop.   The conditions under which the program was
implemented made that objective, at the outset, practically impossible.
First, farmers already grew two familiar cash crops, tobacco and goundnuts
and were not desperate for a new cash crop.  Second, the relative prices that
prevailed and the relative returns to labor achieved made the shift away from
tobacco and toward maize and groundnuts undesirable.   Third, the technology



-8-
proposed for maize involved more risk to the farmer.  Hence a shift to maize
could not have been achieved without meaningful adjustments in the relative
prices of crops and in the input/output price ratios.
22.       Despite the efforts of RMEA staff, the Bank made very slow progress
in convincing Government to link operationally its production programs and
targets to its price policy.   In fact since price policy continues to be an
issue in other development projects in Malawi (on-going or being prepared), it
appears questionable whether Government is fully convinced of the seriousness
of the negative effects on development programs of unfavorable price policies
and whether the Bank, despite the continuous dialogue with the country, has
done all it could to assist Government in operationally shifting towards a
more production-oriented price policy.
23.       Another question hinted at in the PCR and in the audit of Phase II
is whether physical appraisal targets are mere illustrations or strict criteria
against which success or failure of the project should be assessed.   This
question is particularly relevant in the case of appraisal parameters which,
during implementation, are found not to reflect realities in the field as was
the case in LLDP.   Four examples are given.   First, it was indicated to the
audit mission that the base data for the initial appraisal was unrealistic
because conditions in the pilot area were different from those in the rest of
the program area.   This was recognized during the implementation of Phase I
but there was not enough flexibility during program implementation to adjust
appraisal  targets  based on "judgments  of local people".   Instead program
management continued to push for achieving the stated targets because the
"bottom-up" flow of information did not find its way into the plans drawn by
the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR).   Such information
did not find its way into the IDA appraisal reports for Phases II and III
either. As a consequence, input use and production targets were not signifi-
cantly adjusted during Phases II and III of the program.   Second, extension
staff reported that they consistently advised program management that a major
reason for the poultry component running into problems was its overcapitaliza-
tion (expensive cages). Yet this extension finding did not enter the decision
process, and project management chose (and the Bank approved) to stop the
growth of this component instead of adjusting it to actual needs of the
farmers. Third, Construction Unit staff indicated that the Program has
foregone the opportunity to involve local small contractors, as a partial
substitute to alternative arrangements prescribed in the appraisal report,
because of the possible time loss implications and the rigid financial rules.
Fourth, senior officials at MANR indicated that the major achievement of LLDP,
from their point of view, was that "it has given agriculture a good name among
the area's farming and non farming population".   This is illustrated by the
fact that rural-urban migration is practically insignificant in this area
despite the on-going fast development of Lilongwe,  the capital city.   This
evaluation contrasts with both Government and IDA efforts to measure the
success or failure of the program on the basis of the yield targets and
achievements alone.



- 9 -
24.       Physical targets set in appraisal reports should be regarded as a
flexible guideline for management.  Base line data and project targets should
be realistically reassessed (if there is justification for such reassessment
as was the case in LLDP) by program staff in conjunction with supervision
missions as implementation progresses. Moreover, the PCR should have gone one
step further and, in addition to assessment of physical achievements, given
decision makers (as opposed to program management) indications as to the
extent to which program objectives (which are often different from program
physical targets) were achieved and the factors associated with their degree
of achievement.   Topics which the PCR could have covered include (i)  the
extent to which the project has helped in setting in motion further develop-
ment programs in farming or complementary activities, (ii) the extent of
learning that has taken place and which could serve as the basis for further
locally generated growth (acquisition of skills needed for future development,
changes in habits, attitudes and practices), (iii) the extent to which the
program objectives are compatible with national objectives and fit within the
prevailing policy framework, and the extent to which they are compatible with
the needs of the beneficiaries, and (iv) the welfare implications of the
program on the region, including income distribution, nutrition, reliability
of the farming system (risk), extent of the dependence of the target popula-
tion on public assistance, and vulnerability of the farming system to changes
in the production environment which are beyond the control of farmers and that
of local institutions. This evaluation would have required the development of
a methodology which should already have been specified and agreed at the
appraisal stage.
D.   Monitoring and Evaluation
25.       This audit found that neither Program Management nor MANIR appear to
be well served by the system developed so far. The Central Monitoring Unit is
not providing the necessary management-oriented feed-back to the Project Unit
nor is i.t providing the proper cross-project and sector wide policy-making
oriented feed-back to decision makers at MANR. This audit supports the
separation of internal monitoring and evaluation of individual projects (as a
means of enhancing their successful implementation) from independent monitor-
ing and evaluation of all development projects in a country (as a means of
extracting lessons from past and on-going development efforts and facilitating
their incorporation in on-going programs and in the planning process).   The
former type of monitoring and evaluation would concentrate on specified
objectives in a given project, whereas the latter type of monitoring and
evaluation would concentrate on checking the consistency of the objectives
of various projects and the desirability of their aggregate effects, and on
feeding  back its  findings  into  the policy making  and  planning processes.
E.   Supervision Missions
26.       As a result of discussions with Government officials and project
staff in the field, this audit found an imbalance between the supervision
needs of this rurual development project and what the Bank allocated to it.



- 10 -
This imbalance was not in terms of number of supervision missions but rather
in terms of their nature:l/
-    One-man missions were often limited in scope and unsuitable for
discussing conceptual issues arising in the course of project
implementation.
-    Short missions did not allow time for meaningful field visits and
first hand assessment and appreciation of problems encountered
during implementation.
-    Excessive emphasis was given by supervision missions to the
quantitative targets in the appraisal reports and, in general,
missions were unwilling to review such targets in light of
evidence from the field.
-    Because of the multidisciplinary nature of rural development,
supervision missions often lacked the capability and, apparently,
the mandate to discuss project wide issues arising during
implementation and, together with Government, devise and decide
on ways of tackling them.
III. CONCLUSION
27.       The physical implementation of the Lilongwe Land Development Program
was unquestionably a success in terms of timeliness and financial control, but
one which was achieved at a price in terms of developing local capability for
self-generated  and  sustained  rural  development.    The  development  program
itself was only partially a success.  The accomplishments of this program may
be expressed in terms of (i) the establishment of an operational extension
service at field level, (ii) the commendable increasing involvement of benefi-
ciaries in the development process through the committees at village level,
(iii) the initiation of integrating livestock and crop activities, (iv) the
opening up of rural areas through rural infrastructure development, (v) the
provision of basic social services to the rural population, and (vi) the
increased crop production which resulted from a clear build up of farmers'
market orientation (provided the opportune policies for the realization of
such potential are adopted).  The program was less successful in (i) building
local institutions capable of conceiving and implementing similar programs,
1/   RMEA staff are of the opinion that "considering only the direct supervi-
sion of LLDP does not give an adequate measure of the dialogue which went
on with Government, and which, through the supervision of other projects,
the preparation and appraisal of NRDP, was covering all aspects of rural
development in Malawi."



- 11 -
(ii) creating, within Government, full awareness of the complementarity of
development programs technological, institutional and policy aspects, and
(iii) being fully responsive to the needs of beneficiaries under prevailing
technical  and market conditions.   Judging  from the design and concept  of
development programs that followed the LLDP, it becomes apparent that lessons
from this important experience, although apparently appreciated by Government
and the Bank are not, as yet, fully reflected in subsequent development
programs.   Programs such as NRDP, Karonga and Shire Valley appear to suffer
from shortcomings similar to those listed above.   This audit suggests that a
more comprehensive review of the total LLDP experience and concept (preferably
in conjunction with the review of other rural development programs in the
country) be undertaken to determine the responsiveness of the country's rural
development programs to the needs of farmers and the compatibility of such
needs with the objectives of those programs as well as with the policy frame-
work prevailing in Malawi. The Lilongwe has been an experience from which the
country and the Bank could learn a lot more than is in this report.   This
audit raised some project design issues and some policy issues which were not
satisfactorily resolved by this evaluation.   The issues raised require more
in-depth analysis and comparison with other in-country, and may be out-of-
country, experiences.



I



- 12 -                    ATTACHMENT 1
December 2, 1980
MALAWI: LLDP-III (Cr. 550-MAI)
Project Completion Report
Introduction
1.        The attached PCR has been prepared largely by Government, i.e.
by the Planning Division of MANR and by the Evaluation Unit of LADD
(Lilongwe Agricultural Development Division, formerly the Lilongwe Land
Development Programme). It follows from two earlier drafts, each of which
was reviewed and commented upon in detail by Regional Mission in Eastern
Africa (RMEA). A visit was made to Malawi in October specifically to
discuss the second draft. Most of RMEEA's suggestions have been incorporated.
2.        Overall, the document is a commendable effort, especially con-
sidering that it is the first PCR prepared by a Government in the Region.
The Report is well written and highly detailed, addressing all Project
components. It is well cross-referenced, and has a wealth of supportive
material in the annexes. It is also surprisingly frank in its treatment of
several important, but sensitive issues. Notwithstanding this latter comment,
some criticisms have been omitted or toned down and are referred to below.
In some places too, questions arise by implication, but are not adequately
answered. As with the earlier phases, Project management's financial control
and implementation within projected Project costs were exemplary.
Economic'Rate of Return
3.        The actual economic ROR has been calculated at 25% for the three
phases of the Program. This compares with 13% expected at appraisal of the
third Phase. No attempt was made to calculate the actual R0R for Phase III
alone, which would compare with 18% expected at appraisal. The 25% also
compares with 8%, which was discussed in the second Phase PPAR as being the
combined R0R achieved under Phases I and II. It follows that the R0R achieved
under Phase III was probably rather higher than the expected 18%.
4.        Planning Division staff in MANR went to considerable lengths to
assess the "without Project," i.e. without Program, situation on which to
base incremental performance. The assumptions are well defined in Chapter
8 and Annex VIII. The principle behind the assumptions is that without the
Program, i.e. without the three phases, the areas under tobacco and groundnuts
would have decreased, with a corresponding increase in subsistence crops,
particularly maize. Yields of maize and groundnuts would also have declined,
and tobacco yields would have remained constant. The Report notes (para. 8.2)
that at the beginning of Phase I, the Program area was already experiencing
problems of land degradation and erosion in the face of new economic and
social pressures brought about by development of the Capital City of Lilongwe.
Stabilization of the rural population and conservation of soil resources were
amongst the Program's objectives. It could be argued that had Phase III not



- 13 -
gone forward, already developed units (40 units within the Pr6gram) would
have shown a decline in production as farmers were attracted into full or
part time employment opportunities in Lilongwe.
5.        The "without Program" assumptions are responsible significantly
for the 25% R0R. Also responsible is the better-than-expected tobacco
production. It should be noted that the incremental net benefits accruing
to the Dzalanyama Ranch in Phase III are included in the PCR calculation
(actually a net loss), as well as the costs of drugs in the Health Component,
since it was expected that the drugs would have a fairly direct bearing on
farmer performance. Neither of these items were included in the Phase III
appraisal R0R estimates, and if excluded from the PCR calculation, the R0R
would be higher than 25%. Both the appraisal and PCR calculations assume a
zero cost for farm labour.
6.        The Report is relatively brief in its discussion of the "social
impact" of the Program. As noted in para 5.13.1, the establishment of Unit
Centers under the Program has catalysed considerable private initiative and
investment. The many shops and services that have sprung up have undoubtedly
provided incentives to smallholder farmers to increase their incomes.  The
ready availability in the stores of new basics such as milk powder supplements
for infants, pharmazeutical products and locally made household items attests
to an important enhancement of the areas welfare. If the net benefits from
these activities were included in the net benefit stream, the R0R would be
enhanced.
Incremental Production
7.        Considerable attention is given in the Report to expected versus
actual crop areas, yields and production in Phase III (Tables 5.1, 5.4 5.5
and Annex V (a)). In the case of maize and groundnuts, performance was
disappointing. The uptake by smallholders of hybrid maize seed was less than
30% of that expected and maize production overall (hybrid, composite and
local unimproved varieties) was 77% of expectations. Groundnut production
fell similarly short of targets. While tobacco production exceeded the targets.
Several reasons for these divergencies are given, the most important of which,
for maize and groundnuts, appear to be the non-availability of improved seeds
and fertilizers and relatively discouraging prices (for goundnuts). Tobacco,
on the other hand, fared much better in terms of prices and services. Tobacco
growers were favoured with the provision of credit and extension advice.
8.        Somewhat curious is the observation (not discussed in the Report)
that while the uptake of hybrid and composite maize seed was much less than
expected (Annex IV (f), fertilizer uptake was over 90% of the amount expected.
It is unlikely that farmers applied fertilizer to their local maize. At
least two reasons may be advanced for this; one that farmers applied the
fertilizer to their tobacco and two that smallholders resold their subsidized
fertilizer to larger farmers for a profit. The large sales of sulphate of
ammonia (5,525 tons in 1978/79 compared to zero quantity expected) would
suggest more credence.to the second reason because S/A, being somewhat acidic,
would not be as readily applied to the tobacco crop.



- 14-
Marketing
9.        The Report makes critical comments in several places (ref. paras
5.5 and 7.3) about the performance of ADMARC. It alleges that had ADMARC
provided the seeds and fertilizers in the quantities projected and ordered
by Program management, maize production would likely have exceeded appraisal
targets. The late arrivals and reduced quantities of fertilizers affecting
maize yields have also been discussed in Phase III supervision reports.
Project management made persistent efforts to have ADMARC rectify the situation,
largely in vain. The PCR discussion underscores the importance of efficient
marketing. Assuming that the allegation above in this para is correct, it
would have been interesting to have determined the R0R on that basis, thereby
imputing a cost of ADMARC's shortcomings. The Report does not discuss,
however, the extent to which the non-availability of improved seeds and
fertilizers was directly ADMARC's fault. ADMARC, like most importing agencies
in Malawi, has had to bear with the vagaries of the ports in and transport
across Mozambique.
Extension
10.       The Report points clearly to the ineffectiveness of extension in
improving agronomic practices for maize and groundnuts (Annex V (b)). And
this, despite the fact that the extension component was relatively well staffed
at both the senior and junior levels. The ineffectiveness has been due, in
part, to the late availability of improved inputs, as well as to limited
enthusiasm of farmers due to unattractive prices (groundnuts). Yet such reasons
do not wholly explain farmers' reluctance to follow simple training and extension
recommendations for higher maize and groundnut plant populations (groundnuts
have been about half the recommended density). Curiously also, these farmers
followed closely the recommended practices for tobacco. The Report suggests
(para. 5.7) that more attention was given by extension staff to tobacco pro-
duction and less to food crop production. If true, then a change in emphasis
or technique of extension procedure would be called for.
Research and Trials
11.       The Report (para. 5.10) devotes little space to a discussion of this
subject, which is one of the sensitive issues referred to earlier.  It is
unfortunate that MANR did not see fit to fill the post of Senior Research
Officer (called Research and Trials Officer in the appraisal report). With
linkage through the extension staff to the farmers the research and crop
trials staff could have contributed significantly to improving the production
of farmers' food crops.  It is relevant to note that USAID has recently
approved a project to improve the planning and implementation capacity of
MANR's national research program.
Pricing
12.       The evidence in the Report is convincing that smallholders are
responsive to relative price changes. Tobacco, with its relatively attractive
prices has been favoured by the farmers, whereas groundnut areas and pro-
duction declined through 1977/78. Areas and-production of groundnuts increased
dramatically in 1978/79 when the preseason-announced price was upped by over
50%. There is no discussion on the absolute levels of smallholder prices, or
that smallholders, c.f. the estates, are contributing more than their fair
share to Government revenues (via ADMARC's profits).



-15--
Poultry
13.       The poultry component (para 4.3.21) has not been successful.
However, the description in para 4.3.21.3 of efforts to resolve the
various problems is incomplete. In addition to the three items mentioned,
Project management instituted fortnightly meetings of all principal poultry
staff to assess progress. New loan agreements were drawn up allowing
the Project to collect poultry loans from the marketings of these farmers'
other produce. Increased efforts were also made to sterilize farmers'
poultry cages and to make birds available to farmers at point of lay rather
than as chicks, thereby lessening their susceptibility to disease. The
egg grading/packing station financed under the Project also serves larger
poultry producers in the Lilongwe area.
Program Management
14.       The contribution of Program management cannot be overemphasized
(para 7.1.1). With 11 expatriates engaged throughout Phase III, the
involvement of expatriates has been much less than in the earlier phases.
LLDP, moreover, more than any other rural development program in Malawi, has
trained and made available to other programs a commendable number of staff.



- 16 -
ATTACHMNT q
¶           PROJECT COOr3V'LETION  REDORT
LILONGOYVWE
LAND   D'V1'LOFPjvj ENT   PROGRAiv,,NE
*Pi-ASE    i1T
CENTRAL EVALL!ATtON UN!T
M.A.N .R.
NOVEME£ER, .t 979.



I



- 17 -
1: INTRODUCTION ANT SUVNARY
1.0       This Project Completion Report is concerned with the
implementation and impact of Lilongwe Land Development Programme,
Phase III. Being the third phase of a continuing programme, then
logically and essentially it has been necessary to integrate the
benefits and costs of the earlier phases into this analysis. The
results are therefore presented in terms of the total Programme
up to the end of Phase III.
l.l       The form of presentation used has generally followed
recent guidelines recommended to Wcrld Bank staff (Operational
Manual Statement 3.58 of February 1979) with some changes where
appropriate. The beginning (Sections 2 and 3) provides a scene
set in the form of Background and Formulation. The main body
concerns Implementation of the plan and the Impact achieved. For
clarity these two aspects have been presented separately, each
major component being discussed in turn (Sections 4 and 5). Financial
performance and Institutional performance are given specific coverage
(Sections 6 and 7) as these have a more general bearing on all
components. Details of a Rate of Return calculation are then given
in Section 8. A section on Discussion and Conclusions completes the
main text. Follow up detail has been presented in the form of Annexes
and referenced within the main text. To assist the reader in cross
referencing to these Annexes, each Annex number corresponds (in Roman
numerals) to the section number of the main text.
1.2       In summary, this Report finds that the Programme has been
implemented with a high standard of management and financial control.
Infrastructure development has been more than adequately completed.
and other components which have shown outstanding success are small-
holders' stallfeeding in the case of livestock and tobacoo agronomy
within total crop development. Problems are indicated in the Dzalan-
yama ranch component whith will not be overcome by a mere adjustment
of beef pricing schedules. Some doubts are cast on the effectiveness
of extension generally and the fairness by which the credit facility
is distributed. The general livestock programme does not appear to
have been successful in the face of communal grazing patterns. Other
problems highlighted relate to input supply and the transfer of
infrastructure maintenance to government revenue account.
1.2.1     Increased tobacco production has been the most obvious
measurable impact. A difference in retrospect from what was anti-
cipated at appraisal. Crop pricing structures coupled with an apparent
bias by extension and credit towards tobacco production are shown to
have been the cause. Groundnut production was discouraged by the
prices offered to producers and hybrid maize production was hampered
by inadequate inputs. Projected crcp production trends for the cost
benefit analvsis have acknowledged the limited market for tobacco and
placed a higher emphasis on groundnut and maize production. The rate
of return calculated is 25 per cent on the basis of all three phases
of the Programme including ten years of historical and twenty years of
projected results.



- 18 -
1.3       The conclusion is that this Programme has played a vital
part at a critical time in the history of Malawi. A number of these
national benefits are mentioned. Within the context of these, the
relatively minor problems of implementation outlined by this Completion
Report, can be viewed in their true perspective.
2: BACKGROUND
2.1       The first three phases of the Lilongwe Land Development
Programme received finance from IDA credits to Malawi as followed:
Credit
Phase  Appraisal Report  Number              Amount              Period
I    P. 582 (22/1/68)  113 MAI        US$6.0 million        1968-1972
II    PA-76a (16/4/71)  244 MAI        US$7.25 million       1971-1975
III    652-MAI (28/2/75) 550 MAI        US$8.5 million         1975-1978
In addition the United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF)
provided a grant of US$1.6 million to cover the costs of the health
component and injections of capital into the credit fund during
Phase III.
2.1.1     The total cost of the entire Programme (including contributions
from Malawi Government, ADMARC and credit charges to farmers) amounted to
an estimated MK 24.4 million.
2.2       In terms of this Programme, rural infrastructures, roads and
bridges, water supplies, farmer credit, extension and training facilities,
and health services were simultaneously integrated for the purpose of
benefitting the rural population of the Programme area.
2.3       The Programme area lies to the west and south of Lilongwe City
at an altitude ranging hetween 1,100 to 1,230 metres, temperature range
Of 150C to 230C, and average rainfall ranging between 640 and 1,090 mm
(confined between November and April). Soils are generally red clay to
sandy loams and free draining.
2.4       Phase III of the Programme encompassed approximately 485,600
hectares of which some 348,000 hectares were available for smallholder
agriculture. In addition, Dzalanyama ranch, comprising some 65,000
hectares was included within the Programme for the supply of stallfeeders
and dairy cows to smallholder farmers.
2.5      The 348,000 smallholder hectares were planned for development
into 40 time-phased units, each covering approximately 8,700 hectares
and 2,600 farm families (see Map at Annex I(a)). In total the
Programme area represented some 5 percent of Malawi and included 3
percent of the country's smallholder farmers.
2.6       By the commencement of Phase III, 30 units had already been
developed encompassing over 262,000 hectares and some 77,000 farm
facilies. (See Annex I(b) ). Other general infrastructure development
noted at the end of Phase II was:



- 19 -
Land Demarcation                : 165,600 hectares
Land Registration               : 110,900 hectares
Number of farmers whose land
had been demarcated              91,000 hectares
Number of farmers whose land
had been registered          :  61,000 hectares
Roads built                     :   2,150 kilometres
Number of boreholes                    344
Number of markets                       21
2.7       Phase III of the Programme represented not only a continuation
of the necessary support for extension, credit and infrastructure
maintenance services for these previously established Units which had
not completed their (5 year) phase-over from Development to Revenue
account, but also planned for an expansion of the programme into fifteen
new Units not previously developed (covering some 100,000 hectares) and
the introduction of some new services (poultry and dairy development).
2.8       The principal sources of information which have been used for
compiling this Project Completion Report were the reports and records
of the Evaluation Unit, the Financial Division (cost accounts and credit
fund control) and Programme Management. Numerous other specific sources
are quoted in the text and a list of the main references cited is at
Annex II.
3: FORMULATION
1;1       Provisional proposals for Lilongwe Land Development Programme
Phase III were prepared in a comprehensive document by the Planning
Division (Ministry of Agriculture & Natural Resources) in August 1973.
These proposals were prepared in full consultation and discussion with
Senior Staff working in the Programme, the Agricultural Development &
Harketing Corporation, Gold Storage Company, Ministry of Health, the
Economic Planning Division (Office of the President and Cabinet) and
other Departments within the Ministry of Agriculture & Natural Resources.
3.2       The preparation document budgetted for Phase III to commence
on 1st April, 1975, with a life of four years (to 31st March, 1979) and
a base cost of K8.105 million. Physical and price contingencies were
calculated at K1.832 million, giving a total of K9.937 million.  Detailed
costs breakdown by component were presented and an estimated internal
rate of return for the whole programme (Phases I to III) was 7.7 per cent
(including incremental tobacco production). With only minor alterations
this document was submitted to IBRD/IDA for appraisal. A rate of return
for Phase III was estimated at appraisal as 17.65% (including incremental
tobacco production).
3.3       An IBRDIIDA Appraisal Mission, consisting of a Financial Adviser
and an Agronomist under a Team Leader, visited Malawi in May 1976,
spending ten days at LLDP.



- 20 -
3.4       The main differences between the final appraisal document
(Report No. 652-MAI of 28th February, 1975) and the original Malawi
submission were as follows:-
(i)  The Appraisal document detailed a three year phase
(1/4/75 to 31/3/78) compared with the four years
requested by the submission;
(ii)  A component for re-afforestation which had been included
in the submission was dropped by the Appraisal document;
(iii)  UNCDF was included as a joint donor agency with IDA to
assist in the funding of the health and credit fund
components;
(iv)  The funding of Extension Field Staff (TAs) was reduced
by the Appraisal document by the equivalent of 108 man
years;
(v)  Vehicle replacement costs allowed for by the submission
were omitted in the Appraisal document;
(vi)  Three additional components were included in the Appraisal
document which were not requested by the submission: these
were a component to assist financing of preparation for
the National Rural Development Programme, and two small
components for Dairy and Poultry Development;
(vii)  The Appraisal document included additional funds required
for the Credit revolving fund which had been omitted in
the submission.
3.5       Base Costs Compared (Excluding ADMARC) MK.'000
Components                       Project Submission       Appraisal Docuipent
(4 years)            (652-MAI)(3 years)
Headquarters                             475                       517
Conservation and Planning              2,352                     2,452
Surveys                                  379                       340
Marketing                                  52                       39
Land Allocation                           336                      272
Extension                              1,071                       847
Training                                  240                      203
Credit (Operation)                       665                       555
Credit Fund                                0                       498
Health                                    704                      597
Dzalanyama                                723                      334
Livestock                                 270                      215
Dairying                                    0                       13
Poultry                                     0                       10
Evaluation                               171                       141
NRDP (Preparation)                          0                      200
Forestry                                 379                         0
Total Base Cost =            7,817                    7,233
Add Contingencies                      3,120                     2,206
GRAiD TOTAL     -            9 937                    9,439



- 21 -
3.6       Description of the Project - A formal description of the
Phase III project as given by the Development Credit Agreement
(550-MAI) Schedule 2, is reproduced at Annex III.
4; IMPLMENTTATION
4.1       Effectiveness and Start-up
4.1.1     The funding for Phase III (Credit: 550-MAI) became effective
on May 27, 1975, almost two months after official commencement of the
Phase. However, a carry over of Phase II funds (244-MAI) was eventually
only utilized fully by September 30 of that year.  Phase III funds were
only used up by March 31, 1979, twelve months later than expected. LNCDF
Agreement (MLW/74/031) was effective concurrently with 550-MAI.
4.1.2     Since Phase III was largely a continuation of Phase II
activities then the small delay before credit effectiveness did not
present any special problems in the timeliness of implementation.
4.2       Revisions
4.2.1     During 1978 IBRD/IDA agreed that MK 120,000 could be utilized
from Category I of the Development fund for the building of an Egg
Grading and Packing Station in Lilongwe. This facility was expected to
augment the smallholder poultry industry of the Lilongwe Plain. The need
for this improved facility was emphasized by the problems outlined in
paragraph 4.3.21.1.
4.2.2     During 1978 some MK 799,000 was transferred out of the
Accumulated Credit Fund as a contribution to Treasury (Revenue Account)
resources both for the Project K 490,000 (see paragraph 6.2) and for the
General Fund.
4.2.3     Adjustment was made (in 1976) to the implementation design of
the Dairy and Poultry components by dropping their separate funding as
specialized extension and including them within the overall crop and
livestock extension programme. This was done for the purpose of improved
administration and within an overall policy of a more integrated extension
service. This adjustment does not seem to have improved the effectiveness
of extension effort for these particular components (see paragraph 4.3.21
and Annex IV(j) ).
4.2.4     A more comprehensive Research & Trials component was implemented
from that originally envisaged at appraisal. (See Annex IV(d) ).
4.2.5     A phasing over of Unit infrastructure maintenance (roads and
buildings) from Development Account to Revenue Account was anticipated
to be completed five years after Unit development. Difficulties were
encountered, however, with the maintenance of 'feeder' roads which had
been constructed below Secondary or District road standards; since these
could not be handed over to Ministry of Works & Supplies and local councils
had insufficient resources, the Project continued to maintaln these roads.
Similarly, the Project continued to be invoived in the maintenance of a
large proportion of the buildings in already Developed Unit centres. (See
paragraphs 7.2.1.2 and 7.2.1.3),



- 22 -
4.3       Infrastructure Development
Most of the programme for infrastructure development was
successfully completed within the implementation schedule and cost
targets. In addition, certain facilities over and above those
specified in the Appraisal document were provided within the original
budget. The following subsections outline achievements under the various
project components. Further details of the third phase implementation
and achievements over all three phases are given in the appropriate
sections of Annex IV.
4.3.1     Roads - The network of roads completed by the end of the 1978
dry season approximated to appraisal estimates. Some 600 kilometres of
roads were completed during the phase, bringing the total constructed
(Phases I to III) to 2,630 kilometres. Standard input areas averaged
8.5 kilometres per 1,000 hectares, with modified input areas averaging
4.0 kilometres per 1,000 hectares. Although the roads were primarily
for crop extraction purposes, they have contributed quite substantially
to the social welfare of the rural population. By the end of Phase III,
some 800 kilometres out of a total 1,240 kilemetres of District and
Secondary roads had already been handed over to Ministry of Works for
future maintenance. (See Annex IV(b) ).
4.3.2     Bridges - At appraisal it was intended that a total of 118
bridges (38 major and 80 minor) would be constructed by the end of
Phase III. No specific target was given for Phase III alone. By the
end of the phase only 90 new bridges had been built; 22 existing bridges
having undergone major reconstruction. To supplement the change in plan
management decided to build 44 additional culverts and dambo crossings
together with 7 spillways/drifts/low level bridges. This was considered
to be a more practical development than that envisaged at appraisal.
(Annex IV(a) ).
4.3.3     Soil Conservation Works - Physical soil conservation structures
were provided by the construction unit in the form of embankments,
waterways (130 kilometres) and diversion ditches (1,080 kilometres)
during the phase. These were somewhat below appraisal targets (which
were 270 kilometres of waterways and 1,790 kilometres of diversion
ditches). Marker ridges which were not included at appraisal were
provided. They were considered necessary by both project staff and
farmers for the correct functioning of the diversion ditches (Annex IV(a) ).
4.3.4     Water Supplies - Although the number of boreholes drilled and
made operational during Phase III (97) was less than that planned at
appraisal (143), the total number of boreholes constructed during the
three phases (90) provides an average density of 1 to 166 farm families
or 1:5,600 hectares, which falls within the limits set at appraisal
(1:175 farm families). In addition, some 151 borehole aprons were
constructed in-Phase III making a total of 385 for all three phases.
(Annex IV(a) ).



- 23 -
4.3.5     Project buildings, unit centres and staff housing - The
Project headquarters and town housing for staff were completed prior
to the phase. Twelve standard and three modified Unit Centres, which
provided the major development thrust of LLDP, were completed by the
end of the phase. The Project continued to maintain all Unit Centres
and their associated housing developed under previous phases.
Facilities at the Nathenje Training Centre were improved with the
addition of a dormitory, ablution block, kitchen and stores. The
Nambuma T-aining Centre was also provided with additional kitchens
and stores. These additional improvements were not included at
appraisal. (Annex IV(a) ).
4.3.6     Markets - ADMTARC constructed 7 markets and 15 input sheds
which were expected at appraisal.
4.3.7     Health facilities - Although at appraisal it was intended
that the building of health facilities would be sub-contracted, this
work was'in fact successfully completed by the Project's Construction
Unit. In addition to the targeted 21 health posts and 5 health
sub-centres (all with staff hiousing), extensive renovations were made
to the Mitundu Maternity Ward (Unit 24) and 11 guardian shelters and
6 outpatient clinics were also provided. Details of the health
facilities are given in Annex IV(1).
4.3.8     Egg grading/packing station - Following a request from
Government, an RMEA supervision mission agreed to the use of funds
available in Category I for the construction of a new egg grading/
packing station on the site of the Capital Dairy, Lilongwe. By
March 1979 the Building component had completed the construction at
a cost of MK 112,000 which included a cool store and all electrical
installations. An egg grading machine of capacity for 15,000 eggs
per day was provided under a grant from the British Government.
Cold storage capacity is for 35,0'D9 dozen eggs.
4.3.9     Land demarcation and registration - Progress with the
demarcations, survey and registration of smallholder land was close
to appraisal targets for Phase III. During the phase, 78,200 hectares
were demarcated compared with a target of 81,000 hectares, and 132,900
hectares were registered (target 109,400 hectares). This brought the
total demarcation and registration under the three phases to 243,825
hectares (266,440 hectares projected).
4.3.10    Extension coveeage - During Phase III the ratio of field
assistants (TA) to farmers was:
For Units
For new Units under            For Units         Developed in
Development in Phase         Developed in          Phase  I
III                    Phase II       (i.e. 5 years +)
Standard   Modified        Standard   Mod.
Units      Units           Units    Units    Standard Units
1975/76      1:457       1:372           1:566    1:472          1:533
1976/77      1:523       1:380           1:577    1:481          1:543
1977/78      1:533       1:516           1:589    1:491          1:554
1978/79      1:622       1:526           1:600    1:502          1:566



- 24 -
At appraisal it was anticipated that the extension staff/farmer
ratio would remain at about 1:300 in Standard Units and 1:450 in
Modified Units during development. In the ensuing five years the
ratio was expected to increase in all Units to 1:500.
4.3.10.1 Extension workers provided farmers with information and
advice on a wide spectrum of farm activities including crop management
and storage, soil conservation practices, forestry, dairying, stall-
feeding and poultry. Crop management advice related to the use of
improved varieties, timeliness of land preparation, planting and weed-
ings, plant populations, fertilizer application and methods of harvest-
ing. To provide improved contact with female growers, female field
assistants were employed in non-specialist capacities (11 in 1976, 15
in 1977 and 10 in 1978).
4.3.10.2 A Chief Extension Field Officer (CTO) based at Project
headquarters, coordinated the extension effort of the Senior Develop-
ment Officers (STO) who headed extension staff in eight area offices.
Each area office included a Development Officer (TO) and field
assistance (TA) (approximately one per 600 farm families).
4.3.10.3 The effectiveness of extension staff contact was facilitated
by the establishment of committee structures at village section, unit
and group levels (see under Rural Development). It was through the
Committee structure that the main extension effort was channelled in an
attempt to broaden and integrate programme impact and direct the target
population more toward a self-help approach.
4.3.10.4 Farmer contacts - The extension component provided smallholders
with considerable exposure to advice on improved farm practices. (For
comment on this see paragraph 5.7).



- 25 -
Proportion of sampled households receiving extension visits
associated with specific crops
Number of extension                   Proportion of sampled growers
visits                   1975/76         1976/77             1977/78
Maize (all varieties)               %               %                   X
None                         42              42                  52
Less than 3                  19               24                 18
3 - 5                         7              11                  16
6 - 10                        8               8                   7
10+                         23              19                   7
Observations (n)                 956              633                953
Tobacco
None                         na              25                  34
Less than 3                  VT              22                  23
3 - 5                        "               14                  18
6 - 10                       "               11                  11
10+                                         27                  14
Observations (n)                  -               358                484
Groundnuts
None                         42               39                 57
Less than 3                  18              25                  18
3 - 5                         7              11                  14
6 - 10                        9               8                   5
10+                         25              17                   6
Observations (n)                 873              648                640
Source: LLDP, Evaluation Unit



- 26 -
4.3.11    Training - Farmer and staff training was conducted through
a net-work of three residential and forty unit day training centres.
(See Annex IV(c) ). At farmer level, day training and residential
courses were given mainly by project staff with assistance and
cooperation from MANTR headquarters staff and the Extension Aids media.
In-service training of staff has been a regular feature with specialist
and refresher courses given at both junior and senior levels.
4.3.11.1 Farmers within the programme area were given considerable
exposure to training compared with their non-project counterparts.
For example, in 1978/79 some 31 per cent of the programme area farmers
sampled by the Evaluation Unit had attended a training course (7 per
cent a residential course); this compared with a neighbouring non-project
area (Thiwi/Lifidzi) at pre-investment where comparable fioures were
2 per cent for both day and residential courses. (Annex IV(a)).
4.3.12 Research and Trials - No specific programme for Research and
Trials was mentioned at appraisal although funds were provided for
a Research and Trials Officer within the Extension component. In
fact a separately budgetted component was implemented which followed
an expanded trials programme on major and minor crops during the
phase. The majority of trials were undertaken in farmers' gardens
with trial crops having been the same as smallholders' crops and
supervised by each Unit's technical assistant. Some trials requir-
ing more detailed supervision were run at Unit Centres. Trials were
conducted on an agency basis for national research stations or were
designed and run independently by the Research and Trials Unit; all
trials proved part of the national research programme. An outline
of the unit's activities is given in Annex IV(d).
4.3.13    Forestry - In its Phase III proposals to IBRD, Malawi Government
applied for a loan of K192,000 to introduce a comprehensive forestry
programme aimed at the subsidized supply of seedlings, the establishment
of woodlots and the creation of an administrative framework for follow-up
activities. It is unfortunate that no forestry component as such was
actually included in Phase III, save for the minor exception of K8,000
made available to continue the establishment of woodlot nurseries.
4.3.13.1 Under Phase III the original programme was to provide enough
funds to establish 400 hectares of smallholder woodlots. 420 hectares
were established under the phase as follows:-
Gmelina                       Cassia
Season      arborea       Eucalypts       siamea        Others       Total
(ha)           (ha)         (ha)          (ha)         (ha)
1975/76       28.6            -            37.1           1.4         67.1
1976/77       35.6           6.0           25.2          47.2        114.0
1977/78       39.5          22.6           29.5          26.2        117.8
1978/79       68.5          37.5           13.5           3.5        123.0
Total        172.2          66.1          105.3         -78.3        421.9
Se,urcw 7; 1J)P, *   rF     ? -rv Sect i n-



- 27 -
4.3.14    Agricultural Credit - Both seasonal and medium term credit
facilities continued to be made available to project smallholders
during Phase III. Seasonal credit for fertilizer and seed on a 'package'
basis was issued (at 15% interest for individual loans and 10% for group
loans) as follows:
Seasonal credit       Appraisal projection       Actual issue
issued            of issue at constant       converted to
(at current prices)        (1975/76 prices)          constant
(MK)                     (MK)              1975/76 prices
1975/76                772,400               1,376,000                  722,400
1976/77                895,600               1,571,000                1,178,400
1977/78              1,146,100               1,996,000                1,317,400
1978/79              1,149,200               2,064,000               1,320,900
Total                3,963,300               7,007,000                4,589,100
Source: LLDP Credit Section. Conversions using fertilizer price index.
Seasonal credit issues were taken by almost 57,000 smallholder recipients
in 1978/79, exceeding the target of 55,000 set at appraisal. The average
amount of seasonal credit issued per farmer, however, was only 65% of
what was anticipated at appraisal (compared at constant prices).
4.3.14.1 Medium term credit was issued at 10% on an annuity basis with an
initial down-payment of 33% of the items' value. The amounts were also
less than appraisal estimates.
Number of items           Appraisal
issued  1975/76        projection for
to 1978/79          same four years
Farm carts                      66                   740
Ox-drawn implements              3                  230
Barbed Wire   *                 32                  200
Maize mills                      0                   140
In addition, the appraisal projected some MK20,000 for tobacco barns and
MK4,800 for Rural Craftsmen (at constant prices) but no credit was issued
for these items. The above items financed with medium term credit were
well below the numbers envisaged at appraisal. The shortfall was due
primarily to a reluctance on the part of management to release medium term
credit for the purchase of items which it considered not proven appropriate-
to LLDP smallholder conditions (tobacco barns and maize mills); which could
not be backed up by an extension effort (Rural Craftsmen); or which
depended upon other credit items which were not available (fencing for
dairy enterprises). Further, in the case of ox-carts and ox-drawn imple-
ments, ADMARC failed to provide sufficient of the required type throughout
the phase.
4.3.14.2  Utilization of credit funds for stall-feeder issues (MK342,900)
exceeded the appraisal estimate (MK261,200) over the same four years.
Issues for Poultry (14K119,400) also exceeded appraisal estimates (MK103,700).
But issues for Dairy development (MK10,700) were lower than appraisal
estimate &XK30,000).



- 28 -
4.3.14.3 Details of the Credit fund cash flow and repayment
performances are given in Annex IV(e) and (f).
4.3.14.4  Credit was disbursed to those smallholders who were
considered credit-worthy by both extension and credit staff in liaison
with the local village planning committee.  Input packages comprised
improved maize and groundnut seed together with recommended quantities
of fertilizer (for maize).  The proportion of borrowers to total farmer
population in Phase III was: 1975/76, 42 per cent; 1976/77, 37 per cent;
1977/78, 40 per cent; 1978/79, 52 per cent.
4.3.14.5 Throughout Phase III the disbursement of credit packages were
often late due to ADMARC's inability to arrange adequate transport for
delivery to Unit Centres.
4.3.14.6 As in the selection procedures for seasonal credit, during the
recovery period credit staff were assisted by extension workers and the
local village planning committee. By the end of each marketing season
(September 30) each farmer was expected to have paid off all outstanding
seasonal loans; those who failed to do so were further approached by
credit staff. In some instances defaulters were referred to Traditional
Courts. Repayment performance during the phase has been as follows:-
1975/76, 99.97 per cent; 1976/77, 100 per cent; 1977/78, 100 per cent;
1978/79, 99.91 per cent.
4.3.15    Marketing and Inputs - Towards the end of Phase III ADMARC
had provided the marketing facilities required under the project. Where
delays occurred in the construction of input sheds, ADMARC, after liaison
with Programme management, provided temporary structures.
4.3.15.1 Facilities - By March 1978 each unit had been provided with a
marketing centre, which included an input shed and a produce purchasing
area. By the end of Phase III there were a total of eleven parent markets
serving the Project area- each providing at least 450 metric tonnes of
input capacity and a minimum produce buying area of 200 square metres.
At each of the remaining 30 Unit Centres input storage capacities were
approximately 350 metric tonnes with produce purchasing areas of 200
s4uare metres. In addition, 27 temporary purchasing or seasonal markets
were provided in 13 units, again with flexible input and produce capacities.
4.3.15.2 Seasonal inputs - Seasonal inputs, namely improved seeds and
fertilizers, were provided exclusively through ADMLARC channels. A
comparison of seasonal inputs purchased by smallholders compared to
projected quantities at appraisal, is given in Annex IV(f). In all cases
except groundnut seed, smallholder purchases of inputs did not reach the
quantities projected at appraisal. The arrival of inputs at ADMARC markets
was generally too late and too little to effect timely crop planting and
fertilizer application or even to allow the farmers' demand to be satisfied
at the time when these Lnputs were required.



- 29 -
4.3.15.3 Marketed output - With respect to crop surpluses, it is
estimated that of the 1977/78 crop only approximately 14% of the
total maize production and 27% of the total groundnut production
was sold to ADMARC markets (Evaluation data).  Although ADMARC
tobacco purchases were formerly controlled within the project area
by the imposition of quotas restricted to registered growers, this
system broke down in 1975/76 when ADMARC failed to purchase the
levied quotas and in the following seasons unregistered tobacco was
accepted, which encouraged over-production. Throughout Phase III,
implementation bottlenecks to efficient marketing were identified
as being:
(a) shortage of sacks at buying;
(b) transportation difficulties in supplying inputs to
markets and taking produce from markets;
(c) delays in produce purchasing due to inadequate cash
supplies at markets and markets opening too late
each day.
These resulted in inputs being delayed quite considerably and in
severe congestion at many markets during crop purchasing periods.
4.3.16    Maize Shelling - Even though the maize shelling facilities
were open to smallholders throughout Phase III the number of bags
shelled by the 30 project maize shellers declined quite considerably
after 1974.
Number of bags (200 lbs) shelled
1974             69,241
1975             39,620
1976              6,903
1977     *        7,801
1978             11,372
1979              6,664
The reasons for the decline appear to have been:
(a) inadequate supplies of improved maize seed (generally
the demand for shelling is only for production from
hybrids);
(b) inadequate supplies of fertilizer;
(c) the removal by management of a subsidy previously allowed;
(d) inadequate supplies of sacks;
(e) increased demand at homesteads for shelled cobs for fuel.



- 30 -
4.3.17    Rural Development - The Rural Development Section continued
a programme in Phase III designed to train the rural community in
committee work, planning and self-help development effort. With the
help of extension staff and local Malawi Congress Party officials the
section helped set up Village, Section, Unit and Extension group
committees. Committee training was undertaken at village meetings
and training centres. As the project developed infrastructures in
forward areas local leaders were always informed in advance. Where
essential services were not provided by the Project, self-help schemes
were organized by the Section. The Project provided technical
assistance and in some cases transport, cement, firewood and timber in
an attempt to stimulate this self-help organization. (See Annex IV(g)).
4.3.18    Dzalanyama Ranch - The main objectives of the ranch were
outlined for Phase III as follows:
(a)  to provide suitable animals for stall-feeding by farmers
in the Programme area;
(b) to provide improved Zebu bulls bred on the ranch to
assist farmers to improve their own herds;
(c) to produce half-bred heifers for milk production by
smallholder farmers.
The first objective (above) was to be met both by the breeding of young
feeders from the ranch breeding herd and the holding, dosing and improving
of the condition of additional feeder steers (bought in from market sale-
yards) before subsequent issue to stall-feeding farmers. The second
objective was to be achieved through a selective breeding programme on the
ranch. The third was to be achieved principally by means of an
artificial insemination programme using selected ranch breeding cows and
imported Friesland semen.
4.3.18.1 These main objectives necessarily had to fall within the
overall requirements for a correct ecological management of the area,
since it remained a Forest Reserve and all ranch management decisions
had to recognize the requirements of forest husbandry. This aspect was
particularly stressed by Government since the Dzalanyama Forest Reserve
forms the main catchment for Lilongwe Urban Water Supply. For this
purpose a Dzalanyama Ranch Advisory Committee had been established (1971)
to coordinate these sensitive areas of management decisions. Implementation
of this programme was achieved as follows:



- 31 -
(a) Stallfeeders Issued to Smallholders:
Ranch Bred                          Purchased
Appraisal                        Appraisal
target           Actual          target         Actual
1975/76          223              420             570           1,043
1976/77          260              487             570              660
1977/78          557              566             570              690
1978/79          762              757             570              286
Totals      1,802            2,230           2,280           2,679
(b) Improved bulls: none were issued and no specific projections
were made at appraisal.
(c) Dairy heifers: a total of 78 head were issued to farmers compared
with 90 projected at appraisal.
(d) Build-up of Ranch breeding herd: Cows and heifers purchased:
Year          Number Purchased       Appraisal Target
1975/76                 688                     750
1976/77                 565                     750
1977/78                 375                     750
1978/79                 483                     750
Totals             2,111                   3,000
Further details and analysis of ranch implementation performance,
including herd composit.ion analysis and cash flow both for Phase III
and the total life of the Project are given in Annex IV(h).
4.3.19   Stallfeeders - Smallholder participation in the Project's
stallfeeder credit scheme was high and in fact demand continually
exceeded the supply of suitable feeder steers available. The total
number of stallfeeders issued in Phase III was 4,909 which exceeded
the appraisal target of 4,082. Numbers issued could have been
considerably higher, but due to foot and mouth disease restrictions
in the Southern Region it was difficult to obtain sufficient stock
by purchase at markets. With demand exceeding supply, the livestock
component was able to maintain a fairly strict system of selection
of applicants for stallfeeder stock. Details of stallfeeder
performance are given in Annex IV(i).
4.3.20   Dairv - During the phase there  was an increasing demand by
smallholders to participate in the dairy scheme.  However, due to
difficulties in obtaining and utilizing suitable semen for the arti-
ficial insemination programme, and more particularly a serious



- 32 -
outbreak of contageous abortion within the supply herd at Dzala-
nyama ranch, supplies of improved stock could not keep pace with
demand.
Year          Number Issued          Appraisal Target
1975/76                   6                      15
1976/77                  14                      15
1977/78                  47                      30
1978/79                  11 (replacements)       30
Totals               78                      90
There was no reliable data on total milk production by dairy small-
holders. Details of dairy performance are given in Annex IV(j).
4.3.21 Poultry - The poultry component introduced in Phase III met
with many problems which stemmed primarily from a lack of adequately
trained personnel in poultry production and poor administrative
machinery to support the scheme. As a result, implementation did
not reach the targets anticipated at appraisal.
Number of           Appraisal          Number of Eggs
Layers Issued           Target             sold through    Appraisal
Year     Farmers  Birds    Farmers   Birds        Official Channel    Target
---dozen-----------
1975/76    20      2,000        40     3,840           11,785        69,120
1976/77    60      6,000        40     3,840           42,690        69,120
1977/78    60      6,000        40     3,840           24,795        69,120
1978/79   ---        ---        40     3,840           44,945        69,120
Totals    140    14,000        160    15,360          124,215       276,480
Source:  LLDP, Livestock Section.  (Years: April to March)
4.3.21.1    Credit repayments were poorly managed and poor account-
ing links between the grading station, MHANR headquarters and Project
headquarters caused long delays in payments to producers. Further-
more, irregularities in egg grading at marketing occurred, with some
producers losing substantial quantities of eggs even allowing for
the high proportion of cracks which followed poor transportation
facilities from farm to grading station. Consequently, many of the
scheme's participants sold eggs on local markets and not through
official channels. As a result, credit recovery was low (58%) and
restrictions had to be placed on further issues.
4.3.21.2    It was apparent that in some instances feed quality from
the local milling company was sub-standard, and flock mortality was
high due to inadequate management and poor extension coverage.
4.3.21.3    Programme management attempted to resolve these problems
by liaison with the egg marketing board to (a) provide better trans-
portation facilities; (b) speed up payment to producers; and (c)
expand and modernize the egg handling and grading facilities. Feed
quality was improved through liaison with the local milling company.
However, extension continued to be inadequate although staff levels
met appraisal requiremnentc.
4.3.22    General Liventor1: Develepmnt -  The continuation of general
livestock extension in  iTase III inc;>uded the following programme as



- 33 -
agreed at appraisal:
(a) encouragement of use of crop residue;
(b) production and conservation of fodder crops;
(c) controlled grazing of dambos, by fencing and education on
grazing management;
(d) culling of surplus animals, particularly surplus bulls;
(e) construction of a further five dip tanks;
(f) expansion of artificial insemination services;
(g) introduction of a mobile cattle market.
Implementation performance of this program was as follows:
(a) Encouragement of the use of crop residues was successfully
accomplished for those farmers stallfeeding steers and dairy
cattle. However, there was no evidence of a similar success
on a more general basis principally because it is common
practice for all livestock to be turned on to crop fields
after harvest anyway.
(b) The production of fodder crops was a condition before issue of
dairy cattle to smallholders. In most cases, although not
all, this condition was adhered to and each dairy smallholder
produced approximately two hectares of Rhodes grass (Chloris
guyana) which was cut and fed to his unit of two dairy cows.
However, even in the case of dairying smallholders, the con-
servation of this fodder crop was not evident. It was
generally cut and fed direct according to requirement without
recognition of the need for complete cutting and stacking at
the time most suitable for fodder nutrient status. There was
no evidence of production of fodder crops by smallholders other
than dairymen, basically because the opportunity cost in time
spent on such an exercise was obviously better spent in grow-
ing cash and food crops.
(c) The introduction of controlled grazing of dambos remained
impossible under the prevailing communal grazing system, and
improved grazing management was not adopted by the individual
livestock owner.
(d) Livestock nunbers and sales - (see under Impact: paragraph
5.6.5).
(e) Dip tanks - Compared with the five targeted for at appraisal,
only two were constructed. This reduced number was considered
adequate by Programme management for the existing livestock
population of the area.
(f) A.I. service - The programme for A.I. service on a general
basis with smallholder cattle herds was curtailed sharply for
two reasons. Firstly, the availability of suitable semen and
its handling was severely limited; and secondly, it was con-
sidered by management to be unwise to introduce exotic blood
into village herds at the prevailing management levels. A
good Malawi Zebu type was expected to perform better than
exotic half or three-quarter breeds under these conditions.
There was some A.I. input of Friesland semen in Unit 12.



- 34 -
(g) Mobile cattle market - Because the amount of livestock offered
for sale within LLDP continued to be very limited, it was con-
sidered inopportune to invest in a relatively expensive mobile
cattle market during Phase III. Instead, the Programme
cattle buyer purchased some stock on the basis of 'weight-band'
valuations in those areas where stock was offered (particularly
in Unit 3).
4.3.23   Evaluation Component -  Improvement in the implementation of
the evaluation component was noticeable during the phase. This
principally concerned the achievement of a more representative data
base from smallholder surveys (by means of a change from mobile to
the use of resident enumerators) and an improved adequacy and time-
liness of analysis from a           computer tabulation programme
which had more practical uses. With the formation of a national
Evaluation Working Party (1975) and its coordination and strengthening
by means of a Central Evaluation Unit (1978) at Ministry head-
quarters, a more practical and timely format of data collection and
analysis was achieved.
The Lilongwe Evaluation Unit conducted the following surveys during
Phase III:
1975/76               1976/77             1977/78               1978/79
Survey    Sample    Survey    Sample    Survey    Sample    Survey    Sample
Title     Size      Title       Size     Title       Size     Title       S:ize
Demo-       939      Demo-        955     Basic        959      Basic       1572
graphic,             graphic              farm                 farm
Garden &             Garden &
Yield                Yield
Improved    130      Improved      83     Tobacco    :226
maize                maize                management
Tobacco     502      Resources   255
management
Farm         102
management
Resources   949      Credit       170
The basic farm survey under the new format (introduced in all Pro-
jects in the 1977/78 season) covers representative data on household
demography, training and experience, labor availability, cropping
patterns, agronomic practices and timeliness, sources and uses of
inputs, objective measures of garden size and crop yields, contact
and advice from extension staff, attitudes to adoption of improved
practices, and supplementary reasons for crop performance.
The following analvses and presentations of survey results were com-
pleted during the phase.



- 35-
Survey title            Partial   Full        Partial   Full
Survey title                     alylysis  analysis  Write up  Write uo
Farm Management (1969/72)            J                   -
Demographic (1975/76)                         V                     1/
Garden       (1975/76)               V                    V
Yield        (1975/76)              _         V          _   . 
Demographic (1976/77)                J                              V
Garden       (1976/77)       '                            1/
Yield        (1976/77)              -          V         -           1
Improved maize (1976/77)            -          V         _           v
Basic Farm      (1977/78)           -          V         -           V
Improved maize (1977/78)            -                    -
Tobacco Elanagement (1977/78)       -          *         -           1
Resources       (1977/78)           -         4          _
Credit          (1978/79)            V        -          -          -
Basic Farm      (1978/79)            V        _          _
4.3.24  Managemernt and financial control and reporting - A high
standard of management and financial control was maintained through-
out Phase I'I.   In the case o. Management control, regular weekly
co-ordination meetings were held with Divisional heads and
Evaluation.   Management appeared to be continually aware of the
major activities, findings and problems of every project component.
Financia' control was similarl" well adrinister,-1 and the compute -
ised cost accounting.- systzm was able to provide ti=ely analysis of
component costs compared to budget, on a monthly basis.   The project
produced monthly and quarterly reports regularly.   No annual reports
were produced during the phase.
4.3.25 Pro-ect nrenaration for the National Rural Development Pro-
gramme - Included under tze Crediz Agreement was finance to assist
in the preparation o- projects for the National Rural Development
Programme by the Ministry of Agriculture & Natural Resources.   This
included mainly operating expenditures for Land Resources Survey,
Population Survey, Agro-economic Survey and Crop Experiments.   For
the implementation of this; the Lilongwe project passed a cheque for
MI200,0O0 to Ministry Hieadouarters; this money was entered into a
"Special Development Vote" (046).   (For details.of its Departmental
Warranting see Annex IV(k).)   This was of course not the only
source of funding for N.R.D.P. preparation.   Implementation was
effective from the point of view that baseline data was collected
and analysed by the Ministry's Land Husbandry, hesearch and Agro-
Economic Survey departments and this information formed a reasonably
adequate base for preparation of project submissions for N.R.D.P.
appraisal.   Negotiations were accomplished successfully in 1978.



- 36 -
5 : IMPACT
5.1     LLDP was set up to improve the living standards of smallholders
within the Lilongwe Plain. It was envisaged that the target population
would receive major benefit from increased production of maize,
groundnuts and tobacco. Benefits were expected to accrue also to
smallholder dairy, stallfeeder and poultry farmers. Whilst those
benefits have been more obvious in terms of production and hence in
financial and economic terms, it must be borne in mind that
benefits of a social bearing have also come as a result of project
activities. These latter are considered here as far as possible.
5.2     Crop Production - Considerable data are available relating
to smallholder crop production and may be found in project evaluation
records. Rather than reiterate these facts, the following paragraphs
compare projected with actual crop production performances and
discuss possible reasons for the divergencies. A more detailed
analysis and discussion of yields and associated data from 1977/78
farm survey is given in Annex V(b).
5.3     Cropped Area - Of the total land available for smallholder
cultivation a reduction in the proportion actually cultivated was
evident,during Phase III. This is partly because during the phase
the Programme extended into modified input areas with lower popula-
tion density and reduced cultivation pressure. The emphasis on
tobacco production also influenced this trend to smaller average
areas cropped by smallholders.
5.3.1    Table 5.1 provides a comparison of projected and actual
cropped areas by season during Phase III. Some noticeable differ-
ences from the pattern envisaged at appraisal are evident. The
three main reasons advanced for these differences were: (a) an in-
adequate supply of improved maize seed and fertilizer (paragraph
7.3.1.1); (b) an obvious rational smallholder response to producer
prices and input/output price relationships (see paragraph 9.2 and
more detailed discussion in listed References 4 and 5); and (c)
the emphasis which was placed by extension and credit administration
on tobacco as a more viable enterprise (see Annex V(b) and (c).
.
5.3.2   The competition for smallholder labor between alternative
crops (see listed Reference 5) also had an effect; for example in
1977/78 increased emphasis on tobacco resulted in a reduction of
groundnut area. Groundnuts were afforded less priority by small-
holders at prevailing price levels.
5.3.3   The total area allocated to maize production over the same
time remained relatively stable.  As a basic food the demand for
this crop remained inelastic. The amount of improved seed avail-
able was insufficient to enable total demand to be met by a smaller
crop area.
5.4    Crop Yields - Since the smallholders encompassed by this
Programme remained a relatively stable farming community with
expansion of individual holdings limited by land availability, then
the most pertinent parameters to be highlighted from a point of view
of Programme Impact must be in terms of yield per unit of land area.
A key indicator in this regard is phys'cal crop yield per hectare;
the value of this yield in terms of smallholders labor input and
money invested must also be considered as part of the Programme
Impact. It should be noted that the original development plan for
the programme area stressed the dangerof crop yields actually



Table 5.1: LLDP Phase III: Comparison of Actual and Projected Crossed Areas
1975/76                  1976/77                  1977/78                   1978/79
Projected   Actual       Projected   Actual       Projected   Actual        Projected   Actual
Cross LLDP Developed Areas ('000 ha)          285        285           306        334           349        349            349        349
Cultivated Areas ('000 ha)
Maize                                     105.6        99.6         114.9      122.0         130.7      120.9          136.4      123.3
Groundnuts                                  37.2       43.5          40.9       41.7          46.5       28.9           18.2       31.7
Tobacco                                     21.4       20.1          23.1       21.2          26.3       30.3           27.9       29.9
Other                                        5.7       10.3           6.5        8.3           7.9         8.8           7.4        7.9
TOTAL                                         169.96    173.8          185.4      193.2          211.4      188.9         215.4      191.9
Cultivated As % of Total LLDP
Developed Area                              59.8       61            60.6       58            60.5       51             61.7       54
Source:  LLDP, Evaluation Unit
November 19, 1980



- 38-
declining in the face of population pressures and erosion, if intensive
soil conservation measures were not implemented.
5.4.1      The Evaluation Unit of the Programme has placed specific
emphasis on the collection of representative crop yield data in all
seasons, with comparison between developed areas and those not yet
being developed and also between improved and local crop varieties. These
yield data were collected with emphasis on maize and groundnuts as the
two key crops of the Programme. Estimated yields for tobacco and wood
production have been derived largely from non-project sources but are felt
to be representative of yields within the project. The following para-
graphs summarize the results of the crop yield analysis. More detail is
available in References 3, 4, and 5.
5.4.2      Maize Yields:
Table 5.2   Comparison of projected and actual mean maize yields
by variety and season: LLDP, Phase III
Variety                  Poecte                     A c t u a 1
1975/76  1976 77  1977/78  1978/79
(kg/ha)       (kg/ha)  (kg/ha)  (kg/ha)  (kg/ha)
Local: unimproved           1,120         1,164       714       980      1,100
improved              -            1,393    1,073    1,075       1,332
Hybrid                      3,584         3,323    4,006    3,175        3,771
Synthetic                   1,344         1,719    1,332    1,436        n/a
Composite                   2,240         2,117    2,517    2,262        1,948
Note 1. Projections same for each season; no improved local maize projection.
Source: LLDP, Evaluation Unit.
Seasonal yield variations- followed marked differences in climate. High maize
yields were associated significantly (P = 0.05) with time of planting, plant
densities and rate of fertilizer application. For further discussion see
Annex V (b).
5.4.3      Groundnut Yields:
Table 5.3   Estimated mean Chalimbana groundnut yields: LLDP Phase III
Season          Projected (improved)            A c t u a 1
Unimproved    Improved
(kg/ha)              (kg/ha)         (kg/ha)
1975/76                560                    306             346
1976/77                579                    278            359
1977/78                597                    278            283
1978/79                616                    315            531



- 39 -
Note 1: Unimproved yields:
1975/76 & 1976/77 within the project area;
1977/78 assumes 1976/77 undeveloped estimates;
1978/79 Thiwi/Lifidzi Project estimate.
Source: LLDP, Evaluation Unit.
The mean recorded groundnut yields for LLDP declined over the
first three cropping seasons of Phase III. Adverse climatic conditions
coupled with an inadequate improvement of smallholder crop management were
the basic causes. By comparison, the favorable growing conditions of the
1978/79 season returned groundnut yields almost double the 1977/78 means,
even though only marginal improvements to crop management were evident.
The lack of improvements in agronomy can be linked to a poor extension
effort for this crop (see Annex V (b) ) and to labor competition from an
increased tobacco area.
Sulphur dust was not generally used throughout the phase since,
at prevailing prices, the level of groundnut crop management was not
considered sufficient to warrant its use on a general basis. (But some
farmers who did use sulphur dust and improved management returned yields
of over 800 kg/ha). A wide variation around the estimated mean yield values
occurred (as with maize) with an average coefficient of variation of 68%.
It was found that for groundnuts early planting and high plant densities
were rewarded by above average yields. Evaluation Survey comparisons showed
that the management applied to the 1978/79 LLDP groundnut crop was slightly
superior to that of the Thiwi/Lifidzi crop (non-Project area) of the same
year.
5.4.4.    Tobacco Yields:
Table 5.4   Comparison of projected and estimated tobacco yields -/: LLDP, Phase
Projected           Actual -
(kg/ha)              k  ha)
Unimproved                          380                  380
Improved: 1975/76                   426                  500
1976/77                  426                  566
1977/78                  426                  480
1978/79                  426                  480 2/
Notes: 1. Represents yield sold to ADMARC
2. Using 1977/78 estimate
3. Source: Chitedze Research Station



- 40 -
Owing to practical difficulties involved in obtaining accurate
objective measures of effective smallholder yields of cured leaf, the
Evaluation Unit did not collect tobacco yield data during Phase III. However,
results of smallholder trials conducted by Chitedze Research Station staff
have been used to compare apprai.sal and actual yield estimates. The
Evaluation Unit monitored tobacco crop manapement practices during the
latter three seasons of Phase III. Compared with maize and groundnuts,
tobacco crop management practices followed closely to extension recommendations
(Annex V (b) ).
5.4.5.    Owing to the enormously overriding effect of climatic variation
between areas and seasons, a more representative assessment of Programme
Impact is perhaps obtained by comparing yield parameters for the two main
crops (maize and groundnuts) between developed and undeveloped areas over
a longer time span of seasons than for Phase III alone. This is also relevant:
from the point of view of considering the overall and longer-term impact
of the Programme, particularly concerning the value of soil conservation
measures and inputs of improved management. Table 5.5 provides a comparison
of maize and groundnut yields between those areas not yet reached by the
Programme and those already being developed each season from 1969/70 to
1978/79. The comparison provides an indication of the average



Table 5.7       Haize and Groundouts I Yiolds and Agroijoiiy
Bea#ion rat ing~~                     2.2~.992U 1970/71 1971/7; 197'/7' 19fF)/), 1974t75 1975/76 1976/77 1977/78 1978/79
8 ea iion rasting                                    ___pT_        )  ---G)                         W tti (n)         (P) (TP-7         (G)
Haijze Yields (kg/he)
(All maize) Developud Ltreas                         1,2(1   1,4',5   2,066   1 .80   1,lf7   1,425   1,391   1.220   1,206   1,540
Undeveloped area.                       1,131   1,290   1,249   l.12{j        S5   1,017   1,1583    991         _        _
Totol ;per Gample      ,                1,148L  1,,22   1,515   1,<32   1,107   1,340   1,350   1,180   1,206   1,540
(Coofficients of Variation) %                                           (65)              (Bi)   (73)    ('/1)    (76)    (76)    (71)
lhtiribor of obtervutions                               704     687   1,011       nl       769      693     956      663      777   1,081
Groundnuts yieldfI (ik/'ha)
Developed areas                                       585      549      483      362      445     547      430      372      283      531
(Coefficient of V;rintion) %                                                            (48)    (53)    (46)    (47)    (68)    (68)
U adoveloped areas                                     659     605      445      343      4U5     551      408      304       -        -
Total per -,Ample                                      616     582      458      351      420      549     427      372      283      531
fulunber of oboervations                              634      549      984      nl       701      640     631      648      640      427
Hai: a (rowera (M')
(i)   Ueing improvud &seds Developed areas               8      15       49      ni        32       15      11       10        9        7
Undeveloped areaa         15       17       14     ni        12        6        4        3        -        -
(ii)  Using fertilizer   : Developed areas               4      13       56      ni        36       17      18       19       31       25
Undeveloped areas          5       15       18     ni        23       14       15       49        -        -
(iii) Applyng vmanure    a Developed areas               -       -        6      nl         5        5       6        5        5        4
Undeveloped areas          -        _        4     ni         7        8        6       14        -        -
NOtes& # season rating: P a poor   H a mediocrel  G a good.
ni - no information
SoUrce: £valuation Unit Surveys.  based on Yield sub-plots in farmers' own gdrdenn.



Tablo 5.6       Yielda and Agronomy Results of the First Development Units (1 and 2 )
1969/70 1970/71 1971/? 72          1        1974/75 19195/76 9        1977/78 1978/79
Seoaon r(ting                                                   (M)     (G)       -       (II)     (G)      (CX)     (p)     (P)      (a)
Groundaut yeilda (kg/ha)                                554      533      334     ni       5115     460      323      319     280       590
(Coefficients of Variotion) %                            -       -      (61)      ni      (45)    (58)    (47)    (47)    (61)    (66)
Haize yields (kg/ha)            ;                     1,226   1,490   1,827       ni    1,0'i0   1,572   1,058   1,270   1,140   1,480
Percentage of Growers
(i)   Usirg improved maize aeed,                        8      15       25       ni       2)       12        4       0       ni       ni
(ii)  UsinE fertilizer                                  4      13       17       ni       20        9        8      11       ni       ni
(iii) UsinL manure                                     -        _        6       Ili      10        6       6        4       ni       ni
(iv)  R!1ging early (before mid-liovember)             -       93       46      Ini      6bG     72        76       7?       ri       ni                4
(v)   Planting eitrly (before let vecember)            -       25        9       ni        9        6        8       4       4        ni
(vi)  llith maize at optimum plant density
(35,000 p/hia)                                 -        6        8      ni        6        2        &        6      ni       ni
(vii) With grounnutc at optimum plnnt density
(65,000 p/ha)                                  -        0       0       ni        0        0        2        0      xi       ni
(viii)Applying sulphur dunt to groundnute              -        -       16       ni       16        4       2        8       ni       ni
(ix)  'Jith groundnutc reCeiving vioits by
Lxtenaion Staff                                -        -  )   55       ni       63       67       45       4o       ni       ni
(x)  'Jitil maire  '           *' H                _ _              )            ni       5'       59      50       52       ni       ni
(xi)  By Exteneion advica on uso of improved
seed                                           -        -      18       ni        6        9        0        0      ni       ni
(xii) 3y Extenaion advice on use of fertilizor/
manure                                         -        -       63      ni  3~            46       61       50       Ai       ni
Iluober of obaervatioaet Haize                         226      94      46       ni       79      112       48       27      43      147
0roundnuts                  161               31       ni       oG       94      44       20       32
Source: £valuation Unit Surveye.  Based on Yield nub-plots in farmeras  own gardena.  bor 1977/78 end 1978/79- Evaluation data
on detailcd agronomy not set analysed for this sub-atrata.
ni a no information.   Season ratinga P a poor;  H a mediocrel  a , good.



- 43 -
differences between farmers within the Programme activities and
those outside. Particularly in the later years of the Programme,
it is noticeable that farmers within the areas of Programme
activity were obtaining consistently better yields. The declining
proportion of maize growers using improved seed and fertilizer is
noticeable even in this table, although it must be remembered that
each succeeding year encompasses a greater number of farmers.
Table 5.6 provides , as an indication, a comparison between
seasons, choosing only the first Developed Units (1 and 2) with data
between 1969/70 and 1976/77. Rates of adoption of recommended
'packages' and better agronomy have shown no signs of clear
improvement over the ten years covered by these indications.
Crop yields also have shown no marked improvement on average.
5.5        Incremental Crop Production -Table (i) at Annex V(a)
presents a comparison of actual and projected crop production
parameters over the four seasons of Phase III. Due to the lower
than anticipated uptake of improved maize seed and a change in
relative farm-gate prices of smallholder crops, incremental
maize production was lower than projected at appraisal. However,
had the marketing system provided fertilizers and improved
seeds in the quantities projected and ordered by management,
it is likely that maize production under the monitored target
crop management regimes would have considerably exceeded
appraisal targets. As it was, total incremental maize production
was 77 per cent of the projected target. This again emphasises
the role ADMARC had in assisting smallholders to achieve
the anticipated level of maize production using improved maize
seed and fertilizer. For the whole of the phase incremental
groundnut production was approximately 13,019 metric tons,
76 per cent of the 17,036 metric tons envisaged at appraisal.
Clearly, had adequate emphasis been placed by extension staff on
plant populations and timeliness of planting, and had on
adequate pricing policy been implemented, then anticipated pro-
duction levels would have more easily been realized. In the
case of tobacco, although gross production exceeded marketed
production, the situation is not as anomalous as it appears.
Much tobacco was rejected by ADMARC. How ever, a buoyant
internal market existed for ILDP smallholder tobacco
in other localities of Malawi as a 'twist' (for cigarettes)
and snuff. Evaluation surveys revealed a slight deterioration in the
level of tobacco crop management since 1976/77; more farmers grew the
crop but received less extension assistance. Secondly, the heavy
storms during 1975/76 and again in 1977/78 damaged many tobacco
barns, which reduced the standard of curing. The increased number
of tobacco growers placed heavy demands on thatching grass and
fuel-wood which accentuated curing problems and shortages of



- 44 -
grass for domestic thatching.
5.5.1     In an attempt to establish some of the many inter-relation-
ships which existed in smallholder crop production, the Evaluation
Unit conducted basic correlation and regression analyses on crop
management and associated data collected during the 1977/78 season
(see Annex V (b). The approach tested various hypotheses derived
from field observations and first-stage analysis of the data,
primarily to establish broad relationships between crop yields,
crop management and the activities of various project components.
Whilst the approach is considered incomplete, it provides valuable
insights into the tlinkaget effects of the Programme. In summary
this analysis indicated the following:
(a)      Hybrid maize growers appear to be the most
progressive, adopting major extension recommenda-
tions for most crops.
(b)      On the whole, tobacco growers followed the main
extension recommendations for tobacco cultivation
even though for subsistence crops no significant
crop managemenr improvements were evident.
(c)      The provision of essential project input, such as
extension, farm training and credit, was biased
in favor of tobacco-growers.
5.5.2     An additional indication of the availability of extension
advise for the main crops on key issues of agronomy is also reproduced
from a basic farm survey analysis table at Annex V (c). This also
shows that not only was extension coverage more concentrated on tobacco,
but also that a high proportion of those farmers who were following
recommended practices did so despite having had no advice.
5.5.3     Reference to Table (i) of Annex IV(g) provides a comparison
of projected and actual inputs of fertilizers and seeds sold to
Programme smallholders each season by ADMARC. ADLARC purchases of
smallholder crops is also given. In summary, the indication given
here is that actual compared with projected input sales for the whole
of Phase III were only 17% in the case of improved maize seeds but
93% in the case of fertilizer (although sulhate of ammonia proved
more in demand than tne compound 20:20:0). Groundnut seed inputs
were better at 103% of projected levels.
5.5.4     Table (i) of Annex V(d) shows that LLDP has been a major
purchasing area of fertilizers in the Central Region of Malawi. A
point of interest from the data embodied in this table is that the
bonuses paid to smallholder tobacco producers at the end of one
season appear to be positively associated with cash purchases of
fertilizers at the beginning of a subsequent season.



- 45 -
This data seems to indicate that:
(a)      The uptake of fertilizer through cash sales was
higher sensitive to payment of tobacco bonuses.
(b)      The seaaonal credit schemes in LLDP payed a major rose
in stabilizing maize production between seasons.
5.6        Farmer's Benefits
5.6.1      Arable Incomes - Using the preceding data on yields and
cropped areas, average arable incomes were calculated for LLDP small-
holders during Phase III at constant 1978/79 ADMIARC farm-gate prices.
Considerable interseasonal variation in average incomes were experi-
enced due to yield differences. However, between the first and final
year of the project average incomes remained at K136 even though there
was a reduction from 2.10 ha to 1.76 ha in the mean cropped area.
(see Annex V(e), Table (i).
5.6.1.1    However, this 'mean value' could be misleading as small-
holder farms exhibited a wide variation both in terms of cultivated
area and type of crops grown within each season. Furthermore, there
was a high proportion of smallholders growing tobacco (for example,
52 per cent in 1977/78 and 45 in 1978/79) and it was noticeable
that they were associated with large holdings in both seasons. There-
fore to show more clearly the differences in farm incomes between
project participants and non-participants, gross margins for each
major crop have been calculated on a per hectare basis (Annex V(e)
Table (ii). Then, using these value, complete arable budgets were
calculated for holdings of: - 1.80 hectare with and without tobacco
3.0 hectare with tobacco; and 1.0 hectare without tobacco(See
Annex V(e) Table (iit). The summarized results were:
Table 5.7 LLDP:Arable gross margins,projections compared to
actual (1978/79 prices)
Unimproved             Improved
Projected    Actual    Projected       Actual
1.0 ha(non-tobacco)      133,75       59.54       200.35      70.74
1.80 ha("    "    )      167.51       107.87      233.01      116.36
1.80 ha(tobacco   )      295.59       132.80      429.82      164.54
3.0 ha (  "       )      295.59      245.19       429.82      335.05
Source: LLDP, Evaluation Section.



- 46 -
The disparity between projected and actual arable budgets stems from
higher projected crop yields than were achieved by smallholders in
1978/79. Although it can be seen that arable incomes were substan-
tially improved, the greater benefits seem to have been derived by
tobacco growers.
5.6.2      Clearly, from the above, although the improved packages
adopted have increased farm arable incomes, the actual increases
has not reached the levels projected. Since, for tobacco and maize
in particular, it has been shown that smallholders have achieved crop
yields per hectare above appraisal projection, then the lower incomes
than anticipated were due to a less favourable cost/price environ-
ment as indicated by the following:
Table 5.8   Output value to direct ratios for improved package
Maize         Maize
Hybrid     Composite       Groundnuts    Tobacco
Projected at Appra-
isal 1/                2.03          2.99           9.84          3.62
Actual Result 2/        2.19          2.03           6.05          2.23
Source:  1/ Report 652-MAI,Annex 13,Table 1
2/ Annex V(e) Table (ii)
Hybrid mazze was the only improved package which returned a higher
than projected return per Kwacha of direct expenditures; however,
as has already been indicated (Annex (IV)(f) the availability of
suitable hybrids for the farmer was severely limited.
5.6.2      The Stallfeeder Enterprise -   Details on slaughter grades and
gross returns on stallfeeders issued to credit farmers, during Phase
III and compared with earlier issues, are given in Annex IV(i). Based
on the results for 1978, a stallfeeder budget (at Annex V(f) indicates
that a gross margin of K25.41 was-probably earned on average.Average
slaughter grades during Phase III were below those achieved in Phase II
and dressed weights were also lower, however, this must be related to the
fact that the number stal2ed in the latter phase was more than double
that projected.
5.6.3      The Dairy Enterprise - Impact of the dairy enterprise was of
course limited by the small number of participats-due to the limitations
of supply of dairy stock outline in paragraph 4.3.20. A budget for a
two-cow enterprise at Annex V(g) indicates that an average annual
gross margin of K263.09 was possible.



- 47 -
5.6.4   The Poultry Enterprise - Unfortunately no objective record
was kept of poultry enterprise performance. Whilst it is clear
that a large proportion of egg production was sold outside the
Official marketing channel, there are no reliable data on actual
total egg production. The poultry enterprise budget presented at
Annex V(h) can therefore offer only a rough approximation of per-
formance. The budget indicates that profits of K186.73 per annum
from a 120 bird enterprise was theoretically possible, rising to
K351.48 per annum after five years when capital repayments would be
completed. For the purpose of calculating incremental benefits
(Section 8), it has been assumed that achievement reached only 60
per cent of this theoretical budget level.
5.6.5 General Livestock Husbandry - Implementation of the general
livestock improvement programme was somewhat limited compared with
the ideas suggested at appraisal (see 4.3.22). As a result of
these changes, and also the fact that LLDP extension input in general
livestock formed only a part of the Veterinary Department input, its
impact would appear to have been minimal. This is evidenced by the
fact that there was no noticeable improvement in general management
levels of the herd or the natural grazing resource. As an example,
one of the basic improvements sought in cattle herd management
through LLDP extension was a reduction in the number and ratio of
stags (uncastrated males) with the use of selected (or improved)
bulls. A comparison of herd statistics over the four years of
Phase III indicates that there was no improvement in this respect
(see Annex V(i)). The number of castrated males showed no signi-
ficant increase in the face of a sharp increase in the proportion of
uncastrated males and a marked reduction in the cow to 'whole-male'
ratio. There is of course evidence of improved management of
individual herds; however these are too few to provide any bearing
on the general statistics. On the basis of all evidence therefore,
no incremental benefit has been counted from general livestock
management (see Section 8).
5.6.6 Dzalanyama Ranch - Details of the performance and achievements
of Dzalanyama ranch both during Phase III and for the entire Programme
are given in Annex IV(h).
5.7    Extension and Training - Whilst a measure of extension and
training impact is more related to improvements in yields, production
and husbandry, it is also relevant here to consider their impact from
a more general point of view. The extension component has provided
farmers with a considerable exposure to advice on improved farm
practices (see 4.3.10.4); however it is apparent that emphasis was,
in the main, on crop production. By comparison, advice on aspects
of livestock management, conservation practices and the business of
farming' seems to have been lacking.



- 48 -
5.7.1   Farmers acceptance and implementation of crop management
extension advice appears to have been high when given (see Annex V
(c), Table (i)). However a major aspect of improved agronomy which
was not followed (except for tobacco) and was not emphasized by
extension, was adequate plant populations. Except for the tobacco
crop, plant densities were well below the recommended levels and in
fact the number of farmers who received advice on plant population
was also low relative to that on other crop management aspects (see
also Annex V(b)).
5.7.2 The emphasis which extension staff placed on tobacco in preference
to other crops is also indicated. (Annex V(b)).
5.7.3   Previous evidence (Phase II) within LLDP and also from other
areas suggest that losses of crops in storage under traditional
methods is high (perhaps 16 percent of stored production). One would
therefore have expected some emphasis to be placed by extension
on improved storage facilities. However, survey by the Evaluation
Unit in,August 1978 revealed that storage cribs still remained un-
improved (97 percent).
5.7.4   Since tobacco production featured as an important aspect
during Phase III, more emphasis could have usefully been placed on
extension on fuel-wood planting in the knowledge that this was
becoming an important limiting factor.
5.7.5   The discussion on linkages in crop production (Annex V(b))
also reveals that farmers who had attended training courses were not
significantly associated with higher plant populations and timeliness
of planting; two critical determinants of crop yields. It would
appear that both staff and farmer training did not address some of
the most critical aspects of crop and livestock management practices
in a manner sufficient to motivate the necessary improvements here.
5.8    The Credit Facility - There can be little doubt (see 4.3.14
and Annex V(d), Table (i)) that the availability of seasonal credit
had enormous bearing on the adoption of improved packages. In
1978/79 the credit facility was utilized by an estimated 52 percent
of all LLDP smallholders.
5.8.1   It is evident that the seasonal credit facility was not
available to all smallholder farmers on an equal basis. For
example, studies conducted by the Evaluation Unit indicated that
tobacco growers were a significantlv favored group with respect to
credit disbursements (see Annex V(b)). A survey in May 1979 indicated
that, of a random sample of 170, 45 percent were tobacco growers,
of whom 91 percent received credit during the 1978/79 season at
an average of 4.6 packages per borrower. But only 61 percent of the
non-tobacco growers received credit, with an average of 3.8 packages
each. Moreover, of the tobacco growers taking credit, 70 percent
did so through a credit group whereas only 4.5 percent of non-tobacco
credit recipients were available of this facility.  If this pattern
prevailed throughout Phase III then the slightly higher repayment
rate for group recipients is not surprising.



- 49 -
5.8.2   Seasonal credit on an individual smallholder basis was dis-
bursed according to Government guidelines; however (as has been the
case in most other project areas) although credit groups were
supposed to be self-accounting, few in fact were. Credit groups
were short-lived and usually disbanded after receipt of inputs (having
first paid the necessarv 10 percent deposit). There was little
development of a self-help approach to upgrade management by the
poorer members of the group, and individual members of the group were
generally responsible for their own repayments without evidenceof
pressure by the group 'committee'. Thus 'group' members obtained
inputs at a lower credit charge yet still left accounting and policing
procedures to project staff.
5.8.3    Under the prevailing conditions outlined here, therefore,
Programme management decided to continue to allow credit disbursement
on an individual basis until such time as group improved their self-
help ability.
5.8.4   Costs of Credit Disbursement - On the basis of the four years
ending 30th September 1978, the Credit Fund earned a net trading
surplus of K156,029. However, this did not include the administration
and running costs of the Credit component (which for the four
years of Phase III totalled K395,000). The total credit programme
therefore operated at a net cost of approximately K239,000 which was
5.4 percent of the total loans issued in the four years up to 30th
September 1978. On this basis, in order for the Credit Fund to
be completely self-financing the average rate of interest charged
on loans issued would have to be raised by 5.4 percent.
5.8.4.1   There are few instances where a credit component could
operate without the full cooperation of the extension service. It
is therefore very difficult to quantify the total cost of any credit
programme or its total effects. It must be looked at from an overall
achievement point of view when measuring the success or failure of
such a programme as this. Indications that the seasonal credit
scheme in LLDP played a major role in stabilizing maize production
between seasons have already been noted (paragraph 5.5.4).
5.9    Land Demarcation and Registration - The impact of this particular
on-going programme has been difficult to measure in economic terms.
However, LLDP has been the only area in Malawi where the Customary
Land Development Act (1967), the Registered Land Act and the Local
Lands Board Act have been applied for the benefit of smallholders.
The smallholders have indicated strong approval of the scheme with
the security it has given to family units in the face of increasing
land pressure. It is perhaps too soon to evaluate fully the impact
of such a programme, but already it is evident that the
growth of rural trading centers has been stimulated with the issue
of over 400 leases for small scale industries and stores. It would
seem that the success of this programme has stimulated the concept
of a Rural Growth Center project on a national scale.



- 50-
5.10    Research and Trials - This unit conducted crop trials on an
agency basis for the national research programme since no project
specific trials were indicated at appraisal and also since the post
of Senior Research Officer remained vacant throughout Phase III.
Consequently the results of the trials programme were not made
available to management until 1979 (see Annex IV(d)) following the
arrival of a British volunteer.
5.11   Forestry - Whilst meeting the appraisal requirement, more
woodlots could have been established. Enough seedlings were raised
by the Forestry component to cater for 700 hectares of smallholder
plantations. Many seedlings did not establish because of late
planting which was caused by competition for family labor from
staple and cash crops. Where Gmelina species, in particular, were
planted and open to goat browsing, severe damage reduced the
established area. Once woodlots were satisfactorily established
little attempt was made by farmers to follow up a program of woodland
management year by year; instead the only operation was a sporadic
cutting of stems. The two most common faults evident were: failure
to thin the woodlot in time and failure to thin the resulting coppice
shoots after felling the original stem.
5.11.1   Smallholders devoted insufficient attention to woodlot
establishment even though the supply of wood for the construction of
houses, cattle stalls and tobacco barns as well as for domestic and
tobacco curing became increasingly reduced during Phase III. The
lack of forestry extension follow-up was probably a root cause of
this problem.
5.12     Staff Training - In addition to the programme of regular
refresh training courses for junior staff at the Staff Training
Center (paragraph 4.3.11), considerable emphasis has been placed on
specific staff training'at all levels. This took the form of in-
service training, external training elsewhere in Africa and overseas.
5.12.1   Training for management assistants was also arranged within
the Programme. During the period of this report, eight senior
officers spent a minimum of eighteen months on management assistant
and other training programmes. Of these, two have since filled
posts of Project Managers, one as Assistant Project Manager, two as
Assistant Regional Agricultural Officers and one has assumed a senior
post in Ministry headquarters. The remaining two are at present
overseas undergoing further training. Other staff members from LLDP
have also been promoted to take up responsible positions in other
departments and institutions within the Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources and other Ministries.



- 51 -
5.12.2   In addition, ten senior officers attended (through LLDP
efforts) the course in Swaziland in Planning and Control in Agricultural
Management and twelve senior officers attended various other seminars
and training courses in countries overseas.
5.13   Social Impact - At the onset of this Development Programme,
weaknesses in what may be called the private economy were clearly
evident throughout the area:
(a) the purchasing power of the rural people was weak;
(b) marketable surpluses were small;
(c) private entrepreneurs were few;
(d) markets were dispersed;
(e) distribution points were few and stocks limited.
5.13.1   The establishment of Unit Centers by the Programme for these
services have provided a sound starting point. Here was an area of
land, agreed upon by the people, for entrepreneurs, shopkeepers,
craftsmen, etc., to establish themselves. They did so with their own
private investment and were soon beginning to supply a wide range of
materials and services. It is accepted that many of their major
transactions are undertaken only during peak crop or livestock marketing
seasons. But they are already offering many opportunities and services
which were not previously available.
5.13.2   Committee structures have been based at these service centers
with representatives from all walks of life. They discuss freely
their achievements and ambitions, also policy, their problems and
they suggest remedies for these and propose new ideas.
5.13.3   Greater job opportunity is provided and, with the teaching
at health facilities based at these centers, basic eating diets have
improved considerably. The centers also provide commercial and
recreational areas for development resulting in diminishing flow to
the larger urban areas.
5.13.4   A strong awareness for the necessity of improving housing has
been created but has not yet been finally resolved. This is under-
standable because of very strong traditions and custom.
5,13.5 The cumplexity or the integrated system has increased the
awareness of education and has led to the recuest for adult literacy
programmes.
5.13.6  This approach has provided the frasework, by liaison with
other Departments and Ministries through the farmers' own efforts,
to form a basis for introducing rural industry opnortunities. Many
additional skills wdnich have been acquired by farmers and staff
members have beer introduced into other areas of the country as they
have moved on to otiher forms of employment, or when visiting relatives
and friends.



- 52 -
5.13.7 LLDP has developed a valuable partnership with the urban
development of the new Lilongwe Capital City.   Again, the benefits
of an intesrated ap-roach are numerous yet extremely difficult to
quantify.   This approach of LL3P has foliowed Government's plans
and objectives and so far has gone a long way to achieving them.



- 53 -
6: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
6.1       The total cost of Phase III amounted to some MK11.41 million
compared with the appraisal estimate of MK10.1 million. The sources of
finance towards this cost compared with those planned at appraisal were
as follows:-
Source                 Appraisal Plan             Actual Result
(MK million)             (MK  million)
I.D.A.                        7.1                     7.31
U.N.C.D.F.                    1.3                      1.40
Malawi Government             0.8                      1.29
Farmers                       0.2                      0.27
Dzalanyama Ranch              0.2                      0.44
ADMARC                        0.5                      0.70
Total                        10.1                    11.41
6.2       Withdrawal of the IDA credit (550-MAI) and the UNCDF grant
resulted in 4 per cent more Malawi Kwacha than anticipated at appraisal
due to a strengthening of the US dollar from an expected exchange rate of
(MK) 0.83 to 0.86 actual average. For details see Annex VI (a).
6.3       The Malawi Government contribution amounted to much more than
was intended at appraisal. It was more than 61 per cent higher than
estimated. The main reason for this increased contribution was that the
Treasury accounting procedures for drawdown of the loan did not fit the
intended pattern at appraisal. The 15 per cent local contribution (to
complement IDA's 85% contribution and excluding ADMARC) was to have been
made up from Government (two thirds) and from farmers and ranch revenues
(one third); but the Treasury claiming procedure did not allow for
reimbursement of the expenditure. Reimbursement related only to expenditure
on Government account. With Dzalanyama revenues and farmers' contributions
retained for re-use within project account, then a complete drawdown of
the loan (IDA 85 per cent reimbursement) resulted in a Treasury contribution
which was greater than would otherwise have been the case. As noted above,
the increase was also due to'the strengthening of the dollar which required
more Kwacha expenditure to fully draw down the dollar loan.
6.4       The Farmers' Contribution to project finance was made up of
interest and charges for seasonal and medium term credit (not 'deposits'
as suggested by the appraisal document). This contribution was in the
form of 'trading surpluses' made available to the credit fund.
6.5       The higher than ant'icipated contribution from Dzalanyama Ranch
income was mainly the result of the extra year of project life (incomes
received over four years instead of three years as planned at appraisal).
There was also a considerably greater trading of stallfeeder steers than
projected which tended to offset somewhat the lower culling performance.
(See also 4.3.18 and Annex IV (h)).



- 54 -
6.6       Infrastrucutre development for markets and input facilities was
estimated by ADMARC to have cost MK 0.7 million compared with the MK 0.5
million anticipated at appraisal.
6.7       Comparison of costs by Project CateRorv (Tables at Annex Vi(a))
indicates that the costs of Category III (I'ersonnel and Operating) con-
siderably exceeded the appraisal estimate and that the cost of civil works
were less.  These indications, however, are misleading as demonstrated in
the tables of Annex VI (b) and (c). Personnel and Operating Costs were
actually below the appraisal estimate (contingencies added) by MK 558,000
(Annex VI(b)). Civil W4orks added during Phase III (excluding ADMARC,
Health and NRDP) amounted to MK 1.7 million more than is idicated by
Category I of Annex VI(a). It is clear that the claims for IDA reimbursement
were not correctly allocated between Categories I and III due to the fact
that considerable expenditure was claimed under Category III before subsequent
capitalisation to Civil Works in the assets schedule. This may be under-
standable from the point of view of drawing down funds before the subsequent
financial postings on completion of works in progress, but it also demonstrates
a weakness of IDA Category analysis for non-going monitoring or ex-post
evaluation purposes.
6.8       A more detailed look at the table at Annex VI(b) indicates that
total project operating costs amounted to MC 5.036 million compared with the
appraisal estimate (contingencies added) of MK 5.864 million. This is a
commendable performance considering that: (i) the actual costs covered a
period of four years as against three years for the planned costs: (ii) in
the fourth year (1978/79) the Extension and Credit administration components
incurred added costs in areas outside of Phase III; (iii) maintenance costs
(Building and Construction Component) included costs of maintaining infra-
structures which were planned to have been maintained by Government revenue
account; (iv) price escalations were above those envisaged at appraisal (see
paragraph 6.11 and Annex VI(e)). Apart from these more general observations
it is noticeable that operating costs for Earthworks (i.e. maintenance of
conservation works was considerably down on planned expenditure and the
Health Component received much less operating funds than anticipated. On
the other hand, the cost of operating Dzalanyama ranch considerably exceeded
the appraisal estimate (see also Annex IV(h)).
6.9       The schedule of assets summarised at Annex VI(c) indicates that
during Phase III an additional MK 3.9 million of fixed assets and equipment
was added to Programme development, bringing the total for the entire life
of the Programme to MK 9.5 million at cost, with a depreciated value (as at
30/9/78) of IT 5.2 million. Road facilities added in Phase III cost an
additional MK 754,000; boreholes IM 390,000; conservation works MK 875,000;
and buildings (including health) MX 1.1 million.
6.10      Quarterly reibursement of calim against the IDA loan fitted
closely to appraisal forecasts with drawdown completed in the third quarter
of IDA fiscal year 1978/79 as planned. (See Annex VI(d)).
Note: l' Annex 5, paragraph 10 of appraisal Report 653-MAI.



- 55 -
6.11      Contingency allowances provided at appraisal were overgenerous
in the case of Physical contingencies (5% staffing and 10% other costs, per
annum) although of course the addition of a fourth year to the planned
three year project would not have been possible without this generous
allowance (see Annex VI(e)). No project specific index of input costs was
maintained, but a summary of national price trend indices provides a
comparison of actual price inflation against price contingencies allowed
at appraisal. This comparison indicates that for all items except salaries
and wages, the contingecy allowed (compounded) did not keep pace with
price inflation. In the case of building materials, prices jumped in 1976
and 1977 to levels considerably above the contingency allowance at a time
when the bulk of the civil works programme was being implemented.
6.12      Generally, it was found that the funding of the project was more
than adequate for implementation needs. This is evidenced by the fact
that the project was able to continue for a year more than planned and at
the same time adequately complete the infrastructure programme. The tight
control of expenditure in the face of the difficulties outlined above
(paragraph 6.8) should be highly commended; as also should the good standard
of computerised cost-accounting maintained throughout the phase. With the
minor (unimportant?) exception of that outlined in paragraph 6.7 above,
all financial convenants were adequately fulfilled and no difficulties were
encountered in the procedures for tendering or drawdown of funds.
7: INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
7.0       Institutional performance is here reviewed in four components:
Performance of the Project itself, of the parent Ministry headquarters, of
the parastatal marketing organization (ADMLARC), and of the Donor agencies
involved.
7.1       Performance at Project Levels - The organizational structure
effected in Phases I and II continued in Phase III, an outline of which is
given in Annex VII(a). Within each of the five divisions of the programme,
individual section heads were responsible to their respective divisional
chiefs who in turn were responsible to the Programme Manager.
7.1.1     Management organization - The size and diversification of this
Programme made management no easy task. Manpower constraints were faced
;dth many problems relating to procurement and supplies of inputs had to
be overcome. Management continued none the less to implement the Programme
with commendable efficiency. This is evidenced by the fact that in spite
of having to overcome these considerable difficulties, the Programme has
continued to be a showpiece for visitors within Malawi and from other
countries, as well as an example for other rural development projects to
follow.
7.1.1.1   In addition to the good informal links maintained between the five
divisions of the Programme, formal management control meetings have been
held every week in the Programme Manager's office. They have been attended
by senior staff from the Credit, Marketing, Finance, Administration, Extension,
Training, Research, Livestock and Evaluation Sectiors. Each meeting reviewed
progress during the previous week and project policies were formulated



- 56 -
or adjusted and implemented according to the situation and requirement.
The meetings were constructive, ensuring a team appraoch to management.
Activities were well co-ordinated with the various sections being kept
informed of policy and implementation details.
7.1.1.2   Management has been purposeful and displayed a considerable
strength of leadership. As a result, many staff who have served in the
Programme have gained invaluable training and experience. (See also Staff
Training, paragraph 5.12).
7.1.2     Staffing - Large differences between staff required at appraisal
and those actually in post, both at senior (STA and above) and junior
levels, existed during Phase III. The following statistics are representative
of the staffing situation from 1975 to 1979.
Staff Ratio                         Post
Appraisal:Project               Senior      Junior
Created:Appraisal                 83          76
Filled:Appraisal                  57          67
Filled:Established                73          75
7.1.2.1   A breakdown by division is given in Annex VII(a) Table (i).  The
number of posts established by Government differed from appraisal estimates,
particularly in Divisions I and II and differences also existed between
established and filled posts in Divisions I, II and III. It appears that
the Extension and Administrative components enjoyed comparatively low vacancy
rates at senior level whilst Division II, the Land-Use, Construction and
Building component, experienced high vacancy rates at this level.  Similarly
at junior level the latter com.ponent was seriously hit by high staff vacancies.
In comparison Accounts, especially the Credit Section, Extension and Admin-
istration were relatively fully staffed, but Evaluation, Land Allocation
and Surveys all experienced large shortfalls at junior staff levels (see
Annex VII). These shortfalls stemmed primarily from cumbersome recruitment
procedures and a shortage of suitably qualified personnel at the conditions
of service offered. These problems also affected other rural development
projects in Malawi.
7.1.2.2   An important issue arising from the above discussion is that of
staff motivation and performance in the various Programm.e components.
Although the Building and Construction component faced severe staff shortages
its performance surpassed appraisal expectations.  The Extension component
on the other hand, while enjoying a reasonably high staffing rate, seems to
have failed to impart effective extension advice to encourage improved
agricultural production. To some extent this may have been due'to poor
staff motivation, but the questionable economic attractiveness of the
improved packages offered must also have been a factor limiting smallholder
response.
7.1.2.3   In the formative years of the Programme, the number of expatriates
employed was considerably more than during Phase III. In December 1972
some 31 expatriates were in post compared with 11 throughout Phase III. Including
the Project Manacer, there were eight expatriates in senior posts and three in
the nmiddle grades.



- 57 -
7.1.3     Administration - Division IV, the Administrative component of
LLDP Phase III, was responsible in the main for personnel recruitment;
the maintenance of an adeqate store of clerical items and other equipment
essential to the smooth running of the project; and the organization and
maintenance of the Project's transport fleet.
7.1.3.1   With respect to personnel recruitment, LLDP followed Government
procedures. As noted, those procedures are cumbersome and time consuming,
slowing down and even impeding the replacement of essential staff. Had
the project been free to advertise and subsequently employ staff, still
within the gudelines of Government, then positions would probably have
been filled more easily and efficiently.
7.1.3.2   Throughout Phase III no major shortage of essential stores,
equipment or fuel were experienced. Transport in particular was not a
constraint to project implementation. However, an over-use of vehicle
power, especially four-wheel-drive, was noticeable. The following outlines
the number of vehicles operational (including those from Phases I and II)
on 31st March, 1979:
Number
Four-wheel drive: Land Rover           63
Daihatsu            15
Saloon car                             24
Pick-up truck                           4
Lorries (cattle truck, tripers,
etc.)                         18
Tractor                                 3
Motor cycle                            33
7.1.3.3   Not only were four-wheel drive vehicles expensive to run, but
their effectiveness under difficult driving conditions were severely
eroded by inexperienced drivers. Moreover, it is questionable whether the
road conditions warranted the number of four-wheel drive vehicles used.
Had more use been made of bicycles and motor-cycles and had saloon cars/
pick-ups and four-wheel drive vehicles been issued more judiciously, operating
costs might have been substantially reduced without adversely affecting
project implementation.
7.1.4     The Financial Division (Division III) maintained adequate and
regular records of expenditure by type for all project components.
Management received detailed trail-balances at the end of each month and
less elaborate breakdowns weekly. Vehicles and equipment were procurred
according to credit agreement standards on the basis of two tenders accepted
from international competitive bidding. (See Annex VII (b)).
7.1.5     Reporting - Financial reports were sent to the Programme Manager
(and to MA.NR) weekly.  Section heads submitted to the Programme Manager,
through their divisional chiefs, monthly and quarterly reports for collation
into project reports. In addition the weekly formal meetings held between
component heads and the Programme Manager served as a useful reporting
system through which weekly details of project performance were discussed
in depth. Towards the end of Phase III the Central Evaluation Unit of MANR
produced a standard reporting format for all major projects in Malawi.



- 58 -
7.1.5.1   Some difficulty was experienced in compiling of this Completion
Report, however, caused by incompatible reporting years. For example,
financial records were geared to a year ending September 30, whereas
project years ended March 31. Certain information, e.g. for livestock,
has been maintained only be calender years.
7.1.6    Land Demarcation and Registration   Many problems were en-
countered in the land allocation processes particularly disputes over who
was the family head. Registration of land was delayed accordingly. Staff
vacancies at senior level forced the section to place junior staff in super-
visory posts which at times confused important issues; the training of
Land Allocation staff did not go beyond the usual in-service training
courses given to all project staff which probably accentuated poor motivation
at junior levels. With respect to the issue of land tenure certificates to
family units, the main problem was long delays in the preparation of the
documents which were issued by the Commission for Lands.
7.1.7     Evaluation - During this phase the Evaluation Unit, together with
the other major projects in Malawi, adopted a common survey design and
computer program to monitor and analyse crop yields and associated management
practices. This development followed the establishment of a Central Eval-
uation Unit at the headquarters of the Mtinistry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources and an improved coordination of Evaluation Unit work programmes
and methodology through an Evaluation Working Party.
7.1.7.1   Since the introduction of the above system in 1977/78, management
has been provided with the results of the common survey conducted by this
unit in a more timely manner than was previously experienced. However, it
was felt that a more in-depth analysis of agro-economic conditions was
warranted. To this end the unit introduced a full farm management survey
to a sub-sample of the common survey respondents, with the assistance of
the University of Malawi in the 1978/79 season. Data from this are not yet
available.
7.1.7.2   A waekness of the Evaluation Unit performance was that it did
not actively enourage improved record keeping by project components in the
interest of developing an on±going monitor of component activity against t
target plans.
7.2       Malawi Government Performance - As indicated in part 4 of this
report, the Malawi Government fulfilled most of the conditions required
for successful implementation in Phase III. There was an adequate control
of procedure for reimbursement claims with detailed audited accounts main-
tained and made available to the donor agencies. Although it was necessary
for recurrent account contribution by the Malawi Government to be assisted
by drawings from the LLDP Credit Fund (see Annex IV(e), Table (i)), this
was due mainly to an under-provision in the recurrent budget as a result
of a project financial design which did not fit existing Treasury accounting
procedure, and also the need for increased Kwacha contribution to draw down
the inflated dollar laon. (See paragraph 6.3). In this context, cost
inflation (see Annex VI(e)) coupled with an extra year of project life had
considerable effect.



- 59-
7.2.1     There were, however, two important areas where performance  might
have been better. These related to staff recruitment procedures and the
phasing over of developed Units to revenue account.
7.2.1.1   The problem which the Project faced from inadequate staffing
levels was outlined at paragraph 7.1.2. This relates both to the creation
of posts as required by project design and also the filling of posts. Only
83 per cent of the senior and 76 per cent of the junior posts were in fact
created, of the posts agreed at appraisal. This problem could only be over-
come in the future by a liaison with the Department of Personnel Management
and Training at the time of Project appraisal and negotiation, to avoid
the necessity for their own separate assessment of project needs after nego-
tiation has already been completed. Methods to circumvent the delays
in recruitment should also be determined at the time of appraisal.
7.2.1.2   Although it was intended at appraisal that there would be a
progressive hand-over of Developed Units (after five years) to Revenue
account funding, this was in fact only partially achieved. It was not
until April 1978 that the first hand-over of staff on Development account
to Revenue account was effected (at a budgetted cost of MK 25,259 to
September 30th, 1978). The maintenance cost of all (40) Units was also
carried by LLDP Development account up to April 1978. Although contribution
towards the cost of maintenance amounting to MK 13,600 was requested and
negotiated for in 1977/78 in fact none was received from Revenue account.
For 1978/79 MK 18,400 was requested for 23 Units and only MK 9,500 was
received. Phase III funds therefore had to continue the maintenance and
operating expenditure of virtually all Units previously developed.
7.2.1.3   In addition, although some 800 kilometers (240 Secondary and 560
District) of roads had been handed over to the Regional Engineer for
maintenance by the end of Phase III, there still remained 1,800 kilometers
of other roads which had been built and were still being maintained by the
project. Much of these roads (classified as 'feeder') were of a standard
which would not permit hand-over, leaving maintenance to be continued by
the Programme or by poorly equipped local councils.
7.2.2     Two other points should also be noted with reference to-performance.
The first concerns the inter-ministry liaison committee which was supposed
to function as a means of improving co-ordination to overcome project
implementation problems. This committee did not function in Phase III, which
is unfortunate, since some of the problems outlined in this PCR could probably
have been overcome. The second concerns the Dzalanyama Ranch Advisory Committee
which also did not function on a formal basis. Some of the problems high-
lighted in Dzalanyama ranch management and planning could perhaps have been
overcome by a more formal liaison.
7.2.3     As detailed under Article III of the Credit Agreement document
(550-MAI) there were a number of agreed recommendations for execution of the
Project by the Government.
7.2.3.1   Sections 3.01 through 3.04 were fully completed without problem.



- 60 -
7.2.3.2   Section 3.05 - the posts of Programme Manager and Financial
Controller were adequately filled throughout, but that of Principal
Agricultural Officer was filled for only part of Phase III.
7.2.3.3   Section 3.06 - the Project liaison committee did not function
effectively during Phase III.
7.2.3.4   Section 3.07 - a revised detail of proposals for continuation
under Revenue Account after the Project was prepared. (See Annex III (b)).
7.2.3.5   Section 3.08 - a Senior Medical Officer was appointed but the
health subcentres and health posts were not adeuqately satffed during the
phase.
7.3       ADMARC Performance - The greater bulk of the benefits envisaged
at appraisal were centred on the provision of inputs and marketing facilities
to smallholders. The Programme was responsible for the credit institution
whilst marketing was organized by ADMARC. The credit facilities extended
undoubtedly allowed for improved agricultural production by project partic-
ipants but the full potential of the Programme's efforts was eroded by ADMARC'Es
failure to provide enough seasonal inputs on time.
7.3.1     The marketing section of the Programme being autonomous with ADMARC,
provided timely marketing intelligence to Programme management at weekly
meetings (see paragraph 7.1.1.1). Thus constraints in the marketing system
were quickly identified by management who related the information to ADMARC.
However, due to logistical constraints, the marketing organization was not
always able to make the necessary adjustments.
7.3.1.1   ADMARC did not manage to provide enough seasonal inputs (improved
seeds and fertilizers) or at the time required for smallholders to adopt the
extension recommendations correctly. Had the required quantities of input
been available before the planting period in each cropping season, then all
indications are that incremental production of maize and groundnuts predicted
at appraisal could have been appreciably surpaseed. As it was, a large
proportion of seasonal inputs arrived well after the planting period. More-
over problems were experienced by ADMARC in the marketing of smallholder
produce, which resulted in considerable congestionat many markets during the
crop purchasing periods. Many of the problems could have been overcome had
ADMARC managed to bring inputs to unit markets at the time of transporting
their produce back to depots. (See also paragraphs 4.3.15.2 and 4.3.15.1.).
7.3.2     In view of these difficulties which seem to be of recurring nature,
a study by ADMARC of ways to improve the ligstics and administration of
its facilties would seem appropraite.
7.4       Donor Agency Performance
7.4.1   The appraisal document (652-MAI) provided a very adequate basis on
which to formulate component budgetting and the overall implementation of the
Programme.  It was easy to follow and gavea clear indication of project
objectives and targets. This greatly assisted the monitoring of on-going
performance and the compilation of this PCR. It is considered particularly
important that an appraisal document should provide this comprehensive guideline to



- 61 -
pro.ject irp emerta:i,-.    Tar7etE chaculd be clearly s; ecifined in
acitail fcr t-e entire -hase.   Cniy bD  conztant ref_r'ence to such a
basic dcc=z:ent can anr.ual waork p-ac =zintain a contin--ity wits
overall jrGcect o:.,,<-c-ives.
7.4.2    Dur'.=7 projcet inplementation, the donor agencies prcvided
si;: su crvizicn .4-.so,s for the Cener             C ,cz _   ;._ Lw  p s eciiically
Aor thc hc.alth co...o.-norcnt.   A total of approy:i:ately 32 man days was-
sper.t at ths Droject on st:pervisicn.   ?:ost of the probl1:ns hi.h-
lighted  in this PC:. .ere idcntified and dizcuzsed at cuzervisicn
round-up m..eeti ns, in parttcc.1Lr those rei.ating, to pricl r:, and the
cost of ir..u:s, crzp y-nlds and plart -0D 'i2ions, seed supply,
staff vac  .ez: and thls zransfer of Deve1c.Sed Ux:S to :Revenlue
account.   I- adaitiot-n t-e suoervision  _s.-' on :cr thoe ;aath cc.-
-on-. strezo3e  t_e ..ed for mz ;-ir.ne meaiec *c.ccie e availab'e and
further invest,o _;:c   iritO  bilha;zia cont ol ceasures.
7.4.3   Grner.ally, although Project mnar.Gement reported that total
mnn days provided ina supervision were fewer ir Phase  11  than for
earlier nbazes (smn-iler tearms) i t uould aurc.r that, with the serious
exce.ptie;'?.c:- of 2_S_-n.;.(ce          >nth-.                 d.onur agercyj
ace was enzr-r 'y >aeuate co .-s4r.:g the h:  standard of
the Pro,ra::re's ow;n mana..ement ccn.ro.



- 62 -
8 : RATE OF RETURN
8.1      As indicated in parts 4 and 6 of this report, Programme activities
(and hence costs) during Phase III were not related solely to the new areas
under development. The benefits attributable to increments earned in the new
areas covered by Phase III do not therefore fully reflect a return to project
costs.
8.1.1    In view of this and also the limited value that would be gained from
an ex-post analysis of Phase III costs and returns in isolation from the total
Prograrme design, (the original Malawi Government project submission in 1968
formed the basis for a thirteen year programme) it has been decided to present
an economic rate of return calculation on the basis of the entire three-phase
programme.
8.2      Comparison of Phases I to III results against a 'without-project'
situation requires certain assumptions relating to crop area and yield situa-
tions which would have developed from the basic agro-economic environment
prevailing at the beginning in all areas covered by the programme. Reference
to background data for the first project submission for Lilongwe Plain
would seem to indicate a situation which was already experiencing problems of
land degradation and erosion in the face of new economic and social pressures
brought about by the development of the Capital City of Lilongwe. The need was
to stabilise the rural population, conserve the soil resources and raise crop
yields and incomes to more viable levels.  The danger of a decline in soil
fertility and yields without a project was emphasised.
8.2.1    On the basis of thi  background (and survey baseline data obtained
between 1968 and 1971) it is reasonable to assume that the cropping pattern
in a !without project' situation would have emphasised continued expansion of
subsistence and food crops into more marginal land resources to fill the joint
needs of increased population pressure and declining yields. For the 'without
project' situation thereforel the area of maize and 'other crops' is assumed to
increase at two per cent per annum. The area of tobacco and groundnuts is
assumed to decrease by two per cent per annum thus releasing land to the basic
subsistence crops. This trend would continue to the maximum estimated arable
area of 245,000 hectares. With soil erosion and declining fertility, and an
increased pressure to move into more marginal land, it can be assumed that
maize and groundnut yields would probably have shown a declining trend of two
per cent per annum; and yields for tobacco and 'other crops' would have remained
constant. (See Annex VIII (a) Tables(i) and (ii).)
8.3      Against this 'without project' assumption the incremental production
for crops as a result of Programme activities is obtained on the basis of three
time series as follows:
8.3.1    The first relates to the seasons 1968/69 to 1976/77 inclusive when
Units under the direct influence of Programme activities did not encompass the
entire final Programme area.  Since the Evaluation Unit had continued to collect
crop yield data both within and outside the Units under development (see Table 5.5



- 63-
under Project Impact) then incremental production for this time series was
calculated as crop areas in Units included under development (see 2.5 under
Background) multiplied by the difference in yield between these Units and
those not yet covered by the Programme. (Annex VIII(a), Table (i) and the
first part of Table (iv).)
8.3.2    The second time series relates to the years during Phase III when
Programme activities had reached all Units (1977/78 and 1978/79). For these
two years incremental production has been calculated as the difference between
actual production figures and those provided by the 'without project' projection
(8.2.1). (See Annex V(a), Table (i) and Annex VIII(a), Tables (ii) and (iv).)
8.3.3    The third time series relates to a comparison of future projection
(1979/80 to 1998/99) for a with and without project situation. Following
Phase III it is projected that the Programme inputs have set a trend which
would provide maize production increases made up of a two per cent area and
one per cent yield increase on the average per annum. Due to quota and fuel-
wood restrictions, tobacco area is projected to decrease by one per cent per
annum with yield constant. The area and yields of groundnuts and other crops
is projected to remain constant. These projections fall within the estimated
total available land for arable cultivation (70 per cent of gross Unit areas)
of 245,000 hectares. Incremental production in this time series is then taken
as the difference between this projection and the projections in 8.2.1. (See
Annex VIII(a), Tables (iii)and (iv).)
8.4      It should be noted here that this calculation of incremental crop
production clearly takes account of increments in tobacco production. As has
been noted (see under Project Impact) tobacco received emphasis under project
extension and credit facilities. Although this pattern was not intended at
appraisal (emphasis was on hybrid maize and groundnut) it is considered in-
correct to exclude the benefits from tobacco which clearly resulted from the
inputs of this programme.
8.5      Other benefits included in the analysis were derived from forestry
(woodlots), Dzalanyama ranc1j., the stallfeeder programme, dairy and poultry
programmes.
8.6      Historical project costs (1968/69 to 1978/79) have been taken from
previous records (Reference 11) inflated to 1978/79 prices by the Blantyre
low income cost of living index. The costs for the following Phase III com-
ponents were considered to have had a direct bearing on benefits and were
therefore included in the analysis: Management, Administration, Building and
Road Maintenance, Financial Control, Extension, Training, Livestock, Credit
Administration, Marketing, Rural Development, and Evaluation. The cost of
drugs utilised in the Health component was also included. Dzalanyama ranch
costs were already accounted for in the benefit calculations for that component
(Annex IV(h), Table (iii).)
8.6,1    Projected costs of services required to maintain the calculated flow
of benefits included Extension, Training, Livestock, Credit Administration,
Marketing, Rural Development, and Evaluation, plus the average cost of drugs
used in the Health component all on the basis of the full average annual



- 64 -
operating cost for these components in Phase III. To this was added an
allowance br maintenance of fixed assets at 2-1/2 per cernt of total (at cost)
value. (See Annex VI(c).)  An allowance for Management, Administration and
Financial Control costs was also included on a proportionate basis.
8.7      The Economic Rate of Return for the three phases of this Programme
was calculated on this basis as 25 per cent over a total period of thirty
years (1968/69 to 1998/99) or 24 per cent over twenty years (1968/69 to
1988/89). Details of this cost and benefit calculation are given at Annex VIII(c).
9 : DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS
9.1      On the basis of the analyses of Impact (Part 5) and Rate of Return
(Part 8) both the Phase III project and the entire Programme (Phases I to III)
appear to have been highly successful. To a very large extent the favourable
rate of return has been due to an emphasis by extension and the credit facility
on smallholders' tobacco enterprise. Although this was not the original inten-
tion of the Programme (which emphasises maize and groundnuts) it was the correct
approach in the circumstances. Tobacco production provided a better return
both to smallholders and to-the economy; tobacco growers were obviously more
motivated and receptive to improved agronomy as a result. The same could not
be said of maize and groundnuts; maize returns were blunted by a continued
shortage of hybrid seed (and high input costs); groundnut yields did not
reach the levels forecast due to poor plant populations and no application
of sulphur dust (perhaps it was difficult for the smallholder to accept
groundnuts seriously as a cash crop).
9.2      Particularly in the case of groundnuts, producer prices paid by ADIURC
seem to have had some effect on the proportion of land which smallholders allo-
cated to the main crop alternatives. (Annex V(a) gives a comparison of actual
crop hectares).
9.2.1    The actual average prices paid by ADMARC, at their markets serving
LLDP smallholders, have been as follows:
Average Prices Paid*by ADIARC in LLDP (tambala/lb)
Smallholders      Cured        Shelled       Shelled
Crop Year       Tobacco      Groundnuts      Maize
1973/74          9.51          7.13          1.25
1974/75         11.72          7.18          1.75
1975/76         13.36          7.86          2.25
1976/77         15.25          8.42          2.25
1977/78         19.32          9.33          2.25
1978/79         18.89         14.17          2.25
* Note: Calculated as Total Value of purchases divided
by Total Quantity for each crop.



- 65 -
9.2.2    A comparison of these prices in index form with indices for prices
of smallholder fertilizer and the Lilongwe low income cost of living is as
follows:
Price and Cost Index Comparison in LLDP
Fertilizer    Lilongwe Low
Smallholders   Crop Prices to Smallholders         Cost to      Income c.o.l.
Crop Year     Tobacco   Groundnuts  Mlaize    Smallholders        (N.S.O.)
1973/74        100         100        100          100            100
1974175        123         101        140          248            120
1975/76        140         110        180          248             126
1976/77        160         118        180          188            134
1977/78        203         130        180          216            141
1978/79        198         199        180          216            157
Considering that crop and fertilizer prices are announced in advance of the
planting season (tobacco bonus payments have been added here) comparison of
these indices with cropped areas (Annex V(a) ) is revealing. With cost price
relationships moving against groundnuts and maize, then tobacco was the crop
which smallholders favoured increasingly during Phase III. This pattern has
been reversed in the final year when prices offered for groundnuts rose sharply.
9.2.3            Some further comparisons on cost price relationships are also
presented here in the form of smallholders' groww margins. These are compared
for the crop seasons after conversion to a constant level for purchasing power
of the Kwacha as follows:
A Comparison of Gross Margins at Constant Yield Levels Converted to
1978/79 Values (Kwacha per hectare) 1/
Tobacco  Groundnut  Local Maize   Maize Hybrid
Improved  Unimproved  Unimproved  with Fertilizer
% of total cropped        15%        15%         58%             5%
area   in  1978/79      15%        15%         58%             5%___________________
(K)       (K)          (K)            (K)
Crop Year
1973/74                    94         47          46             71
1974/75                    51         43          58             75
1975/76                    75         47          71            127
1976/77                   123         49          67            136
1977/78                   154         54          64            122
1978/79                   130         82          53            102
1/ Based on the 1978/79 Gross Margin calculations in Annex V(e) adjusted
for each year for changes in fertilizer price and crop producer price
levels. The current gross margins for each year then adjusted to
1978/79 value by the Lilongwe low income group cost of living index.



- 66 -
These comparisons further emphasise the more favourable economic 'climate'
for tobacco production compared with the other two major crops during Phase III.
A move of economic 'forces' against the value of return to maize prodti ton rs
also evident.
9.2.4    This brief analysis will, it is hoped, serve to encourage an under-
standing by those recommending future price policies, that smallholders in
Malawi do respond to price incentives and do compare returns between alter-
native crops.
9.3      The poor financial performance of Dzalanyama ranch was a subject of
discussion at NRDP appraisal. This is also particularly disconcerting since
the long-term futute of the ranch was originally suggested as being to hand
it over for comnercial enterprise. Pressures to increase the breeding herd
and even to adjust national beef price levels to suit the ranch, have been
the result. An overriding consideration must be the fact that the ranch lies
within a forest reserve and, more important, forms a large part of the catch-
ment for Lilongwe urban water supply. Under the inadequate level of ranch
management that has existed from a point of view of economic efficiency and
ecological understanding, it would be entirely inappropriate to continue the
build-up of the herd or even to adjust official prices to suit the existing
cost structure (see also Annex IV(h) and in particular the discussion at
paragraph 4: Achievements).
9.4      Conclusion - Has it been worth it?  Apart from the considerations of
government cash flows and rates of return and the like, was the NK24 million
and all the concentration of effort worth spending on the Lilongwe Land Devel-
opment Programme? Reference has already been made to the fact that the Pro-
gramme has been regarded as a showpiece. It is clearly more than that. Apart
from the fact that it was a well conceived integrated programme, developing
within a firm base of local support, this Programme has clearly fitted the
context and balanced the needs of development at a critical time in the history
of Malawi.
9.4.1    In too many developing countries the growth of urban centres has
resulted in a disproportionate movement of population from the land. Agri-
cultural pursuits and the qualities of rural life have been forsaken for the
mirage of easy money in town. A reduced influence of family and social struc-
tures and high unemployment have resulted in a crisis of expectation and unrest.
The benefits of the Lilongwe Land Development Programme in this context would
appear to be enormous. It has provided an essential stability and given the
rural community some pride in their agricultural pursuit. It has enable a
more controlled urban growth of the adjacent new capital city (Lilongwe).
It has helped raise the status of the Central Region to that of a dependable
maize granary to ensure national self-sufficiency.
9.4.2    In this Programme the concept of integrated rural development,
cpmbining finance with the energy of the people, under an efficient and
controlled system of management, can be seen to be succeeding. This within
the constraints of a country which is relatively new on the ladder of devel-
opment and within the structure of a stronglv traditional social milieu, is
surely noteworthy. Within this overall context, the relatively minor problems
of implementation outlined by this Completion Report, can be viewed in their
true perspective.



- 67 -
MALAW I
LILONGWE      LANO    OEVELOPMENT        PROGRAMME
40
I      X                            g3;)_~~~~~~~~~~~~~To saiimc
Sg                        13                       N
.A                                                    city},  wCi
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
27  ,..a                         4 .7
'I<
0
43    ,             ~'*
23
44                                 33~
a                               ~~~~~~~~~~24
RANCH  ,      ,.- 
RANCH
4~~~~~~~                                   (~~~1,N



- 68 -
MAIN SOURCES OF REFERENCE
1. An Application by Malawi Government to Develop 500,00 Acres of Land in
Lilongwe District, MANR. 1967.
2.  Lilong-e Land Development Project.  An Application to IDA to Assist
in unding of the Second Phase.
3. Tobacco Crop Husbandry Practices Survey. LLDP Evaluation Unit, 1978.
Mimeo.
4. Survey of Smallholder Agriculture. Maize and Groundnut Yield Data
1973/74 - 1976/77. LLDP Evaluation Unit, 1978. Mimeo.
5. Sample Survey of Smallholder Agriculture 1977/78. LLDP Evaluation
Unit, 1979. Memo.
6. Farm Management Surveys 1969/70 to 1971/72. LLDP Evaluation Unit, 1978.
Mimeo.
7.  The Lilongwe Land Development Programme.  Proposed Institutional Infra-
structure and rovision of Services Following Development Phases.
MANR 1972.
8. Provisional Proposals for Lilongwe Land Development Programme Phase III.
MNAR 1973.
9. Lilongwe Land Agricultural Development Project Phase II. Appraisal
Report No. PA-76a. World Bank.
10. Appraisal of the Lilongwe Land Development Programme, Phase III.
Report No. 652-MAI. World Bank 1975.
11.  National Rural Development Programme. Lilongwe Land Development
Programme Phase IV Proposals. MANR 1977.
12. Selected Working Papers of World Bank appraisal team for NRDP I.
Report 2095-MAI.
13. Project Completion Reports for Lilongwe Land Development Programme
Phases I and II. World Bank.



- 69 -                   ANNEX 1(b)
Lilongwe Land Programme : Phasing of Development
The timing of Unit Development over the three phases thus far
completed was:
Total Developed      Total Area Developed      Total Farm
Development          Units                                      Families
(Cumulative Number)   (Cumulative hectares)       (Number)
Phase I
1968/69             2                    13,949                8,266
1969/70             5                    35,349               15,685
1970/71             9                    70,507               27,338
1971/72            14                   111,291               38,795
Phase II
1972/73            17                   135,769               46,984
1973/74            23                   194,286               61,562
1974/75            30                   262,373               77,210
Phase III
1975/76            32                   282,850               82,603
1986/77            38    *              333,637               99,954
1977/78            40                   347,882              106,490
1978/79            40                   347,882              108,000



- 70 -
ANNEX III (a)
Extract from Development Credit Agreement 550-MAI
2-19-75
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the three-year final phase of the T lio,L    arj
Development Program, a long-term program  for the developmnxt of    l structure
and the improvement of smallholder agricultural production of t e ?rogram
Area. The project consists of the following parts:
Part A: Land Development
(i)   The construction of about 265 miles of earth roads.
(ii)  The drilling and equipping of about 145 boreholes.
(iii) The construction of about 1,000 miles of drainage
ditches, about 160 miles of waterways and demonstration
ridges.
Part B: Land Reorganization and Registration
(i)   The survey and demarcation of land holdings on about
200,000 acres.
(ii) The registration of land holdings on about 270,000 acres.
Part C: Ifnit Centers, Marketing and Storage Facilities
(i)   The construction by LLDP and the Geological Survey Department
of MANR of about 15 Area Unit Centers, each consisting of
offices,.staff housing, roads, conservation works and a
borehole.
(ii)  The construction by ADMARC of an agricultural input store with
a 380 ton fertilizer storage capacity for each of the Area
Unit Centers referred to in paragraph (1) of this Part.
(iii) The construction by ADMARC of permanent produce markets,
each consisting of facilities for weighing, grading and bulk-
ing produce, storage facilities, offices and staff housing
for about seven of the Area Unit Centers referred to in
paragraph (1) of this Part.



- 71 -
Part D: Extension, Training and Credit Services
(i)   The provision of intensive agricultural extension services
and training services for LLDP staff at the LLDP training
school in Lilongwe and for farmers and their families at
Nsaru and at the Area Unit Centers referred to in Part C (i)
of the Schedule.
(ii)  The provision of seasonal, short-term and medium-term
credit to farmers.
Part E: Livestock Development, Dairy Development and Poultry and Egg Production
(i)   The continued development of the Dzalanyama Ranch to
provide farmers in the Program Area with upgraded feeder
stock for stall feeding and breeding heifers for dairy
development.
(ii)  The expansion of a stall feeder program, including the pro-
vision of credit, extension services and artificial insemi-
nation services, to provide farmers in the Program area with
about 4,000 cattle.
(iii) The establishment of a dairy development program, including
the provision of credit and extension services, which would
include about 60 farmers.
(iv)  The establishment of a poultry and egg production program,
including the provision of credit and extension services,
which would include about 120 farmers.
Part F: Health Facilities
(i)   The construction and equipping of about five health sub-
centers and about 20 health posts.
(ii)  The improvement of about two primary health centers, one
health sub-center and about five health posts.
Part G: Project Evaluation and Future Project Preparation
(i)   The carrying out by the Program Evaluation Unit of field
surveys and the processing and analysis of data obtained
therefrom.
(ii)  The carrying out by MANR of such activities as agro-economic
surveys, land resource surveys and crop trials to assist the
Borrower in preparing the NRDP.
Part H: Administrative Services and Support
(i)   The provision of administrative services by LLDP.
(ii) The purchase, utilization and operation by LLDP staff of
vehicles, machinery and equipment.



- 72 -
ANNEX III (b)
Treasury letter outlining proposals for transfer to Revenue Account
Ref. 28/7/37/4/111/57
22nd December, 1976
J.D. Roulet, Esq.,
Chief of Country Programns Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office,
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433. U.S.A.
Dear Sir,
Credit 550 - MAI Article III - Section 3.07
of the Loan Agreement for Lilongwe Land
Development Programme (Phase III)
We refer to Article III Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement for
the Lilongwe Land Development Programune (Phase III). The Malawi
Government's proposals for follow up on arrangements after the completion
of the Lilongwe Land Development Programme (LLDP) in December 1978 are as
follows:-
We envisage that under the National Rural Development Pro gramme,
(NRDP) the LLDP Management Unit will become responsible for a much larger
geographical area namely the Lilongwe Agricultural Development Division which
is envisaged as covering the whole of Lilongwe and Mchinji Administrative
Districts, Dedza Administrative District excluding the Lakeshore area, and
possibly, as a temporary measure until the Ntcheu Management Unit is set
up, that part of Ntcheu Administrative District not covered by the Bwanje
Valley development prograr=-V. It will become in fact one of the ten
Agricultural Development Division Management Units envisaged under the
NRDP and its establishment will be modified as necessary to fit into the
NRDP context.
The basic management unit consisting of central supervision,
planning and evaluation, credit fund management, accounting, maintenance and
transport, and the extension and training services for the Lilongwe Land
Development Programme area, will have to be reduced to  the order of
K500,000 per annum (currently the project's operating costs are nearer Kl
million per annum) and to this will be added the revenue account facilities
available for the rest of the geographical area controlled and the finances
are made available for specific development programmes under NRDP, e.g.
Thiwi/Lifidzi.
It is envisaged that as far as extension staffing level is
concerned three of LLDP's units will be amalgamated to form one Ecological
Planning Area (EPA), the basic unit of NRD., and trained senior staff of
Technical Officer (TO) and Senior Technical Officer (S1O) level so released
will become available to implement new NRDP projects.  Fewer junior staff
will becomiie available for transfer as it is proposed to mainta-in all the unit



- 73 -
ANNEX III (b) Cont'd
centres identifying of each group of three as a parent or EPA centre, the
other two becoming rather higher class satellite markets than can be provided
elsewhere.
The LLDP Credit Fund will become the credit fund for the Lilongwe
Agricultural Development Division (ADD), the existing funds being used
primarily for the farmers in the LLDP area, but being increased by the
credit funds being made available for other projects or settlement schemes
in the ADD, and by any booster tranches of general credit funds that may be
negotiated from time to time. It is Government policy to encourage cash
sales where possible and to disburse credit, where necessary, on a group
basis to reduce overhead costs. The main function of the credit fund
management is to ensure that necessary inputs are available to the farmers
in adequate quantities, at the right time, within easy reach, on credit if
need be, but with a substantial discount for cash.
The land husbandry planning, research and evaluation units will
assist in the preparation and execution of new NRDP programmes within the ADD.
These include special programmes for Dedza North, Mchinji South, Dedza East
and Mchinji North (probably implemented in that order) together with the
extension of modified input area benefits to the rest of north-eastern
Lilongwe District not so far covered by the LLDP or Mpenu programmes.
The construction unit will be modified to suit the needs of NRDP
and will probably become the Central Region construction facility financed from
new NIRDP projects, and helping the Ministry of Works and Supplies to
maintain roads, field structures and buildings when not needed for new
developments.
Responsibility for the maintenance of feeder roads is being
gradually taken over by the Ministry of Works and Supplies, acting as the
agent of the District Councils. Maintenance of buildings will become the
responsibility of the Ministry of Works and Supplies in the bigger centres and of
the ADD Management Unit in the remoter areas.
Field structures such as drains will be maintained as far as
possible on a self-help basis by the villagers, assisted in the case of
serious damage by the ADD construction unit.
ADMARC will continue to run markets, improve facilities of the
provision of farm inputs as necessary, and assist with the collection of
seasonal credit.
Boreholes are being handed over to the District Council which will
arrange maintenance fiance with the Ministry of Local Government, which will
in turn pay the Wells Maintenance Service of the Ministry of Agriculture
Resources to carry out necessary repairs and maintenace. This is normal
Government procedure.
The structure of liaison committees will be retained, and the system
spread to the rest of the ADD.
A special request will be made for continued finance for the Land
Allocation and Survey Units to continue their work under the umbrella of NRDP



- 74 -
ANNEX III (b) Cont'd
for so long as it is considered desirable by the community.
In order to cover the period during which the LLDP Management Unit
and project area will be fitted into the overall scheme of the NRDP, we pro-
pose a small three or four-year consolidation LLDP (Phase IV) of a rather
smaller cash value as has also been suggested for the Shire Valley Agri-
cultural Development Project. This will provide finance for the continuation
of the Survey and Land Allocation Units, the 'development' costs of these
units brought into LLDP in recent years until they have completed their four-
year development phase and can be taken back onto Revenue Account, and the
continuation of key management units for the Lilongwe Agricultural
Development Division until these can be transferred by stages to the
Recurrent Budget of the Ministry of Agriculture & Natural Resources.



75
Ilu. OF
Mail  F&1:11.fry  .43J.      M-0        424FF AVAlUaU                 r           'UT          MLL                                                           Avk.CL        SO        P.Ll LQLIs
I'A  V. P,:& W,.T,t                                                       *U3L&3                   M'
l'im "u"11   -AT   W-MTW
IZ)  >V                      16                 794
ul. ...a.    ",I                          Iov             21I         55       4      55  4   4        A I         s                 463           5
A.1 I W.-    I                            iVA                         a?      36       36  sg   3-    8  eb   'k                    -1            31        55
".k ...     I P.                                                     56      78      71  31)  35       "    b    1                   327           go        16
M.t: U-
-J."'v.-   -                              I%v             w           46      64      Si  k'l  3-,    79  A         4                642           01
1.1$-        oil                            BW            .00         La      80      '6  'S   37      74  A       2                i5l           tog
t.1  Pti       Liks.1      0-t-,
N.M.                                                74      III  59   30      56  ?i    1                   907          t2?      161
*::It%  P  G..%    N..".         oil                                                       16      "       42  47   k    51  2         I                 7"            48
tt  G.,         *pi."        all                          low             6"           4      w       44  54   20       so  3a   I"                   S44          i7s       -
low           4369         W       67       b7  4,   A5    58  22   lk                    749          351
cch1111-"   OIL                           liw             Res
10    mi   r                                                                                              47      5  31            45  14,   II                 500          102
11            t  Q..t.   mg...b.    oil                               INV,                       .4       33      45  26    8    ?4   7         5                               4:
law     11)36        107     R 50     19i  6    7           4t    5                  720          2          51
Cy 'U,.:                 '41                            N             276         20       37      so   g            8   2      5                275           79
'to    M::"b P  a.".   K--              Nil                           ti(W           2w           56      57      &2  5q    9    3o   a    5                                    54
15    S
X.. t.c"11.   Uk-                 INA,  */NW, 3's              1UA, is,#    1745         %i5      15.     iki  .,a    4   lub   1)    3                   215            70       A7
$1,    ""'                    11,                                     1              236         45       Zd      Lb                3i  27    5                  "52          190
11      ..": 'P            N', .....   '.' 'I                                         200         ,z      5-3                       4,  25      3                2,9            'a
21                          ftlb-        IKA,                                         (HQ)       150     t56     10)  -5    4    64  'k    i                      3"           428       45
21?    k.t.
X.tim'.lt  1;,       Kc..i        "IW                                          2m          14      ?I      49  22    5       5   5      1                 179          lag       Rb
N.. t ,P  4'        ft,.(."      .1                            tmw             zw          70     102     loo  47    q        i   3    1                  256            90
*-P.               C"d.       %S.A. 214t, A14.1. .PAW                    3-A2         76     '04      1      1   4     44  16    6                                591       ;I
AS                                                                               41    6                  02            51      !k5
lol        1,      I"      11  'G    "'
P'-I. O..J.                 I ks                                 ',41          $        1       9   3    1    11   8    4                      58
0:.L%h t  G-t.   9.."ii    Nil                                 ixw            200         56       47      73  Q    -'9       8  ')   15                  465           127
3     $ -
c  d-1.   Ckik-          I". $*AV, 2s                  INA, law      Ig63        fii       g,      93  la      I   lull   4    6                  4            1&k        §1
'-p   G-%.   X.Iladl.   ICCI. 2KA. )R/kif, 44                             4C26         35      79       50  )a    o       IL   g    12                 531          322        92
#.:It%    U, :1:   my-J.         Nil                           INV             211,       72       88      is  62   54       31   8   13                  516           iiz
Di P.      a, ,    chil         KA. IS, 14/101               15czl,tmw   641,             9     12i      6  59   b4        8  50   57                 1050          7316
ri    9  Pit.1  M--   "-I t.t.   I b- C.,                                                         32     'A       53  ,h    a       1-6   7                      202          Joe       1:7
90    3:-
9  It. Q                                                       INV           .569                 145    Ill  -3    57    j7  ki   31                    559           46        32
Q- Ll Kaiawa          JkW                                                              -        -   -    -       -   -    -                    -            300        17
S
4.:;tk C  Q..k.                                                law           )W5         195    29)    43  82   5,'   234  54    14                      1268          716
11    M:.Itb P  U-t.   C"Aaa            oil                                          2m                                                                          $40           26
SH4.1mw       4,550               160                                                      57)          i5l       2i
IU:?m.,2s                                   760                 76      6          l6           9                        M                     35
chi..p      oil                           154V            am          39      4)      68   14   15           1                        445          log
41                                                                    10             200         73       39      46                56  22                       600           148
lo 0.                                       55  3(     1     77   9                        256           62
Kb.l:..    .11                                            200         4,2      ,                                    ;
41                         C".  lu   Nil                              itill           zu         72        .        ,  62           I           3                541           111
44                         N.-:t.    itti                             I              in          72       as     ",  6 -.,  5%    31  18    15                   396           .1,
45                              11-L   Nil                                            200         43      51      54  46   27    56  is   32                      )58           gh
AA                                                                                    200         %2      44      k   7    II       5   36    A                   557          t3(.
law            900         46                    7            4.                           357          %09
41                                                                                                        41                 zi    5c  53.  2.,
Sb 4-14 1-t-    U.   K t- ..    II. lL,-I                                                                             C&                              3*::!thA  I t.:t
--,tr                                                           01/14w                                                                              liv         _tt ..rk
SMUCE,  01.1111% N.At-I Vera...



- 76 -
ANNEX IV(a)
Infrastructure Development: Phase TII
Phases I - III
Phase III                        LLDP Total
Target        Achievement                   Completed
Roads (miles)                       265               399                       1,575
Major Bridges                         7                25                          47
Major Bridges Reconstructed           0                 2                          10
Minor Bridges                        20                 5                          44
Culverts                              0                45                         165
Minor Bridges Reconstructed           0                 1                          12
Boreholes Functional                143               139                         490
Borehole Aprons                    143                181                         398
Diversion Ditches (miles)        1,075             1,053                        4,853
Waterways (miles)                   t00                91                         554
Housing - Town
Class A                            0                  0                           1
Class B                            0                  0                          10
Class C                            0                  0                          39
Class D                            0                 0                          52
Class E                            0                 0                         108
Class F                            0                 0                          94
Housing - Field
Class C                            0                 0                            0
Class D                            0                 2                          14
Class E                           15                47                          79
Class F                            7               160                         505
Low Cost                         153                 1                         101
Training Centers - Residential    0                     0                           3
Offices - HQ                         0                  0                           5
Workshops                             0                 1                           2
Dips                                 5                  3                           8
Health
Primary Centers                    0                 3                           3
Sub-Centers                        5                 6                           6
Clinic Improvements                0                 6                           6
Health Posts                      21                24                          24
Note:  # excluding Dzalanyama ranch shown separately at Annex lV(b) and also NRDP preparation
infrastructure at .ntze: IV().



- 77 -
ANNEX IV(b)
Roads Hianded Over to MTinistrv of Works for Futture Maintenance
(M.il.es)
Year Handed
Over                   Development Units               Secondary    District    Tc--a,
1974/75                 1, 2, 3, 4, 5                       36            73         I09
1975/76                 6, 7. 8. 9                          27            66          3
1976/77                 12, 13, 15, 16, 17                  32            78         1-10
1977/78                10, 29, 30                          15             42          57
1978/79                 11, 14, 27, 28, 43, 44             35             69         1Q4
RemainThg to
Hand Over
1978/80                 21, 22, 26, 35, 40, 41, 42         29             64         93
1980/81                 4, 23, 24                          15             31         45
1981/82                 31, 32, 33                          22            33         55
1982/83                 25, 34, 45, 46, 47                  20            57          7
TOTALS                                          231            513        744
Total projected hand-over for all Units would be the 1,575 miles of roads
constructed over the entire life of the prograrme.  However, the majority
of the remaining roads are of a class of construction unsuited to Ministry
of Works standards.
Source: LLDP, Construction Unit
November 19, 1980



LLDP Phase III: Training Activities
Number of         Number of              Attendance             Attendance
Agricultural      Home Economics           Male Students        Female Students
Residential Centers                       Courses             Courses                 (Days)                (Days)
Staff Training Center (Lilongwe)             139                  5                 12,539                  1,390
Nsaru Residential Training Center            134                 32                  11,879                 7,406
Nathenje Residential Training Center          26                  6                   1,880                 2,297
Total Residential Centers                    299                 43                  26,298                11,093
Unit Centers 1/                            2,913              3,991                  87,345                94,489
Other Events                         Number of Events   Student Days
Staff Training Center                        473             13,485
Nsaru Training Center                         86              4,933
559             18,418
Overseas Training - 14 staff members from T.O. grade and upwards attended overseas training for periods of between
one and twelve months.
1/  1975/76 - 25
1976/77 - 32
1977/78 = 40
Source: LLDP, Training Section.
November 19, 1980



- 79 -
AlNEX IV (?)
LLDP, PHASE III.  SUMMARY OF RESEARCH AND TRIALS COMPONENT ACTIVITIES
1.    MAIZE
Maize trails were carried out throughout Phase III. These trials
were designed and analysed by staff at Chitedze and Mbawa Research Stations,
and were carried out on farmers' gardens in LLDP on all major soil types.
Maize               1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78
Variety trials        4             11        4           3           2
Agronomy trials      44            55        22          22          11
(a)    Variety Trials
New introduction from the breeding programme at Chitedze
Research Station, and new imported varieties were screened on all major soil
types in LLDP. The trials led to the recommendation that SR.52 from a
Rhodesian source, should be grown by farmers as a cash crop where their
crop management is of a high standard. Yields of over 12,000 kg/ha SR.52 were
recorded. UCA was recommended for farmers who needed to store maize, due
to its superior storage qualities under local conditions. UCA yields of
9,000 kg/ha were recorded in trials.
(b)    Agronomy Trials
(1)   Types and sources of nutrients - These trials investigated
the response of SR.52 and UCA to levels of major and minor
nutrients.  No significant response to copper, manganese, zinc
or boron were found. Responses to different nitrogen sources
were variable; a low response to calcium ammonium nitrate (CAN)
in the 1975/76 season was thought to be due to soil sulphur defi-
ciencies, but-subsequent experiences denied this.  In general,
calcium  ammonium nitrate, sulphate of ammonia and urea gave
similar yield increases when applied at a rate of 56 kg/ha N.
Variety      Nitrogen source        No. of trials        Mean yield(kg/ha)   %
(as 50 kg/ha N)                                               Increases
SR. 52        no nitrogen                 74                  6,407
SR .52            CAN                     74                  8,114             126
SR. 52           Urea                     74                  8,058             125
SR.52             SA                      74                  7,883             123
UCA           no nitrogen                 74                  4,710              -
UCA               CAN                     74                  5,674             120
UCA               Urea                    74                  5,757             122
UCA               SA                      74                  6,024             127
(2)  Fertilizer response curve - The response of SR.52 and UCA to
3 levels of nitrogen, phosphate and potassium was examined. Both varie.ies
showed a quadratic response to applied nitro-en but onlv small responses to
applied phosphate and potassium.  Phosphate  application   resulted in earlier
cob ripening. Yields of both varieties levelled off at applications over 100 kg/ha
N.



- 80 -
ANNEX IV (?)
Variety       Fertilizer        No. of trials    Mean yield (kg/ha)    Increases
SR.52                               80                  4,211                 -
SR.52         122 kg/ha N           80                  7,834               186
SR.52         224 kg/ha N           80                  8,405               199
UCA                                 80                  4,578                 -
UCA           112 kg/ha N           80                  6,792               148
UCA           224 kg/ha N           80                  7,151               156
(3)  Sulphur recuirements of Traize - No response to applied sulphur
was found even in trial sites in the (then) South Western Modified Input
Area.  Trial sites were presumed to have previously been dressed with SA.
(4) Types and times of nitrogen application -- Trials compared sulphur
coated urea, a slow nitrogen release source, with other nitrogeneous fertilizers;
sulphate of ammonia gave the aighest maize yields, sulphur coated urea the lowest.
Nitrogen applied basically haive higher yields at 55% of the sites than split
dressings or tcp dressings.
(5)   Fertilizer response curve trial - Maize grown on trial plots
following a well fertilized tobacco crop showed little response to applied
nitrogen. SR.52 gave a yield increment of 20 bags/ha over the base yield
for every 2 bags of fertilizer applied up to a total application of 100 kg/ha
nitrogen, i.e. 5 extra bags of maize were obtained for each bag of CAN or SA
applied per hectare.   UCA showed a similar response up to 70-80 kg/ha nitrog;en
applied. A blanket recommendation for phosphate application was not made due to
isolated responses to phosphate shown in trials.
(6) Spacing and varietv trials - An inter-plant spacing of 30 cms
with 90 cms between ridges was recommended for SR.52 and UCA. Fertilizer
application levels of 100 kg/hia N for SR.52 and 80 kg/ha N for UCA were
recommended as a result of these trials, which were terminated in 1976/77.
(7) Maize herbicide screening trials - In 1974/75 and 1975/76 a
wide variety of herbicides were screened. Primextra applied pre-emergence
was found to give the best weed crntro1, although this chemical did not
give significantly higher yie:Lds than hand-weeding. The range of herbicides
tested was narrowed in trials from 1976/77 to Primextra and Bladex. No
significant differences in yield between the different herbicide treatments
were found.
(8) Striga (witchweed) cDntrol - Yields of shelled SR.52 were found
to increase from 600 kg/ha to 3,800 kg in badly Striga infested plots
when control measures, fertilization, animal manure application and hand
pulling of Striga, were applied.
(9) MIaize storage - An intensive campaign on improved methods of storage
was conducted. An improved nkhokwe was designed and insecticide application
was recommended. Crop storage surveys were conducted in conjunction with
Bvumbwe Research Station



- 81 -
2. GROUNDNTUTS
Groundnut variety and agronomy trials were carried out on an agency
basis for staff at Chitedze Research Station.
Groundnuts                      1973/74   1975/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78
Variety trials                        4          4          4          4        4
Agronomy trials                      10         12         12         12        5
(a) Variety Trials
Varieties from the breeding programme at Chitedze Research Station
were screened. Chalimbana, a confectionary nut, was recoTrmended for the LLDP
area. Rosette resistant varieties, including lines from Senegal, were
screened against Chalimbana, the most promising variety being B222/RR/6/Bl/l.
Variety         No. of Trials      Mean Yield (kg/ha) Shelled Nuts
Mani Pinter                16                      1,081
Chalimbana                16                          716
RG1                        16                         688
PR60B                      16                         723
B222/RR/6/Bl/l             16                         701
Mwetunde                   16                         710
(b) Agronomy Trials
(1) Lime, gypsum, phosphate trials - Where soil phosphate levels are
below 50 ppm yields can be significantly and economically increased by the
application of 112 kg/ha double superphosphate, banded at planting. A yield
response is also obtained with lime and gypsum application, especially if
used in conjunction with phosphate or sulphur dust. Generally, the most
effective treatment combinations are P + S + L and P + S + G.
(2) 'Pops' trials - Pops, poor pod filling, was found to depend upon
the amount and seasonal distribution of rainfall, which us more limiting
to pod filling than soil type. In dry years, calcium ion mobility is low,
and the application of calcitic lime or gypsum will significantly increase
yields. In wet years, the best groundnuts are produced on light sandy
soils where the physical resistance to pod growth by soil particles is low;
(3) Spacing trials - These trials led to a recommendation that plants
should be spaced 15 cms apart, 1 row per ridge on ridges 90 cms apart, giving
a plant population of 65,000 - 70,000 per hectare.
(c) Pathology Trials
(1) Sulphur dusting - 20 x 1 acre sulphur dusting plots were laid out in
1973/74 and 1974/75.  Sulphur dusting was found to be economic in LLDP areas



- 82 -
when applied in 6 fortnightly applications, starting 2 weeks after emergence.
Yield increases of 25-60% over control plots were obtained when the dusting
was carried out entirely by farners. Increases of 24-40% over control plots
were obtained from trials managed by research assistants at Unit Centers.
(2) Systemtic fungicides - The best control of leaf diseases was shown
by Daconil ir trials run in 1976/77 and 1977/78.
3. TOBACCO
Number of Trials
Tobacco                   1S73/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78
Variety trials                    --        --         --         --        --
Agronomy trials                   --         3         --         --        --
(a) Agronomy Trials
Few trials were conducted in the programme area as the level of
supervision required resulted :'n trials being confined to district research
stations. Results from the large programme of station trials were confirmed
by field trials in year II.
Agronomy trials led to l-he recommendation that plants should be
spaced 90 cms x 90 cms, that no pruning should be carried out and that plants
should be topped when 1% of the garden is in flower. Leaf quality was improved,
but total yields depressed, when plants were spaced 120 cms x 90 cms.
(b) Storage
A monitoring survey of aontamination of tobacco by storage insecticides
was conducted in 1974/75.
4.   BEANS
Number of Trials
Beans                    1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78
Variety trials                    --         6         --         --
Agronomy trials                  --         10          6        16         --
Trials were undertaken on an agency basis for staff at Bunda College.
(a) Variety Trials
Trials were conducted to screen new varieties for resistance to halo
blight (Pseudomonas phaseoliccla) and anthracnose (Colletotrichum lindemuthianun).
Lines showing resistance were further screened at Bunda College.



- 83 -
For half-acre and six quarter-acre observation plots set up in
1973/74 showed that pests and diseases severely limited yields.
(b) Agronomy
(1) Bean crop husbandry - the trials led to the following recommendations.
(i) Determinate beans should be planted 2 rows/ridge, 7.5 cms
between plants, on ridges 90 cms apart, giving a plant population
of 300,000 plants/hectare.
(ii) Indeterminate beans should be planted 1 row/ridge, 10 cms
between plants, on ridges 90 cms apart, giving a plant population
of 140,000 plants/hectare.
(iii) 20-60 kg/ha N should be applied to determinate and indeterminate
beans, as a split dressing, half applied basically, half as a
top-dressing.
(2) Bean/maize intercropping - These trials showed that yield of maize
are not reduced when beans are interplanted with maize.
Mean Yield in kg/ha
Planting scheme                      Maize      Beans       No. of Trials
Maize (pure stand)                   4,843         ---              6
Determinate beans (pure stand)         ---       2,512              6
Indeterminate beans (pure stand)       ---      2,454               6
Maize + determinate beans            4,847       1,359              6
Maize + indeterminate beans          5,624         514              6
(3) Fungicide trials - A wide spectrum of fungicides were tested.  The
best control of leaf diseases, especially anthracnose was given by Benomyl,
resulting in yields of 2,063 kg/ha 252/1.
(4) Fertilizer trials NPKS - Mean yields from 15 trials of 873 kg/ha 253/1
were obtained with applications of 60 kg/ha and 80 kg/ha P, compared with
yields of 576 kg/ha 253/1, where no fertilizers were applied.
5.   SORGHUM
Number of Trials
Sorghum                   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78
Variety trials               --         --           3          3         1
Agronomy trials              --         --           5          7        -
(a) Variety Trials
These trials were conducted on an agency basis for the Shire Valley
Agricultural Development Project from 1976/77. Selection of suitable varieties
continues.



- 84 -
(b) Agronomy Trials
Plant spacings of 25 cms between plants on 90 cms ridges were recommended.
6.   SUNFLOWER
Number of Trials
Sunflower                 1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78
Variety trials                 --          4          4         2         --
Agronomy trials                 8          5         12         9          5
(a) Variety Trials
These trials were carr:.ed out to identify a high yielding variety
suitable for smallholder production in LLDP. The two highest yielding
varieties were Arrowhead and Polestar. An observation plot set up in 1975/76
gave record as the highest yielding variety, with a yield of 2,715 kg/ha seed.
Kenya Local White and Kortrus both gave yields of over 2,000 kg/ha. Introducaed
hybrids from Australia gave low yields of around 1,200 kg/ha.
Sunflower act as hosts to the tobacco nematode and they are not grown
on a large scale by farmers in LLDP.
(b) Agronomy Trials
(1) Spacing trials - These trials led to the recommendation that sunflowers
should be spaced 30 cms apart on 90 cms ridges.
(2) Fertilizer trial NPKS - A linear response to applied nitrogen was shown,
up to 112 kg/ha N. Basal applications of 224 kg/ha single superphosphate and
224 kg/ha sulphate of ammoni as a top-dressing gave yield increases of 179%
over .the base yield. Responses to applied N were shown at 9 of the 12 sites
in 1976, and to applied P at 2 of the 12 sites. There was no significant
response to K or S at any site. It was recommended that up to 50 kg/ha N should
be applied basally, or as a top-dressing when plants were 60 cms high.
7.   EUCALYPTS
Number of Trials
Eucalypts                 1973/74    1974/75
Variety trials                2           --
Agronomy trials              --            2
(a) Variety Trials
A variety trials of 10 Eucalypt species was planted in 1973/74.



- 85 -
(b) Agronomy Trials
(1) Chemical repellants - Chemicals to protect young trees from damage
by browsing goats were tested. Cervacol and Nikel Fix were effective. It
was recommended that these chemicals should not be applied to the terminal
bud, and should be applied to upper leaf surfaces only.
8.   VEGETABLES
23 vegetable gardens were set up at Unit Centers in 1974. From trials
in these gardens, varieties were recommended for the Lilongwe district;
sowing dates, plant spacings and fertilizer recommendations were made.



- 86 -
ANNEX IV(e)
LLDP Phase I:;I: Total Credit Fund Cash Flow
MK t'00                    1974/751'   L975/761       1976/771/    1977/761/    1978/791'
Unspent Balance b/f          846.5      1,122.8       1,227.5       1,686.8       1,692.4
New Funds Received           159.9         39.4         159.1         334.6           39.0
Loan Repayments
Seasonal                     731.3        855.0       1,064.6       1,319.5         661.6
Medium Term                   29.3         24.5          28.6          19.7            5.4
Stallfeeders                  37.3         47.2         126.7          92.5         114.7
Poultry                        3.2         12.6          24.6          18.3           14.2
Dairy                          -            0.2           1.1           0.3            2.1
Other Income:
Interest, etc.              35.1         57.3          79.6          90.6          41.3
1,842.8      2,159.1       2,711.8       3,562.3       2,570.7
Utilization of Funds
Contribution to
Treasury                                                            562.4         236.4
Seasonal                     643.9        772.4         895.6       1,146.1       1,149.2
Medium Term                   19.9          4.9           -            19.0            1.0
Stallfeeders                  56.2        118.7          91.4          98.8          14.0
Poultry                        -           34.8          36.2          35.0          13.8
Dairy                          -            0.8           1.8           8.1            -
720.0        931.6       1,025.0       1,869.4       1,434.4
Balance At End of
Year                    1,122.8       1,227.6       1,686.8       1,692.4       1,136.3
Notes:   1.  October 1 - September 33
2.  October 1 - March 31
Source:  LLDP, Credit Section
November 19, 1980



- 87 -
ANNE-X IV (-v)
TaUle (W)      Rural Development:  Cutline of facilities nrov"ed cn
jelf-help scheme - LLDP, 1975/7G-1973/79
19'75/76     1976./?7      1 97 7,/7     1973.1 i:
k-ostz^  aaencies                -             2             1            1
Bridges                          -             -             1             1
Dlambo crossings                41            40            35           37
Culvert rin,s                  510           476           337          320
Clinics                                        1             -             1
Schools                           1            3             3             1
Cash contribution (M-K)  10,550         12,000        11,170          10, Ooo
Source: LLDP, Rural Development Section



- 88 -
AI%N% :V(s')
Table (ii)          Procortion z  Tot-nl I--u-c Pr5d  on Cr-dit.
Seeds                 19on /76  1~~~197 (i/7 7   as7~/78  1978 /7c
Maize      :  hybrid                68        73       72        57
composite             34        31       15         9
Grou:idnuts:  GDA                   95        83        75       33
Fertilizer
20:20:0                             88       93        84        91
CAN                                 78        96       93        96
S/A i                               6,        71       60        76
Crea                                63       64        66        72
:n 1977/78, when more in:uts were available and zrovided an tine, IZDP
smallholders purchased proportionately more inputs by cash than in the
irevious two seasons.
Table (i--)          LIP  bhase IT!:  Seasonal Credit Di sbrsemrets --
9eraa7nents.
1975/76  1976/77  1977,78  19?8/7q
Individual Cre..i t
Value disburded (M,K              624,o66  627,256  453,354  656,o00
Number of recipients               24,618   23,450   14,6t8   23,383
Number of packages isasued         41i184   41,462   26,063   37,267
, re;aytent at Sept., '0           94.64    99.85    ?9.81      99.39
Groun Credit
Value disbursed (,!K)            234,619  385,oz2  339,165  3So,?5i
Number of groups                      410       670    1,267    1,199
Average group membership               24        20        22        28
N:umber of packages iasued         30,305   55,752  111,630  104,297
S repayment at Se-t., 30           97.82        1Co       1C0   99.77
Sources  =DP, Credit Sectiou



Table (i) LLDP Phase III:
Comparison of Rejected and Actual Inputs and Quantities of Crops Marketed Through ADMARC
1975/76                     1976/77                       1977/78                       1978/79
Projected    Actual         Projected    Actual           Projected    Actual           Projected    Actual
(m. tons)  (m. tons)        (m. tons)  (m. tons)          (m. tons)  (m. tons)          (m. tons)  (m. tons)
INPUT
Seeds
Maize:  Ilybrid          235          19.1           313           80.2            453         190.8             528         149.34
Composite       417          17.6            168          27.6            566           54.1            594           33.14
Groundnuts:  GDA         456.4       447.40          498.2       581.8             756.8       636.4             850         969.4
Fertilizer
20:20:0               2,748        1,483           3,282       1,823             4,228       2,326             4,638       2,644
CAM                   3,302          757           4,844         317             4,489       1)342             7,277       2,036
S/A                       -        3,620              -        4,211                -        5,799                -        5,525
Urea                      -            7.5            -            11.3             -            18               -           18
PURCPASES
Maize                 39,485      13,024          51,080      17,475            71,954      23,701            82,681      19.175
Groundnuts            4,690        7,770           5,846       5,263             7,047       2,209             8,291       6,125
Tobacco                  954       6,550           1,040      11.156             1,141      11,092             1,208      10,359
(Tobacco Quota)                   (9,134)                     (9,481)                       (9,648)                       (9,556)
Source:  LLDP, Marketing Section
November 20, 1980



- 90-
ANNEX IV (g)
The Dzalanyama Ranch
1.        Background:  Initial physical development of the ranch commenced
in September 1970 in the form of staff housing, fencing, establishment of
a quarantine area and a cattle dip. This work was initiated in the North-
Western Sector.
Principal Physical development proceeded as follows:
Item                 Total as at        Number Developed             Total to date
end of      Target for    Additions in       as at end of
Phase III      Phase III       Phase III          Phase III
Ranch Manager's House    1               -              0                   1
Assistant Ranch Manager's
house                   1              -              0                   1
Stores and offices        3              -              0                   3
Houses (Technical
Officers)               2              -              0                   2
Houses (Technical
Assts.)                 8              -              0                   8
Large stores and work-
shops                   2              -              0                   2
Portable houses
(hetdsmen)             58        Ablutions            0                 58
Thatched houses
(workmen)              54             41             21                 75
Major bridges             7               -              0                  7
Minor bridges             9  a          10               0                  9
Culverts (large)         13              -              0                  13
Fencing (miles)         420             30             60                 480
Boreholes                 4              -              0                   4
Water pumps and engines  4               -               0                  4
Electric generator        1              -              0                   1
Dips                      3              -              0                   3
Spray races               3              1              0                   3
Major roads (miles)      81               -              0                 81
Minor roads (miles)      66               _              0                 66
Firebreaks, used as
roads (miles)         163              -              0                163
Approach roads (miles)  46               -               0                 46
Land clearing (cares)  100               -              4                 104



- 91 -
2.        Objectives:  The main objectives of the ranch were outlined for
Phase III as follows:
(1)  To provide stuitable animals for stall-feeding by farmers in
the Lilongwer Land Development Programme Area.
(2) To assist farmers in an area of similar ecology and climate
to improve their own herds by providing improved Zebu bulls
bred on the ranch (from selected cows and performance tested
bulls).
(3) To produce half-bred heifers (Malawi Zebu X Friesland) for
milk production by smallholder farmers.
The first objective was to be met both by the breeding of young
feeders off the ranch breeding herd and the holding, dosing and improving
of the feeder steers brought in from market saleyards throughout the
country before subsequent issue to stall-feeding farmers.
The second objective was to be achieved through selective breeding
principally within the 'Chitedze' herd which formed the nucleus of a
'national' improved
of running costs and benefits, managed with the main Dzalanyama Ranch.
The third objective was to be achieved principally by means of
a breeding programme using Artifical Insemination with imported Friesland
semen.
These main objectives of the ranch necessarily had to fall within
the overall requirements for a correct ecological management of the area,
since the Dzalanyama forest reserve formed the main catchment for the
Lilongwer Urban Water Supply. The area of the ranch therefore remained a
forest reserve and all ranch management decisions had to recognize the
requirements of forest husbandry. For this purpose a Dzalanyama Ranch
Advisory Committee had been estaDlished in 1971 to co-ordinate these
sensitive areas of managerial decisions.
3.        Specific targets of Phase III:  Specifically the target of Phase
III was to continue the build-up of the Dzalanyama herd in order to reach
a maximum number of 5,000 breeding cows by 1979/80 (year 4 + 1). The
Phase III budget therefore allowed for the buying in of 750 cows and 600
immature steers per annum (1975/76 to 1978/79).  In addition further
investments were to be made, mainly for additional fencing (30 miles), a
spray race, dambo river crossings, some traditional housing and machinery
replacements.
The funding of Phase III was calculated on the basis of the
amount required to offset the annual net cash deficit resulting from a
programme as follows:
Capital costs + livestock purchases + operating costs minus
total income from sales = net cash deficit.



- 92 -
4.        Achievements of Phase III:  The table of infrastructure development
(see paragraph 1 of this Annex) indicates that there was little development
of facilities during Phase III. In particular the additional spray race,
planned for at appraisal, was not constructed. Ilowever, one important
development was the construction of a boundary fence along the entire inter-
national border of the ranch. "able (vi) of this Annex provides some
comparisons of operating achievements against appraisal projections. The
most pertinent differences high:Lighted by this comparison relate to calving
and culling percentages and ope~-ating costs. The weighted average number
of calves and warners for the four years of Phase III was only 49 per cent
of breeding females.  Although -his provides only a crude estimate of calving
percentage (no accurate records were maintained) and relates to 'surviving'
calves at the end of March each year, it still suggests a poor breeding
performance. A background to tais poor breeding performance must surely
be the extremely lwo culling rates of non-performing cows and bulls. (6%
and 4% respectively).  When the source of the majority of the ranch breeding
herd is considered (purchased from traditional herds at markets throughout
the country) then a more comprehensive culling policy would have been more
sensible. As a general rule, the owners of traditional cattle know their
animals well and will only in exceptional circumstances offer proven breeding
females for sale at markets. The fact that the Dzalanyama herd contains a
large proportion of poor (or non-) breeders is therefore hardly surprising.
Perhaps the low culling by management was a result of policy to build up
numbers as quickly as possible; surely not very sensible if, as seems to
have been the case, this meant the carrying of a large number (2,000+?) of
unproductive 'passengers' in the herd. The variable operating costs per livestoclc
unit (dips, feed, medicines, fuel and wages) were higher (75 per cent) than the
targeted figure with contingencies added. Since the cost index (see (vii) of this
Annex) rose by only fifty per cent more than the compounded contingencies allowed,
then some would seem to be indicated. The fact that the average number of
employees per month included 103 herdsmen (and 132 others), an extremely high
figure by commercial ranch standards, does suggest that there was some considerable
room for improvement in cost performance.
4.1      The table at (v) of this Annex provides annual comparison of the same
ratios (at (vi) ) and some others for the entire life of the ranch.
4.2      A further aspect, whi,h relates to achievement of the Dzalanyama ranch
component in general, is the very poor design of facilities (particularly fencing,
paddocks and water points) on the ground. Generally, paddock sizes are highly
variable and inappropriate to the needs of a well managed ranch. Paddock bound-
aries have been placed with little indication of a knowledge of the relative
palatability of grass types or the needs for sensible grazing management (to avoid
selective grazing, over-grazing or allow seasonal resting of the different grass
species). Expensive boreholes and watering points have also been sited without
reference to grazing management or economy. There has been little control in the
cutting of indigenous timber for fencing or other structures which has resulted,
together with poor grazing management, in a serious bush encroachment problem
in many parts of the ranch. Although a considerable background of knowledge is
available within Central and Southern Africa on appropriate grazing management
of mixed brachystegia woodland, and it was intended that further research would
be conducted at Dzalanyama on management of this natural grazing, there seems
to have been no attempt to come to grips with this problem. Ecological deterio-
ration at Dzalanyama is therefore becoming increasingly obvious.  For this reason
it has been considered essential to assume projected carrying capacity at no more
than twenty acres per livestock unit in this analysis.



-93-
5.       Cost/benefit analvsis: The analyses of cost and benefit have been made
on the economic results of the ranch. The first (Table iii) considered the
total life of the ranch,incorporating the results of activities in Phase I and
II together with Phase III. The second(Table iv) censidered the aspect of
Phase III alone, taking into account an incremental performance compared with
what would have happened had Phase II continued without Phase III. These
analyses are then projected to the point of constant results.
6.       Both analyses showed markedly negative return.  The first indicated
a negative return up to 1978/79 totalling K696,013, with continuing negative
return from the vear of constant projections, of K58,655 annually. The second
analysis indicated a negative return during the life of Phase III (1975/76 to
1978/79) totalling K185,945 with only minor positive annual returns predicted
from 1983/84 to 1988/89 becoming a zero annual increment (with biological merging
of the two herd comparison) from 1989/90 onwards. On these results the calcula-
tion of the standard Internal Economic Rate of Return for this particular com-
ponent itself would be pointless, although the analysis will be incorporated
into the E.R.R. for the total Phase IIT project.



tabl  (i)            OzaI.nva.  Iao,h,  Pb.. XX Pa.1.at.4 Vithout rh.. !? (Api;DS! te 14relh ,aaa)
Cl7V74/    1975/V6  1976/77  1977/78  '916/9  19?9/eO  1980/81  1981/82  1982J/t  1983/14  1984/8f5  it5/6  t9e6/87  1987/88  t988/87  ¶989/go &2
tear 0     1)       (2)      (31       (4)       (5)      (6)       (7)      (8)       (9)       (10)     00)       (12)    (05)       (14)    up to 7s5t
Ca..             2505     2470      2320     2332      2554      2689     2802      2954     3128      3285    3750       3630      3700     5700      3700       3700
al.kl.            158      131       10t        94      102       108      112       11e       125      131       138      145       150       150      150        150
Buit.r.          1490      363       501       725      680       6G4      749       805      821       866       917      963      1012      1065     t083       1085
steors         683       364      501       723       681      684       749       005      822       869      917       963      1012     1065      1083       1083
Veamara           765     1055      1526     1433 *  1440        1577     1693      1730     1824      1931     2027      2131      2242     2.80       2280      2260
Caiwill 1111              1606      1508   1516        1660  1784         1821      1920     2033      21i0     iAa.j -iw0   0^4                :    !            2
tot l            5712     5989      6464     6825      711?      7526     7598      8332     8753      9212      9692    t0192    10516    10660    10696        10696
Utreato lk       4581     4510      4792     5090      5314      5594     5903      6213     6526      6065      7224     7596      783'      7942     7971       7971                      '
olas  0e.e                 375       375       341      350       383       103      420       443      469       492     5s8        545       555                 555
fll.                 tS19      16       13        11        12       13        13       14        15       16        t7        17       18        1e         18
dteera              649      364       476       689      641       650       712      765       781      824       671       915      9A6      1012       108)
arS                   0         0        0         0         0        0    O 0           0         0    72                                       290
Patsbaa.aa
balia                 0        0                 24       23        22        PS       27        27       3O        31        29       26        26         26
Itetja   (1)  Projections banad oao  Mortality (all olsaoas)   5%  oliving * 65%; culling (cow#) - 15%1 culling (bull) * 12A
(2)  Livestock Uuits calculated aol Cows * 1.0;l Ba.l  - 1.41  oltor. - 0.81 Uteara * 0.8; Wlansre * 0.6; Osva * 0.4                                                 p
(3)  3.rd cospositious as *t 31st March each ya"r.  Sao also explo.tio  in tabl. i(-) on Yrojection to domstast  arld.
U.)  "Quarsatie herd" ot Year 0 (1974/75) arlit proportion.toly batwssa. Joav  and lsvor& (67 to *eab class).



- 95 -
ANNEX IV (h)
Table (ii)    Dznlanyama Ranch : Ph-i;e III, Actual and EroJected (A   ril to lItirch yeamrs)
1975/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  l90/iil  1981/82  1982/83  1973/84 & up
Clasa             Iear(o)    (1)        (2)       (3)       (4)       (5)      (6)       (7)       (8)    to year 2000
Covw               2,438    3,008    3,476    3,778    4,607    ),700    3,700    3,700    3,700              3,700
Bulls                158       197       198       248       277       150      150       150       150         150
Reifers              490    1,290    1,096    1,228    1,191           883      995    1,083    1,083         1,085
Steers               616    1,625    1,356    1,736    1,768           866      955    1,083    1,083         1,083
Weanere              765       275         0       233       110    2,095    2,280    2,280    2,280          2,280
Calves             1,111       987    1,554    1, 405    2,205    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,14oo           2,400
Qunrantine           134        61       3"48      205         0         0        0         0         0           0
Total              5,712    7,443    8,o3P    8,833   10,158   10,094   10,520   10,696   10,696             10,696
LAvestock Units   4,581    6,237    6,686    7,403    8,310    7,526    7,830    7,971    7,971               7,971
Phase III, Actual tmoney Valuee (MK)
Saleas Cows                                                           677       555       555       555         555
Bulls               55,577  147,141  117,307  117,742          113        18        18       18          18
Steern                                                         866       823      945    1,012        1,083
Reifers                                                        300        99      205       272         290
Purchases: Bulls, etc.   109,834  114,454   83,o69   79,470            0         26        26        Z6          26
Rotes:
(1) Projections based ont Hortality (nil classes) = 5%; unlving - 63%; Culling (cows)   15%; Culling (Bulls) 5 12%
(2) Livestock Units calculated as: Cow6 = 1.0; Bull  . -1.4; Helters = 0.8; Steers = 0.8; Weaners =0.6; Calver i 0.4.
(3) Herd compositions as at 31st Harch etfch year.
(4) Actual money values of saleG and purchanes used for 1975/76 to 1978/79 in absence of relinble data on number.
Projection to Constant Herd
On the basin that at the existing levels of management and development, the carrying capacity of Dzalanyama
should be limited to no more than on- livestock unit to 20 actre.   This factor together with the herd objective
of breeding to grow out feeder steern for Fialat aiid the projer.tion parameters outlined in Note (1) above, given
a constant herd composition as a future projection as for the last year on thin table.



- 96 -
Tale4 (Itt)           Df1.*.  R-nehl  A.t.1 .,,d I o- otd J-t              tlt *! Cn.t.   *  (Artil to Haor,h Y.. ),  (44.6.) at -tl-t ptIti  19
It..             1970/71   1971/77 197?/7!   1171/74    1974/75    197 5/76   '96/77    1977/78    197V/79    1979/80   i  h/s                    /                   19/1/8_ .
1                                                                                            ..~~~~~~~~__ __ _ad   .6
I.1..         *4,305    11,287       R,624 M     4s , .86    59,2;84    55.,77    147,1b11   117,707    117,742           I20    912,340    1:7,4x,   1,110        017,690
-r..o..    11,179    23,5171   60,529            n00,2911    96(,794    1091)  i     1.14.54     A 1,469    79,470            0      5,200      5,7-o       5, 00      5,200
A-id
I                           , I    .7,Yo   *re,570   67,7-P5  A ,'t    .0,4'55   114,t tI   .21,870   *S,7'   .61,978 0   4,9nn   .2I I;.0                      0 1
Tot.1 D..tLt l"   h. 6     4,536   1.o,6Prs        ",711      )0,9t5     53713    5'4*57    al,1w1    101)4. IA.    61 o   1511,46            1    .      I  '4910    137.490
Y.wi.hit, X)   ¶0,ro    16,565   4m,1489          60,0005     8,776    115,567    151,0?l?    177,005    168,4.7   13P,9,An   14.,54?    147,115   147,145   1.7,145
Uo-. i.4t
C:out: 5)   5.(Wwo      DzOOO   17.50°         U1,77       2PI,ng0    42,576      hk3,:n      44.857    49,;758    h9w°0       4tq)Ono      49,onn    49rono      49*on
7.t.1 CoSt.   15,000    26.365   5),399            90,15?    111i066    157,938    196.177   ZZ2.75'    217,680    187,950   193,512    1s%,145    196,i'5    i96,145
Neto.t t f      1i ,51'   -21,979  -18,710        -55,972   -no,951  -104,005  -141,615  -1n0,779  -117,558  -1l6,110   -65,082   -67,505   -'5.2 55   -56,655
Z'te    t)  O.L.g c--t vori,.           IW"ue    htouth to 7978/79 -ad ... vtaat (1978/79) r,I- It---ft-r.
(2)  I.ol.d.. vllow-ee fo, holdi.g f... fr- Chit.dl. h.,d k.pt  tlh .o b.o.fit (445   1    at 672.45).
(3)   .lacle   ,.1.. of Chltodo-  ord - wgo-K   .ith D.1...n  h.zd  itth fall b4oofto to rolohY-o  -o...t t.otow. (ecrr-.t olootag  w.I ..  ..od).
(4)  F., 1970/71 .ou id 40th eo-plot   l-ok .f t                 dn.t t.l 8.6.  1971/72 t. 1978/79 Adt.al (od.t. .ad d.pwout.tt- ocltd.d1. 1979/80 pVoJ-4t.d
on b.toe of 1978/79 tDot. p.r 111-,to-k --it 1... * .1r-,.,t.bl  1              .     f 115,oq000 r-rPt,.ltt,g  eod- of -ttl.  p-thon   (At -doo .tt...d).
D.ri.tto.. at  -it.bl. C..t l..t p-oJ..ttoWo .d                 1 978/79  p.retiog toot r-t    dt-
(ml)
Tot.1 Opoottog Codt (Ap,ri.o/Kohb)                        2712,6t0                           rolotd   9.1... (1979/80  .nd Ioyo.d  (I
1.1..   -   Coo.                ~~~~70
Po.-0.rI.hlt *1.Oont,                                                                                             8.21. *   ,l          5
8.l. .  ,*                1 t8,602                                                                             *toor.   a           80
Ibtidlig ..t.re...S             556                                                                               3.110w. ,             50
90pre-t-tite  |    50Za70                      4"  21
la-lvz-z                 ~~paob.h..       -       .12.               200
No4t  ^,iabl.. eprditrg '.°.-' ,ord l  ramst
3!                                                                                                                  ..I...Cott .1..  td.  held th.o.o.h..  projeatt.4.
Vawiable po..rtt.g .o.t. -a o.ttle po,ot.oi.g             15,.000                           ooo  v.1-.,  ...-   ,  (ml)
activitw  (...--dt..o.t1.d)
153,222                                190/71         197V175         1978179 (aol  m)
Av.r.g. Lt...t.ok  .elta (1978/79)                          8,S10                   C60 50                        bO                  70
Variable Or.w.t(.  70.4. ..od0
3wo3oOtio.  *  £18.46 p.w li...to.oh ..j~~~~~~~~~~         lotfre         20             45I
-  918.46 par It ... tati,  adt                  St!fr          too            50
W.mro.         20             25                 4
(5) far 197/1 goo-d  40th .o*epl.t. l.k at tia .b.81 da.e.  th.r.ott.r                                 C. ,Oa          10            10         7         0
o.t.a,  dM  proSoet.d  .0.t *f  .ol.l.a 0.8 d.pr..idatio  (r.pl1ao.e.t).                           Q..wOttO    35                50                 40
(6) Pb te.1  "ta .1ot, fto. T.bl (itt).



Table (iv)      ODu:,rDi.trch   phbu&o . III        reutenta.k cc,zto Land bwakfita ever I'hMae II projected without l'hnae IM.
A  rlto Mi.rc), years)(Currentit. 7ii
Item         1975/76 1976/77 1977/78 1978/79 1979/dO 1980/N1 1981/82 19b2/83 1983/84 1964/85 1985/86 1986/B' 198j/88 1988/89 o9n9w9rd
Incremental
baleD       -25,443 +89,651 +52,917 +36,472  .68,250 +30,180 +39,090 +41,800 +45,130  ,9           .34,200 .22,890 .13,o80  +6,s£o    0
Le6a
Incrennental
purchl..es  109,834 114,154  8d,269  74,670  -4,600         800      200    -200    -200    -800  -1,000    -6t0         0        0       0
Add
Difieroi.co                                   0
in net in-
cremental
value,, of
herda       160,06o -10,010  2"1,970  49,790o-03,250   1,400 -10,760 -21,41o -23,900 w.25,310 -26,130 -12,300  -8,410  -2,430    0
Total Phiase
III incre-  24,783 -34,813  -4,382  11,592 -30,400  30,780  28,130  20,590  21,430  1j,1'2   9,070   6,190   4,670   4,240    0
ale Ut a
beuevfit o
Incremental                                                                         2,1    371          ,2       ,2         3        
costs        35,002  38,4312  46,885  62,806  35,665  35,572  32,453  26,6'75  !u,417    197)   6,923   2,529             535      0      0
Net rcoult
i ncxenie,.ca
costs to   -10,219 -73,A45 -51,267 -51,214 -66,065  -4,792  -4,323  -6,085  41,01  +1,630  +2,147  +3,661  .04,135  +4,240    0
incroeental
benefito
f4oteat The aame notes apply as for Tubles (i), (ii) and (iii).
Baaod orn differences betwcen Tublen (i) and (ii)



Tnble (v)       Dznlanynmr, Raoich a herd eonloeitjons an nt 31tut *Iarvch richl yenr, atid rntio comparion,i; (incl1uding Chitedre herd)
Clana              Livo.toclc Unite                   1971   1972    1973    !9/7'I   1975        1976    1977    1978    1979   Average
Cows                      1.0                            28    285   1,038   2,0.2      2,'.33   3,008   3,476   3,778  4',607   2,?98
Bullr                     1.4*                           14      35       57      118      158       187      19,01    ?48      277       1145
Heifera                   0.8                           102    116       2k'?     389      4*90   1,290   1,09G   1,2,8   1,191           683
Steern                    0.8                            63      97      215      354      616   1,625   1,35'   1,7;6   1,7t8            870
ventrn                    0.6,                            0      'jl.    2G2      L553      765      275        (        3 233   I.0O    25.1
Calv,u                    0.*                             0      9)6     I,71i    6!    1,111       937   1,56',  l,4,05   2,205          9',3
-,urrltr.o   l~ 0 ic)  _______              0       0      14l3 4   )6       134       61      348       205        0      111
'L.                                                 27    ( 6P,o     'f56    4, 1')    5, 73.2   7,1i43   8,o03S   8,833  10,l5     5,30O
1. Total livestock: units                  e            0    673   1,978   3,4" 4   4,581   6,237   6,63U"  7,'wl    8,3tO   4,!82
2. Tota). ecren grozed                             60,000 (),OOO 16,o000 161, o0.)uo  6,0oo 161i,o000 161,000oo l1i(,Oe  ,I61, 0o  13,9.100
,* .':tuC**ilt' (iofsity (icrejAx)                   33    ;v9                             5       26                          193  1
4. Cown rocf!ijed Artificitl Inbefl*ination [lo.         0       0      205       l17     6143      213      203      158      210       224
5. Ratio other cowo/active 6lib              140.       2       8       15       14       11        14       17       15        16       14
6. C;,Ivet ns % of aver.gc cove                          0      914      97      148       55        46       48       4.5       55       52                  1
7. Cows and heifers to total herd              %        63      59       53       58       51        58       57       57       57        56                 <
8. Cv-. cu,lled nn ?' of total rows                      (1      0        5        5        5         5       11        9         2        6                 co
9. Bollr. c.lled an % of total bulls .                   0       0        0         1        1        4        3        2         7.       3
10. To'.tl offtake (sD1P.)                      %,        0      36       25        18      14        18       214      18         7       18
11. CowI  purchased aes    of cour numbers in
rar,ne yerr                              %       100      62       74       14°       25       18      1I         8        8       20
12. Steers puirctinsed as %" of steers sold
in  name year                            X         0      39      190      112        714     137       75       71        59       87
13. Mor, lity % of totol avernge herd  .   %              7       I7                 3        5        4        5        5         5        5
14. Avcr-ore breeding herd nize(at bulling)               7       7        7      ]ji!,    144       127      137      131      172       1413
15. Vnijable operating costs per LU             (11K)    56      29       21        17       18       18       23       24        20       p1
16. Pon-v;,riable  " I     t      I   Ho       (NK)    28        17        9         9        6        7        7        6         6        7    t-
17. Intic. non-v oriable/totnl operating                                  32
cn.tti;                                  %        53      3x7      30        35       25       28       23        20       23       23 
18. Vorinble ope-ratinr costr per LUJ at
1978 con6tant prices (ree ANNEX 1V(h)                                                                                                     c
(vii))                                   (I1K)   144    71         53        5)       28       25       28        26       20       29   1'



- 99-
ANNEX IV(h)
Table (vii)   A Dzalanyama Ranch Operating, Cost Index
From 1st April, 1970, to 31st March 1979, operating costs
(after allowance for change in stocks) were:
MK        %
A.  Salaries and wages                    321,251    36
B.  Feed and Veterinary                   249,474    28
C.  Vehicles operating and other          317,608    36
888,333   100
Compounding these weighted with a Cost Index as follows:
A = Monthly earnings of government employees
B = All imported items
C = Petrol, oil and lubricants
derives an index as follows:
1970/71 = 100
1971/72 = 106
1972/73 = 103
1973/74 = 112
1974/75 = 163
1975/76 = 185
1976/77 = 213
1977/78 = 236
1978/79 = 258
Source: See Annex VI(c)



- 100 -
ANNEX IV(h)
Table (vi)   Dzalanyara Ranch. Comparisons of Results Against
Projecticns of Appraisal Document for Phase III.
Appraisal      Actual
Projection    Result
1. Herd Composition as at 31/3/79
(end of Phase III)
Cows                                                    4,929          4,607
Bulls                                                      241           277
Heifers                                                    986         1,191
Steers;                                                 1,542          1,768
Weaners                                                  2,517           110
Calves                                                  2,954          2,205
Total                                            13,169        10,158
Livestock Units                                         9,980          8,310
Four-Year Weighted Averages
2. Stocking Density (Acres per livestock Unit)                 20 acres      22 acres
3. Ratio cows/active bulls                                     25            15
4. Calves % of average cows                                    68%           49%
5. Cows and Heifers to total herd %                            45%           57%
6. Cows culled % of total cows                                 15%            6%
7. Bulls culled % of total bulls                               20%            4%
8. Total offtake (sales) %                                     15%           16%
9. Cows purchased % of cow numbers in same year                19%           11%
10. Mortality % of total average herd                            5%            5%
11. Variable operating cost per livestock unit                    K12           K21
12. Non-variable operating cost per livestock unit 1              K 4           K 6
13. Ratio non-variable/Total opetating costs %                  25%           22%
14. Average Purchase cost of cows: M.K.                           K55           K55.87
15. Average Purchase cost of steers: M.K.                         K48           K51.33
16. Average selling price of cowE: M.K.                           K45           K62.30
17. Average selling price of  steers: M.K.                        K64           K77.37
1/ Including physical and price contingency allowances. (But contingencies
based on deficit financing only).



- 101 -
able (ii   Slnun-hter Gratam             A 2n           I1I: -de-r Tisued to
_LZP Crli:t .      r.
Ca.esdar    Gra&! At    stzers  ?- c tt. A,vei'a-e   At-- age   Average  A -.-L-a
Yemr      S1au,itster   I.suea  cf 2otal            wa_ .t  Grcss              D. .I
_______  5e______  S'x . -.ter   .e  ur=  Clb)
Ch' oice        26       io       42.15        73.48    31.33
I (.o     ?rice           I .   A     2-    -"i . 7      _, .9l     2 -.2
Sta=dard         3        7                        2      6.,-
Choice       .'                      ; 7,-1              29._ 
1969   rrice              4        _ S. 47   ' '726                13.79
Standiard       17        9       -7.22       61.20       3.-6
194      100       52.23        65.78    23.55       342
Choice        153        °5       39.52       50-57      19.G5
1970      Price           68       34       33.70        47.23     13.53
Standard         2        1       L0^oL       41.25       0.25
203      ;Co        7 -.,o     -5+.oC     t .C2      >,,
C;'2ice       130        59       33.?O       72.355    35.32
Price           ?2       31       37.39       _o.?5      22.87
1971      Stardard  -         -    1 ^      3.75          4.53     9.78
Ccc=erc _a: l                         ;.       ' -.5 n    ^. ' 7
C::oisc       _7-        ?          ..7+ o                C,
7 Price         ?9                 2 5'       '501       33. 7
1972     Stamdard        2 7        7       43  1        o.,1      41.40
Commerci                                      :". IC      4.21
7'S;    100       46.3        ::'-.0?    42T.71      ^22
Choice         x ~,-               c,,2      tO        .      24
7.ic                           : i7  5.o   712  32.34
1973     Standard         21        5       q5.-.7      71.10    15.15
Co=mercial                3        C.L4        ^7.52      2.a8
.'-.:&  100                        7 . _   *q, 1 . 9-
Zhoice        ,          '2                     ?  i.70    *4.12
.r_ce           _1 4,                          32.11     22.57
1974      Standard        .                     2       -6.54       -.62
962      ICO ~2                 . o5-35   32.75      4_2
Choice         371       60       73 '28     140.04    64.'6
1975      Price         230       ,-6       *i.'e      1C7.6    39.18
Standard        3a        4       64._9       35.31      20.19
639      icO       72.20      124.91      52.71      i 71
Choice        572        61       85.66      142.30    56.44
1976      Price         321       35        8o.60      119.22      38.60
Standard        40        4       7?.28      tco.98      22.70
933;     100          ,7,     1.2.-0    4Z.E7
Choice      '. .A6       -9       90.'2      1..9.57    46.5
1977     Price          5Sc        C4 ,7.51             055s4 4     7.t'
Standard      ic- z             c       ,.-
ttx   1^0  .^'5      122.*6     *~~~.72     t
Choice        7C7         5       ',.42      1'9.o4.    4'._2
197S      Price         3-2?       0        8.'eO      102.50    2C.4'
5tand. rd       57                 -.           .         1. W.
1 ,91      100       25.C:       125,.28    39.26      4l



- 102 -
ANNEX IV (jj
Dairy Component
1.        The criteria for succEssful application for a two dairy cow unit
on credit were as follows:
(a) three acres of pasture established;
(b) the paddock for other livestock to be at least
300 yards distant from the dairy paddock;
(c) the smallholder to be not more than five miles
distant from a milk collection point;
(d) adequately constructed milking parlour and khola;
(e) an all round proven level of farm management ability.
1.1       However, these criteria do not appear to have been strictly adhered
to as was indicated during a field visit to seven dairy farmers in M'ay, 1979.
For example, the requisite past:ure area was relaxed as it was hoped that
the smallholders would later meet the requirements as they became more
proficient; night paddocks for the other livestock were not sufficiently distant
and dairy cows were in some cases being allowed to graze on communal dambo areas
increasing the risk of disease., east coast fever and fluke.
1.2       Pasture management was not good. In most cases pastures were unfenced
and-pasture grass was not beinlg cut and stored according to a pattern that would
retain nutrient value. Groundnut tops were however being gatnered and stored
for dry season fodder.
1.3       The use of madeya (maize husk) was being replaced by maize germ
which was cheap from the lpcal milling company (K 1.50 per 200 lbs) and livestock
extension staff were assisting in transporting this to the farmers.
1.4       Factors limiting a successful expansion of the Dairy Component were
(i) a lack of stock due to a Contageous Abortion outbreak at Dzalanyama ranch
and (ii) a lack of adequate numbers of livestock extension staff to promote the
scheme and encourage better management. Generally, it was evident that dairy
smallholders were not visited by extension staff specifically to advise on
Dairy Management but rather for general arable advice.



- 103 -
AmNEX %t1k)
Table ti)     Detailz of the Denartrmcntal 4arr,ntin,
ancc evailaoic rcccrd of e -      -    o 
Special Deveio.-en  t    .--r 0   o :cr.
pre-paration:
'Dcrartmental '.4arr-int            Foicn >7d_u                  alar.ec? of
Number:                           M.X.         u5 at      utaccouncea for
13,  (Saarcs)                        1,311        1,311           0
15   (Offica equi;meat)              1,450        1,450           0
17   (Chief Projects Officer)    5,365           11,658         (-6,293)
101   (Ministzy of Wwars)            26,718       20,485           6,233
105   (Denarteent of Survev)            400             0             400
201   C!: eoa 2e5earc1 Statijo)   6,,c-0            1,761          4,539
261   (Ar-o-Zccncmic Su-ver)         75,765       1a,1 O          63,575
254   (3vu=bwe Rezearc. Staticn)  5,4C0            5,108              292
271   (Princi;aL LTan  E_sband
Officer)             72,4?8        c5,815          46,262
281   (Land Husbar.dry, Fasumgu)   2,000              865          1,134
237   (Chief Aericultural
Reeearch Officer)        2,615        10,609         (-7,996)
298   (Land  ?usbandri. Z.aoba)         200           385          (-185)
-     No provisico                        0           935          (-956)
Total=             ZCC,000        92,595         107,405
Source:  M.A.N.P. Financial 2ecords.
Table (ii)    Infrastructure develorment for NRDP preparation
Target           Achieve_e-t
~otsi-.
Class1 D              l
Source: M.NR, HR records



- 104 -
ANNEX IV (1)
Health Component (UNCDF Grant Project No. MLW/74/031)
1.        The total grant was US$ 1,600,000 which realized MK 1,401,900.
The amount injected into the credit fund was I4K 732,000 leaving
MK 669,900 for expenditure on the Health Component.
2.        Expenditure breakdown on liealth Component was as follows:
MK
Civil Works                                521,200
Equipment and Vehicles                     104,900
Drugs and Supplies                          43,800
Total            669,900
Health Facilities Developed
3.1       Primary Health Center completed at Unit 3, Malingunde, which included
the renovation and improvement of one ward and two existing houses. Total cost
of all facilities provided in this primary health center amounted to K 83,700.
3.2       At Unit 24, Mitundu, K 45,360 was spent on an agreed construction
towards a Full Primary Health Center. Facilities provided consisted of a large
modern out-patient department and a large female ward.
3.3       Six sub-centers were prcvided at Units 12, 15, 26, 30, 32 and 34. The
initial agreement made provision for five sub-centers and not six. Owing to the
delapidated health structure at Nathenje(Unit 32) it was agreed by all parties that
the building be demolished and a Full Sub-Center be built. This has been completed,
and fully utilized.
3.4       Twenty-four health posts have been completed in the following units:
1, 2, 6, 7, 10, 11, 13, 14, 16, 1x, 23, 25, 28, 29, 33, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45,
46, 47.
3.5       Guardian shelters for stub-centers have been built at Units 15, 26, 30 and 34.
3.6       Additional Health facilities constructed and/or improved as agreed
between the Programme,Ministry of Health and UNCDF were:
(i)     Extensive improvements to Kabudula primary health
center costing IM 19,000.
(ii)    Upgrading and aclditional equipment for Malingunde
primary health center, MK 80,000.
(iii)   Improvements to Mitunde primary health center MK 60,000



- 105 -
ANNEX IV (1)
(iv)   New dispensary and housing constructed for Unit 29.
(v)    Improvements to District Council maternity units
at Units 4, 22, 34 and at Khongoni.
(vi)   Improvements to Chitedze sub-center.
4.        With completion of all these civil works, every 2,000 families
within the Programm.e are now served by a health facility, and every 10,000
families have a Health Sub-Center.



*Sable (i)    A coe,purison of actual- and proj.cted crop productioA for Phase III
1975/76              197b/77              1977/27              19?8/79
Pro.jcted  Actu ul  E!:qectod  Actual   P             Actual   Projected  Actual
Hai z$
Total a,,ize area (ha)          105,427   99,600    115,000  122.012    110,9?4  120,930    133,596  123,303
Total production (m. tons)    157,608  147,4H0    180,007 -151,i38    218,bG0  158,827    232,468  I8;,767
Cro.sndnuta
Total groundnut area (ha)        37,408   43,491      40,8o7   41,720      4I6,473   28,874      48,480   31,741                         H
Total pioductiou  ('*. tons)     20,971   16,110      23,791   14,979      28,l,7    8,309       31,442   16,552                         0
Tobacco
Total tobacco area (ha)          21,254   20,3iJ9     23,188   21,3C3      ?6,405   30,347       27,4701  28,949
Total production (in. tons)       9,055   10,185       9,879   12,001      11,250   14,567       11,706   1.,986
ADHARC purchases (M. tona).V               6,550                11,837               11,092               10,359
N2ot*z 1/ ADHARC purckaaoes are thone entimated from dev-loped areua. Repreannts AL*ARG saleable yields.
Sources Ll.D,  vivaluation Unit



- 107 -
ANNEX V (b)/1
A Further Analysis of LLDP Crop Production Data
Before presenting the results of the econometric analysis it is
necessary to state some background facts to the LLDP Smallholder situation as
reported from Evaluation Surveys conducted in 1977/78. During this cropping
season an estimated 41% of the total sampled growers (959) took project credit.
It was found that husbandry practices applied to the tobacco crop approximated
to extension recommendations (fertilizer and plant population); hybrid maize,
which on average approximated to three-quarters of these extension recommendations,
received better management than local maize; and groundnuts received relatively
less attention with plant populations being on average half the recommended rate.
Of the total sample 52% grew tobacco and 8% hybrid maize and there was an even
split between hybrid maize growers who were tobacco and non-tobacco growers.
Factors determining crop yields:
Table (i)   Correlation coefficients of yield against associated variables:
LLDP, 1977/78
Correlation Coefficients: Yield : Variable
Maize                Groundnuts
Variable                               Local      Hybrid
Xi Time of planting                   -0.16*      -0.14              -0.13*
X2 Number of weedings                  0.10        0.06              -0.12*
X3 Plant populations                   0.32***    0.37**              0.41***
X4 Rate of fertilizer application
(kg/ha)                         0.15*       0.20                 -
X5 Plot area (ha)                      0.06        0.23               0.09
X6 Total holding area (ha)   *         0.12        0.42               0.03
X7 Credit recipience (Yes or No)       0.18*       0.19               0.08
X8 Extension contact (Yes or No)       0.08        0.30               0.04
X9 Male grower (Yes or No)            -0.30***   -0.30*               0.00
X   Other farm experience (Yes or No)0.02          0.09               0.03
10
Xi, Attendance at training course
(Yes or No)                    0.13       -0.17               0.06
X12 Level of education                 0.13       -0.17               0.06
Degree of Freedom (DF)              690        32                  640
Levels of significance: *** = (P = 0.02)
** = (P = 0.05)
* D (P = 0.10)
Source: LLDP, Evaluation Unit



- 108 -
The major crop management factors associated with crop yields
were found to be timeliness of planting, plant spacings and rate of
fertilizer application; the correlation between yield and rate of fertilizer
application for hybrid maize was not significant - the variance around the
mean level of application was small. Groundnuts showed a negative but
marginally significant (P = 0.20) association between yield and weedings
as too many are known to damage pods; the majority of local and hybrid maize
plots were weeded two or three times and thus their yields were not expected
a priori to have a significant association with weedings.
A multivariate regression analysis for local maize survey data was
conducted using the above tabt.lated variables on yield. The equation line is
given below (P = 0.005).
Yield = 865.373 - 11.045XI+10',057X 2+3.873X3+0.743X4+266.752X7
(2.74)   (2.11)    (11.02)  (3.01)  (4.82)
0.005    0.025      0.005    0.005    0.005
Degree of Freedom = 874;  R2 = 0.412
Note  - 11.045X,   X Coefficient
(2.74)     t - Statis':ic
0.005      Significant level
Source: LLDP, Evaluation Unit.
No other variables from the data set were found to be significant.
Although the coefficient of determination (R2) appears small, experience has
shown that this is a very high degree of causation under Malawi smallholder
conditions. Obviously, there is a large proportion of unexplained variation
probably the result of stochastic and many sociological parameters.
LLDP was based on an integrated approach to rural development;
integrating simultaneously credit, agricultural extension, input supplies and
basic infrastructures, and ir.dded possibly to assess their performance, an
examination was made of the inter-relationships between credit recipients,
extension contactees and those attending at project training courses and other
variables associate with improved crop management.



- 109 -
a. Credit recipients:
Table (ii)   Correlation coefficients of credit recipients against yield
and associated data: LLDP, 1977/78
Correlated Coefficients
Maize
Variable                                Local    Hybrid          Groundnuts
X   Yield                               0.18*      0.19             0.08
Xl  Time of planting                   -0.09      -0.11            -0.05
X2  Plant populations                  -0.06      -0.04             0.09
X4  Rate of fertilizer application    0.08         0.10              -
X   Total holding area                  0.22**    0.32*             0.28***
6
X8  Extension contact                   0.21**   -0.04              0.15*
X10 Other farm experience               0.02       0.09            -0.02
Xii Attended at training course         0.21**   -0.16              0.21**
X12 Level of education                  0.05      -0.04             0.04
Degree of Freedom                    690        32               640
Level of significance: *** = (P = 0.02)
** = (P = 0.05)
* = (P = 0.10)
Source: LLDP, Evaluation Unit
I
It appears that farmers with comparatively large holdings held a
greater chance of receiving project credit than those with small farms. Moreover,
in the case of local maize and groundnut growers there was a positive association
between credit recipients and those who received extension contact; even so
there was not a significant correlation between credit recipience and improved
crop management. Improved crop management practices were not associated with the
LLDP credit system for local and hybrid maize and groundnuts during 1977/78.
However, this does not necessarily mean that the credit component of LLDP was
not a vehicle for crop improvement - much fertilizer bought on maize packages
was used for the tobacco crop. This also explains the high association between
credit recipience and local maize yields as a(small) proportion of credit
purchased fertilizer was applied to the local maize crop.



- 110 -
b. Extension contac':ees:
Table (iii) Correlation coefficients of extension contactees against
yield and associated data: LLDP, 1977/78
Correlation Coefficients
Maize                 Groundnuts
Variable                               Local      Hybrid
X   Yield                                0.09      0.30*                0.04
X1  Time of planting                   -0.02       0.03                 0.00
X3  Plant populations                    0.03      0.14                 0.05
X4  Rate of fertilizer application    0.06         0.43***               -
X6  Total holding area                  0.23***   0.13                  0.17*
X7 Credit recipience                     0.21**   -0.04                 0.15
X10 Other farm experience               0.06      -0.15                -0.02
{ll Attended at training coutse         0.13      -0.16                 0.12
X12 Level of education                  0.03       0.16                 0.04
Degree of Freedom                    690         32                 64
Levels of significance: ***   (P = 0.02)
**   (P = 0.05)
*   (P = 0. 10)
Source: LLDP, Evaluation Unit:
An important observation to make from Table (iii) is that for both
local maize and groundnuts no significant relationship existed between extension
contact and the application of improved crop management. However, hybrid maize
growers on the whole were ass3ociated with some improved crop management practices,
even though they did not receive preferential treatment to project amenities.



- jlJ. -
c. Attendance at training course:
Table (iv)   Correlation coefficients of those attending project training
courses against yield and associated data: LLDP, 1977/78
Correlation Coefficients
Maize              Groundnuts
Variables                                Local     Hybrid
X   Yield                                 0.14      0.33*           0.06
X   Time of planting                      0.01      0.28*           0.05
1
X2  Plant population                     -0.04     -0.04            0.09
X4  Rate of fertilizer application        0.06     -0.10             -
X5  Total holding area                    0.23***   0.16            0.30***
X   Extension contact                     0.13     -0.16            0.12
6
X   Credit recipient                      0.21**   -0.19            0.21**
7
X8  Other farm experience                 0.02     -0.17            0.04
X12 Level of education                    0.19**   -0.04
Degree of Freedom                    690         32              640
Levels of significance: ***   (P = 0.02)
** = (P = 0.05)
* = (P = 0.10)
Source: LLDP, Evaluation Unit
The themes developed are further endorsed from the above table. It
appears that for local maize and groundnut growers, the project training courses
were attended by those farmers with better education, larger holdings and who
participated in the project credit scheme but whose standard of crop husbandry
for local maize and groundnuts were not significantly better than non-project
course attendees.
So far the evidence suggests that: -
(1) Hybrid maize growers were, in the main, the more progressive of LLDB small-
holders during 1977/78, even though they did not receive a disproportionate
emphasis of the extension and credit facilities provided by the project.
(2) As improved maize seed was available to only 8% of LLDP participants it
appears that the majority of smallholders opted to increase farm incomes by
growing tobacco, using relatively improved management; but they continued
to grow local maize and groundnuts under near subsistence conditions (low
plant population) of high certainty.



- 112 -
As 52% of the sampled farmers grew tobacco and as both local maize
and groundnuts were associated with credit recipience and extension
contacts, and if hypothesiLs 2 above holds, then it may be assumed
that:
(3) LLDP gave credit to tobacco growers over non-tobacco growers as the
former were associated wi,h criteria of credit-worthiness.
In order to test these hypotheses, further analyses were con-
ducted on,the 1977/78 data. Due to incomplete data and a lack of adequate
data and a lack of adequate :acilities it was not possible to isolate in
full the characteristics of both progressive and non-progressive types for
both tobacco and non-tobacco farmers. However, the analysis and results
which follow are indicative of certain characteristics being associated
with these four farmer types.
i Firstly, it was found that tobacco growers were privileged to
project inputs over and above non-tobacco growers. For example, correlation
coefficients were calculated from a random sub-sample of the full 1977/78
data set to see what project bias, if any, favored tobacco growers.
Hypothesis: Dependent variable as a function of tobacco growing.
Dependent Variable   Correlation   Degrees of    Significance
Coefficients    Freedom           Level
r          (n-2)            (P)
Credit recipience         0.31           78            0.01
Extension contact         0.32           78            0.01
Attendance at training
course                 0.40           78            0.001
Total holding size       '0.39           78            0.001
Source: LLDP, Evaluation Unit
Clearly tobacco growers were significantly associated with project:
activities which appear to be linked with a credit-worthiness criterion of
large holding size. This result supports the trend of favored opportunity for
tobacco growers, as indicated from a survey of credit borrowers conducted by
the Evaluation Unit in May 1.979.
However, except in the case of hybrid maize growers, the crop
management practices applied to cash and staple crops by individual growers
were not associated; a dense stand of tobacco (which was the norm) was not
associated with high plant populations for local maize and groundnuts. Further,



- 113 -
the plant population of the latter two crops did not significantly alter
between tobacco and non-tobacco growers. However, for hybrid maize
growers it was significant that improved management for hybrid maize
was strongly associated with improved management of local maize and
groundnuts.
Correlation    Degrees of  Significance
Variables                           Coefficients   Freedom          Level
Plant populations:
L. maize: groundnuts                  -0.06             31          not
L. maize: tobacco                      0.05             36          not
Tobacco: groundnuts                    0.15             30          not
H. maize: L. maize                     0.34             31         0.05
H. maize: groundnuts                   0.31             29         0.10
Source: LLDP, Evaluation Unit
80% of the 1977/78 sampled growers grew tobacco in 1976/77. There
was no significant difference in tobacco crop management between previous
and new tobacco growers in 1977/78 which is indicative df credit going to
tobacco growers and not necessarily credit making a tobacco grower.



- 114-
ANNEX V (b) 6
Conclusion
Although being comparatively basic the analysis presented shows
that:
1.  Hybrid maize growers appear to be the more progressive of the LLDP
population adopting major extension recommendations for most crops.
2. Tobacco growers in the main followed extension recommendations for
tobacco cultivation even though for subsistence crops no significant
crop management improvements were recorded.
3. The provision of essential inputs and services by LLDP favoured
tobacco growers who fulfilled a basic criterion of credit-worthiness
by being associated with relatively large farm areas..
Recommendations
It is recommended that policies should be geared to: (a) implementing
criteria to reduce the bias of credit disbursements in favour of tobacco
growers; and (b) wean farmers off the credit scheme after several seasons
participation.



Table (i)      LLDP Phase III : Comparison on Fertilizer Sales in Central Region of Malawi and LLDP
1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79
Total fertilizer sales for                                                                                                                       H
Central Region (K)                    n.a.     'n.a.       n.a.    14,446       7,624    10,854    16,950    25,151    25,387
Total fertilizer sales LLDP (K)           877      3,936      3,942      7,055      4,286      5,365     6,160       9,485    10,223
LLDP fertilizer sales as % of
Central Region's                       -          -          -        48.8       56.2       49.2       39.3       37.7       40.0
LLDP cash sales as % of total
sales                                  9.5        1.5        1.3      17.7       13.0       28.7       20.3       28.2       15.7
Tobacco bonus payments
(% of guaranteed min.price)           -          1.5        -          -         40.0       40.0       60.0       15.0       -
Source: LLDP, Marketing Section



- 116 -
ANiEX V( e)
Table. (i)    LLTP, Phase III t Estimated cropping patterns and
imputed Earable incomes (1978/79 ADMARC prices)
1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79
4aize-                     -121       -1.20      I-.1       '1.1+
Groundnuts                  0.52       o.40      0.27       0.26:
Tobacco                     0.24       0.21      0.29       0.28
Others                      0.13       0.10      0.08       Q.05.
Total                       2.10       1.91      1.78      . L.76
S.D      .                 (1.15)    (1.05)    (1.20)    (1.03)
Ilq;uted arable incomes    136.89    107.01      90.51    136.22
(K)



- 117 -
ANNEX V (e.
Table ii -  COMPARISON OF IMPROVED AND UNIMPROVED CROP
GROSS MARGINS LIDP, 1978/79 AT ADMARC FARMGATE PRICES
Local maize                                   Unimproved                 Improved
Returns
Area (ha)                                          1.0                       1.0
Yield (Kg/ha)                                    1,100                     1,352
Farmgate price (t/kg)                              4.96                      4.96
Gross revenue (K)                                 54.56                     66.07
Variable Costs
Seeds (K)                                          1.24                      1.24
Fertilizers (t)                                    -                        20.39
Hired Labor (K)                                                              3.00
Transport (K)                                     -                          -
Total V.C. (K)                                1.24                     24.63
Gross Margin (K/ha)                               53.32                     41.44
Gross Margin per Man-day (K/md)                    0.44                      0.35
Improved Maize                                   Composite                  Hybrid
Returns
Area (ha)                                          1.0                       1.0
Yield (kg/ha)                                   1,948                     3,779
Farm-gate Price (t/kg)                             4.96                      4.96
Gross Revenue  (K)              .                96.62                     182.04
Variable Costs
Seeds (K)                                         2.72                      17.30
*         Fertilizers (K)                                  27.18                      48.19
Hired Labor (K)                                   14.83                     14.83
Transport (K)                                      3.00                      4.94
Total V. C. (K)                               47.61                     85.26
Gross Margin (K/ha)                              49.01                     101.78
Gross Margin per Man-day (K/md)                   n.a.                      n.a
Groundnuts                                    Unimproved                 Improved
Returns
Area (ha)                                          1.0                       1.0
Yield (Kg/ha)                                      315                       494
Farm-gate Price (t/kg)                              33                        33
Gross Revenue (t)                              103.95                    175.23



- 118 -
Variable Costs                               Unimproved                     Improved
Seeds (K)                                          22.22                     22.22
Hired Labor (K)                                    -                          5.00
Transport (K)                                      -                          1.75
Total V.C. (K)                                     22.22                     28.95
Gross Margin (K/ha)                                81.73                    146.28
Gross MIargin Per man-day (K/md)                    0.38                      0.68
Tobacco
Returns
Area (ha)                                          1.0                       1.0
Yield (kg/ha)                                      380                       500
Farm-gate Price (t/kg)                            44.08                     44.08
Gross Reve
Gross Revenue                                    167.50                    220.40
Variable Costs
Seeds (K)                                           
Fertilizers (K)                                   34.60                     59.19
Hired Labor (K)                                   13.00                     15.00
Wood (K)                                           3.00                      4.00
Transport (K)                                      1.25                      1.75
Total V. C. (K)                                  51.85                      98.94
Gross Margin (K/ha)                              115.65                    130.46
Gross Margin Per Man-day (K/md)                    0.22                      0.24
1/   Yields: Composite - improved 1977/78 estimate;
Other yields see crop production estimates for 1978/79
2/   Seeds rates: Maize - 25 kg/ha at 7.7t/kg (ADMLARC selling price)
Groundnuts - 67 kg/ha at Farm-gate Price.
3/   Fertilizer rates: Local improved 185 kg/ha
Composite' 250 kg/ha (S/a), hybrid 370 kg
Tobacco 500 kg/ha, improved; 250 kg/ha unimproved.
4/   Labor data see (5).



- 119 -
Table (iii)      Comparison of Farm Budgets:LIDP,1978/79
(Constant Prices)
1.80 Hectare non-tobacco Farm
Margins
Area         Unimproved         Improved
(ha)            (K)              (K)
Maize                                    1.41             75.18             57.85
Groundnuts                               0.40             32.69            58.51
Total Budget                                            107.87           116.36
1.80 Hectare Tobacco Farm
Maize                                    1.01             53.85            53.85
Groundnuts                               0.40             32.69            58.51
Tobacco                                  0.40             46.26            52.18
Total Budget                                             132.80           164.54
3.0 Hectare Tobacco Farm
Maize                                    1.60             85.31             85.31
Groundnuts                               0.81             66.20           118.47
Tobacco                                  0.81             93.68           131.27
Total Budget                                             245.19           335.05
1.0 Hectare Non-tobacco Farm
Maize                           *        0.81             43.19            41.48
Groundnuts                               0.20             16.35            29.25
Total Budget                                              59.54            70.74
Source:   LIDP, Evaluation Unit



- 120 -                        ANNEX V(f)
Table (i)               An Average Stallfeeder Budget
(Based on 1S78 Average results)
MK
Average Price at Slaughter .......                              125.28
(from Annex IV(i)
Less    Issue Price
(from Annex IV (i)                 86.02
Insurance (1W%)                          1.08
Feed Costs (sss below)                  12.77            99.87
Gross Margin:                          25.41
Calculation of Feed Costs:
Live weight at Slaughter 804 lbs (4 11 c.d.w. at 51%).
"I  ft      I    573 lbs
gain      231 lbs
Feed Cost = K25.22 x 231    = K 12.77    (based on gain ratio with measured
420                   feed cost results in Table (ii) below)
Note:  Costs of Madeya, crop resic:ues and labor input have been excluded
from this Gross Margin calc:ulation.
Table (ii).   Comparison with a "c'emonstration" result achieved at
training centre in 1978.
Days fattened                           234
Slaughter weight (LW kgs)               499
LWG from purchase                       191
Cold dressed weight   *                 264
Killing out %                            53
Grade at Slaughter                      Choice
Total receipts (K)                   184.62
Variable Costs
1,800 kgs bran                                   19.60
82 kgs salt                                    3.62
Steer price at issue                            106.08
Insurance (134%)                                  1.33
129.30
Margin over costs(K)                             55.32
Note:   Crop residues and  Madeya have nto been included as these foods are
available at little or no cost to the farmer.
Source: LIDP, Nsaru Training Cenl:re. (actual results).



- 121 -
ANNEX V (g)
Annual Budget for a 2-cow Dairy Herd
Revenue                                                     2 Cow Herd
Milk (1.406 kgs/animal/lactation at 9.38 t/lotre)               264.12
Calves (X2).                                                     94.16
396.18
Variable Costs
Interest on capital (average over 5 years )1/                    14.00
Depreciation of stock (spread over 5 years )2/                   24.00
Toxaphene                                                        18.34
Salt                                                             22.65
Madeya                                                            5.23
Fertilizer                                                        3.28
Hired Labor                                                      31.83
Miscellaneous                                                     8.22
Insurance                                                         5-54
133.09
Margin over costs (K)                                           263.09
1/   K260 for two-cow unit at 10% per annum
2/  Slaughter value of stock taken at K70 each cow.
Source:   FAO/UNDP Livestock Project Malawi: Survey conducted
December 1977 - November 1978 in the Lilongwe milkshed area.
4,



- 122 -                         ANNEX V (h)
LLDP Phase III : Standard Poultry Enterprise Budget
(197P/1979 Constant Prices)
Revenues                                                                     K
Egg returns (17 doz. eggs/birc at 12-1/2 bird
mortality/cycle at 55.5 t/dcz. eggs)                                 990.68
Sales of culled birds (at K1.'0 each)                                  157.50
1,148.18
Costs
Capital Costs
Credit: (a) cages for 120 birds                                      280.00
(b) 20 m of 3.8 cm wire mesh at 78 t/m                       15.60
(c) 13 bags feed (for 2 months at K8.78/bag)                114.14
(d) transport Blantvre/Lilongwe, 200 miles
at 58 t/mile shared between 10 cages                     11.60
421.34
Repayment
Annuity accounting 10% interest over 5 years gives
an annual repayment of                                               111.15
Working Capital
Feed - 6.5 bags/month for 10 months at K8.78/bag                       570.70
Birds - 120 birds at point of lay at Kl.80 each                        216.00
Fixed capital cash flow (5 year repayment period)
Year  Item
I    Repayment of capital and interest                                   111.15
Interest on birds                                                    21.60
Housing                                                              30.00
Insurance at K1.00/month                                             12.00
174.75
2    Repayment of capital and interest                                   111.15
Interest on birds        *                                           21.60
Insurance                                                            12.00
144.75
3    Repayment of capital and interest                                   144.75
4    Repayment of capital & interest + K10.00 maintenance                154.75
5    Repayment of capital and interest+ K10.00 maintenance               154.75
6    Repayment of capital and interest                                      -
Complete budget for 5 years with 'point of lay' issues
Costs
Year              (Wcrking + capital)              Profit
(K)                       (K)
1                       961.45                    186.73
2                       931.45                    216.73
3                       931.45                    216.73
4                        941.45                   206.73
5                        941.45                   206.73
6                        796.70                   351.48



Smallholders' Cattle Herd Ratios at Twelve -  Dip Tanks Wholly Within LLDP Programme Area: 1975 to 1978
Bulls and other 'whole' males    Castrated males    Cows & heifers            Calves               Total
Year   Cows to males ratio   % of herd        % of herd           % of herd       X of cows/heifers   Absolute number
1975           17                  3              17                 50                  59               38,902
1976           15                  3              17                 51                  57               39,619
1977           14                  4              18                 50                  56               38,689
1978            9                  5              16                 48                  65               37,458
1/ The twelve dip tanks chosen were: Chad  , Chilinda, Likuni, Libvuwadzi, Malimbwa, Manchichi, Masula,
Mbabzi, Mchoka, Namaguya, Sinyala and Tanga.
Source: Derived from Veterinary Department annual dip tank census.



- 124 -
ANNEX VI (a)
Table (i):  WITHDRAWAL OF IDA CREDIT PROCEEDS (PHASE III:550-MAI
Category                                              Credit Agreement Plan   Actual Result
Equivalent
US$                MK             MK
i.  Civil Works
(ADMARC,Health and NRDP
preparation  excluded):               1,200,000              996,000          982,862
II.  Vehicles,equipment,machinery
and Livestock:
(NRDP preparation and credit:
administration excluded):             1,000,000              830,000        929,705
III.   (a) Personnel                          2,600,000           2,158,000       2,760,297
(b) Administration,operating,
and Maintenance:
(Dzalanyama Ranch excluded)          2,300,000            1,909,000      2,462,079
IV.    NRDP Preparation:                        250,000              207,500        173,081
V.    Unallocated:
(Contingencies)                       1,150,000              954,500             0
TOTAL:                                8,500,000            7,055,000      7,308,024
Rate of Exchange $/1K                               -                   0.83           0.86
Table (ii):    WITHDRAWAL OF U.N.C.D.F. PROCEDURE(MLW/74/031)
Category:                                             Credit Agreement Plan         Actual Result
Equivalent
US$            MK                  MK  MK
I.     Civil Works                             420,000         318,000                521,200
II.    Equipment,vehicles and
Materials:                             70,000          58,100               104,900
III.   Drugs and Supplies:                      90,oO0          74,700                 43,800
IV.    Credit  Fund:                           600,000         498,000                732,000
V.     Unallocated:                            420,000         348,600                   0
TOTAL:                             1,600,000       1,328,000               1,401,900
Rate of exchange $/MK                                             0.83                   0.88



- 125 -
ANNEX VI (b)
PHASE III SUIMARY OF OPERATING COSTS BY COMPONENT:
ACTUAL COMPARED TO APPRAISAL PLAN (CONTINGENCIES ADDED)
MK'OOO (1ST APRIL 1975 TO 31ST MARCH 1979)
Component                                 Planned          Cost Actual       Difference
Management,Administration and
Financial Control                          496               463               -33
Building and Construction                     545               813              +268
Earthworks                                    812               524              -288
Surveys                                       414               318               -96
Land Use and Layout                           335               293               -42
Land Allocation                               336               232              -104
Field Development Services                     33                30                -3
Extension                                     961               892               -69
Training                                      229               247               +18
Livestock                                     278               208               -70
Ranch                                         397               531              +134
Credit Administration                         451               395               -56
Marketing                                      41                41                0
Rural Development                              50                56                +6
Health                                        307               117              -190
Evaluation                                    179               146               -33
TOTAL                                       5,864             5,306              -558
Source: Financial Control Records



- 126 -                      ANNEX VI(c)
SCHEDULE OF FIZEID ASSETS AND EQUIPMENT:(NK'000)
PROGRAMME ASSETS:
Item:                                  At Cost                 Appreciated Value
as at      additions 1/10/74    as at
30/9/74   to  3/9/78              30/9/78
Construction Works total:           3,617          3,156             4,329
of which:    Roads                    385            397               782
Bridges                 259            345               532
Dambo crossings
and culverts           94             12                37
Sub-Total   Road
Facilities           738            754             1,401
Boreholes               401            359               112
Borehole aprons          17             31                15
Sub-total Borehole
facilities              448            390               128
Diversion ditches            662           595                188
Waterways                   277            273               410
Spillways + drifts            9              2                 1
Sub-total conservation
works                        948           875               599
Training centres              23            91               103
H.W. Offices and Stores       66            17                61
Domestic houses,HQ           903            52               765
Domestic houses
offices and stores at
Units                       497            464               793
Egg gradin,station          0               36                33
Dips                          24            0                  15
Sub-total buildings       1,513            660             1,770
Health buildings            0              477               431
thern   Dzalanyama ranch
development
(excludingllivestockc)      237            131               244
Motor Vehicles               823           544               496
Plant and Machinery         570           (-37)               27
General Equipment           344            121               130
TOTAL                     5,591          3,915             5_226
Sources   Financial Accounts of ILDP. Note that although the period does not
exactly coincide with the life of Phase III these figures do provide
a close approximation of Phase III addition.



- 127 -
ANNEX VI (d)
PHASE III (CREDIT 550-MAI) SCHEDULE OF REIMBURSEMENT
(Drawndown of Loan)            (US$t000)
IDA           Appraisal                            Actual Result
Fiscal Year  Plan Reimbursement                    Reimbursement
Quarter      sement                                In
ended        In Quarter            Cumulative      Quarter          Cumulative
1973/76
September     -    -
December
March              -                    -                967             967
June               870                  870              474          1,441
1976/77
September          870               1,740              567           2,008
December           870                2,610              555          2,563
March               870               3,480              722          3,285
June               660               4,140               736          4,021
1977/78
September          660               4,800              508           4,529
Secember           660               5,460               615          5,144
March               660               6m120              588          5,732
June               600                6,700             805           6,537
1978/79
September          600   ,           7,300              810           7,338
December            600               7,920              566          7,904
March               580               8,500              596          8,500
Source: ILDP, Financial centrol



- 128 -
ANNEX VI (e)
1/                           2/
COMPARISON OF PRICE CONTING NCIES ALLO,ED  WITH ACTUAL PRICE INDICES
Vehicles,Machinery   Petrol, oil and            Salaries and
Building Materials  and FA ipment            Lubricants                  Wages
Year          Contingency Price   Contin,ency Price    Contingency Price   Contingency Price  3/
Allowed      Index   Allowei       Index    Allowed       Index   Allowed    Index
1974/75          1001       100       100          100       100          100        100        100
1975/76          115        109       111          132        111         116        115         98
1976/77          129        142       119          150        119         136        129        109
1977/78          144        163       128          156        128         159        144        102
1978/79          162        158       138          164        138         168        162        143
Notes:
1/    Price contingencies compounded with 1974 as base year.
2/    Source: National Statistical Office. An additional price index for "All imported
items" was as follows: 1974/75 = 100;
1975/76 = 122;
1976/77 = 140;
1977/78 = 155;
1978/79 = 156.
3/    Based on average monthly earnings of all (national)government employees.



- 129 -                       ANNEX VII(a)
Table (i)
PROJECT COMPONENTS BY DIVISION
Division    I    - Management
1. Evaluation
2. Land Allocation
3. Surveys
Division   II    - Building & Construction
1. Construction and Earthworks
2. Land Use and Layout
3. Building
Division  III    - Finance
1. Financial Controller
2. Credit
3. Marketing
Division   IV    - Field Development Services
1. Extension and Field Services
2. Research and Trials
3. Livestock
4. Ranch
5. Forestry
6. Training
Division    V    - Institutional & Administrative
1. Administration and Personnel
2. Rural Development
3. Transport
Table (ii)   LLDP PHASE III: Comparison of Projected, Established and Filled
Staff Posts
Senior                        Junior
Division       E/A      E/A     E/A           E/A      E/A     E/A
I           61       41      70            50      38       75
II           63       37      75            41      19       48
III           92       51      54            97     103       89
IV          119       82      68            94      81       86
Total         83       57      73            76       67      75
Note: E/A = Established/Appraisal
F/A = Filled/Appraisal
F/E = Filled/Established
Source: LLDP, Personnal Section



- 130 -
ANNEX VII(b)
Procurement of Vehicles during Phase III
Tender No.: 1516         Tender No.:  1781
1976                       1977
Class of Vehicle                    No.   Ave. Cost(MK)    No.    Ave. Cost(MK)
(i) Four-wheel drive            16         7,275         19         8,848
(ii) Passenger cars              18         3,213          8         4,348
(iii) Backlup trucks              12         4,053          2         5,600
(iv) Motor cycles                10           690         12           660
(v) 5-ton trucks                 3        10,494          2       10,150
(vi) 7-ton trucks                 3        13,706          4        13,740
(vii) Personnel carriers           2        12,000          -           --
(viii) Microbus                     1         6,200          -



131 -                    AN'l-M  VII1(a)
Assumptions and sour-cO3  of data for calculation o' incremental croD
aroducti- n suiara-ised
(1)    For years 1963/609 to 1974/75 inclusive, incrermental production
based on hecarage of crops in areas being developed multiplied by
differences in  Dieldz  3_ h;cta:e  c:ee;  Eeveloped  and  Undeveloped
areas (see rsble 5.5 of te'.t).   In the case of 'tobacco' where no
objective yield statistic w;as available, then taken as straight
difference between Developed area Yields (500 k5fha) and Undeveloped
area yields (380 kgJ/ha).   For 'Otbler crops' yield taken as 400 kg/ha
in all cases.   Sources Zvaluai.Xt1n Unit Survey Reports.
(t)    For years ' 977/73 and 1978/79 based or Projected hectara,es
(for without Project Zituaticn) comparBd wita actual crop hectara,,es
reported by Evalua ;_oron Unit and Yield data as in (1) above.
(3)    Rectarage Projections (for without Project situation) using
1971/72 survey baseline with maize area increasing by 2 per cent per
annum, groundnut and tobacco area decreasing by 2 per cent per ar.num.
'Other crops  area increasin-z by 2 per cent per annus.
(4)    Crop yield  .rzj-ctins (for without  Project s`:uation) using
base yield as a7e:a-;of 1^ l§fi    to 1971/72 Evaluat4on Survey results
in Undevel-ped ar,>a (see --able 5.5 of text) fcr !aize and Groundnuts,
with Tooacco at       ks/ha and 'Other crops' at "00 kg/ha.   Maize and
groundnut yields t'' en docreased by 2 per cent per anrum and yields for
Tobacco and 'Ct1,er crcos' held ccnstant.
(5)    Hectara-e p'Cojection (ftollowi=  Phase  'IT from 1979/80) based
on 1979/80 resultls -.:th m3aize incroased by 2 per cen6 per annum,
tobacco decreased by' I per cent.  2r annum, and gr iuncnuts and othe:.
crops held constant.
(6)    Crop yield Lrojection (follotwring Phase III  from 1979/80) based
on average resultz -or neriod 1975/70 to 1978/'79 (Developed areas)
with maize and tolcoQ yields pro4ected to increase by 1 per cent per
annum and groundnut e.ld'O1tlher crops' vields to remain constant.
(7)    Aba'toir costs and bee_ mzarnt paritv
Cold Storage Comnnany
Accounts for year ended 31/12/78
Total Abattoir e :Penrses = X567,6116
Total meat s'laughtered   Z,271,161 lbs c.d.w.
Cost per 1"' c.d.w.      = 25 tambala
Value of off'als and hides = x4i8,618
i.e. 74," of cost of s'aughter
Net cost of slaughter per lb. c.d.w. = 7 tambala per lb.
_mports 1978
'Miscellaneous' beef  43,450 lbs. at K36,139 = 75t per lb.



- 132 -
,;__ _as¢tes  f C-.GpS ii3aretten,u-c
already developed (LLDP Phases I to III)1568/69-1976/77
;,c I   -aize      ,Groun duts    Tobacco      Other crops
5,00C       1l000           300          4,000
914cc        3,100          800         10,400
27,700        9,500        2,600          2,700
40,550C      13,900        6,400          3,800
54,300       17,200        5,600          2,100
70,9-00      22,900       10,800          3,400
706,sCco     z6,0oo       14,o00          5,6oo
9 I, &:eo    4I3, coo     20,40o         10,300
122,000       41,700       21,3C0          e,300
:    _ncludes i.. .i *esz.
Total .ectares of crons for er.tire Programmne area pro-
jected for _ "vithout pro,ect' situation from a 1971/72
data baseline
-c .    a laize   a::ound=Its    Toba...      Cther crops
.e    115,000        4z,4&o       26,100           7,800
*      .   .  .   .     .  .   .  .   .   .   .  .   .   .   9
12 5G0        37,06Co      23',60           8, 800
i  1,o00      36,800       22,700           g,0o0
)      134, 700       356,-0      22,2CO           9,100
137,400       35,4CO       21,800           9,300
140,aco       34,600       21,300           9,500
43,oco       34,C!00      20,900           9,700
N15 , Cc              3 ,00      20,500          10,000
*  148,8co        32,600       20,1CO          10,l0O0
151,700       32,000       19,700          10,300
7      1 54,33 o      31,300      19,300          10,50v
15?F90C       30,700       18,900          lC,700
161,000       30,10C       16,500          10,900
J      1 64,200       29,500      18,100          11,100
1      167,500        28,900     17,800          11,400
2      170,900        23,300      17,400          11,600
3      ±74,5CC        27,700      17,1CO          11,&00
177,0C0       27,2Q0       l6,700          12,100
18' ,CO       c:coO0       i6,4oo          12,300
165,' 000     26, 100      16, 1CO         12, 500
7      18,s700        25,600      15,800          12,.800
1U;, OC     25,100       15,400          13,0OC
192,CC0       24,oGo       15,000          13,000
Total hectares = 244,OCO



- 133 -
Table (ii'i)  ,'ota1 hectares of crops for entire Programme area in
1977/73 and 1978/79 and Projected from 1979/80 to
1998/99 following Phase III
Crop season      a-Ize     Groundnuts    Tobacco       Other crons
1978/79   1 a3,1oo          28,500      30,600          5,500
*  .   .  .  *  .  . *      .   .  *  .  .  .  .  .     a  .  S
1979/80      131,000           if       30,000            H
80/81      1353,000          "        Z0,000
8i/82      136,C00           it       29,700
82/83      139,000                    29,400 oo
83/84      142,200           "        29, 100
34/85      145,0CO                    28, 8t00
85/86      148,0oo                   2a8,500
86/87      150G000           "        281,200           t
87/88      153,000                    28,o0o            i
88/89      157,000                    27,700            It
89/9o      160, 000                   2-7,4co           It
90/91      163,0dOO                   27,100 
91/92      166,000           "        26,0 goo
92/93      169,CO0                    26,600 
93/94      173.000                    26,300            H
94/95      176,000           if      *,100
95/96      180,000              .    25,800             ts
96/97      18,0C00           H        25, 5-00          t,
97/98      iS17,CCO       23,0GCO     25,3 ,00        5,000
98/99      187,000        28,000      25,000          5,000
1998/99  Total hectares = 245,000



- 134 -
and III ccmbined.
Crop season    1!aize     Groundnuts    Tobacco      Other crors
1968/69        0              0           0             0
6s,/?o        658         (229)          96         1,040
70/71       4,571          (532)        312        (2,040)
71/72      33,089           528         768       (1,600)
72/73       8,199           327         672        (2,280)
73/74      12,195          °16        1,296        (1,840)
74/75      31,946          (104)      1,680        (,0CCo)
75/76      23,207           957       2,445           760
76/77      27,938         2,836      3,944           (120)
77/78      29,327       (1o,491)      3,034           20
78/79      31,283        (3,924)      3,060        (1,200)
79/80      52,100        (2,800)      6,4oo        (1,300)
80/81      55,700        (2,100)      6,600        (1,4OO)
31/32      55,700        (1,400)      6,Soo        (,300o)
82/83      60,700         (8CO)       7,000        (1, G00)
83/84      79,0CO         (200)       7,200        (1,700)
84/85      91,000          5c0        7,400        (1,800)
85/86      93 00          1,100       7,600        (1,900)
86/87      97,3co         1,700       7,800        (2,o000)
87/88      99,200         2,200       8,000        (2,100)
88/89      106,7C00       2,500       8,100        (2,20C)
89/90     127, 3 0        ,000        8,200        (2,300)
90/91     133,500         3,500       Q, 300       (2,400)
91/92     139,100         4,000       8,400        (2,5CO)
92/93     144,500        4,300        8,500        (2,600)
93/94     148,800,        4,700       8,600        (2,700)
94/95     154,700        5,200        8,700   .   (2,800)
95/96     180,200         5,600       8,8oo        (2,900)
96/97     136,60o         5,800       8,900        (3,000)
97/98     194,800         6,200       9,000        (3,100)
98/99     203,CO0        6,60o        9,100        (3,200)
Note: Figures in brac:kets are negatives.



- 135 -
Table (v)    Incre-en=a.1 wood production projected from Forestry
*                             component imtlementation
Year                          Wood
(cu.;m)
1979/80                      .11923
80/81                       19,531
81/82                       17,221
82/83                       38,438
83/84
84/85                       11,923
85/86                       19,531
86/87                       17,221
87/88                       38,438
88/89                         -
89/90                       11,923
90/91                       19,531
91/92                       17,221
92/93                       38,4z8
93/94
94/95                       11,1923
95/96                       19 , 531
96/97  *                    17,221
97/9c8                      38,438
nlote: It was estimated for the above that the 420 hectares
of sma.lholder woodlots established in Phase III would
produce a total of 360,580 cubic uetres of wood (in-
cluding regrowth) over a 25 period.   This was calcu-
lated using the following take-off estimates:  (afttr
5 to 6 years arnd every subsequent 5 years):
Bucalypts szs. 62.26 cu.m/ha
Jmeiina    "   84.90    "
vassia     "   62.26



- 136 -                        Annex VIII (b)
Page 1
Notes on the Cost/Benefit Analysis Table
1. Figures are historical up to and including the 1978/79 season.
2. Calculation is at constant average prices prevailing for 1978/79.
3.  Crop increrental benefits based on Tables (1) to (iv) and the notes on
assumptions and data sources. Export parity prices have been used in the
case of tobacco and groundnuts and a blend of import/export parity have
been used for maize valuations (on same basis as in reference 12). Other
crops valued as for maize.
4. Crop incremental costs based on actual inputs recorded up to 1978/79 and
projected thereafter on basis of input/output ratios for maize and tobacco
developed   in Annex 8 of LLDP Phase IV proposals (reference 11).  It was
assumed that there would be no sulphur dust application to groundnuts.
5. Incremental costs for tobacco production include firewood allowed at one
cubic metre (solid) per 50kgs incremental cured leaf costed at K3 per
cubic metre.
6. Smallholders labour input has been costed at zero.
7. Net poultry enterprise benefits taken as 60 per cent of theoretical Gross
margin calculations at Annex V (h). All benefits ceasing after 1977/78.
8. Net dairy enterprise benefits taken on basis of maintaining herds by replace-
ment and average milk yields of 350 gallons per lactation period and on
similar basis to Report 2075-MAI, Volume III, Working Paper 22, Table 3
(reference 12).
9. Dzalanyama net costs included on basis of results and projects given at
Annex IV (h) converted to constant average 1978/79 prices.
10. Forestry benefits calculated on basis of projections at Annex VII, Table (v),
at K3 for cubic metre.
11. Stallfeeder net benefits calculated on basis of beef import parity prices
(see Report 2075-MAI selected working papers, Volume III, Paper 26, Table 10 -
reference 12) projections of ]Dzalanyama feeder output, smallholder input
costs as at Annex V (f) Table (i), and abattoir processing costs as at
Annex VIII (a).
12. No incremental benefit from traditional livestock holdings included
(see 5.6.5 of text).
13. On-going project (or government)services required to maintain the incremental
benefits projected have been c:alculated as the average annual operating cost
in Phase III of each of the following components: Extension, Training, Live-
.stock, Credit Administration, Marketing, Rural Development and Evaluation;



- 137 -                       Annex  VIII (b)
Page 2
plus the average cost of drugs used in the Health component; plus an
allowance for maintenance at 2-1/2 per cent of total fixed assets
(at cost); plus a cost of Management, Administration and Financial
Control calculated as a ratio of the foregoing costs totalled, compared
to actual average for Phase III.



Coot" jsnu 1u,,tit,; in titq Ecionoic Aniilyaia. WW000 (1973 grices)
Croputs          Vorostry        _Livs4tock  lilt  beeaflit               Total All         Total          Net
Yoar          Incresmntal llliet    Dzg.lailLyuim   BtalTLiri:L    otL                     Incromental   Incremcntal   bencfits
Fenefit,s- :o;td not   Benefit        fuluic1i    fouders  Poultry  L.ivettock   Benefitu    Project Coots  to Uo&ts
1968/69        0       26   (26)      0            0           8        0           8            (18)         1815          (1832)
(9/70      19o       37.   153      G            0          39        0          39           192           29041        (2712)
70/?1      509      223    236      0         (27)          43        0          16           252           26fi2        (24 10)
71/72    3119      925   2194       0         (,8)          55        0          12          2211           426S         (2057)
I "m ]    542     5630               ('1)         95        0          64           627           3A4'         (?2if20)
7t/7.       l      12- -        jr (E '-                   112        0          24          lC5s           2351         ( C'jr
71./75    ''0lo     9'2   3478      0        (121)         263        0         119          3597           2629           568
75/7,6    5517    1264   428;       o        ( 1:3)        165                  114          1327           1362          2965
76G/??    8688    1558   7130       0        (1tO)         250        7          97          7227           1305          5922
38-7 56    2014   1812    t        (1l4.')       4, 2O     4 _       282          209'.          1252            842
282 2212 41160             0        UJT23         L1                                 ,
79)/6    14118    3561  10557    36          (12Z)         244        5         123         lo6'o            839 )8'7
80/61   14860    3710  11150    59            (t3)         254        4         lj6         1131.6           8,3         10513
81/82   15209    36',1  11825    52           (63)         292        2          31         12056                        1123
82/L8 17f.25    11'.23  13302   115           (65)         312        4         251         13553            ;
828  1 502  ~ jj--1                                                                                       -                                  H
/g 02 -T-t9 1>993 ~~ 0 ( 9                      3314       b                                                      833  13,1 ; I 
84/85   19398    4t (4  14704    36           (59)         334        6         261         15021            833          14108              . °
115/86   21W0l    ',;14  1?067    59          (!' )        ,18        6         2G5         17Jl             833         16558                    1
66/8?   22738    4973  1W765    52             (59)        318        c         265         18C82            3.33        17249
F)? 08   23391    50 J   16301   115           (.,9)       318        5         2G4         186O             8 53         17847
iw)       24232    5,70 18s9gf2       0         (5j         31d        4         2o3          19225           b33 
89/'J0   26180  ,  7t08  20472    36           (5')        318        2         261         20769            833          19936
'jO/91   2609A26    '1s53  21073    59         (39)        3i8        4         263         21395            833          2652
91/92   2?673    5999  21674 -  52             (59)        3id        6         265         21991            8,3 311.8
9,?J'3   283683    614I3  22?35   115          (5'9)       31E        6         265         22615            833          2172
- 927jt- .872-    CJ-2   2'Xo  0          5'F         JX- ---G            i!b5         ze-b35-E7                 eE -
911/95   2571.2    (412  23330    36           (09)        318        6         265         23651            823          22798
95/96   319)95    4,9  25066   5s)            (5s)        318        5         264         25389            833          2'556 5
96/932   3272,4    7U90  2563',   52           (59)        318        4         263         259149           833          25116
sj N/93i  ,73"165    ;2>s4  26361   119         3))          18        2         261          267,17           833           . 5(-3 
8wr3    31,565 71177  2708             o          7'3         318        4         26)         27351 -33                     2b'18 
hRN * 25% to 98/99          24%; to 88/89



Coutia awi i1 j,u,fit,6 in tilhe  conrsotc .nanlyit&a  I0(000 (0'9/8 pricaai)
CropL:           Foru6tvy           Livia.tock  liet  bulierit            'Cotal All        Total          liet
Your          Iu.cr.etnia1:         Iet    Dzalalnyuma  ftall-   D)uiry &    Tot.Al     Incremontal   Incroincntal   benefits
benefitu  Co;-La  Net   Benefit       Rt..ich l   efderu  poultry  ,Liveutock   Boneflttu  IProject Costs  to Co&ts
1968/69        0       ?6   (26)       0           o           8        0           8            (18)         1815          (1852)
9/70      190       3''   153      0           0           39        0          ,9            192         2901         (2712)
W0/71      509      2'73    236     0         (27)          45        0          16            252          26<,2-       (2410)
71/72    3119       925   2194      0         (3B)          55        0          1i'         2211          11e6&         (2057)
7?/73    1 ()5 _   Y.2    563       0         ( ,1)         95        0          64           627           30447        (2'426)
~ifl7 1I16 12:;G   1632             0         (883         11      -                  F415G2-5Fr        2
?1J/75    bblilO    9j2   31.78     0        (12"1)        23         0         119          359?           2629            9 68
7'.-/76    554.'? 7      16'.  428;  0       (1'.))        865        2                      114  4327      1,62           2965
7i;/t?    8688    155it   710    ' 0         (It,0)        250        7          97          7227           1509           59;'2
?7/V78  .3 6    2014   1812         t)       (1#;)         'it        4         282          209'.          1?52            842
-                                     071      11 j                           ) - -                                           i-4 -ft'
7'1/LO   14118    5561  10557    36          (12i.)        244        5         123         lo6.:u           d,5          9('.?
80/6i   14860    371o  11150    59            (65)         2.,0       4          i'A        113q6            81O  l0  3
d1/82   15/0(9    38.84  11825    52          (63)         292        2         :,1         12056            Bs;          1223
82/83   17f-25    II.:'3  13302   115         (6V)         312        4         251         13553             33          L?'0                    1
--13- 781iK0D      lU9   159J93       0         (C5 F       33§'       6        *ThTh1&.?iIFTs3                            1,5'.-- 
84/8'   1,598    4t(9*4  14 0ol    36         (59)         331,       6         21;1        15021            833          14. S188
115/86   21wil   4I1;I  17067    59           (             1) ,1B    6         2?65        173p)l           8F5          16558
U6/80   22'138    lJt73  17765    52          ( 5')        318        6         265         1fC22            153         172, 19
f,/8102   2?5391    5090  18301   115         ('.9)        318        5         264        1868n            6$j         1S'47
',9'9  261802    570  19702         0         (18                  -                   -
129)/9J0   26180o   570o8  20472    36        (59)         318        2.        262.        20769            833          19936
0/91   2692.6    5253  21073    59            (59)        3)8         4         263         21395            8,           261r.2
91/92   27673    5,999  2i674.   52           (59)         3,d        6         265         21991            833         .1U98
9j/t'3   28,83    6I 4.^3  22235   115        (59)         3lW        6         265         22619>           833          21'182
9,/t2[   2:2'/102 C.io;f--zE7lo     0         (5J-(l47'    31X    -  t          21V---      22:i'3'5 E2 f-b 5
914/95   29742    (.'12  23330    36          (59)         518        6         265         23651            825         22g,1    ::
95/96   5'1995J    &9  25066    59            (59)         318        5         264         25369            633         24"-556
96/9/   52'        /u' '/090  2563'.   52     (59)         318        4         263         2599iw          83           25116
93   '5 .i 5    '/284  26361   115        (C.,))       318         2         261       _ 26?)?            8s5         ,.,(,, 1
/ 3    3j *4'5 ,7    270Uli (            --(59)          31                   2b3         2751 
*IH   25s% to 98/99         24% to 88/g_



