Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICI4L USE ONLY
At' 3~~- !  ? -.1 \I uC
Report No. 7468-IVC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
August 4, 1989
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Infrastructure Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit   =   CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00         =   CFAF 312
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha) = 10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (kM2) = 100 ha = 0.386 square miles (sq. m.)
1 metric ton (mt) = 1,000 kg = 2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
BGF       Budget Gen6ral de Fonctionnement/Government Current Expenditure Budget
BSIE      Budget Special d'Investissement de l'Etat/Covernment Capital Expenditure Budget
CAA       Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
DCGTx     Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux
DCL       Direction des Collectivites Locales/Local Government Directorate
DGF       Dotation Globale de Fonctionnement/Global Operating Appropriation
DGI       Direction Generale des Impots
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation/French Bilateral Aid Agency
GOCI      Government of C6te d'Ivoire
IC5       International competitive bidding
ILO       International Labor Organization
LCB       Local competitive bidding
MAP       Municipal Action Program
MCF       Municipal Credit Fund
MOI       Ministry of Interior
MPWT      Ministry of Public Works and Transportation
NGO       Non-governmental organization
PDM       Projet de d6veloppement municipal/Municipal Development Project
SAM       Social accounting matrix
SOE       Statement of expenditure
TEN       Taux d'Escompte Normal/Central Bank normal discount rate
TVLLP     Taxe sur la valeur locative des  locaux professionnels/professional  premises rental
value tax
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
VAT       Value-added Tax
FISCAL YEAR
Cote d'Ivoire: January 01 -- December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .......              ..........................
I.    URBAN AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT  .......              ...................1
A.  Background .................................                ..1
B.  The Municipal Decentralization Process  ...............                       3
C.  Urban and Municipal Financing .... .... .... .                                4
D.  Government Action and Policy ..... .............                               7
E.   Bank Involvement in the Sector .....           ............                  8
II.    THE PROJECT ..........            ....................................             8
A.  Project Objectives and Description ..................              .          8
B.  Project Cost and Financing ...........................                       15
III.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ......              .............................          16
A.  Implementation Arrangement  ....    ......................                   16
B.  Procurement          ......................    ....................          18
C.  Disbursements ........ .............             ...................         19
D.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting ..................              .         20
E.  Monitoring, Evaluations and Bank Reviews  .............                      20
IV.    FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  ..........................                       21
A. Financial Analysis ....................                              ,        21
B.  Economic Analysis ....................................                       22
V.    POVERTY AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS  ...........           ..    ...........        23
A.   Poverty Aspects ....... .............             ..................        23
B.   Environmental Aspects  ...............        ..     ...............        24
VI.    PROJECT BENEFITS AND kISKS ......              .........................          24
A.   Benefits        ........................     .....................          24
B.  Risks        .......................... ......................               25
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .................              ..         26
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission which visited Cote d'Ivoire in June 1988
consisting of Messrs. F. Amiot (Mission Leader) and B. Tagournet (Consultant).  Ms. E. Warner
(APTIN) participated in the project analysis and Messrs. J. M. Cour (AFTIN), J. Mazurelle (EDJ),
J. L. Venard and B. Kratem (Consultants) in the project preparation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of contents (continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1-1   Detailed Project Description .............................         28
1-2   Training Component  ...... ...........e..........  ..**. ,   38
2     Summary and Detailed Pro4ect Cost Tables ..... o ...........       41
3-1   Project Implementation Schedule          .........................  44
3-2   Procurement Arrangements ...................          ......       45
3-3   Schedule of Disbursements ................................         47
4     MCF Financial Analysis . . ........ .... ........... ,...          49
5     Mut.icipalities Current Budget    ............... .............    54
6     Documents Available in the Project File                             55
MAPS:   IBRD 21181   C8te d'Ivoire, Urban Population Distribution
IBRD 21182   Cote d'Ivoire, Administrative Divisions and Locations of
Communes



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                       The Republic of C8te d'Ivoire
Financial Intermediary:         Caisse Autonome d'Amortiosement (CAA) through the Municipal Credit
Fund (MCF)
Beneficiaries:                  Ministry of Interior (MOI) through the Local Government Directorate
([CL); and Ivorian Municipalities
Loan Amount:                    US$66.0 million
Terms:                          Standard variable IBRD interest rate, 20 years maturity, including
five years grace
Co-Financiers:                  UNDP-ILO:  US$0.75 million
Project Description:            The  project  conFists  of  five  major  components:   (a) municipal
management aimed at strengthening the monitoring capacity of the
MCI and the management capability of local governments through a
comprehensive program of training, technical assistance and comple-
mentary institutional support; (b) resource mobilization consiscing
of the preparation and launching of basic local tax reforms and the
development of a fiscal cadastre; (c) a lIne of credit to a Munici-
pal Credit Fund for the financing of municipal infrastructure,
social and community facilities;  (d) a development program for an
initial set of about 12 secondary cities, consisting of a package
of key infrastructure and development subprojects for each city,
small-scale subprojects to be implemented with the assistance of
non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and a spec'fic health pro-
gram in the city of Korhogo; and (e) studies and supervision,
including a cartographic program, for about 40 cities, the comple-
tion of the National Demographic Census, and a survey on the Social
Dimensions of Adjustment.
Project Benefits and Risks:   The project is expected to have a significant direct and immediate
impact on public sector management, efficiency of municipal
services, employment and income generating activities in the secon-
dary cities of C6te d'Ivoire.  The project would help to consoli-
date the municipal decentralization process initiated by the GOCI
by providing essential technical assistance, training and financial
support to key central and local government agencies. Increases in
public expenditures in secondary cities would help generate urban
employment, particularly in the construction sector which had been
severely affected by the recent crisis; participation of local
contractors and low-skilled labor would be strongly encouraged, and
specific projects accessible to local initiative would be deter-
mined so as to provide additional employment to micro-enterprises,
the urban poor, and to artisans of the informal sector.  The re-
source mobilization program would not only give new impetus for
locally-financed projects, but would also increase the financial
capacity, efficiency and accountability of Ivorian municipalities.



- ii -
Finally, the project would have a direct longer range impact on the
self-sustained development of Cote d'Ivoire's secondary cities as
efficient regional service centers through enhanced mobilization of
local initiatives and responsibilities. The proposed project would
innovate in several ways that would involve sore risks. The main
risks include: (a) potential coordination problems between Central
Agencies in charge of monitoring and controlling the project within
the framework of the decentralization process; (b) the possibility
of a prolonged tax rearorm process as sections of the urban communi-
ty, particularly the powerful landowners resist these reforms; and
consequently (c) a longer-than-antic'Lpated financing rehabilitation
period for the municipalities.   These risks have been carefully
reviewed with the principal project agencies and the first munici-
palities involved, and strong commitment has been expressed by all
parties to join efforts to maximize chances of success.
Summary Project Cost Estimate
Item                           Local          Foreign          Total
---------- (US$ million) ----------
Municipal Management                           1.97            3.16            5.13
Municipal Resource Strengthening               1.03            1.84            2.87
Municipal Credit Fund                          5.57           13.85           19.42
Development Program                           12.22           30.00           42.22
Studies and Supervision                        4.58            7.65           12.22
Total Base Cost                               25.36           56.50           81.86
Physical Contingencies                         0.19            0.30            0.50
Price    Contingencies                         1.89            8.84           10.73
Total Project Cost                            27.44           65.65           93.09
Of which taxes                                12.77            0.00           12.77
Total Project Cost, Net of Taxes              14.67           65.65           80.32
Financing Plan
Local          Foreign          Total
---------- (USS million) ----------
IBRD Loan                                      0.35           65.65           66.00
Government Budget (BSIE Tresor)               21.76              --           21.76
Municipal Budgets                              4.58              --            4.58
UNDP-ILO                                       0.75              --            0.75
Total                                         27.44           65.65           93. 9
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding of figures.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements
Item         FY90       FY91       FY92      FY93     FY94      FY95
------------------ (UWSTmillion)… -------…------
.u:nual           3.5       12.4      17.1      17.7      11.7       3.7
Cumulative        3.5       15.8      32.9      50.6      62.3     66.0
Rates of Return:                Rates of return calculated for the first Municipal Action Program
component, representing about one half of this Program, averaged
21%, with a maximum of 62% and a minimum of 10%. Economic evalua-
tion of the remaining components would be of little significance.
Estimated Project
Completion:                  June 30, 1994
Maps:                           IBRD 21181  Cote d'Ivoire, Urban Population Distribution
IBRD 21182 Cote d'Ivoire, Administrative Divisions
AFIIN
August 4, 1989



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. URBAN AND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT
A. Background
1.01      Population Distribution and Urbanization.  With an average popula-
tion growth rate of 4% during the 1965-85 period, involving a continuous flow
of migrants from adjoining Sahelian countries, Cote d'Ivoire experienced the
most noteworthy population growth rate of all 47 countries comprising
sub-Saharan Africa. Moreover, the sustained economic growth of 7.1% per year
Cote d'Ivoire enjoyed during this period, went along with a high rate of
population mobility within the country from North to South, East to West, and
from rural to urban areas.  The major portion of the population growth was
absorbed both by Abidjan. the economic center of the country, and by a growing
network of secondary cities, wnich grew at a respective average annual rate of
9 and 7.6%. The emergence of some 85 new secondary cities and urban centers,
as well as their uneven distribution within the country, have been primarily
driven by the market forces which concentrated along the East coast around the
Abidjan area, and from East to West in the forest areas, along with the
opening up of the "front pionnier" for the expansion of agricultural develop-
ment.  The rapid adaptation of the population pattern to the economic poten-
tial of the country has been made possible, inter alia, by a persevering
Government policy aimed at expanding transport and urban infrastructure at the
pace required to accommodate regional and local development growth poles.
1.02      According to the latest estimates, in 1987, there were about 10 mil-
lion inhabitants in Cote d'Ivoire, of walich 55% lived in rural areas, and 45%
in urban areas. Urban population is spread over a network of some 100 urban
centers, with the lowest density in the Savannah regions of the North, the
poorest of the country, and the highest density in the forest areas. About
two thirds of these 100 urban centers have a population of under 20,000 inhab-
itants, the majority of whom derive incomes from the agricultural sector. The
number of cities with more than 20,000 inhabitants is, however, increasing
rapidly:  from 4 in 1960, and 16 in 1975, to 30 in 1985.  Although strongly
dominated by the size of Abidjan (2.0 million inhabitants in 1987) and its
economic importance, the secondary cities' network played an important role in
the development of Cote d'Ivoire, primarily through the strengthening of its
linkages with the development of the agricultural sector.
1.03      Over the 1965-80 period,  through the acceleration of rural-urban
linkage mechanisms, basic changes occurred in the regional allocation of GDP,
and the growing urban demand gave rise to a rapid development of the domestic
market.   The internal food market,  for instance,  grew at 7.0% per year,
contributing to 52% of farmers' total monetary income increase during the
period, slightly more than the export crops market.  At the same time, an
important shift of economic activities occurred in the Savannah between rural
and urban areas, while sources of GDP growth came mostly from Abidjan (44%)
and from the East Forest (34%), and expanded quickly in the West Forest
regions.   It resulted in a real standard of living improvement  in these



regions, both in rural and urban areas. However, a nearly constant income gap
of 1 to 4 between rural and urban households characterized this period. This
income gap was rartly fueled by the high rate of public investments in the
urban sector, in particular Abidjan, as well as in the main road network,
following the 1975-77 coffee and cocoa boom period. Most of these investments
were rational and well-dimensioned, with however an overoptimistic forecast of
future development in Yamoussoukro. From 1978 onward, due to the drying-up of
cocoa and coffee surpluses within the Agricultural Stabilization Fund
(CAISSTAB), the financing structure of these investments has undergone a
marked shift towards foreign borrowing, thus contributing to the deterioration
of Cote d'Ivoire's external debt.
1.04      Urbanization  and  the  &conomic  Adjustment  Process.   Since  1980,
Cote d'Ivoire has been facing successive international trade shocks and a
sharp deterioration of its financial position which led the country to enter
into a structural adjustment process, largely supported by the Bank. In spite
of the low level of reliable and recent data, there are indications that the
economic crisis and adjustment have influenced recent population redistribu-
tion and urbanization trends. The Abidjan Metropolitan area growth rate seems
to have declined sharply, from 10 to 4.5%, and the ratio of urban to rural
incomes seems to have plummeted, according to information contained in the
Poverty Alleviation Report. 1/ Urban GDP growth per capita decreased indeed
sharply (minus 3% per year), particularly in Abidjan, while per capita growth
rates remained positive in the rural sector.
1.05      On the other hand, there are indications that the dynamics created
by the increasing domestic market induced by the population redistribution
have remained alive so far.  The intern,al food-market increase has persisted
over the last five years, and the informal economic sector, which is basically
urban, has been much more resistant to the crisis than the modern one, and has
powerfully served to absorb the shock in terms of basic needs satisfaction,
employment and income generatior..  During the crisis, however, most of the
Ivorian cities outside Abidjan have experienced a dramatic fall in public
investments.  In contrast with the precedent period, and due to thelr heavy
reliance on the centra'l budget, these cities have been unable to extend
services at a pace commensurate with their population growth. As a result,
the lack of basic economic and social infrastructure in many secondary cities
now contrasts strongly with the development potential of their rural zone of
influence.   In the long run, this critical situation could jeopardize the
urban-rural linkage mechanisms which have been at the root of the domestic
market  improvement.   Cote d'Ivoire has just reached  a stage where  future
growth of per capita income of farmers will depend more on the domestic market
than on the export crops market. Therefore, re-strengthening the urban-rural
linkage, and in particular, the secondary cities' development potential, is
one of the main challenges Cote d'Ivoire will have to face in the decade
ahead.   In this regard, the ongoing decentralization process which aims to
give a more important economic, financial and political role to the Ivorian
cities, through their local elected bodies, deserves strong support.
1/   Poverty Alleviation in Cote d'Ivoire Country Assessment and Policy Issues
Social Dimension of Adjustment Project Unit. World Bank, February 1988.



B. The Municipal Decentralization Process
1.06      Background.  Prior to 1980, there were only eight local municipali-
ties in C8te d'Ivoire.   By a Municipal Law of  1978, an additional  29 new
municipalities were created to manage the more important urban centers. They
all enjoyed the legal status of full autonomy, but in practice they -were
virtually totally dependent on the Cerntral Government. The Abidjan Metropoli-
tan Area was divided into ten municipalities headed by a parent City Council
("La Ville d'Abidjan") in charge of managing the common metropolitan public
services and primary infrastructure.  By the time of the 1985 elections, an
additional 98 municipalities were created, 60% of which comprised populations
of under 10,000.  The following table summarizes the population distribution
among municipalities in the country after the 1985 elections.
C8te d'Ivoire Municipalities
Population          Number of         Total Number /
Category                  Range            Municipalities    of Inhabitants -
Abidjan Metropolitan Area    -----                       10              1,800,000
Regional Capitals            More than 50,000            11              1,150,000
Medium Sized Towns           20 to 50,000                25              1,510,000
Small Towns                  10 to 20,000                33               580,000
Other Municipalities         Less than 10,000            56               430,000
Total                                                   135              4,800t°°°
/a Source: 1985, Mission Estimates.
1.07      Current Situation.   Since 1985, all urban centers as well as some
additional 35 market towns in Cote d'Ivoire have been administered by com-
munes.  Each commune consists of a central city and associated nearby rural
settlements in the range of 5 to 8 km, headed by a Mayor and a Muuiicipal
Council democratically elected every five years.   The administrative orga-
nization and managing practices of the Ivorian municipalities are governed by
a set of laws, enacted in the early eighties, and gathered in a Municipal
Code. This code is progressively implemented through the enactment of specif-
ic decrees, aiming at defining more precisely the transfer of responsibilities
from technical ministries to local governments. The law bestows in principle
large decision-making powers upon the municipal councils, ranging from the
establishment of social and economic development plans, to the operation and
maintenance  of local community facilities.   Municipalities also carry out
typical day-to-day administrative functions, including the provision of public
services such as sewerage, garbage collection and street cleaning, and manage-
ment of public facilities such as wholesale and retail markets, slaughterhou-
ses and truck terminals. The prudent and lengthy process of implementing law,
however, confines most of the municipalities to their day-to-day tasks, at the
expense of their planning, programming and managerial functions.
1.08      All municipal council decisions, including the vote on implementa-
tion of annual budgets, are supervised by the "Direction des Collectivit6s
Locales" (DCL) in the Ministry of Interior (MOI), which has the responsibility
for managing the whole municipal decentralization process. The DCL also plays
an important role in advising local officials, providing technical assistance
and training for municipal staff.  Following the creation of the additional
98 municipalities in 1985, DCL staffing increased from 40 to 70, half of whom



are high-level. However, given the exponential growth of its field missions,
and the high burden placed on DCL administrative and managerial tasks, DCL is
still understaffed.   The new communes being far from Abidjan,  and lacking
adequately trained staff, basic needs and resources, remain in total dependen-
cy upon the supervision of DCL.  In response to these challenges, DCL has
reinforced its administration and supervision at the expense of its management
role which needs to be urgently developed; DCL has also started a comprehen-
sive training program for municipal officials and staff which needs to be
supported.
1.09      The decision to rapidly extend the local government system, and thus
to accelerate the shift of development responsibilities from central govern-
ment to locally elected bodies stems from GOCI's desire to stimulate local
development actions, promote stronger growth in cities outside Abidjan, and
ultimately, achieve a more balanced distribution of population and economic
activities throughout the urban network. However, due to political pressure,
the number of municipalities was hastily quadrupled, with little or no prepa-
ration.   In particular,  it was done without any prior assessment of the
administrative, technical and financial absorptive capacities of local govern-
ments to face their new responsibilities.  The present situation is still a
transitional one. Although local elections were held in 1985, the new rules
of the game, the distribution of powers and responsibilities between Central
Government and the new local governments, as well as their financial re-
sources, have not been well defined as yet.  Further dlay will occur as new
rules and regulations are tested in practice and modified as needed.   Con-
flicts are likely, as local authorities seek to assert their autonomy and the
central Government its control over the relatively young and inexperienced
elected bodies.   Conflicts between central government agencies and DCL are
also likely, given the weakness of the latter, and the dominant control of
some central agencies over important financial, fiscal and technical aspects
of local government activities. These conflicts could be even exacerbated by
the continuation of the weaknesses in the present municipal finance system.
C. Urban and Municipal Financing
1.10      The Government has recently embarked upon a new strategy for financ-
ing urban investments, consisting of increased involvement of local authori-
ties in defining their priorities, as well as their own financing sources.
This new strategy attempts to rationalize the investment allocation process
between central and local governments, based on Central Government financing
primary infrastructure and basic social services with the remaining services
financed by local governments and the private sector. There remains, however,
an important contrast between these objectives and the current situation in
all of the municipalities. Given the cost structure of urban investments in
Cote d'Ivoire, the above sharing principles would imply a Government par-
ticipation amounting to about 55% of total urban investments, municipal
participation of 15% and the private sector 30%. Applying these shares to
public urban investments which, on average, amounted to CFAF 15,300 per
capita/per year during the 1980-85 period (down from CFAF 35,000 during
1976-80), would involve a Central Government investment level limited to
CFAF 57.0 billion  per  year  (78.5%),  and   a  municipal  participation  of
CFAF 16.0 billion per year  (21.5%).   The actual low level of investments
financed by the municipalities themselves, corresponding to a capital expendi-
tures budget totaling CFAF 8.5 billion in 1987 is, however, far below their



- 5 -
investment objectives outlined above. On the other hand, the Central Govern-
ment has been spending at the level of CFAF 33 billion per year since 1986,
that is 42% below the 1980-85 average.   These figures, as well as future
limitations on the public sector resource availability questions the continu-
ous support of the Central Government at the proposed limited level of public
urban investments.   In any case, the above figures indicate also that the
municipalities need to dramatically impvEve their current resource mobiliza-
tion efforts with an objective of doubling the volume of their present invest-
ment level in the medium term.
1.11      On the current expenditure side, the situation Is apparently more
satisfactory. In 1987, for instance, the consolidated current budget compris-
ing all municipalities amounted to CFAF 34.9 billion, which is equivalent to
7.7% of the State Expenditure Budget, or about CFAF 8,900 per capita/per year.
However, economic and social expenditures are severely constrained (8% of
total expenditures) since the transfer of resources has not yet followed the
transfer of responsibilities for most of the social expenditures, particularly
in the health and education sectors.
1.12      Municipal Revenues.  Municipalities derive their revenues from three
major sources:  Central Government allocation (35%), transferred State taxes
(25%), and municipal taxes (40%).
(a)  Central Government Allocation  (CGA)  is annually determined as a
proportion of the State Expenditure Budget (BGF), and averaged about
1.5% of this budget, from 1982-87 with minor variation, except for
the last three years.   CGA is then distributed to municipalities
according to a mixture of technical and political criteria.   In
1986, CGA averaged 20% of the old municipalities' total revenues,
but 67% of the new municipalities' revenues, including 100% for the
poorest. Further rationalization of this situation is contemplated
by the Government, with the aim of sustaining the municipalities'
mobilization efforts through a more comprehensive policy of incen-
tives and subsidies for the basic needs of the poorest.
(b)  Transferred State Taxes, comprising essentially property taxes and
professional taxes, are collected by the Ministry of Economy and
Finance's service departments, and are subsequently transferred back
to the relevant municipalities in amounts equal to those locally
collected,  though frequently with considerable  delay.   In 1987,
property taxes represented 9% of total municipal revenues (14% for
Abidjan and 4% for the secondary cities), while professional taxes
represented 15% of total municipal revenues (21% for Abidjan and 13%
for the secondary cities). While taxes are an important source of
potential revenues,  they suffer from particular weaknesses.   The
property tax is not only heavy and complex, comprising a set of six
different taxes, but it suffers basically from (i) poor collection
performance; (ii) excessive temporary exemptions; and (iii) a lack
of a well established land registration system.  The professional
tax or "patente," which is also complex and cumbersome, suffers from
poor collection performance and from tax evasion due to the high
burden of the tax which is mainly based on the modern sector.



- 6 -
(c) Municipal taxes are currently the main source of municipal revenues,
and include a series of fees on market,  hotels,   taxis,  etc.,
municipal property and miscellaneous  revenues,   It is generally
considered that user fees, as well as municipal property revenues,
if applicable, constitute a potentially major source of revenue,
particularly in large and medium sized cities. So far, however, the
yields have been low, due to the general reluctance of local author-
ities to improve their collection procedures.
1.13      During the 1982-86 period, the overall fiscal effort per capita of
the 37 former municipalities dropped substantially (minus 30%), as well as the
per capita Government allocation (minus 23%). Municipal revenues have lagged
substantially behind the rate of population growth and concomitant demand for
services and infrastructure.   If the prospects and potential for increased
municipal revenues remain relatively important, bridging the gap between
supply and demand, as well as reducing disparities of access to urban servic-
es, will remain a formidable task in the medium and long term, given some
fundamental constraints. First, the urban population will continue to grow at
a 5% rate, significantly higher than the overall growth of the economy for the
next five years. Second, public investments in the urban sector dropped again
dramatically during the last two years (minus 42%), and their recovery to
historical or sustainable levels will be constrained by the general level of
public  expenditures  for coming years.   Third,  the difficulties  of taxing
informal sector activities, which are growing in absolute and relative terms,
will contribute to the deterioration of per capita revenues.  Fourth, given
the limited range of activities subject to tax (the formal sector), and the
relatively high tax to GDP ratio at the national level (23%), economic agents
tend to drop out of the officially recorded sector, and to evade all taxes.
In addition, given their existing fiscal status, municipalities have little
control over the assessment and collection of their own resources.
1.14      According  to Ivorian  officials,  the above  constraints  could be
partly overcome by enlarging the tax base, and by lowering the fiscal rates.
Such a policy is particularly judicious for property taxes, provided that tax
exemptions are significantly reduced, and collection procedures tightened and
simplified. As far as the professional tax is concerned, enlarging its tax
base would mean the registration of the informal sector which, by definition,
lacks any basic accounting system to properly assess and identify their tax
base.   Improvements could, however, be derived from updating the existing
regulations, and improving billing and collection.  Participation of munic-
ipalities in local revenues' assessment and collection is also essential, and
calls for basic administrative reforms, sustained by a strong training pro-
gram.
1.15      A complementary way for the municipalities to bridge their financing
gap would be to have access to borrowing facilities for their capital needs.
Several studies were done by the Government to define the most feasible way by
which the municipalities could have access to credit, and the setting-up of a
Municipal Credit Fund (MCF), with sFecific sources of financing and lending
targets, has been recently defined. According to these proposals, the munici-
palities could borrow, without major financial risks, up to an amount of
CFAF 6.5 billion per year during the next decade.  This volume of potential
borrowing over ten years would represent about 1.5 times their current volume
of annual resBources, or less than 20% of their forecasted resources on an



- 7 -
annual basis. Major sources of funds would have to come from external borrow-
ing at concessional terms, at least during the coming years, and this could be
a serious limitation compared with the above potential volume of borrowing.
Basic limitations would also apply for the poorest municipalities. If these
municipalities can possibly get into debt for sound income-generating pro-
jects, special funding schemes for the development of social services are
basically needed.  The above constraints call for the MCF to be established
into a comprehensive resource mobilization program.
D. Government Action and Policy
1.16      The Government  recognized  that  in order to further enhance  the
participation of municipalities in their own development, it has become of
utmost importance to thoroughly reassess the adequacy of the existing institu-
tional framework, and to verify its ability to effectively support the move
towards decentralized administration and greater autonomy of local author-
ities.   Following the recommendations  of the Secondary Cities Development
Strategy Study, financed under Loan 2048-IVC, the Government agreed to the
principle of:
(a) strengthening the DCL, and establishing appropriate institutional
mechanisms to coordinate the decentralization process, along with
implementing an important training program for municipal staff;
(b) enhancing resource mobilization at the local level by launching a
Resource Mobilization Program, including the setting-up of a borrow-
ing facility for municipalities, specifically the Fonds de Prets aux
Communes;
(c) establishing a new approach to regional and urban investment plan-
ning and programming, designated as Municipal Action Programs
(MAPs).  This  innovative  approach  has been  designed  to,  first,
narrowly link the size and nature of public investment efforts to
the capacity of an individual municipality to mobilize the necessary
resources required for satisfactory maintenance of its current and
future capital assets; and second, to select investments through a
process involving the increased participation of the municipal
council, local residents and representatives of the Central Govern-
ment; and
(d) focusing each year's public investment expenditures on a limited
number of selected cities having good prospect for economic develop-
ment, and lacking basic infrastructure, while rationalizing Central
Government transfers to municipalities.
1.17      The potential role to be played by the urban sector within the
Ivorian economy has also elicited Increasing interest from other donors.
USAID, for example, has funded various housing projects and participated as
co-financier in the Bank's First Urban Project (Loan 1347/48-IVC). Applying
experience gained under the Second Urban Project (Loan 2048-IVC), USAID is
currently implementing a series of small-scale infrastructure and community
facilities programs in 23 medium and small-sized cities.   KfW has started
financing various low-cost sanitation and garbage collection projects in
several secondary centers. In the past, EEC has funded a number of drainage



- 8 -
projects in cities outside Abidjan. It is currently considering the financing
of a market farming project in some secondary cities yet to be identified.
The development of a training program for DCL is also supported by several
donors, including USAID and French Aid and Cooperation (FAC).
1.18      However, a wor1±onme aspect of the various donors' intervention in
urban areas is the lack of a consistently coordinated approach to local
development problems. The aid coordination effort should, in particular- lead
to an increase in urban programs aiming at minimizing social hardship for the
poorest, in support of C8te d'Ivoire's adjustment process and poverty allevia-
tion strategy.   It should also help to rationalize the financing of urban
projects, irrespective of their sources and channels of funding and their
institutional arrangements. Also, the Government recently asked the Bank for
assistance, given the Bank's multi-sectoral experience, in its attempts to
establish a more rational development approach and to capture more of the
benefits from donor intervention in this area. These requests underscore the
scope and design of the project.
E. Bank Involvement in the Sector
1.19      Direct   Bank   involvement   in   the   urban   sector   began  with
Loan 1347/48-IVC (US$44 M) which was approved in 1976 and closed in Novem-
ber 1983. A PPAR, dated March 24, 1986, noted that this project successfully
introduced lower-cost, lower-standard solutions to public transportation and
to upgrading low-income neighborhoods in Abidjan.   Loan 2048-IVC  (US$51 M)
which was approved in 1981, and closed in December 1987, focussed essentially
on improving public  transportation and traffic management  in Abidjan.   A
project completion report was recently prepared. Loan 2789-IVC (US$126 M) a
third urban project, effective since August 1987, intends primarily to support
the Government's efforts to effect the major policy reforms introduced in the
housing sector, as part of the SAL II program, and to continue assistance t'
the urban and transport sectors in Abidjan.  Loan 2048-IVC included a sma-
secondary cities component with municipal development pilot programs in Daloa
and Korhogo, Cote d'Ivoire's second and third largest secondary cities.  Set
up on an experimental basis, these pilot programs were developed essentially
with a view to test the technical or institutional feasibility of future, more
extended intervention programs in the municipal sector and in cities outside
Abidjan. This has poiated to the need for a continued effort to enhance the
capacity of secondary urban centers to strengthen their potential contribution
to economic growth, and to actively participate in the alleviation of poverty
by improving the living conditions of urban population who are particularly
vulnerable to the deterioration of basic social and infrastructure services.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
2.01      Background.  The project was identified in 1985 after the completion
of  the  Secondary  Cities  Development  Strategy  Study,   financed  under
Loan 2048-IVC. Project preparation was first carried out under the responsi-
bility of the Ministry of Interior (MOI), then shifted under the responsibili-
ty of the DCGTx. The project completion study was sent by the DCGTx to the



- 9 -
MOI end of 1986, and was discussed thoroughly until June 1987. The project
was pre-appraised in February 1988, appraised in June 1988, and negotiated in
June/July 1989.
2.02      Rationale for Bank Group Involvement.  Given the importance of the
country's urban areas in the economic recovery program, and their pivotal role
in the development process, it is vital to continuously support the Govern-
ment's efforts to effectively implement major sector reforms and to enhance
the capacity of urban centers to contribute to future growth. Such continuous
support is particularly warranted in the on-going decentralization process in
view of its primary, long-term objective to progressively increase overall
development responsibilities to local authorities, by strengthening and
expanding their institutional, technical and fiscal roles. The Bank appears,
at this point, to be the only donor with sufficient cross-sectoral experience
in policy dialogue and project lending activities to efficiently tackle the
various sensitive issues raised by the decentralization process. The project
should also help the creation of an institutional and technical framework
appropriately designed to elicit even more interest in urban sector involve-
ment from other donors, and provide the necessary conditions for increasing
effectiveness in such interventions. Besides, in the framework of the poverty
alleviation strategy in Cote d'Ivoire, the project will provide a vehicle for
designing and Experimenting projects aimed at minimizing social hardship for
the most vulnerable urban groups. This will be done through in-depth develop-
ment actions at the local levels, involving community level initiatives in the
directly productive sphere and in the social sectors, and by initiating
cost-effective, more labor-intensive approaches for the design of public works
projects.
2.03      Project Objectives.  The project will be part of a phased program to
render the municipalities more effective centers of economic and social
development  in Cote d'Ivoire by:   (a) developing managerial capacities  at
central and local levels, in accordance with the respective new roles of
central and local governments within the on-going municipal decentralization
process; (b) improving local resource mobilization to allow improvement of
basic needs in the secondary centers and the surrounding rural areas, in the
framework of a more rationalized investment planning and allocation process
between central and local governments; .(c) overcoming the lack of basic
infrastructure and social services in a first group of selected secondary
cities, us well as their unequal access to the poorest segment of the popula-
tion; and (d) initiate in these cities local development actions, aiming at
increasing the participation of the private and the informal sector, both in
the productive and social spheres.
2.04      Project Description.  To achieve the above objectives, the project
includes five major components: (a) a municipal management component aimed at
strengthening the monitoring capacity of the MOI, and the management ability
of local governments through a comprehensive training program, technical
assistance, and complementary institutional support; (b) a resource mobiliza-
tion component consisting of the preparation and the launching of basic local
tax reforms, such as the land property tax and the professional tax; (c) a
credit line to the Municipal Credit Fund ("Fonds de pre^t aux Collectivites
Locales"), a specific account to be created within the CAA for the financing
of municipal infrastructure, social and community facilities; (d) a develop-
ment program component for a first set of about 12 selected secondary cities,



- 10 -
consisting of a package of key infrastructure and development projects,
selected at the level of each city through a process involving the participa-
tion of local residents, municipal council and representatives of the Central
Government, and including small-scale projects to be implemented with NGOs'
assistance; and (ej studies and supervision, including a cartographic program,
for about 40 cities, the completion of the National Demographic Census, the
sharing of a West African Regional Migration Survey, and a specific survey on
the Social Dimension of Adjustment.  These major components are summarized
below, and described in detail in Annex 1.
2.05      Municipal Management Component.   This component is aimed both at
strengthening the management ability of the local governments in their
day-to-day administrative and financial tasks, and at supporting the DCL which
is in charge of monitoring and supervising the decentralization process. The
municipal management component will include two main sub-components:
(a) the setting up of a Technical Team in DCL in charge of advising and
assisting the municipalities in their day-to-day activities, and of
enhancing the ability of the DCL in managing the decentralization
process. The team will consist of high level Ivorian staff assisted
by two field experts travelling through the country to provide
advice and assistance to the municipal staff and councilors, and of
a senior expert in charge of organizing the technical assistance
program, and of coordinating its activities with other involved
public agencies. The project will finance the cost of the technical
assistance over a period of three years. Terms of reference of the
technical assistance were prepared during the appraisal mission and
were reviewed during negotiations; and
(b) a three-year training program aimed both at strengthening the
professional ability of local management staff, and at improving the
awareness of the municipal elected councilors relating to their
responsibilities in the decentralization process.  In coordination
with other multi- and bi-lateral donors currently engaged in the
Ivorian municipal training program, such as UNDP, USAID, FAC, and
Hans Seidel Foundation, the project will specifically focus on
providing short-term technical assistance to the existing training
team, and on supporting its operating costs. This sub-component of
the project will include the financing of all the educational
materials  and operating  costs  of  the  training  team.   Terms of
reference for the technical assistance were prepared during the
appraisal   mission,   and   were   reviewed   during   negotiations
(Annex 1-2),
2.06      Resou_ce Mobilization Component.  The main objective of the munici-
pal resource mobilization component is to improve the financial ability of the
local authorities to provide urban services, and to operate and maintain urban
facilities through a substantial increase in the generation of municipal
resources. Such an objective could be achieved by increasing the yields from
local and transferred state taxes, by reducing the cost of public services
through private sector participation, by rationalizing the transfer process
from the Central Government Budget to local government budgets, and by setting
up  a  Municipal  Credit  Fund  aimed  at  speeding  up  the  municipal
income-generating investment program.



- 11 -
2.07      First, the strengthening of municipal resources will be obtained
through several actions aimed at increasing substantially the yields from
transferred state taxes which are the land property tax and the professional
tax. To improve the yield of the land property tax, the project will support
a reform of the existing taxation regulptions so as to simplify tax billing
and collection, to reduce the theoretical fiscal pressure, while extending the
number of taxpayers, by widening largely the range of the fiscal cadastre.
The professional tax yield improvement will be obtained by bringing up to date
the existing regulations and by improving billing and collection.
2.08      To support this action program, the project will finance tax reform
prepararion studies, the development of a simplified fiscal cadastre in about
30 cities, and technical assistance and equipment for the DGI in charge of
billing and collecting the land property and professional taxes.  Terms of
reference for the tax reform preparation studies were prepared during the
appraisal mission and were finalized at negotiations, and agreement was
reached with the Government that these studies will be completed no later than
October 31, 1V90. Resulting from these studies, a tax reform action plan will
be reviewed with the Bank and approved by the Government so as to be intro-
duced in the 1992 budget law. In addition, assurances were given that the DGI
will be provided with an appropriate number of qualified staff and suitable
operating means for billing and collecting land property tax and professional
tax.
2.09      Second,  to stimulate  the  development  of  the private  sector  in
secondary cities and to reduce the cost of public services, the project will
support (a) the use of local contractors and simplified bidding procedures for
the works financed by municipalities; and (b) the development of low-cost
appropriate technologies in the design of urban roads, drainage systems,
community facilities and municipal buildings.  To achieve these objectives,
the project will finance a specific study on appropriate technologies and
contract procedures in secondary cities.
2.10      To secure future municipal financial responsibilities, the present
transfer process from the Central Government Budget (BGF) to local government
budgets has to be rationalized and institutionalized.  First, new and stable
procedures for determining the amount of the annual Central Government alloca-
tion to local government should be defined. Second, the distribution of this
allocation  among municipalities  should  aim  at maximizing  municipalities'
mobilization efforts through proper incentive schemes.  Third, part of this
allocation should support the Government's poverty alleviation strategy
towards the poorest municipalities.  Agreement was reached with the Government
at negotiations on the content of a draft decree  to rationalize Central
Government's  allocations  to municipalities,  to be  enacted  no  later  than
July 31, 1991.  Enactment of this deciee is a condition for further disburse-
ments of the Municipal Credit Fund.
2.11      A Municipal Credit Fund (MCF) will be set up to provide long-term
loans to the municipalities, for income-generating investments, as well as for
other economically and socially justified investments.  Similar to institu-
tional arrangements prevailing under the Third Urban Project (Loan 2789-IVC)
for the housing and the land servicing financial schemes, MCF will be a
specific account located within the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) in
charge of managing, inter alia, public deposits. As a specific account within



- 12 -
CAA, the MCF will be guided and supervised by a steering committee, and
managed under the authority of the General Manager of the CAA. The Steering
Committee will monitor MCF's performance, determine the eligibility of the
borrowing municipalities, approve all loan operations, and stipulate the
conditions of execution of the project for which the loan has been granted.
The Committee will also be responsible for periodically adjusting the general
loan conditions such as the down payment, maturity, interest rate and grace
period, in light of:  (a) the financial situation of the MCF; (b) the Govern-
ment's decentralization policy; and (c) the credit policy of the authorities.
The Steering Committee will be placed under the chairmanship of the General
Manager of the CAA, and include the Minister of Interior, the Minister of
Finance, the Minister of the Budget, and the General Manager of the DCGTx, or
their respective representatives. All supporting documents related to econom-
ic,  technical  and  financial  analyses will  be  preliminarily  reviewed  and
appraised by the DCGTx, which has recently created a new division to that end.
A Government Decree has been drafted to legally establish the MCF, and was
reviewed  during negotiations.   As a condition of disbursement under  this
component, MCF will have to issue for the information of municipalities, a
circular, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, outlining MCF's
project cycle and operating procedures. A draft circular was reviewed during
negotiations.  It Includes the following:  (a) general terms and conditions
for eligibility of loans made by MCF to municipalities, including the annual
ceiling of loans to the municipalities of Abidjan, Bouake and Yamoussoukro;
(b) project eligibility criteria, including financial and economic conditions,
technical restrictions and standards, and a negative list of projects not to
be financed under MCF loans; and (c) loan operation procedures, including loan
request formats, appraisal and loan agreement procedures, and implementation
procedures.
2.12      Eligibility of Municipalities to MCF.  Eligibilitv criteria will be
based on a financial solvency test of applying municipalities. For each loan,
MCF will analyze the municipality's budget and administrative account to
ensure that the municipality will be able to repay the new debt incurred to
MCF. In order to do so, MCF will make a conservative estimate of resources
available to service debts in the future, which will not exceed 20% of current
and forecasted revenues.  As soon as possible, estimates of future net reve-
nues will be calculated on the ground of each municipality's resource mobili-
zation action plan.
2.13      Projects and Programs Eligible for MCF Loans.  MCF's loan proceeds
will be allocated to the municipalities either for specific categories of
projects on a demand basis, or for agreed investment programs proposed jointly
by MOI and the Municipal Council in the framework of "Municipal Action Pro-
grams" (MAPs).  Five categories of projects will be eligible with specific
terms and conditions of financing defined such as to provide incentives for
priority projects  (Annex 4).  These categories will include the following:
(a) infrastructure projects, such as storm water drainage systems along
roadways in poorly served neighborhoods; (b) income-generating projects, such
as improvement of markets, slaughterhouses and truck. terminals; (c) social
facilities, such as schools and health centers; (d) municipal equipment for
garbage collections, street maintenance, and municipal garages; and (e) munic-
ipal facilities, such as administration buildings. During the project period
(1989-94), about two thirds of the loan proceeds will be allocated to the



- 13 -
above categories of projects, whereas the other third will be allocated to
MAPs' investment programs.
2.14      The Functioning of the MCF.  MCF will obtain its funds from various
sources and will have to pay off all loans incurred on the international and
domestic markets through CAA. During the project period, MCF's resources will
come from four basic sources of funds (Annex 4): (a) the Bank loan; (b) capi-
talized Government's transfers; (c) municipal Aiwn payments and reimbursements
of borrowed funds; and (d) other internationa± borrowing.  The mix of these
resources will allow MCF to operate at e, low cost of funds (para 4.04),
allowing it in turn to lend to the municipalities at normal discount rates.
However, in order to limit and ultimately to stop its recourse to Government
funds, as well as to set up a self-financing revolving fund, MCF will be
required to closely monitor the key elements of its financing scheme, and in
any case to lend at a rate not lower than the Central Bank normal re-discount
rate  (TEN).   The effectiveness of the decree establishing MCF will be a
condition of effectiveness of the loan.
2.15      Development Program Component.  The main objectives of the Develop-
ment Program Component are to overcome the lack of primary infrastructure in
selected Ivorian Secondary Cities and to support small-scale economic develop-
ment projects to stimulate economic activities in the city. This Development
Program Component will include a Municipal Investment Program, and a specific
health program in Korhogo.
2.16      The Municipal Investment Program will concern about  12 secondary
cities scattered over the whole country.  In each selected city, a Municipal
Action Program (MAP) will be prepared jointly by the Central Government
represented by DCGTx and the Municipal Council, to bind the Government invest-
ment  financing  to the self-development municipal efforts.   Each MAP will
include self-financed municipal investments using the borrowing facilities of
the MCF, and Central Government financed investments partially funded through
the Bank loan.  In each town, the overall amount of MAP will be related to
population size and to its self-financing capacity based on previous budgets.
The sharing of this amount between the different sub-projects will result from
a dialogue between the project management staff and the Municipal Council to
compare the municipal priorities with the project ob.jectives and criteria.
2.17      The Government-financed part of MAPs will consist of two kinds of
investments: first, infrastructure programs, including (a) storm water drain-
age improvement to control storm water floods and reduce the erosion effects
on roads and buildings; (b) primary road upgrading to provide a permanent
access to the town and to permanently link the different districts in the
urbanized area; (c) rural road improvement to allow village residents in the
municipal area permanent access to urban services and food-product market;
(d) land development to basically serve the new neighborhood areas in expand-
ing cities; and (e) other upgrading operations such as paving the bus terminal
areas,  and  the selling and parking areas around market places.   Second,
support to economic development projects in the municipal area, including
urban development projects to stimulate economic activities in the city, and
rural projects such as irrigated crop or market gardening projects for young
farmers' settlement. The urban economic development projects will be designed
so as to take advantage of the experimental pilot program financed under
Loan 2789-IVC, aimed at exploring ways, with the assistance of NGOs, to



- 14 -
stimulate the business potential of micro-enterprises.   The purpose of this
program is to create additional jobs and increase economic activities among
the less advantaged city dwellers.
2.18      Selection of Cities.  Cities eligible for MAP will be selected in
three tranches according to the following eligibility criteria which were
agreed during negotiations:   (a) geographic balance between Savannah, West
Forest, and East Forest Regions; (b) lack of basic infrastructure and communi-
ty facilities; (c) demographic and economic development potential of the city
and its rural hinterland; (d) previous and planned urban investments by the
Government or other foreign donors; (e) willingness of the Municipal Council
to support the project including its commitment to the Resource Mobilization
Program; and (f) GOCI's internal political factors.
2.19      Five cities (Bouafle, Boundiali, Dabakala, M'batto and Soubr6) with
a total population of about 75,000 inhabitants in 1985, have been selected
based on these criteria by the Government.  Two cities are located in the
Savannah region (Boundiali and Dabakala), two in the West Forest (Soubre,
along the Front Pionnier, and Bouaf1e in the North), and M'Batto in the East
Forest. They all lack basic infrastructure, and although their development
potential is unequal, they are current or potentially future poles of local
development, with, however,  some uncertainty for M'Batto.   Only two cities
(Soubre and Dabakala) have recently benefitted from occasional investments
from other donors.   For each city, an investment program was defined and
agreed, and at negotiations confirmation of these programs was given by the
Government.
2.20      A second tranche of cities will be selected before January 1, 1990,
and their investment program will be agreed with the Bank six months thereaf-
ter. The third tranche of cities will be selected and agreed with the Bank no
later than December 31, 1990.  At negotiations, confirmation of this action
plan was given by the Government.
2.21      The specific Health Program in Korhogo will comprise a Nursing and
Midwifery School, with provision of furniture and equipment. With a planned
capacity of 180 students, and a combined annual output of 80 nurses and
30 midwives, the school will reduce current and projected shortage of nurses
and midwives at the national level, and will ensure an adequate supply of such
paramedical personnel to the northern region of the country, which suffers the
most from the existing shortage.   The proposed location of this school in
Korhogo, which will be the third nursing and midwife school in Cate d'Ivoire,
is the result of a multi-criteria analysis on existing field training opportu-
nities, such as the presence of a regional hospital, the local network of
dispensaries, maternities, and maternal and child health centers, along with
an adequate level of functioning health facilities.   An equally important
criteria t, the advantage of Korhogo is the availability of practicing medical
staff who would serve as teachers, field tutors and student supervisors for
the proposed school (Annex 1-1).
2.22      Studies and Supervision Component.   This component will include:
(a) a cartographic program aimed at providing municipal maps covering the
overall municipal area at a scale of 1/20,000 for about 40 cities, and the
urbanized area, only, at a scale of 1/5,000 for about 15 cities; (b) municipal
planning studies for these 15 cities selected as beneficiaries of the present



- 15 -
and following projects, including for each city a simpliffed master plan of
the whole municipal area, a drainage master plan of the urbanized area, and a
priority action plan; (c) topographic works, project design, contract prepara-
tion and supervision for civil works financed under the Development Program
component; and (d) economic monitoring studies aimed at measuring the
urban-rural economic flows between the selected cities and their rural hinter-
land, and at assessing the economic impact of the project on these flows.
Execution of the above sub-components will be placed under the responsibility
of the recently new Municipal Division created within DCGTx which will carry
out the contract preparation and work supervision, and sub-contract out all
the specialized tasks such as aerial photography and photo-restitution,
topographical works and economic monitoring studies.  To help monitor these
tasks, the project will provide 48 man-months of technical assistance to
DCGTx.
2.23      Under the responsibility of the Ministry of Planning, this component
will also include: (a) supplementary financing to complete the Population and
Housing Census carried out in April 1988, with Bank financing (Loan 2619-IVC),
by the Direction de la Statistique of the Ministry of Planning; the project
wi'll support (i) a post enumeration survey; (ii) the coding of census ques-
tionnaires and the data processing; (iii) short-term consultants to help
analyze demographic characteristics and trends; and (iv) dissemination of the
census results through adequate publications, seminars and workshops; (b) a
migration survey based on a sample of 10,000 persons to gain better knowledge
of regional and internal population movements to be carried out during the
period October 1,1989 to January 31, 1990, so as to be integrated into a West
African Regional migration survey being sponsored by several donors.  Prior to
the launching of the migration survey, the Government will have to receive
Bank approval of the proposed migration survey master plan; (c) a permanent
household survey project on the Social Dimensions of Adjustment, the first
survey (1990/91) being launched to acquire specific data on the country's
social environment, such as households' composition, education, health,
employment, expenditures, revenue transfers and nutrition; and (d) preparation
works for a first Human Resources Adjustment Operation,  to be implemented
through a Steering Committee launched in April 1989 after the first human
resources workshop held in Cote d'Ivoire with Bank assistance (Annex 1-1).
B. Project Cost and Financing
2.24      Project  Costs.   The  project  costs  are  estimated  at  US$93.1 M
(CFAF 29.8 billion), including taxes and duties of US$12.8 M.  The estimated
foreign component is US$65.6 M, or 82% of total project costs, net of taxes.
Base cost estimates are at January 1989 prices. Physical and price contingen-
cies have been estimated at 13.7% of base costs.  Detailed project costs are
provided in Annex 2.
2.25      Project Financing.  The IBRD Loan of US$66.0 M will finance 82% of
total project costs net of taxes. The remaining costs will be covered by the
Government (231% of total costs), the municipalities (5%), and UNDP on a grant
basis (1%). According to the financing plan (Table 2.1), the Bank Loan will
cover 100% of total foreign costs.



- 16 -
Table 2.1 -- Financing Plan
Co-lenders              Local         Foreign       Total
------- (US$    milion) -----------
IBRD Loan                         0.35          65.65        66.00
Government Budget (BSIE Tr6sor)   21.76            --         21.76
Municipal Budgets                 4.58             --         4.58
UNDP-ILO                          0.75            .--         0.75
Total                             27.44         65.65        93.09
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
2.26      The Republic of C8te d'Ivoire will be the Borrower.  It will make
the proceeds of the loan available through the CAA to: (a) the MCF, an amount
equivalent to US$14.2 M; (b) to the MOI, an amount equivalent to US$3.6 M for
the municipal management component, US$2.2 M for the resource mobilization
component, and US$48.9 M for the development program component; and (c) to the
Ministry of Planning in an amount equivalent to US$4.6 M for the financing of
various studies, and of micro-projects with NGOs' assistance. The balance of
the loan, or US$6.5 M, will be unallocated.  CAA, on behalf of the Government,
will  support  the  foreign  exchange  risk  as  well  as  the  debt  service.
Government funds from the Capital Expenditure Budget (BSIE-TRESOR) will be
made available quarterly to MCF in the form of capital contributions.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Arrangement
3.01      Two main agencies will be particularly involved in project implemen-
tation, namely the "Direction des Collectivites Locales" (DCL), from MOI, and
the Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux (DCGTx) from the Presidency.
They will both operate under the policy control of the Minister of Interior.
DCGTx will be responsible for the overall performance of the project, and will
act as the "Executive Agency" in this respect, in charge of supervising
project operations. The sharing of responsibilities between DCL and DCGTx, as
well as with other involved agencies, will be as follows for each of the
components.
3.02      Municipal Management Programs.   Both the technical assistance and
the training programs will be executed by DCL with the support of a Municipal
Development Assistance Project funded by UNDP under a Government cost-sharing
arrangement,  and implemented by ILO,  as UIIDP executive agency.   The cost
sharing arrangement will be defined in the UNDP project agreement, which will
be reviewed by the Bank.
3.03      Municipal Credit  Fund  (MCF).   Prior  to disbursement  under  this
component, DCL will have to issue for the information of municipalities, a
circular, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, outlining MCF's
project cycle and operating procedures. A draft circular was reviewed during



- 17 -
negotiations.  It includes the following:   (a) general terms and conditions
for eligibility of loans made by MCF to municipalities, including:   (i) the
annual ceiling of loans to the municipalities of Abidjan, Bouake and Yamous-
soukro; and (ii) a negative list of projects not to be financed under MCF
lo: .s; (b) project eligibility criteria, including financial and economic
conditions, technical restrictions and standards; and (c) loan operation
procedures, including loan requests formats, appraisal and loan agreement
procedures, and implementation procedures. During the MCF project cycle, and
in accordance with the DCL circular, the respective roles of CAA, DCL, DCGTx
and of municipalities will be the following.  Being accountable for adminis-
trative and financial management, CAM will ensure that (a) municipalities'
payments to the MCF are made at the appropriate time; (b) Government contribu-
tions to the MCF are made available on time; and (c) disbursements are made to
municipalities, or directly to the contractors, on the basis of satisfactory
evidence of actual expenditures, after clearance with DCGTx.  Being account-
able for administrative supervision and budget control over municipalities,
DCL will be in charge of receiving and conducting investigations for loan
applications; DCL will also be a member of the Technical Secretariat (T.S.) of
the MCF Steering Committee, with assistance from DCGTx; the T.S. will prepare
the necessary data for decision making, will monitor MCF's financial situa-
tion, and issue quarterly reports on MCF's activities. As engineering super-
visor, and as one of the main executive agencies for the municipalities, DCGTx
will (a) control the quality of all supporting documents such as preliminary
designs and cost estimates, feasibility studies and financial analyses;
(b) prepare or control the quality of detailed designs, tender documents,
disbursement schedule; and (c) be responsible, on behalf of a given municipal-
ity for procurement procedures and for the execution of each agreed contract;
as beneficiaries of the loan, municipalities will (a) select and prepare
sub-projects through feasibility studies to be submitted with the loan appli-
cation; (b) participate as actively as possible, and with training assistance
If needed, in the technical and financial supervision of the sub-project; and
(c) carry out all maintenance works related to the sub-project.
3.04      Other  Resource  Mobilization  Components.   First,  DCGTx  will  be
responsible for the preparation of the tax reform action plan, ir, liaison with
the Direction Generale des Imp6ts (DGI) of the Budget Ministry.  Both will
agree on the terms of reference for the land property tax and the professional
tax studies, and will ensure their follow-up. DGI will be responsible for the
implementation of the tax reforms. Second, DCGTx will be responsible for any
study related to the fiscal cadastre sub-component, in liaison with the
Direction du Cadastre (Ministry of Finance), which will be in charge of the
execution of this sub-component. Third, DCGTx will monitor the use of local
contractors and simplified bidding procedures for selected civil works, as
well as the studies and development of low-cost appropriate technologies for
the design and implementation of urban civil works.
3.05      Development Program.   First,  in liaison with Municipal Councils,
DCGTx will be responsible for the preparation of each Municipal Action Program
(MAP), and for the following tasks during their implementation: procurement
procedures, work supervision, economic monitoring studies, and progress
reports.   Second,  DCGTx will be  responsible  for the construction of  the
Korhogo nursing and midwifery school, and will supervise the procurement
procedure for the supply of equipment and vehicles, in liaison with the
Ministry of Health. Third, the Direction des Programmes of the Ministry of



- 18 -
Planning and Industry will be responsible for the launching and supervision of
small economic development projects in municipal areas with non-governmertal
organizations' assistance.
3.06      Studies.   The Ministry of Planning will be responsible  for the
monitoring of the National Population and Housing Census, the C8te d'Ivoire
part of the West African Regional Migration Survey, the household survey for
the Social Dimensions of Adjustment, and the financing of the preparation
works for the Human Resources Adjustment Operation. The DCGTx will be respon-
sible for all other studies, including sub-contracted studies such as carto-
graphic studies, or economic monitoring studies.
3.07      Implementation Schedule.  Final design and tender documents for the
first tranche of five cities eligible for MAP will be submitted by Decem-
ber 1989. Tender documents for the second and third tranches will be submit-
ted, respectively, by September 1990 and June 1991.  The simplified fiscal
cadastre sub-component in about 30 cities will be implemented only after the
first review of the tax reform action plan, that is, by November 1990. The
expected completion date for all project works and the technical assistance
program is June 1994 with an additional six months period to allow for full
withdrawal of the loan proceeds.   The  ;losing date is December 31,  1994.
Project implementation schedules are shown in Annex 3-3.
B. Procurement
3.08      Civil works under the Development Program component will be awarded
in three tranches of five cities each during the project period, with contract
packages for selected cities averaging US$2.7 M (CFAF 1.0 billion) for an
18-month period.  Works, goods and services under the Resource Mobilization
component and the Municipal Credit Fund will be dispersed over a much larger
number of cities, since 135 municipalities will be eligible to MCF, which will
disburse  US$22.2 M  during  the  project  completion period.   To  the extent
practicable,  the works  contracts will  be  aggregated  into  large  contract
packages suitable for ICB, that is, contracts above CFAF 3.0 billion equiv-
alent,  excluding value added  tax  (VAT).   However,  given the geographical
dispersion of the cities, it is likely that most of civil works contracts will
be procured under LCB procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank and will
include international advertising and be open, without any restriction, to
outside foreign contractors.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods
and services will be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent
of CFAF 150 million excluding VAT (US$0.5 M), or more each, and will be on the
basis of ICB procedures acceptable to the Bank.  All civil works contracts
estimated to cost the equivalent of CFAF 500 million or more, and all con-
tracts for goods and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of
CFAF 50 million or more, will be subject to prior Bank review and approval.
Procurement of services for the technical assistance, including NGOs, and
studies will be in accordance with Bank guidelines, and on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank.  During negotiations, confirmation of these
procurement arrangements was obtained from the Government (Annex 3-2).



- 19 -
Table 3.1 -- Procurement Arrangements
(IBRD Share in Parentheses)
(USS Million Equivalent)
----- Procurement Method -----         Total  Value of
Category                             B           LCB          Other         Procurement
Civil Works                                       22.91         22.91            --             45.82
(16.27)       (16.2?)           --           (32.54)
Works,  Goods  and Services                        4.45         15.59          2.23             22.26
for Municipal Credit Fund                       (3.16)       (11.07)        (1.58)          (15.81)
Materials, Equipment                                 --          0.75          0.79              1.54
--        (0.53)         (0.70)           (1.23)
Other Goods and Services                             --            --         23.46             23.46
--            --        (16.52)          (16.52)
Total                                             27.37         39.25         26.47             93.09
(Bank Loan)                                      (19.43)       (27.87)       (18.80)          (66.00)
C. Disbursements
3.09         At  the  Government's  request,  retroactive  financing  for  topographic
works  amounting  to  US$116,000  was  agreed  for  expenditures  incurred  after
March  1,  1989.   The  loan  is  expected  to  be  fully  disbursed  by  December  31,
1994, according to the following disbursement schedule.
Table 3.2 -- Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(USS Million)
Dype            FY90        FY91        FY92        FY93        FY94        FY95
Annual              3.5        12.4        17.1        17.7       11.72         3.7
Cumulative          3.5        15.8        32.9        50.6        62.3        66.0
3. 10        Disbursements  from  the  loan will be made  against  applications  based
upon contracts eligible for Bank financing as follows (Annex 3-3).
Table 3.3 -- Allocation and Disbursement of IBRD Loan
Category                                 Loan Allocation           Expenditures
(USS million)          to be Financed
),t Part A of the Project (Municipal Management)
1.  Consultant Services                                          2.20                    0.71
2.  Operating Costs                                              1.00                    0.71
3.  Vehicles and Equipment                                       0.44                    0.71
B. Part B of the Project (Resource Mobilization)
1.  Consultant Services                                          1.86                    0.71
2.  Vehicles, Equipment & Maintenance                            0.35                    0.71
C. Part C of the Project (MCF)
1.  Municipal Credit Fund                                       14.23                    0.;1
D. Part D of the Project (Development Program)
1.  Civil Works                                                 29.28                    0.71
2.  Vehicles & Equip. for Korhogo Nursing School                 0.19                    0.71
3.  Consultant Services & Supervision for MAPs                   5.29                    0.71
E. Part E of the Project
1. Goods & Services
for Demographic & Human Resource Studies                  3.61                    0.71
2.  Goods and Services for NGOs' Programs                        1.02                    0.71
Subtotal (A to E)                                           59.47
F.  Unallocated                                                      6.53
Total                                                           66.00



- 20 -
In view of the possible small size and number of contracts under categories
I.B, II.B, and IV.B above, disbursements will be against certified statements
of expenditures (SOE) for contract value below US$100,000 equivalent, for an
aggregate total not to exceed US$5.0 M over the project period.  Supporting
documentation for disbursements under SOE will be retained by CAA, and made
available for review during Bank missions, and will be audited annually. All
disbursements will be fully documented.
3.11      To maintain an adequate flow of funds, and to expedite disburse-
ments, assurances were obtained from the Government that it will establish
three special accounts: two in the CAA to cover about four months of general
project expenditures for Parts B, DI, D2, and E (i.e., about US$4.0 M) and for
Part C (i.e., about US$2.5 M), respectively, and one special account in a
commercial bank to cover three months of expenditures fcr Part D3 of the
project (i.e., about US$1.0 M).  These accounts will be used to pre-finance
eligible expenditures under the Bank loan, and will be replenished on the
basis of standard Bank procedures.   Applications for replenishment of the
three special accounts will be submitted monthly or when the initial deposit
of each special account is reduced by one third, whichever comes first. As an
additional condition of disbursement, an initial deposit amounting to
CFAF 30.0 million will have to be made to MCF.
D.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
3.12      Consolidated project accounts will be maintained by DCGTx.  MOI,
CAA, as well as secondary cities, will maintain separate accounts for project
components for which they are responsible and will provide DCGTx with neces-
sary accounting data for consolidation. Consolidated accounts will be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.  The audit report
will convey the auditor's opinion on the adequacy of (a) the procedures used
for the preparation and verification of statements of expenditures and their
accuracy; (b) eligibility for financing in accordance with legal agreements;
and  (c) the  standard  for  record  keeping and  internal  controls.   Special
accc-unts will be subject to annual audit.  The Government will forward the
audit reports to eha Bank within six months after the close of each project
fiscal year. Quarterly reports on project progress will be prepared by DCGTx
and submitted through MOI to the Bank.  DCGTx will alsc prepare a project
completion report within six months of the closing date.  The auditing and
reporting arranlgements were discussed and agreed upon at negotiations.
E. Monitoring, Evaluations and Bank Reviews
3.13      As Executing Agency, DCGTx will carry out systematic monitoring and
evaluation of project implementation, and will prepare, in liaison with MOI,
annual reviews with Bank missions  according to the project implementation
schedule  (Annex 3-1).   Critical  performance  areas will be  the  following:
(a) implementation of the tax reform action plan (para 2.08); (b) rat4onal-
ization of Central Government allocations to municipalities (para 2.10);
(c) development of the Municipal Credit Fund (para 2.11); and (d) preparation
and implementation of the Municipal Action Program (MAPs). During periodical
Bank reviews, MWI and DCGTx will agree with the Bank on the selection of
cities eligible for subsequent MAPs, and the concomitant allocation of re-
sources for the subsequent year.  Corrective actions where major deviations
have occurred will be taken jointly with key actors, including representatives



- 21 -
of concerned municipalities, and Bank missions during these periodical re-
views. The above arrangements were discussed and agreed upon at negotiations.
IV. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Financial Analysis
4.01      The Municipal Credit Fund's projected  lending on a disbursement
basis will amount to CFAF 8.0 billion for the period 1990 to end of 1994.
Beyond 1994, MCF's loan portfolio outstanding would grow from CFAF 8.0 billion
in 1995 to approximately CFAF 17.7 billion in year 2001, an average annual
increase of 14.1%.  By this year, this total level of lending would be about
two times below the existing municipalities' borrowing capacity without
municipal reforms, and about four times with municipal reforms.
4.02      Financial projections for the period 1990-94 were done according to
the following base case:  (a) municipalities would be required to assume an
18% participation on average in the financing of their investment, on a
commitment basis; and (b) net disbursements of CFAF 7.7 billion during the
period would be financed from the following sources:  (i) IBRD loan amounting
to CFAF 4.9 billion; (ii) capitalized Central Government transfers amounting
to CFAF 0.4 billion; (iii) other international borrowing of CFAF 0.8 billion;
and (iv municipal participation of CFAF 1.6 billion. Beginning in 1991, MCF
would begin to generate annually net surplus which would help alleviate the
need for sizeable Government transfers. No provision has been made for bad
debt as MCF will be insured against default by the "retenu a la source" by
which the Treasury will pay out of the subvention appropriated to the specific
municipality the amount owed to MCF. Operating expenses, which are low due to
the economies of scale brought about by the location of MCF within the already
established CAA, would be fully covered by revenues from operations throughout
the twelve years forecasted scenario.
4.03      MCF will aim to earn a stable positive annual spread between the
return on its outstanding loan portfolio and the cost of its overall re-
sources. During the project period, the average cost of the mix of funds used
by MCF will be kept at approximately 3.0% which is well below the return on
the loan portfolio (9.0%). This positive spread will allow MCF to support the
foreign exchange risk.   Central Government subventions would end by 1994,
after which time the Fund should be able to sustain itself on a revolving
basis.  The ratio of principal repayment by Borrowers and principal due to
lenders (principal debt-service ratio) exceeds 3.0:1 on average each year.
Even if this healthy performance should drop by one point, and remain at that
level, the viability of the fund would not be jeopardized. A drop noticeably
below 2.0:1 for more than two years would call for corrective measures to be
taken.
4.04      The major risk factors facing MCF are the following:  (a) a change
in the structure of the portfolio, implying a reduction of the municipalities'
participation; (b) change in the investment growth rates; and (c) change in
the on-lending terms to the municipalities (i.e., interest rates, maturities).
Any dramatic change in these three parameters in reference to the base case
scenario would lead to a change in the volume of Central Government transfers,



- 22 -
or it could have a significant effect on the sustainability of the Fund.  A
decrease in the interest rates and an increase in maturities would have a
negative impact on Government transfers. Sensitivity analysis shows that, for
example, a -2 points change in the interest rate and a +2 year change in
maturity would call for an increase in Government transfers of 34% during the
project period. A decrease of the municipalities' down payments from 18% on
average to 16% would call for a 37% increase in Government transfers.   A
combined decrease would call for a 71% increase in Government transfers
(Annex 4).
B. Economic Analysis
4.05      To  select  alternative  solutions,  an  assessment  of  the  balance
between costs and direct benefits has been made for the sections of the urban
road network to be upgraded in each secondary city already selected. Benefits
considered have been limited to vehicle operating cost savings, increase in
road traffic induced by the infrastructure improvement, and time savings of
road users. The proposed section for which the balance between benefits and
costs (including maintenance and renewal) is positive for a discounting rate
of 12% have been included in the Municipal Action Plan (MAP). When the number
of sections that meet this condition exceed the budget allocation for road
infrastructure, the selection of sections to be included in the program has
been based on the consideration of the net benefit-cost balance at the 12%
discount rate.  Conversely, a few sections that do not meet the 12% benefit-
cost condition have been included on the basis of their importance for the
efficiency of the urban center, including the urban image (case of smaller
towns like M'Batto where present urban traffic is low). A detailed analysis
of rates of return of the upgraded main streets, that accounts for about one
half of the investment of the first MAP component, averaged 21%, with a
maximum of 62% and a minimum of 10%, and is available in the project file.
4.06      The remaining sub-components of the project are closely interlinked,
and separate economic rates of return for each of these sub-components would
be of limited significance.  In order to fully assess the economic impact of
the project on the local and regional economy, and the interaction between
population distribution and economic growth, a local accounting framework will
be prepared. This accounting framework will serve as a basis for developing a
demo-economic data base at the level of communes, and eventually at the level
of "prefectures" for larger secondary towns. Flows of goods and services and
financial fl)ws in the communes -- viz. among urban-rural agents, and between
urban and rnral areas -- and between the communes and the rest of the country
will be presented in the form of local social accounting matrices (SAMs).
These local SAMs will serve as tools to monitor the medium-and-longer-term
impact of urban growth and urban development on local economy, with particular
emphasis on the impact of public expenditure on local activities and
urban-rural incomes. These local SAMs will tentatively be used to assess the
consequences on the local economy of alternative scenarios of population
distribution,  public  investment  and expenditures,   transfers  from Central
Government and local taxation. Ultimately, these SAMs will allow to fine-tune
the composition of subsequent Municipal Action Programs.   The SAMs will be
nominated under the supervision of DCGTx, in close relation with the Director-
ate of "Amenagement du Territoire," within the Ministry of planning.



- 23 -
V. POVERTY AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
A. Poverty Aspects
5.01      According to a recent survey, the average annual per capita consump-
tion in secondary cities amounted to CFAF 286,000 in 1985 against CFAF 148,000
in villages and CFAF 489,000 in Abidjan.   A tentative analysis of regional
accounts for the same year provides the following results regarding average
added value per capita in Savannah, West Forest, East Forest and Central
Region, and Abidjan (and Burkina, to serve as a point of reference on West
Africa economic environment).
Tentative Estimation of Average Added Value per Capita in Rural and Urban Areas
of Various ReRions of C6te d'lvoire (and Burkina) in 1985
in Current 1,000 CtAF/Inhabitant
East Forest             C6te
Area         Burkina   Savannah   W. Forest     & Central    Abidjan   d'Ivoire
Urban Added Value
per capita        139        247        402          478         736       561
Rural Added Value
per capita         39        101        149          190         ---       160
Regional Average      55        133         216         287         736        331
Although household incomes are not strictly proportional to per capita added
value, and standard of living is not fully reflected by per capita income, it
is clear that, on average, the standard of living increases from north to
south, from remote areas to areas connected to regional and world markets, and
from rural to urban areas. The study on poverty alleviation in Cote d'Ivoire
(February 1988) leads to similar conclusion: under the 30% cutoff line, the
incidence of poverty ranges from 5% (of the households) in Abidjan to 13% in
other urban areas, 21% in the West Forest, 46% in the East Forest, 61% in the
Savannah, and the depth of poverty (percentage short-fall in the expenditure
of the average poor individuals form the poverty line) is most pronounced
among food crop farmers (37%), and informal, inactive and unemployed category,
mostly urban (32%). Therefore, in the long-run, one efficient way of allevi-
ating poverty would be to support population mobility between north and south
(including migration between Sahel and Cote d'Ivoire), to open larger portions
of the territory to markets through infrastructure and development of secon-
dary cities network, to maintai;L a strong and balanced urban population growth
by providing opportunities of employment and income generation in urban areas,
and to increase rural-urban exchanges, notably through the development of the
primary complex. From this macro-economic and the longer-term point of view,
enhancement of the demographic and economic growth of the secondary cities, as
pursued by the municipal development project is undoubtedly, a very efficient
tool  for  reducing  poverty.   Implementation  of municipal  programs  in  the
Savannah regions where some cities are to be selected (para 2.19), will also
participate to poverty alleviation on a large basis.
5.02      From a more micro-economic and short-term point of view, by improv-
ing the financial capacity of communes, the prc-ject will improve the living
conditions of a large portion of the existing urban population, including the
poor of the informal sector, who are vulnerable to the deterioration of the



- 24 -
quality of infrastructure and basic services such as drainage, health and
education.  Most components of the Municipal Development Project will take
place in populous neighborhoods, with high residential densities and high
proportion of traditional and informal activities.  TJi addition,  specific
actions will be targeted towards the informal sector .here there is a concen-
tration of poor people, through the launching of specific economic developaent
programs with NGOs assistance (para 2.18).
B. Environmental Aspects
5.03      The majority  of project  activities will  take p'lace  inside  the
perimeters of existing urbanizee areas, and there are no activities in the
project which could implicate significant risk to the urban environment. The
project  will  have  a  positive  impact  on  the  physical,  health,  and
socio-economic conditions of project beneficiaries.    Improved storm water
drainage networks designed to control flooding, erosion and sedimentation, as
well as improvements tc the current practices of solid waste collection and
disposal, will have posiLlve impacts on the urban environment. Minor risks on
the natural environment outside urban areas could come from the selection and
use of inappropriate disposal sites.  However, these risks are mitigated by
the fact that disposal sites are most commonly selected by competent technical
team from Public Works and Health Ministries. During the project, any selec-
tion of disposal sites will, in addition, be done under the supervision of
DCGTx, and criteria to be used in selection of such sites will be reviewed by
Bank staff.
5.04      The improvements to the physical environment are designed to reach
project area residents as a whole, and, in some instances, the whole city.
The provision of new or enlarged sanitary markets, which are of primary
concern to the population and to market women vendors in particular, provide
positive externalities to the city as a whole. Among other major concerns of
the population are paved roads for the main streets to avoid dust which
aggressively affect the whole center city, as well as storm water, drainage
and garbage collection services. Health, educational and cultural facilities
usually follow on the lists of concerns.   The project will address these
concerns on a demand basis, either over . wide range of actions for cities
eligible  to Municipal Action Programs,  or for more specific actions when
municipalities apply to MCF.  Physical implementation of these actions will
generally not involve the resettlement of residential units.  In cases where
resettlement will be needed, however, the Municipal Council will have to
deliberate and submit their decision for action to DCL.  Any resettlement
issue will be mentioned in the quarterly reports sent to the Bank.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.01      The project will have a direct, immediate impact on public sector
management as well as on employment activities and income in the secondary
cities concerned, First, the project will help GOCI to successfully im2lement
the municipal decentralization process which received new impetus with the
creation of 98 new municipalities in 1985. The strerngthening of DCL through



- 25 -
technical assistance and training, the strengthening of newly created munic-
ipalities through technical assistance, steady increase of financial re-
sources, rationalization of public investment, clarification of the respective
roles of central institutions and local governments are current basic issues
that will be addressed through the project.  The project will also help GOCI
to maintain public investment and public expenditures in secondary towns at a
reasonable level, while ensuring sound allocation of scarce resources, and
improving utilization of local resources. Second, increase in public expendi-
tures in secondary cities will help generate urban employment, particularly in
the construction sector which had been severely affected by the recent crisis;
participation of local contractors till be pursued, and specific projects
accessible to local initiative will be determined so as to provide additional
employment to micro-enterprises and artisans of the informal sector.  Third,
the Municipal Credit Fund will not only give new impetus for locally financed
projects, but will also increase the financial capacity and accountability of
Ivorian municipalities.   Fourth, the upgrading of infrastructure,  community
facilities and public services in central populous neighborhoods and newly
developed areas will favor access of the urban poor to public services, and
will also favor private investment in housing activities. Finally, beyond the
above immediate benefits, the project will have direct, longer range impact on
the self-sustained economic development of Cote d'Ivoire through in-depth
mobilization of local initiatives and responsibilities throughout the country.
B. Risks
6.02      The project will innovate in several ways that will involve some
risks:   (a) the project will seek to help GOCI to monitor and control its
decentralization approach, but will heavily rely on two central institutions,
DCGTx and DCL, which may be the source of conflicting interpretation in the
course of the project implementation; (b) the project will address the criti-
cal issue of the land property tax reform, and more generally will support tax
reforms aiming at enlarging the urban tax base:  this may be the source of
conflicting debates among powerful land-owners in particular; and (c) since
the project will be based on a programmatic approach, some delay may occur on
the critical path of the project.
6.03      All these potential risks have been carefully reviewed with MOI,
DCL, DCGTx and Mayors of the first set of cities involved, and all parties
have expressed their strong commitment to join efforts to maximize chances of
success. These risks are also mitigated, since some project's components have
already been tested through pilot programs in previous Bank Loans, and in
projects  financed by other donors,  particularly  USAID.   Furthermore,  the
Executing Agency, DCGTx, is a competent technical institution that has mani-
fested its capacity to improve the cost effectiveness and monitoring of public
investment programs. A new division has been created in DCGTx to supervise
municipal civil works, and will be supported by the project.
6.04      Among the remaining issues that will have to be scrutinized during
implementation are the following:
(a) effectiveness of implementation of physical components versus
decentralization and enhancement of local management capacities: the
rule of the game and sharing of responsibilities between Central



- 26 -
Government agencies and municipalities will have to be progressively
fine-tuned,  and  adapted  to  local  competences.   Furthermore,  a
continuous effort will be needed to avoid excessive reliance on
large-scale enterprises at the detriment of promotion of the local
economy, and activities when implementing civil works; and
(b) short-term versus longer-term issues and continuity of efforts and
assistance after achievement of the Municipal Development Project
will require that subsequent phases of technical assistance and
funding be considered in follow-up Municipal Development Programs,
and Municipal Credit Fund.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During Loan negotiations, the following were reviewed and confirmed
with the Government:
(a)  Under the Municipal Management Component:   terms of reference for
technical  assistance  to DCL  and  for  the  training program  (pa-
ra 2.05);
(b)  Under the Resource Mobilization Component:  terms of reference and
timing of tax reform studies (para 2.08); draft decree to rational-
ize Central Government's allocations to municipalities (para 2.10);
implementation of a tax reform action plan following fiscal studies
to be completed no later than October 31, 1990, and introduced in
the 1992 budget law;
(c)  Under the Municipal Credit Fund:  terms and conditions of financing
for MCF loans (paras 2.13 and 2.14); draft circular outlining MCF's
project cycle and operating procedures (para 2.11);
(d) Under the Development Program Component: agreements on MAP's budget
and nature of works for the first cities (para 2.20); procedure and
criteria for further city selection (paras 2.18 and 2.19); scope of
the monitoring and supervision work under the responsibility of
DCGTx (para 2.22); dated covenants for the selection of second and
third tranches of cities eligible under this component (para 2.20);
and
(e)  Project  Implementation:    procurement  arrangements   (para 3.07);
disbursement methods (paras 3.09 and 3.10); auditing and reporting
arrangements (para 3.11); monitoring, evaluations and Bank periodi-
cal review arrangements (para 3.12).
7.02      Condition of Effectiveness will be that the decree establishing MCF
has become effective (para 2.14).
7.03      Conditions of Disbursement will be that (a) an initial deposit of
CFAF 30,000,000 has been made at CAA, in the name of the Municipal Credit Fund
(para 3.11); (b) the project document between GOCI and UNDP has been signed
prior to disbursement of the municipal management component; (c) the MCF
circular outlining MCF's operating procedures will be issued for the



- 27 -
information of the municipalities prior to disbursement of the Municipal
Credit Fund (para 2.11); and (d) the decree to rationalize Central Government
allocation be enacted prior to further commitments under the Municipal Credit
Fund from July 31, 1991 onward (para 2.10).
7.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$66 M equivalent to the
Republic of Cote d'Ivoire.
AF1IN
August 4, 1989



- 28 -                          ANNEX  1-1
Page 1 of 10
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
A. Municipal Management Strengthening Component
1.        The purposes of this component are  (a) to strengthen the Local
Government Directorate (Direction des Collectivites Locales -- DCL), which is
the local Government supervisory agency and is in charge of decentralization;
and (b) to improve municipal management capacity.   This component will be
cofinanced by UNDP under a cost sharing arrangement, whereby ILO will be the
executive agency, and Bank disbursements will be done through UNDP on a
periodical basis.
Strengthening of DCL
2.        The project provides for two main lines of action:  assistance first
with internal reorganization of the DCL, and second in setting up decentral-
ized supervision (tutelle):
(a)  Internal Reorganization of DCL.  The Interior Ministry has conducted
a number of studies for strengthening DCL's human, technical and
financial resources, leading on to its internal reorganization. The
project will assist this process by closely monitoring the reorgan-
ization Action Plan.   The Action Plan will  cover the following
areas:   organizational  study  of  DCL,  implementation,  including
personnel strengthening and installation of decentralized supervi-
sion, and provision of adequate budget resources.
(b)  Implementation of Decentralized Supervision.  This would allow all
decisions not sufficiently important to require approval by the
central authority to be delegated to the department or prefecture
level. As a key element of reorganization of DCL, the setting up of
decentralized supervision will involve revising the governing
regulations, providing the prefectures and subprefectures with new
resources,  and  implementing  an appropriate  training policy.   By
relieving DCL of a large part of its control responsibilities,
decentralization will allow it to devote itself to development
tasks: special studies, advisory assistance, training, coordination
of technical ministries on behalf of the municipalities, etc. The
municipal management support team (para 3.0) will assist in formu-
lating  implementation  principles  and  procedures.   The  training
component (Annex 2-1) includes specific activities addressed to
decentralized supervision staff. The project also includes financ-
ing of logistical support for DCL (vehicles, fuel, fixing up premis-
es).



- 29 -                          ANNEX  1-1
Page 2 of 10
Improving Municipal Management
3.        The project includes the setting up of an advisory assistance team
and training activities:
(a)  Advisory Assistance Team.  The project will make available to DCL
112 man-months of technical assistance, including three experts in
administrative and financial management, one of them being a
high-level expert responsible for integrating amendments based on
the field work Into the regulations and supervision procedures. In
collaboration with Ivorian officials of equivalent training level,
these experts will set up a team which 'vy the end of the project
will be able  to continue  the, advisory assistance activity.   To
ensure the relative independence that is essential, for the perfor-
mance of its functions, the team will be placed under the direct
authority of DCL's Director.
(b)  Consultants' Services.  Forty-six man months of consultancy would be
made available through the project in order to provide the technical
team in DCL with elaborated outputs regarding resource mobilization
issues, or procedures, and designing new reglementation.
(c)  Training Activities (Annex 2-1).  These activities are intended for
municipal and supervision, including decentralized supervision,
management staff.  They are based on a specialized training unit
within DCL whose work program is aimed at institutional development
of DCL's long-term continuing training capacity, one of the interna-
tional experts being in charge of advising and supervising the DCL
training unit.  The timetable of these activities is spread over
three years.   The project  will  also  finance  the  equivalent  of
50 man-months of local fees for training officers.
B. Resource Mobilization Component
4.        The purpose of this component is to enable the municipalities to
finance an increasing share of local infrastructure and superstructure invest-
ment and, at the same time, to meet the related maintenance and depreciation
costs.  This will require (a) substantially increasing the various municipal
sources of receipts; and (b) rationalizing municipal investment expenditures
in accordance with a program built around four types of activities:
(i) increasing the yields of State taxes transferred to the munici-
palities;
(ii) increasing the yields of the purely municipal taxes;
(iii) institutionalizing the process of setting the amount of the
General Operating Appropriation (Dotation Globale de Fonction-
nement -- DGF) and its distribution among the municipalities;
and
(iv)  setting up a Municipal Credit Fund (Fonds de Pret aux Collecti-
vites Locales) (Annex 4).



- 30 -                          ANNEX  1-1
Page 3 of 10
Improving Transferred State Tax Yields
5.        During the first phase of the Municipal Development Project (PDM),
two studies will be carried out, concerning, respectively, the land tax and
the business tax (patente). Without awaiting the conclusions of the business
tax study, priority minimum logistical support will be provided to the Busi-
ness and Miscellaneous Taxes Subdirectorate (Sous-Direction des Patentes et
Impo^ts Divers) of the Ministry of Economy and Finance with a view to immediate
improvement of this tax. During the second phase of the PDM, the recommenda-
tions of the studies will be examined and the related reforms implemented.
6.        Land Tax Reform Study.  The purpose of this study will be to propose
alternative ways of reforming the land tax, and to prepare an action program
for implementing the reform. The study will begin just after effectiveness on
the basis of draft  terms of reference agreed upon at negotiations.   The
consultant's first proposals will be examined six months after by a Monitoring
Committee composed of the Directorate General of Taxes (Finance Ministry), the
Accounts Budget Directorate (Budget Ministry), the Local Government Director-
ate (Interior Ministry), the General Secretariat of Administrative Reform
(Public Service Ministry) and the Direction Centrale des Grands Travaux
(DCGTx).  On the basis of guidelines set by the Monitoring Committee,  the
consultant will propose preliminary draft regulations whose final wording
would have to be presented to the Council of Ministers and the National
Assembly.
7.        New fiscal cadastres will have to be developed wherever necessary to
enable the majority of the municipalities to obtain maximum revenue from the
land tax, whatever its nature.  The project will finance the setting up of
fiscal cadastres at the national level. However, it seems reasonable, before
committing the corresponding expenditures, to take into account the future
trend of the land tax as emerging from the above-mentioned study.  If, for
example, there were a movement toward a highly simplified scale that did not
take account of building area or that classified parcels into size categories
that did not require precise measurement, the surveying aspect of land regis-
tration for purposes of calculating the tax would be even smaller than in the
present "simplified cadastres" and they would therefore cost less to set up.
8.        Reform of the Business Tax (Patente).  The object of this study will
be to reform the patente, retaining its present configuration but proposing:
(a) a new classification of activities that is more equitable and takes
account of the enterprise's real activity; (b) revision or abolition oi the
surtaxes accruing to the State that aggravate the tax burden borne by the
activities; and (c) measures to make assessment and collection of the patente
more efficient. On the basis of terms of reference agreed upon at negotia-
tions, the study will be started at the same time as the land tax study so
that it can be available by the end of 1990. Implementation of the reform and
also the additional program of support for the DGI (logistical support and
staff training) could then be started in 1991.
9.        Logistical Support for the Business Tax Subdirectorate.   Pending
precise definition by the patente study of ways of sharpening the efficiency
of DGI's assessment and collection services, the latter will receive urgent
logistical suppo-t (supply of vehicles and equipment) with the immediate aim
of improving the existing assessment service.



- 31 -                          ANNEX  1-1
Page 4 of 10
Increasing Local Tax Yields
10.       Action will be taken at two levels:  fiscal taxes (taxes fiscales),
and user fees (taxes remuneratoires):
(a)  Fiscal Taxes.  The activities will be carried out at the same time
as the land and business tax program since most of the fiscal taxes
are land tax and patente surtaxes. Thus, improvement of the yield
of the local infras ructure tax (taxe locale d'equipement), which
has the same assessMnLt base as the land tax, and of the profession-
al premises rental value tax (taxe sur la valeur locative des locaux
professionnels -- TVLLP), which is based on the same assessment as
the patente, will be dealt with in the framework of the studies
concerning transferred State taxes.
(b)  User Fees.  These taxes will have to be raised in stages by 1994 to
rates sufficient to cover not only municipal operating costs of
certain services but also equipment depreciation.  In that connec-
tion, DCL will begin a study as soon as possible with a view to
amending the law defining the fiscal statute of the municipalities.
The impact of the investments included in the first phase of the PDM
(markets, road terminals, etc.) would provide the basis for setting
the new rates.
Institutionalizing the Central Government Allocation (Dotation Globale de
Fonctionnement -- DGF)
11.       The  authorities  concerned  (ministries  of  Interior,  Finance  and
Budget) will have to conduct the necessary inquiries rapidly with a view to
drafting a decree setting the new procedures for determining the amount of the
DGF and its distribution among the municipalities.  Preparation of the draft
decree will have to take place in the last quarter of 1990. The new provi-
sions will thus enter into effect with the new 1991 budget law.  The DCGTx
will be responsible for coordinating the work of examining the various reforms
proposed and any reciprocal impacts they may have.
C. Development Program Component
12.       The purposes of this part of the project are to:  (a) continue the
process of Government investment in interior cities, rationalizing investment
allocation by category and by city; and (b) establish a quasi contractual
relationship between the State and the municipalities concerned, linking
Government-financed investments to self-development municipal efforts in the
form of a Municipal Action Program (Programme d'Actions Concertees -- MAP).
13.       The Development Program component of the PDM is divided into two
subcomponents:
(a) the first subcomponent groups together all the studies and projects
to be financed under the MAPs except for the share of the MAPs
financed by the Municipal Credit Fund; and



- 32 -                          ANNEX  1-1
-age 5 of 10
(b) the second subcomponent groups together the mapping and survey
tasks, studies and technical assistance required for implementation
of the entize project investment program, including municipal
activities financed by the Municipal Credit Fund.
Development Studies and Projects Subcomponent
14.       Volume of the MAP Programs.  The subcomponent grouping together the
MAP programs (other than those financed by the Credit Fund) comprises three
sets. The first set consists of the investment programs proposed for the five
towns already studied (BouaflU, Boundiali, Dabakala, M'Batto and Soubre) and
approved on the occasion of the project appraisal mission. The total amount
of the program,  excluding Credit Fund projects,  is CFAF 4.1 billion.   The
second and third sets consist of two groups of municipal PACs, each composed
of 4-5 towns or more, for an amount of CFAF 4.2 billion per set (not including
projects self-financed by the municipalities and the Credit Fund).
15.       Composition  of  the  MAP  Programs.   The  investments  covered  are
divided into eight broad categories:
(a)  primary drainage:  redimensioning of streams (marigots) where they
run through towns, creation of retaining basins, construction of
culverts where main roads cross streams, etc.;
(b)  drainage along asphalted roads:  construction of lateral gutters,
road crossings and discharge outlets during construction of asphalt-
ed primary roads;
(c) asphalting of main roads (particularly at main city entrances and
exits, where national rocds cross towns, etc.) and upgrading gravel
roads;
(d)  rehabilitation of leveled spaces:  leveling and asphalting of road
terminals and market approaches;
(e) land development works: viabilization of expansion neighborhoods;
(f) rural roads linking villages within the municipal territory with the
main urban center;
(g)  urban  development  projects:   handicraft  centers,  assistance  and
credit to SMEs, etc.; and
(h)  rural development projects:  resettling young people on the land,
development of bottom lands for vegetable growing and/or irrigated
rice cultivation.
16.       On the basis of the distribution of the first MAP set, it is pro-
posed to modulate the average composition of the other two sets with a view
to: (a) progressively reducing the share of road asphalting; and (b) increas-
ing the share of upgraded gravel streets, land development and development
projects.



- 33 -                          ANNEX  1-1
Page 6 of 10
Korhogo Nursing and Midwifery School Subcomponent
17.       In order to expand Cote d'Ivoire's capacity for nursing and midwif-
ery training and to increase the annual output of these categories of paramed-
ical personnel, the deficit of which constitutes a serious constraint in
improving health care, the project would support the establishment of a
nursing and midwifery school in Korhogo with a capacity of 180 students and a
combined annual output of 80 nurses and 30 midwives.  This increase, combined
with the output of nursing schools at Trechville and Bouake, would reduce
current and projected deficits in nurse. and midwives.  Together, the three
schools will raise C8te d'Ivoire's annual output of nurses from 200 in 1989 to
320, and midwives from 85 in 1989 to 120 in 1993.  The establishment of a new
school in Korhogo will ensure the adequate supply of paramedical personnel to
a region of the country that suffers from an acute shortage of such personnel.
18.       The proposed location of a third school in the town of Korhogo was
determined by a mapping exercise undertaken by the Government which identified
existing field training opportunities such as the regional hospital, a network
of dispensaries, maternities and maternal and child health centers, the
geographical location of Korhogo, and an adequate level of functioning health
facilities.   An  equally  important  consideration was  the  availability  of
practicing medical staff who would serve as teachers and field tutors and
student supervisors.
19.       Construction plans for the new combined nursing and midwifery school
in Korhogo would be simpler than that used tor the Bouake School.  The total
area of the school would amount to 5,500 m .  In addition to furniture and
equipment, the school would be provided with seven vehicles, including three
vehicles for administrative personnel, two vehicles for supervtsion of nurse
and midwife field training activities and two 20-seater buses for transporting
students to and from training sites. The total base cost of establishing the
new school  is estimated at US$6.1 M,  including US$5.1 M for construction
costs.   The implementation schedule for civil works for the school is as
follows:   (a) architectural  studies  and  selection  of  construction  firm:
12 mc.iths; and (b) construction:  18 months.
20.       The new school would require a full time professional staff compris-
ing a director, a technical administrator (superintendent) a financial manag-
er, two midwifery tutors, three senior nursing instructors and 12 nursing
instructors (1 instructor per 20 students) and an administrative support staff
of three secretaries and a filing clerk. The school will require, in addi-
tion, aupport staff of about 20, including drivers, cooks and maintenance
personnel.  Other operating costs include student stipends, food, supplies,
worker uniforms, infrastructural and equipment maintenance, vehicle operation
and maintenance, and utilities.
Studies and Technical Assistance Subcomponent
21.       Municipal Mapping.   The great majority of municipalities in Cote
d'Ivoire do not yet possess an up-to-date map of their territory on a suffi-
ciently large scale for them to be able to develop a national municipal
development strategy. It is therefore proposed to include in the project the
financing of two types of mapping documents:



- 34 -                          ANNEX  1-1
Page 7 of 10
(a) In about 40-45 municipalities (yet to be selected) the project would
finance the preparation of a 1:20,000 map for each municipality,
covering  its  entire  territory,  based  on  aerial  photographs
(1:35,000 photographs    with    1:20,000 corr  ted    mosaic)    and
photo-interpretation (see below):  the base c.st of the photography
and mosaic work is estimated at CFAF 6 million per municipality.
(b)  In 15 towns (wh " h should in principle be those of the second and
third MAP sets Plus five towns suitable for inclusion in a MAP set
to be financed later), the project includes the provision of a
1:5,000 numerized map covering only the urbanized parts of the
municipality and their immediate approaches.   The preparation of
these maps would require 1:15,000 aerial photographs (where no
recent ones exist), stereo-preparation work on the ground and
numerized graphic stereo restitution. The average base cost of this
work is estimated at CFAF 8 million per city.
22.       Preparation of Municipal Development Plans.  On the basis of the
1:20,000 corrected aerial photographs, DCGTx will prepare photo-interpreta-
tions for about 30 cities as the basis for supplying the municipality with
three 1:20,000 maps: (a) a morphology map (hydrography, plateau land, more or
less sharply sloping areas, etc.); (b) an agricultural suitability map (hydro-
morphic areas and comparative pedology of the plateau and hill-slope lands);
and (c) a land use map (urban areas, fallow areas, wooded areas, etc.).
23.       In about 15 towns that possess a 1:5,000 map (predating or financed
by the project), the DCGTx will prepare municipal development plans serving
for discussion and adjustment  of  the MAPs.   These plans  include:   (a) a
spatial development plan for localizing future agricultural and urban expan-
sion areas and organizing road service of the municipal territory; (b) a
master drainage plan of the urbanized area and its close-in extensions as the
basis for dimensioning and programming the drainage works to be included in
the MAPs and in the non-paved road resurfacing programs; and (c) a priority
action program and related financing plan for programming of the MAPs and the
municipal three-year programs.
24.       Preparatory Work.  The DCGTx will need to carry out the following
tasks for the MAP projects:   (a) execution studies,  including preparatory
surveying work; (b) detailed project designs and calls for bids; and (c) prep-
aration of contracts. Their cost is estimated at CFAF 8 million per city for
surveying, plus 5% of the amount of the works for the studies, detailed
project designs and preparation of contracts.
25.       Supervision of the Work.  The DCGTx would conclude a supervision
agreement with the Ministry of the Interior for the whole of the works fi-
nanced by the project, with remuneration by the project calculated on the
basis of 4.5% of the amount of the works.
26.       Economic Monitoring.  The project would finance the preparation of
simplified municipal economic accounts in each MAP municipality, as a source
of better information about the current state of the economy of interior
cities and municipalities and as the basis for monitoring and evaluating the
overall impact of the PDM on the urban and regional economy. The simplified
accounts plan that will be used will reflect the economic characteristics of
the interior municipalities: role of migration flows, relative importance of



- 35 -                         ANNEX  1-1
Page 8 of 10
the agriculture sector and the informal, non-monetarized sector, importance of
the market function performed by the secondary city, coexistence of the
decentralized public  sector and the municipality,  etc.   The accounts  for
households, institutions, goods and services and activities will be presented
in the form of local social matrices demonstrating local trade flows between
the municipal capital city and the rural part of the municipality and between
the municipality and the rest of the country. These social matrices will all
be prepared for the same base year (in principle 1990), using the existing
data supplemenited by a minimum survey and interview program.  They will be
used to estimate the impact of the PDM on the regional economy during the
project execution phase (execution of the works, implementation of the fiscal
measures, etc.). Moni-cring and evaluation will have to be prolonged beyond
the end of the project proper, using the same tools.  The municipal social
matrices will be used, so far as possible, to optimize the choice of subcompo-
nents to be included in future MAPs, particularly as regards the subcomponents
that contribute directly to local economic activities, income generation and
distribution, and resource mobi'lization. They will moreover have to furnish
information to the national accounts authorities in those areas in which the
national accounts are traditionally weakest (reconciliation of household
income and expenditures and of production accounts, taking into account the
informal sector and the non-monetarized economy, etc.).
27.       Technical Assistance.  The project would finance a full-time senior
technical assistant for four years to help in implementing all the tasks
arising out of the development programs (preparation and discussion of the
MAPs; supervision of the mapping, municipal development and economic monitor-
ing studies; general management of disbursements for this component, quarterly
progress and monitoring reports on the component, etc.).
Population and Housing Census Component.
28.       The population and housing census consisting of a total enumeration
of the population, mapping out and identifying housing units in towns,
villages and hamlets was carried out in April 1988 by the Bureau of Census
within  the  Direction  de  la  Statistique  (D.S.).   Under  the  Project,  a
post-enumeration survey will be carr'ed out to evaluate census coverage and
quality nationwide.  The post-enumeration survey will provide information for
adjusting census results during data processing and analysis.  These opera-
tions require consistency checks and data verification by a team of 29 verifi-
ers monitoring  the coding operation undertaken by 207 coders.   Coding of
census questionnaires will take approximately seven months and data entry
should be completed within eight months thereafter.  This operation, to be
carried out at the Data Entry Section of the Direction de la Statistique,
would require 27 additional data entry terminals to be rented for a year of
operation.   Data processing,  including quality and consistency checks and
tabulations, will be carried out in the Data Entry Section of DS. A series of
training workshops are planned to enable local Census Bureau staff successful-
ly to carry out the data processing operations.
29.       Following the completion of data processing, demographers in the
Census Bureau, with technical assistance from short-term consultants, will
analyze and disseminate the census results. A series of seminars is planned
to publicize census results, create greater awareness of the dynamics of
population growth in Co^te d'Ivoire and to stimulate national debate on future
population policy. Special seminars and workshops will also be carried out at



- 36 -                          ANNEX  1-1
Page 9 of 10
national and regional levels to promote the integration of population vari-
ables in national and regional planning. The population figures by adminis-
trative units, by sex and by rural/urban settlement, will be published by the
spring of 1990 and will constitute a first volume of census required under the
project. Final census results consisting of detailed tabulations, topical
analysis of demographic characteristics and trends, will be published by the
end of 1990. Detailed tabulations will be made available to various Govern-
ment planning agencies as soon as these are produced.  The Government has
agreed to maintain the schedule of operations required to complete the first
series of census analytical reports by the end of 1990. Further analysis and
follow-up studies will be carried out thereafter thereby strengthening the
Census Bureau's capacity for demographic studies.  The Cartographic Unit of
the Census Bureau will improve area mapping during the inter-censal period
thereby laying the foundation for less costly census mapping for future
operations. A supplementary financing of US$3 M will be required to complete
these operations.
30.       As part of its post censal operations, the Government propoces to
carry out a migration survey to gain better knowledge of regional and internal
population movements which play such an important role in the settlement
pattern and economic life of Cote d'Ivoire. The migration survey will provide
data on pull and push factors affecting migratory flows, urban population
growth rates, structure and characteristics of migrants, installation patterns
and problems of migrants, labor force participation rates and secondary
migration. Data from the migration survey should enable the Government and
the private sector to orient deve'lopment programs to maintain and enhance
regional equilibrium and improve human resources deployment nationwide.   A
detailed plan for the migration survey has been submitted to the Bank.  It
consists of two types of questionnaires (a household questionnaire and a
village questionnaire) to be administered by 135 interviewers to a sample of
10,000 persons during the period October 1, 1989 to January 31, 1990.  The
Government has extended the scope of the migration survey and integrated it
into a West African Regional migration survey being sponsored by several
donors.
Survey Project on the Social Dimensions of Adjustment
31.       This survey will be an extension of the permanent household survey
(EPAM), conducted since 1983 by the Directorate of Statistics.  It will be
implemented over a period of four years, and the Project will support the
financing of consultant services (US$138,500), equipment and maintenance
(US$375,500), and operating costs (US$867,500), up to an aggregated amount of
US$1.38 M.
32.       In order  to  fully meet  information requirements  on  the  social
dimensions of adjustment, the following actions will be implemented through
the project:
(a) detailed analysis of past survey results under the angle of chrono-
logical evolution on the available four-year survey results;
(b) continuation of the survey on a larger scale in technical terms
(sample, questionnaire) as well as covered field, and



- 37 -                          ANNEX  1-1
Page 10 of 10
(c) integration of the survey results into technical documents and in
larger analysis (national accounting model and social accounting
matrix).
The new survey will start in April 1990 and will continue on an annual basis.
The first survey (1990/91) will acquire a clear view of the social environment
of the country on the activities linked mainly with the composition of house-
holds, education, health, employment, migratory flow, residence, household
expenditures, revenue transfers, and nutrition.
Preparation of a First Human Resources Adjustment Operation
33.       This preparation will be managed by the Ministry of Planning, and
implemented under the responsibility of a "Comite de Suivi," already set up by
the Ivorian authorities following the first Human Resources Workshop held in
April 1989. To prepare its proposals, and to present them to the Bank, the
Comit6 de Suivi will have access to any relevant or required information and
studies, including feedback studies on proposals.  Such studies and informa-
tion surveys will be supported by the Project up to an amount of USPI.0 M,
including the financing of operating costs, equipment, and maintenance.
AF1IN
July 20, 1989



ANNEX 1-2
- 38 -                           Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training Component
1.        The purpose of the training component is to strengthen the manage-
ment capacity of the local government and supervisory agency staff to fit them
to handle the responsibilities entrusted to them by law.  The program will
extend over three years. By the end of the project, it will have provided the
Cote d'Ivoire Administration *with the necessary structures for assessing needs
and for continuing training for keeping local management staff continuously
abreast of the development of the decentralized system. The training method-
ology and the tasks required to implement this component are described below.
Training Methodology
2.        The means deployed will be geared to the specific characteristics of
each target group identified; the content and frequency of the activities have
been tailored to the management constraints specific to each personnel catego-
ry. The assessment of needs, which needs to be pursued and improved, derives
essentially from the work done by DCL and USAID.  The training activity is
based mainly on the strengthening of a training unit based at DCL and respon-
sible to the Personnel Subdirectorate. The project includes technical assis-
tance by a training expert who will work under the authority of the
Sub-Director in liaison with the coordinator of the Technical Assistance team
in DCL (strengthening of municipal and supervisory agency management capaci-
ties).  The training unit is already in operation, thanks to USAID lines of
credit, with a reduced program but covering practically the entire range of
activities envisaged during execution of the PDM.
(a) Instructor Training. This is mentioned here only as a reminder; it
is being handled by French Cooperation and USAID under their respec-
tive programs.
(b)  Regional Training Courses.  The content of these 3-5 day courses is
graduated in light of needs and in terms of degree of technicality
(awareness-arousing -- technical execution -- advanced).  They are
intended for municipal general secretaries, financial directors and
technical service chiefs,  i.e., management personnel.   A special
awareness-arousing strategy has been developed for elected offi--
cials.   The courses account for the bulk of the component  (75%)
since they involve a great deal of travel and defrayal of the
expenses of the trainees and the team of training officers.  Over
three years they also represent an unprecedented effort of improve-
ment of the qualifications of municipal staff:
--   70 days of courses for 136 general secretaries;
--   34 days of courses for 100 chiefs of administrative services;
--   64 days of courses for 100 chiefs of financial services;
--   65 days of courses for 136 chiefs of technical services; and
--   24 days of courses for 272 middle level staff.



ANNEX 1-2
-39                              Page 2 of 3
(c)  Decentralized  Supervision Training  Activities.   As  indicated  in
Annex 1-1, specific training activities, to be defined during the
course of the project, will be organized for decentralized admin .s-
tration officials, amounting to about 60 days of courses for 100
high level staff.
(d)  Specific  Courses  for DGI  (Tax Directorate)  Staff.   The project
provides for seminars tailored to the needs of DGI's tax survey and
collection staff, designed to enhance their efficiency in serving
the municipalities.
(e)  Awareness Training for Local Elected Officials.   The very great
majority of elected officials have no experience of public adminis-
tration. The colloquia organized by the Interior Ministry, bringing
together all elected officials, need to be followed up by fora,
workshops and working groups under the aegis of UVICOCI (Union of
Ivorian Cities) (Union des Villes de C8te d'Ivoire) that are,
however, geared to the training effort financed by the proiect for
local municipal or decentralized supervision management staff.
(f) Distribution of Teaching Materials. The project includes financing
of the publication of working-paper compendia, case studies, manu-
als, etc., required either as support for the regional courses or to
enable the improvements in local management to be added to the
general stock of knowledge and worked up into teaching documents.
(g)  Documentation.   The DCL's documentation center, which so far has
been geared mainly to administrative documentation, becomes the
documentary tool of the training team by assembling all the existing
pedagogic documentation on the problems encountered by decentralized
management in Cote d'Ivoire. This component is financed by French
Cooperation (FAC), which has assigned a cooperation official to
manage the center and is already financing the purchase of works,
compendia, etc.
Tasks Involved in Implementing the Component
3.        Setting up and implementing the program involves the performance of
a variety of tasks by the Ivorian Administration and the technical assistance
experts. These activities, described below, will need to be defined in detail
airing the initial phase of the project.
(a)  Assessment   of  Training  Needs.    Although   an   assessment   of
high-quality local manager training needs has already been made,
with CDI and USAID assistance (cf. document entitled Programme
d'assistance aux communes -- Evaluation des besoins des agents de
l'encadrement communal of January 1988), that assessment will have
to be revised and amplified in light of the diagnostic findings of
the advisory assistance team.
(b) Activities Addressed to Elected Officials and Decentralized Adminis-
tration Staff. These have not been identified in detail. ThaLt will
be one of the priority tasks of the DCL training team and the expert
recruited to advise it. This identification will have to take into
account the discussion meetings already organized or envisaged by
UVICOCI. In the same way, to the extent it is desired to develop a
local works supervision capacity, DCL training unit will have to



ANNEX 1-2
-40-                             Page 3 of3
come to an arrangement with the DCGTx training team with a view to
designing appropriate training activities, in collaboration with it
and the DCL Technical Unit (work scheduling, contract management,
work site supervision, etc.).
(c)  Linkage between the Training Component and Computerization of the
Municipalities.   The FAC (France) is planning a specific  (pilot)
project for computerizing four interior cities. The lessons of this
experiment will have to be integrated into the training plan (adap-
tation of staff to this management tool/impact of computerization on
the tasks of all supervisory staff).
(d)  Recovery of Training Costs.   Provision will have to be made for
recovering the costs of the training activities from employers in
order to enlist their interest in assessment of their needs and in
ensuring the quality of the activities organized (participation by
municipalities in training course costs).
(e)  Study of a Statute for Training Officers.   The study undertaken
elsewhere concerning a possible local civil service statute should
include study of a specific statute for training officers as a means
both of avoiding "windfall fee" situations and promoLing gradual
refilling of these posts by local field people.
(f)  Coordination with Other Donors.   Four donors have undertaken to
collaborate with DCL in its training activities and help finance
them. Some of these projects are well advanced and have benefited
from  an  agreement  with  Cote  d'Ivoire.   They will  consequently
amplify the PDM training component. The projects in the study or
negotiation stage will have to be fitted into the design of the
component as defined below.
(g)  French Cooperation (FAC) proposes to raise a sum of CFAF 130 mil-
lion,  comprising support for DCL documentation,  pilot municipal
management computerization projects (six test cities), and partici-
pation in the DCL training program (particularly instructor train-
ing). These activities -- notably instructor training -- have not
been included in the PDM-financed program. The bilateral financing
therefore augments the amount of the PDM training component and
broadens its content and objectives.   The Hans Seidel Foundation,
which is supervising training activities on behalf of the Civil
Service Ministry, with financing by a West German NGO, plans to
continue to finance very specific "DCL" activities.  These activi-
ties will, of course, be selected in agreement with the project
training team, and the financing furnished will augment the other
lines of financing provided for (maximum CFAF 10 million). USAID
has the farthest advanced and most detailed program. It fits into
the DCL program particularly well because USAID provided technical
assistance to DCL in assessing the needs for preparing the program,
defining  its  goals  and  formulating  methodologies.   A  sum  of
US$625,000 (about CFAF 180 million) is to be provided over the next
three years. It can be used in the fnrm of an Ivorian counterpart
contribution to the program financed by the Bank, on condition that
the executing agency allocates these amounts at project start-up in
collaboration with DCL and USAID.
AFIIN, July 20, 1989



1W4CtPAL TDEVEOP1ef1 PROJET
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - --   --------________. 
Sumry Project Costs
(Ike Cost ar Jimaory 1969)
%0                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~US DOLLAR *CFAF 312
06
aD                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~percentaee
LOCAL       TAXES       RUWdM          TOTAL                   LCA         TA FItErW4               TOTAL             of Foreign
_____        -----                     ----- __--- -                       -            --              -              Currwncy
(CFAF Millions)                                               C1U million.)
1. MitClPAL  _ TAG*N
-__________
Technical Ageestance                    339.96         0.00       6.25         965.28                    1.09       0.0        2.00        3.09                   64.11
Equipmnt'                                00.94         0.00       163.56       194.80                   0.10        0.00        0.52        0.62                   84.1U
Operating Coat.                         1,30.9       103.86       196.62       441.06                   0.44        0.34        0.60         1.41                  44.61
Subtotal I                           609.51       108.66       985.43     1.600.79                    1.63        0.34        3.16        5.13                  61.63
II. RESOURCE MOILtZATION
Studiee                                  31.26        23.45       101.60       146.30                   0.10        0.0o        0.33        0.30                   63.05
F;ical CeWaster Developmnt               63.36        62.52       270.92      416.80                    0.27        0.20        0.87         1.34                  6S.07
Technical Aegi*tance                     35.16        26.37       114.27       175.61                   0.11        0.08        0.37         0.S6                  65.05
Equipment                                41.48 6   16.43           87.72        4.63                    O.13        0.05        0.28        0.47                   60.25
-------  -------  -------                                     -------
Subtotal I1                          191.24       18.79        574.51       694.64                    0.61        0.41        1.84        2.67                  64.28
111. PU4ICtPAL OREDrT FWD
Cat.1: tnfraatructure                   117.37       125.76       693.24       636.37                   0.3S        0.40         1.91       2.69                   71.06
Cwt.2: Productive Equipment             200.43       214.76     1,016.385    1431.76                    O.64        0.69        3.26        4.39                   71.05
Cwt.3: Socist Facilities                 95.36       102.17       48S.61       661.14                   0.31        0.33         1.68       2.16                   7.0oM
Cot.4: i4nicipal Equipment               10.88        21.76       146.71       181.35                   0.03        0.07        0.46        0.6t                   82.05
Cat.6: Municipol Facilities              60.60        54.11       256.12       360.73                   0.16        0.17        0.82         1.16                  71.05
Cot.6: MAP                              369.06       364.71     1,620.96     2,564.74                    1.13        1.23       5.84        8.22                   71.05
--------  -------  --------  --------  ------      ------     -  ---------
Subtotal III                         833.63       903.27     4.321.20     6,06.10                     2.67        2.90       13.85       19.42                  71.313
IV. IE'VEm'9EIT PROWI
Primry Drainage                         364.47       390.51     1.848.41     2 603.39                   1.17         1.25       5.92        6.34                   71.05
Drainage along Paved Streets            457.60       490.17     2,320.13     3,267.82                    1.47        1. 7       7.44        10.47                  71.05
Stret Pawing                             26.63       664.14     2.670.25     3,760.92                    1.69        1.81        8.56       12.06                  71.05
Other Civil Wor.                        §190.60     213.7S     1,011.73     1,424.97                   0.64        0.69        3.24        4.57                   71.05
Eonoic Dwv`lopment Project.              61.43        65.82       311.36       438.77                   .0.20       0.21         1.00        1.41                  71.0e
Cnatruction NKursing School Korhogo     224.00       240.00     1,3l6.00     1,600.00                   0.72        0.77         3.64        5.13                  71.05
Subtotal 1V                         1,633.42    1,964.so     9.298.07    13,093.e8 s8.                            6.30       29.60       41.97                  71.05
V. STUDIO AND SUPERVISION
Topooraphic Work.                       119.57        71.74       266.97       478.29                   0.32         0.2s       0.92         1.53                  600.05
Work Supervision                        195.66       863.8        279.52       539.04                   0.68         0.27       0.90         1.79 n0.05
General Studieo * Project design        494.63       362.33     1,671.69     2,464.64                    1.39        1.2S        .36        3.17                   65.6S
Technical AJ_ietance                     46.56        34.17       146.06       227.82                   0.15        0.11        0.47        0.73                   63.es
Equlpeent                                 4.62         9.24        63.14       77.00                    0.01        0.03        0.20        0.25                   62.01
Subtotel V                            610.04      b81.24     2,449.60     3,890.9                     2.76        1.66        7.8D       12.47                  68.05
TOTAL ASE COST                        4,287.84     3,66364    17,628.62    25,540.30                    13.66       11.81       66.60       a1.6                   69.05
Phpct:al Contingencies                37.63        22.93        94.96  166.o                          0.12        0.07        0.30        0.50                  61.l1 -is
Price Contingencies                  313.06       276.31     2,756.13     3,647.30                    1.00        0.89        6.64       10.73                  62.40    0D
TOTAL PRJCrT COSr                     4,S78.o2     3,962.68   20,481.91    29,043.82                    14.67       12.77       65.65       93.09                  7O.,S
-               -            -            -_                                   --



-42-                                        ANNEX 2
COTE D'IVOIRE                   Table 2
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detal ed Cost Estimates
(CFAF 000)
TOTAL
%IAL        TAXES         FOREIGN         TOTAL
I. MUNICIPAL MANACEMENT COMPONENT
-------------------------------------
A. Assistane, to DCL
_________________
1. T.A. to DCL
- Long-Term Experts (8)           113,280.0           0.0    284,820.0    877,600.0
- Short-Term Experts               49,680.0          0.0    116,920.0    166,600.0
2. Equipment to DCL
- Vohiclos                              0.0          0.0       88,900.0     88,900.0
- DCL/Conter                        9,261.6           0.0     21,610.2      80,871.8
- DCL/Agencies                     15,697.6          0.0      86,627.6      62,326.0
3. Operating Costs
- VehiceI Maint. Costs              6,827.9       6,780.0     16,988.8      28,041.8
- Subsistence & Trans. Costs       44,891.1      17,876.4     11,917.6      74,486.1
Subtotal Base Cost                    237,938.0      24,600.6    608,279.2    766,623.7
Physical Contingencies                      0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
Price Contingoncies                    16,268.7       1,821.9     65,322.8      82,418.4
Subtotal Cost                         263,206.8      26,428.4    608,601.9    848,287.1
B. Training Program
________________
1. Technical Assistance
- long-Torm Consultants            76,198.9          0.0    177,797.6    253,996.4
- Short-Term Consultants          100,821.6          0.0      67,214.4    168,088.0
2. Equipment
- Vehiclos                              0.0          0.0      44,620.0      44,620.0
- Others                            6,976.2          0.0      23,904.8      29,881.0
8. Operating Costs
- Vohiceo Maint. A Costs            6,632.9       6,988.9     16,698.6      29,120.4
- Subsistnceo & Trans. Costs       62,046.4      48,499.7     90,936.9    202,081.9
- Misceollneous                    20,893.6      25,760.8     61,180.8    107,884.7
Subtotal Base Cost                    271,608.6      81,248.9    482,162.9    884,970.4
Physical Contingoneles                      0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
Price Contingencies                    19,639.6       6,960.9     71,104.6      98,784.9
Subtotal Cost                         291,208.1      87,209.8    565,817.6    931,736.8
II. RESOURCE MOBILIZATION COMPONENT
-------------------------------------
1. Land Taxation System Study         10,420.0      7,816.0      83,886.0      52,100.0
2. Patento Study                       6,210.0       8,907.6     16,932.5      28,060.0
3. Infrastructure Standards            5,210.0       8,907.6     16,982.6      26,060.0
4. Other Studies                      10,420.0       7,816.0     88,U86.0      62,100.0
5. Fiscal Cadnster Development        88,880.0      62,520.0    270,920.0    416,800.0
S. Assistance to DCI (training)        1,760.6       1,812.9      6,689.8       8,762.8
7. Technical Assistanco               83,410.7      25,056.0    108,684.7    167,053.4
8. Vehicles and Equipmnt to OGI        2,620.2       5,040.6     84,443.3      42,004.0
9. Prov.for Equipment                  3,150.3       6,800.6     43,064.1      62,505.0
10. Prov.for Operating Cost.           36,787.6      5,112.5      10,226.0      51,126.0
Subtotal Base Cost                    191,239.8    123,789.6    674,611.4    894,640.2
Physical Contingoncies                 16,324.8       9,674.8     42,148.9      67,148.0
Price Contingencies                    16,106.9       9,956.2     92,060.8    117,116.4
Subtotal Coat                         221,670.4    148,422.6    708,710.7  1,078,803.6
AFlIN
July 1989



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
COTE D'IVOIRE                   Tabl  3
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT             a     3
Detallod Cost Estimatos
(CFAF 000)
TOTAL
------------------------------------------------
LOCAL       TAXES         FOREIGN         TOTAL
III. Municipal Credit Fund
___________________.._
1. Intrastructure        Cat. 1       117,372.0     125,766.8     695,243.9    8388371.8
2. Productive equipment  Cat. 2       200,446.6     214,764.2   1,018,660.6   1,431,781.4
3. Social Facilities     Cat. 3        96,380.2     102,171.7     489,612.5    681,144.4
4. Municipal Equipment  Cat. 4         10,881.1      21,762.3     148,708.9     181,352.3
5.Municipal Facilities   Cat. 6        50,602.9     64,110.2     268,121.8    3860,784.9
S. MAP                                369,063.4     384,710.8   1,820,984.8   2,6B4,738.6
Subtotal Base Cost                     838,826.8     908,274.9  4,821,202.0   6,058,103.2
Physical Contingencies                      0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                     68,914.9      74,694.6     744,881.1     880,490.7
Subtotal Cost                          902,641.2     977,969.6   6,068,083.1   8,946,693.8
IV.DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM COMPONENT
-------------------------------------
A. Investment Program
=_________________
1. Primary Drainage                   364,474.9     390,608.9   1,848,408.6   2,603,392.4
2. Secondary Drainage                 467,495.0    490,173.2  2,320,163.3   3,267,821.6
3. Street Paving A Rehabilitation     626,628.8     684,188.0   2,870,263.2   8,780,920.0
4. Rural Road Improvement              43,877.4     47,011.6      222,621.1     318,410.0
6. Land Dovelopment                    65,816.1      70,617.8     333,781.7    470,116.0
6. Other Civil Works                   89,802.4      96,216.9    466,428.6    641,446.8
7. Urban Development Projocts          20,476.1     21,938.7      108,843.2    146,268.0
8. Rural Development Projects          40,962.2      43,877.4     207,688.4    292,616.0
Subtotal Base Cost                 1,609,423.03  1,724,381.82  8,162,073.96 11,496,878.80
8. Khorogo Nursing School
_______________________
1. Studios,Supervision A Training     46,000.0      84,600.0     149,600.0     230,000.0
2. Civil Works                        224,000.0     240,000.0   1,136,000.0   1,600,000.0
3. Vehicules A Equipment               4,620.0       9,240.0      63,140.0      77,000.0
Subtotal Base Cost                   274,820.00    283,740.00  1,848,640.00  1,907,000.00
V. STUDIES AND SUPERVISION COMPONENT
----------------------------------
1. Cartography                        46,424.9      46,424.9     211,982.8     802,832.6
2. Topography and Project Design      119,671.8     71,742.8     286,971.0    478,286.0
3. Work Supervision                   196,862.8     88,866.3    279,617.6      669,036.0
4. Municipal Planning Studies          62,100.0      89,076.0     169,326.0    260,600.0
5. Economic Monitoring                 83,344.0     26,008.0      108,368.0    166,720.0
6. Technical Assistance                45,6B4.6      34,173.4     148,084.9    227,822.9
7. National Census & Othor Studies    317,768.0    238,318.6   1,032,713.6   1,688,790.0
Subtotal Base Cost                   809,424.96   637,597.81  2,236,962.62  3,683,986.38
Subtotal Base Cost (IV+V)            2,693,468.0  2,646,719.6  11,747,676.6  16,986,864.2
Physical Contingencies                  22,306.1      13,266.3      62,808.2     88,368.6
Price Contingencies                    194,124.6     188,879.1   1,784,713.0  2,162,716.8
Subtotal Cost                        2,909,897.7   2,742,864.0  13,686,197.8  19,237,949.6
TOTAL BASE COST (I to V)               4,227,840.2   3,683,689.4  17,628,822.1  26,640,301.7
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                    87,629.4      22,930.1      94,967.1     166,616.6
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                      318,064.6     276,314.7   2,768,131.8   3,347,601.2
TOTAL COST                             4,678,624.2   3,982,884.2  20,481,911.0  29,048,819.4
AFlIN
July 1989



- 44 -
COTE D'IVOIRE                                   ANNEX 3-1
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
CY89         CY90          CY91         CY92          CY93         CY94
Loan Negotiaons_.
Board Presentation                              A
Loan Effectveness
Annual Review Missions                    _                                       U _  _
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1. Municipal Management Component
TA to DCL       TOR Approval
and for the    *Blddings
Traning        - SelacEon of TA
Program         Implementabion                    _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _
2. Resource Mobilization Component
Professional    TOR Aporoval
Tax and Land    Selection of
Tax Reform      Consutants
Studies        - Implementation
Tax Refrm       Finalizatfon
- Review
- Legalization
Fiscal Cadaster Development                      _ _ _  _  _  _ _ _
Assistance to DGI and Reform                      _  _  _  _  .        .  .                - .  _  _
nImplementation
Other Studies
and TA       -TOR Approval
- Biddrings
- Selection of TA
- Implementation                       .       _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _
3. Municipal Credit Fund
Creation Decree Issuing                   . . .
MCF Funding                                        _   _      _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _
4. Development Program Component
I st Set of MAP    - Selection of Cities
- Program Preparaton
- Project Design
- Contract
Preparation
- Implementation                      - _    _   _   _   _
2nd Set of MAP   - Selection of Cities
- Program Preparabon
- Project Design
- Contract
Preparation
- Implementation                                          -----
3rd Set of MAP    - Selecton of Cites
- Program Preparation
- Project Design
- Contract
Preparation
- Implementation                                                           -----
Work Supervision                                           --------                                       
Other Studies                                              -         --        -      ---           --        -
and TA         - TOR Approval
*Selection of TA
|  Implementation                            -        - _  _   *  - _  _  _  _
AF I IN                                                                                                              431
July 1989



- 45 -                                     ANNEX 3-2
Table 1
COTE D'IVOIRE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
(IBRD Share in Parentheses)
(US2 Million Equivalent)
Procurement Method         Totel
________________----- --  Value
of
Category                                  ICa           LCB        Other       Procurement
I.Municlpal Management
______________________
Consultant's Services A Training                                     6.01           6.01
(3.66)        (3.66)
Vehicle and Equipment                                  0.28          0.42           0.70
(0.20)        (0.30)        (0.49)
Subtotal I                                           0.28          6.43           6.71
(0.20)        (8.86)        (4.06)
II. Municipal Credit Fund
Works,Goods,and Services                 4.46         i6.59          2.23          22.2a
(3.16)       (11.07)        (1.68)       (16.81)
III.Resource Mobilization
________________________
Consultant's Services                                                2.91           2.91
(2.06)        (2.06)
Vehicle and Equipment                                  0.18          0.87           0.66
(0.13)        (0.41)        (0.53)
subtotai III                                         0.18         38.2            8.46
(0.13)        (2.47)        (2.59)
IV.Development Program
_______________________
Civil Works                             22.91         22.91                       46.82
(16827)       (16.27)                     (82.64)
Goods and Services                                     0.30          16564         16.84
(0.21)       (11.08)       (11.24)
Subtotal IV                           22.91         28.21         15.64          61.60
(16.27)       (16.48)       (11.03)       (43.78)
GRAND TOTAL                             27.87         89.26         26.47          98.09
(19.48)       (27.68)       (18.94)       (66.00)
AFlIN
July 1989



- 46 -
ANiNEX 3-2
Table 2
COTE D'IVOIRE
_____________
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
_____________________________
Allocation and Disbursement of I8IRD Loan
------------------------------------------
Loan Allocation               Expenditures
Category                                                       (US Dollars)              to be Financed
A) Part A of tho Project (Municipal Management)
a) Consultant Services                                       2,200,000.00                         0.71
b) Operating Costs                                           1,000,000.00                         0.71
c) Vehicules A Equipment                                       440,000.00                         0.71
R) Part 8 of the Project (Resource Mobilisation)
a) Consultant Services                                       1,860,000.00                         0.71
b) Vehicules,Equipment A maitenance                            350,000.00                         0.71
C) Part C of tho Project (MCF)
a) Municipal Credit Fund                                    14,230,000.00                         /i.71
D) Part D of tho Project (Development Program)
a) Civil Works for Municipal Action Programs                25,610,000.00                         0.71
b)  Civil Works for Korhogo Nursing School                   3,670,000.00                         0.71
c) Consultant Servicos A Supervision for MAPs                6,290,000.00                         0.71
d) Vehicles A Equipment for Korhogo Nursing School             190,000.00                         0.71
E) Part E of the Project
a) Goods A Services for Demographic A Human Ress. Studies   38,10,000.00                          0.71
b) Goods and Services for NGO's Programs                     1,020,000.00                         0.71
Sub-total (A to E)                                      69,470,000.00
F) Unallocated                                                5I 6?E, I )0. 00
Total                                                    68,000,000.00
AFlIN
July 1989



- 47 -                                                        ANNEX 3-3
Table 1
cam D'IZVOIR
MICIPAL DEVELOOPT PROJECT
Project Cash Flow
_________________
(CPAF Mill ions)
Yer I         Year 2        Year 3        Year 4        Year b        Year 6
Total           FY90          FY91          FY92          FY93          FY94           FY95
... .  . .. .     - ---         - ---         -- --         ---- -- - -
SOURCES
I8RD Loan (OSIE CM)                 20,592.00        1,063.06      3,676.12      5,373.95       5,36S.99      0,568.47      1,154.40
Cofinancing (OSIE CAA)                 284.00           12.1          44.05          61.07         62.91         53.67          0.00
Cov*rnment Budget (5S1E Trneor)      6,780.97          85?.07       1,27.92       1,771.74      1,826.16      1,176.49        380.9
Municipal Budget.                    1,428.35           *0.09         216.79        313.47        386.65        432.35          0.00
Total Sources                       19,043.82        1,82.84       5,413.88       7,520-2       7,810.71      5,230.s8      1,534.99
AP0LICATIONS
Municipal Credit Fund                6,94o.69            0.00         918.44      1,562.34      2,049.96      1,765.26        650.40
Developmnt Program                  14,798.0           1118.48     2,887.10       4,100.64      4,031.23      2,178.60        630.30
Technical Assistance                 1,818.71         1U7.50         411.30         416.02        384.18        1129.71         0.00
Studies and Supervision              4,811.35          438.90       1,055.84      1,315.64      1,151.36        654.60          0.00
Vehicle and Equipmnt                   419.71           50.E 5        135.08         50.18         51.79        132.11          0.00
Operating Costs                        50.66            J7.19         109.19        134.49        139.55        130.24          0.00
Total Application&                  29,043.82        1,527.67      5,u46.95       7,579.61      7,808.06      5,180.52      1,430.70
S        mmt~~~~n      n=nsn         nnnnn        .nnnnn        b.nvnnnn
Cash Balance:Beginning                                   0.00           4.96        (48.11)      (107.40)      (104.75)       (54.29)
Cash Balance:End (Deficit)                               4."          (48.11)      (107.40)      (104.75)       (54.29)        (0.00)
PRICE CONTINGENCIES (Z)
------------------------------------
JAN
1989 Y1/90 Y2/91 Y3/92 Y4/93 Y5/94 Y6/95
Foreign    6.30  1.50  3.60  3.60  3.60  3.60  3.60
Local             4.30 (0.50) 1.60  1.60  2.00  3.60  3.60
PRICE CONTINGENCIES FACTORS
Foreign                     0.07  0.10  0.14  0.18  0.22  0.27
Local                       0.04  0.05  0.06  0.08  0.11  0.15
AFMIN
July 1989



CiE D'tvDIRE                    -  48  -
PUICIPAL D0&EULPM    PROJiT                                                               ANNEX  3-3
-----------------------------                                                             Table  2
Disbursement Schedule
Fiscal Year                                                                                    Standard Disbursemnt
and                         Semester                     CumulatIve         Cumulative          Country profile
Semester                    US I milion                  US S Million               t            (Transport Sector)
FY90 SI                               1.1                        1.15            0.02                     0.00
52                             2.30                         8.45            0.05                     0.03
FYQ1  St                              4.12                        7.57            0.11                     0.16
S2                             8.24                        15.81            0.24                     0.38
FY02 81                               5.71                       21.53            0.38                     0.82
S2                             11.42                       32.e6            0.60                     0.68
FY98  S1                              8.68                       36.84            0.59                     0.70
S2                             11.77                       80.60           0.77                      0.74
FY94 S1                               6.24                       86.04            0.86                     0.82
S2                              5.48                       62.82            0.94                     0.89
FY98 St                               3.68                       66.00            1.00                     0.94
82                                                                                                   1.00
Municipal Project Disbursement Profile
Versus Country Profile (trorsport)
0.1-
0.9 
0.8
0.7
*   0.6
1            ~         ~        ~~3  5               7                   9                  11
AF  IN                                                                    Liuo
July   1989              0      Mfunicepai Project                                       t      Country Profile



- 49 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MUNICIPAL CREDIT FUND
Assumptions for the Municipal Credit Fund
Years     Percent         Grace Period
(%)              (Years)
1.  IBRD Loan:                        20         7.74 La             5
2.  Other International Loans:        20         7.74                5
3.  Domestic Loans:                   12        10.0                 3
4.  Central Government Transfers:   Capitalized Annually
5.  Repayment Schemes        Interest /   Maturity  Grace Period   Deposit
(Maximum in Years)        (%)
Category 1 Infrastructure       12.0          12           2           15
Category 2 Productive Equip.  12.0            10           2            15
Category 3 Social Facilities  12.0            12           3           15
Category 4 Municipal Equip.   12.0             5           1           30
Category 5 Municipal Facil.   12.0            10           1           30
Municipal
Action Program (MAP)            12.0          12           2            18
Average                         12.0          11           2            18
/a Variable rate
T7 Based on BCEAO's Taux d'Escompte Normal (TEN)
6. Disbursement Schedule: 50 percent of amount committed in the first
year, 50 percent in the second year.
AFIIN
July 20, 1989



- 50 -                                                   ANNEX 4
Table 2
COTE D IVOIRE
IUNICIPAL DEVELOPMEfr PROJECT
Municipal Credit Fund
Projected Income Statement
(CFAF million)
Year:           1990     1491      1992     1993      1904     1995      1996     1997      1998     1999     2000      2001
nterete  on 1au
Paid b (Cot t-V)        10.33    58.19   135.09   248.14   386.30   835.12   686.14   837.37   980.02  1112.65  1241.64  1357.49
Paid b1 HAP             12.13    82.19   117.66   196.09   276.10   350.88   426.57   498.67   669.47   637.13   700.70   759.07
other Immun              0.00      8.00     4.91    15.62    21.48    34.22    36.32    43.08    32.95    37.88    34.00    54.90
Total 0ger. lnter         22.46    110.38   257.67   459.86   682.35   920.22  1148.02  1379.12  1582.44  1787.66  1976.34  2171.45
Operattng Eapanse
Bad Debt Cantin.          0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Amin. Regains            10.00    15.00    20.00    21.00    22.06    23.15    24.31    26.83    26.80    28.14    29.55    31.03
Total loerating  Cp_ne    10.00    18.00    20.00    21.00    22.05    23.15    24.31    25.83    26.80    28.14    29.55    31.03
Interest an Debt
Iwu Loa                  0.00    12.49    88.61   141.06   280.08   346.01   381.74   374.57   359.67   343.61   326.32   307.68
iU  FPa                 34.87    28.06    18.59       6.92     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Other nsternat'l         0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    31.55    92.00   156.63   206.94   257.25   257.25   248.29
Ogmastic twrouin         0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    50.00   165.00
Total FInM. Sasense       34.57    40.54    77.20   147.98   250.08   377.56   473.74   531.19   566.60   600.86   633.56   720.97
Total Emn"""              44.87    55.54    97.20   168.98   272.13   400.71   498.05   556.72   593.41   629.00   663.11   752.00
mat Incoea               -22.11      4.84   160.47   290.07   410.22   519.51   649.97   822.40   989.03  1158.66  1313.23  1419.45
mat Inc.. Cowl.          -22.11    32.72   193.19   484.07   694.28  1413.79  2063.77  2886.16  3875.19  5033.85  6347.08  7766.54
Projected Balance Sheet
(CFAF million)
Veer:           1990     1991      1992     1993      1994     fl95      1996     1997      1908     1999     2000      2001
Loans eoN iiwpllities   874.81  1377.19  2802.85  4493.93  6279.88  8055.39  9809.30  11528.95  13199.77  14802.81  16326.82 1M5.51
Curent Asss               5o8.87    57.82   183.70   252.36   402.62   427.26   506.85   387.60   445.61   399.96   645.89   674.59
Total uneae              483.18  1435.01  2986.65  4746.29  6682.50  8482.65  10316.15  11916.55  13645.38  15202.77  16972.71 18450.10
LiabilitIes:
Long-term Debt
Z-  Det eutatlg    822.76   1191.64  2463.29  4008.86  4932.08  4932.08  4746.72  4547.02  4331.87  4100.05  3850.30  3581.22
Other Internatoal         0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   815.16  2377.16  4047.16  5347.16  6647.16  6647.16  6415.85  6166.65
Longe-t. Daa"11e          0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   1000.00  2300.00  3300j.
Current Llabillles
Coffered  cmee           58.89    37.09    28.02    20.78       9.68    10.38    11.14    11.95    12.82    13.76    14.76    15.85
Total Liabiliftie        578.18  l 28.72  2481.31  4020.63  5786.92  7319.62  8805.02  9906.13  10901.84  11760.97  12580.92  13063.71
guity Ptvtfells           57.06   206.29   505.84   716.66   925.58  1163.03  1511.13  2010.42  2683.83  3441.80  4391.79  5386.39
r which
CapItollIa" Transfer      51.55   181.45   275.13   939.78   865.06   365.06   365.06   365.06   365.06   365.06   381.77   381.77
Surplus                    5.48    74.84   230.21   876.88   860.52   797.97  1146.07  1645.36  2288.47  3076.75  4010.03  5004.62
TDTAL LZAIUILT
me  IwtV                438.16  1435.01  2986.65  4746.29  6682.50  8482.65  10316.15 11916.55  13645.38  15202.77 16972.71  18450.10
AFlIN
July 1989



COTE D IVOIRE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
_                                                                                       Municipal Credit Fund
11                                                                             Projected Sources and Application of Funds
(CFAF mlIion)
C....                                                                                                                                         TOT4L       US 8u
Ye:            1990      1991    tL992     1993     1994      1995     1996     1997     1998      1999     2000     2001   90-94      NILLION
xD SOLRCES:
OD    Operating Income         -22.11    54.84   160.47   290.87   410.22   519.51   849.97   822.40   989.03  1158.66  1313.23  1419.45   894.28          2.37
tO      Incoe from Loon-:
Cat. I-V               0.00      4.77    27.70    79.43   161.80   269.09   394.13   534.d6   693.53   874.31   1069.23  1262 96   273.70         0.88
MAP                     0.00     0.00     9.78    33.50    68.28   111.10   158.49   213.28   276.43   349.03   432.32   527.67   111.57          0.36
Total from Loan Repsymen    0.00    4.77    37.49   112.93   230.0U   380.69   552.63   748.14   969.96  1223.34  1501.55  1790 54   385.27          1.23
Oovernent Transfer      51.55    79.90   143.68    64.65    25.28       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00    16.71     0.00   365.06        1.17
Long-term borrowing
IRD Loans             322.76   868.88  1261.65  1555.o6   923.23       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00  4932.0b       15.81
Other international     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00   815.16   1562.00  1670.00  1300.00  1300.00      0.00     0.00     0.00   815.16        2.61
Long-tere Domestic      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   1000.00  1300.00  1000.00      0.00       0.00
Subtoal Borrowing   322.76   868.88  1261.65  1556.56  1738.39  1562.00  1670.00  1300.00  1300.00  1000.00  1300.00  1000.00  5747.24         18.42
Nlunicipel doenpaypent   160.18   271.44   355.50   417.85   446.89   478.04   511.45   547.30   565.76   627.03   671.32   718.86  1651.66          5.29
Total Sourcs            512.37  1279.82  1956.79  2441.86  2880.86  2940.24  3384.06  3417.84  3844.75  4009.03  4802.80  4928.95  9043.71          28.99
Cuelativa               512.37  1792.19  3750.99  6192.85  9043.71  1193. 95 15368.01  18785.84 22630.59 26639:62 31442.42 36371.37  9043.71        28.99
APPLICATIONS:
Lon repaymnent 1Ih        0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00   185.35   199.70   218.16   231.81   249.75   269.08       0.00
Loan repayment other int    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00   231.30   249.21     0.00        0.00
Loan repayment other      0.00      0.00     to.00    0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00        0.00                               Ln
Total debt repyment     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00   185.35   199.70   215.16   231.81   481.06   518.29       0.00       0.00
lt4nicipel Inveat_nt     453.50  1222.00  1775.00  2189.50  2448.24  2618.68  2601.45  2997.53  3207.90  3433.62  3675.86  3935.84  8060.24         25.92
Total Application        453.50  122.00  175.00  2189.80  2448.24  2618.66  2966.81  3197.24  5423.06  3t66.43  4156.1.  4454.13  8060.24          25.92
Cumulati.e              453.50  1675.60  3450.50  5640.00  8088.24  10706.90  13693.71  11890.94 20314.00 23979.43 28136.34 32590.47  868.24        25.92
Reeree need               0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      C.00     0.00      0.00       0.00
Resource surplus         68.87    57.82   183.79   252.3    402.62   321.58   897.24   220.60   421.69   343.60   645.89   474.81   402.62           1.29
Comepnsation Transfer (n    0.00    58.67    57.82   153.79   252.36   298.95   317.65   339.86   363.68   389.24   399.96   445.11   552.65         1.77
Cumulatic- Surplus (def;   66.87    67.82   183.79   252.36   402.62   427.26   506.85   37.60   445.61   39.96   646.89   674.69   402.82           1.29
Indicators
1990     1991     1992     1995      1994     1995     19"      1997      1996     199      2000     2001
Operastionl tndicators
Loan Portf.outmt.       374.31  1377.19  2602.85  449W.93  6279.68  6065.39  9609.89  112.95 L1199.77  148102.81 16326.62  17775.51
Reurn on Loan Portfolio    6.00     7.68     9.02     9.69    10.52    11.00    11.33    11.59    11.74    11.82    11.90    11.91
Cost of Funds             9.24      5.06     2.M3     3.40     4.09      4.92     5.17     5.18     4.99      4.96     4.89     5.87
Annual Spred             -4.24      4.59     6.19     6.48     6.43      6.06     6.16     6.41     6.74      6.86     7.00     6.84
Financial Struture Indicator*                                                                                                                                                      lb
Debt Coorage Ratio        0.36      2.35     3.06     2.97     2.64      2.66     1.70     1.86     1.99     2.11      1.75     1.75
Debt Equity Retio          6.60     5.96     4.91     5.62     6.22      6.29     5.83     4.93     4.14      3.42     2.86     2.43                                                *
Principal Debt Ratio      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     2.98     3.75     4.51      5.28     3.12     3.45                                                  14P



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Chart 1
2Municipal Credit Fund
32 -I-..                       .   .  .  .
,30
28
26
24
22
20
00
IE    1i 
81 
0
Year
LEGEND
5     Capital Expenditures
O     MCP Loan Portfolio Outstanding
*    Total Debt Outstanding
a     IBRD Debt Outstanding
+    Municipal Loan Repayment
AF1IN
July 1989



- 53 -                                                   ANNEX 4
Table 4
COTE D'IVOIRE
_____________
Municipal Credit Fu-d
Projected Lending Activities in CFAF Million
Volume and Comitaent Amount            1990      1991      1992     1993      1994     1995      1996      1097     lo8      1999 Tot(90-94)
Category 7                  0.25     105.00   225.50   279.25   384.75   415.53   448.77   484.67   523.45   565.32    610.55  1,410.03
Category II                 0.35     147.00   315.70   390.95   538.65   581.74   628.28   678.54   732.83   791.45    854.77  1,974.04
Category III                0.20      84.00   180.40   223.40   307.80   332.42   359.02   387.74   418.76   452.26   488.44  1,128.02
Category IV                 0.10      42.00    90.20   111.70   153.90   166.21   179.51   193.87   209.38   226.13   244.22   564.01
Category V                  0.10      42.00    90.20   111.70   153.90   166.21   179.51   193.87   209.38   226.13   244.22   564.01
Subtotal Cat. I-V                  420.00   902.00  1,117.00  1,539.00  1,662.12  1,795.09  1,938.70 2,093.79 2,261.30  2,442.20 5,R40.12
Municipal Action Program             487.00   635.00   896.00   827.00   868.35   911.77   957.36  1,005.22  1,055.48  1,108.26  3,713.35
Total Amount Comitted                907.00  1,537.00 2,013.00  2,366.00  2,530.47  2,706.86  2,896.05  3,099.02  3,316.78  3,5S0.46  9,353.47
Volume and Disbureent Amount
Category I                  0.2-5     52.50   165.25   252.38   332.00   400.14   432.15    466.72   S04.06   544.39   587.94  1,202.27
Catecory II                 0.35      73.50   231.35   353.33   464.80   560.20   605.01   653.41   705.69   762.14   823.11  1,683.17
Category III                0.20      42.00   132.20   201.90   265.60   320.11   345.72   373.38   403.25   435.51   470.35   961.81
Category IV                 0.10      21.00    66.10   100.95   132.80   160.06   172.86   186.69   201.62   217.75   235.17   480.91
Category V                  0.10      21.00    66.10   100.95   132.80   160.06   172.86   186.69   201.62   217.75   235.17   480.91
Subtotal Cat. I-V                  210.00   661.00  1,009.50  1,328.00  1,600.56  1,728.60  1,866.89  2,016.24  2,177.54  2,351.75  4,809.06
Municipal Action Program             243.50   561.00   765.50   861.50   847.68   890.06   934.56   981.29  1,030.35  1,081.87  3,279.18
Totel Amount Disbursed               453.50 1,222.00 1,775.00 2,189.60 2,448.24  2,618.66 2,801.45  2,997.53 3,207.90  3,433.62 8,088.24
Financing Plan 1990-1994
Disbursement       Disbursement
basis              basis
CFAF Million       US 6 Million
Totel disbursed operations                             8,088.24              25.92
Compensation Transfer                                    552.85               1.77
Cumulative Balance                                       402.62               1.29
Total Financing Needs                                  9,043.71              28.99
Identified Reources
-___________________
From Operations                                        1,279.S5               4.10
Long term loans
I8RD                                                 4,932.08              15.81
Cofinancing                                              0.00                0.00
Domestic Borrowing                                       0.00                0.00
Oovernment Transfers                                    365.06                1.17
Municipal participation                                1,651.86               5.29
Total Identified Resources                             8,228.55              26.37
Financing Surplus or (Cup)                              (815.16)             (2.61)
Cap financed by:
Other International                                     815.16                2.61
AF1IN
July 1989



- 54 -
ODIE D'I'.IRE                                        ANNEX 5
KMNICIPAL DEVELOIMEN PRDUJCr
Table I                                Mimicipalities Oirrent Budget - FY87
CFAF 000's
Abidjan                Other                  New                  All
2   Manicipal.      %  Mlinicipal.       %   Mlnicipal.      %
A. Revemies
1. Laxd Property Taxes  2,802,820    13.8       349,824    4.2        32,764    0.5    3,185,408    9.2
2. Busirsls Taxes       4,184,466    20.7    1,089,912   13.1        126,033    2.0    5,400,411   15.4
Total State transferred
taxes                   6,987,286    34.5    1,439,736   17.3        158,797    2.5    8,585,819   24.6
3. Local Levies ard
Revenues             8,079,838    40.0    4,109,121   49.3    1,922,554   30.5   14,111,513   40.5
4. State Allocation     5,153,974    25.5    2,785,444   33.4    4,229,000   67.0   12,168,418   34.9
Total Revemues         20,221,098    100%    8,334,301   100%    6,310,351   100%   34,865,750   1007%
(1+2+3+4)            -               - -
B. Exqenditures
5. General Services     4,066,175    20.1    2,586,443   31.0    2,367,215   37.5    9,019,833   25.9
6. Comundty Services   7,037,075    34.8    2,689,474   32.3         869,851   13.8   10,595,400   30.4
7. Social Services        896,483      4.4      502,762    6.0       282,671    4.5    1,681,916    4.8
8. Etoranic Services      621,619      3.1      304,732    3.6       154,248    2.4    1,080,599    3.1
9. MFscellanecos        7,599,746    37.6    2,250,890   27.1    2,637,366   41.8   12,488,002   35.8
Total Expenditures     20,221,098    1009%   8,334,301   100%    6,310,351   100%   34,865,750   100%
(51617+8+9             -          
COTE D'NOIRE
MKNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PRIJBCT
Table II                             M.iicipalities ITvestmnt Budget - FY 87
CFAF 000's
Abidjan                Other                 New                   All
%   lirdcipal.      %  tinicipal.        %   Municipal.      %
A. Revemues
1. Tswestment Fund      4,124,292    99.8    1,918,504   98.3    2,415,610   98.9    8,458,406   99.2
2. Mimicipal Property
Inco0e                   7,000      0.2        3,550    0.2          -       -         10,550    0.1
3. Miscellaneous Grants       -         -        30,000    1.5        27,971    1.1       57,971    0.7
Total Reveuies          4,131,292    100%    1,952,054   100%    2,443,581   100%    8,526,927   100%
- =    =   .   =* = ==
B. Expnditue
5. General Services       904,455    21.9       492,186   25.2       762,566   31.2    2,159,207   25.3
6. Ccumnity Services   1,278,287    31.0        753,609   38.6       595,825   24.4    2,627,721   30.8
7. Social Serviees      1,622,688    39.3       420,444   21.6       682,464   27.9    2,725,576   32.0
8. Econmcdc Services      268,882      6.4      258,299   13.2       375,757   15.4      902,938   10.6
9. Other &penditures       57,000      1.4       27,516    1.4        26,969    1.1       111,485    1.3
Total Expenditures      4,131,292    100%    1,952,054   100%    2,443,581   100%    8,526,927   100%
AFIIN, July 1989



- 55 -
Pfp I of 2
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
Document Identification
A. Documents sectoriels/Sector related documents
SIVI -- Etude pour une strat6gie d'investissement public dans lea villes
de l'interieur, rapport de synthese final, juin 1984.
Groupement SCET-IVOIRE, SETAME, SEDES, SINORG, BEP.
Approfondissements sectoriels (SIVI):
(a) Amenagement du territoire et problematique dconomi:ue et urbaine.
(b) La maItrise financiere et fiscale.
(c) Les structures et les processus administratifs de prise de decision et
de gestion.
(d) Identification des projets et programmation.
(e) DNveloppement economique et strategie d'equipement des villes de
l'interieur.
(f) Aspects fonciers et immobiliers.
(g) Finances communales et annexes.
(h) Programmation des equipements
Annexe: Donnees sur les menages et l'habitat.
Dossiers urbains (SIVI)
ABOISSO - ASZOPE - AGNIBILEKOU - BEOUMI - DIVO - FERKESSEDOUGOU - GUIGLO -
M'BENGUE - OUELLE - SEGUELA - ZUENOULA.
Guide Mrnicipal de la Cote d'Ivoire, donnees communales Octobre 1986,
DCGTx.
Population redistribution, urbanization and economic growth in
C6te d'Ivoire: a review of past performance, and lessons for future
development strategies. Draft, May 1988. J. M. Cour.
B. Documents ti6s au projet/Project related documents
B 1. Synthese: Projet de developpement municipal. Rapport general,
octobre 1986. DCGTx.
Projet de d6veloppement municipal, mission de pre-evaluation.
F6vrier 1988. J. L. Venard.
...1. ..



- 56 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
Documents Available in the Project File (con't)
Document Identification
B 2  Gestion Municipale et Formation/Municipal Management and Training
Operation de reorganisation de la direction des collectivit6s
locales, note d'analyse. Mars 1986. E. F. Hentgen
Les services techniques communaux, elements de diagnostic.
Octobre 1986. DCGTx.
Contexte institutionnel et administratif de l'action d's communes.
Octobre 1986. DCGTx.
La formation, elements de diagnostic. Octobre 1986. DCGTx.
B 3 Mobilisation des ressources et fonds de prets aux communes/
Resource Mobilization and Municipal Credit Fund.
Projet de creation d'un organisme de credit aux communes et
A la ville d'Abidian. Note de synthese. Mai 1986. E. F. Hentgen.
Le fonds de prgts aux communes: simulatiPns. Octobre 1986. DCGTx.
Evolution des ressources budgetaires des communes de C8te d'Ivoire:
Incidences possibles d'un projet de developpement municipal.
Septembre 1988. B. Tagournet.
La question fonciere: elements de diagnostic. Octobre 1986. DCGTx.
Objectifs d'amelioration des finances municipales: elements
de diagnostic. Octobre 1986. DCGTx.
B 4 Programmes d'Actions Concertees (PAC)/Municipal Action Programs (MAP)
Etude economique des PAC, Octobre 1987. DCGTx.
PAC de Soubr6,    Octobre 1986.  DCGTx.
PAC de Dabakala,  Octobre 1986.  DCGTx.
PAC de Boundiali, Octobre 1986   DCGTx.
PAC de Bouafle,   Octobre 1987.  DCGTx.
PAC de M'Batto,   Octobre 1987.  DCGTx.
Rapport d'evaluation des equipements communautaires finances par
L'US-AID. Octobre 1987. B. T. U.
AFlIN
May 16, 1989



IBRD 21 181
-MA      I A     L  I                                                                                                                                                  02
\ q   jTO  80nnAo    Ill9GRll;;(>     (o [                                                                                                C6TE  D'IVO I RE
/  ff  4 t   o-' I f vS I \,.B U R K I N A                                       MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
To KonIo -A,                                      \                           o0boboeol o-  F AS O                                         URBAN  POPULATION  DISTRIBUTION
Moo,n,oo J                 ~~~~~~~~~M B-,.,,                                                                                                                                      0
I o5+~ eolg<   O,nqolodo  Wougdogo 
Modon,                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~URBAN POPULATION DISTRIBUTION
ERKESiEDCU  u     -_\                                                                  OF TOWNS OVER 10.000
ENNE  ho                                                        1%                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~300,000
100,000
lo8rylX  |  0  \i  $.iflilO   8   \  /  < o   801.  50,000
25,000
G  U  I N  E A  \i i! s  oo .....l. TO  ...     '2,0
EXPRESSWAY
PAVED ROADS
EARTH AND GRAVEL ROADS
t  TOUBA 4        \        ,'  )    !   9)       \          ~          V<KALA  s                                \-l          j o                     _  RAILROADS
4%INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
ROu/OUK                                 t  OTHER AIRPORTS
8" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A   "NOOBU                                                                                                                               ,PORTS
T. N Z,4k.,          8AKUt                     ;     < ~            ;.     2                              )<                         /r K-moi                     =    RIVERS
To N Ze,o&O'e I   A SAKUAI                                                                                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL
I%~J  \* t   /    SiSeooml 7    \ ~                      F     t                        j                                    DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
/   ~~~~~~~~~U   j0  OTHER TOWNS
- - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
N  ANE
5 < i {, \< t1 t t1 / \ TF\ \ (- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Agnibilekrq K7 
To T oG1e  : ° %                CIO . 
1%       |              ,     )              f           U AH;re            Rob,n RoO      ) AZOvPE               H      N  A
UA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
d~~~~~~~~~~~Bno Q                                                                                  -- SENEAL\>-  
( tGrubo   )v   SSANDRA                                  .   ~~~~~~~~~~~  X                              QTIS5EAp'=_ q fl  ,UINE  ^,.  *   FA'SO
{  V    ,<,  6,.nl >,PedG Bi                               f     (        117 Million)                                                                     't""i( ,1    f-  J t 
- it.    0oI                                                  oflbr                                                                                   'SERRA,>'       I5)l II'[  /<rGHANAIYC
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~GIe                                                                                                           dT'ANTIC \LiRERIA ,,( 
G  u i n e a                 o  ~~~~20 4060   bO  1i00120                       OCEdh                                 ' I. 
8"                0"                                                                ~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS                                    \    - , Aidjn'e )-.
L   ,         |                                              |                                  . .        '                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCTOBER 1988



<                ~~~MALI                      !                       
t_ f >2 $ 1-<~~~~ * BURKINA                                                                  FASOI
GUINEA r   st >_\ 2D+   <  
f   .    \\   Dbr k /\~_ /    |               \      {-t-q            T     _       l')t
§  °'  <z° ' 1 00 E ^- ¢<>-tt_\ >\ tX t f ) e---___ tt2rl
/   .;  \  tDzbro  \>   })   DGnz  t     tyTa   S)T                           \                               
wI---->       it      Z    f        s            .     g         t1°__s---$-or 
<Re k                             tW-        S    \ _ereNCL -                                                         otY 
e-   g~~~>-,<>   1l  \   L          -         <          5         -       -  ~~~~~~~ \       <<~~ssX ,r"
8^_\ J t \ ~~~~~IDlMO,IIz  ;Eb      > 
r   (t >          --~J                                                                                                                     M  .brt°^R  TWD;  t  /. k  _< \
u   t                           r                    -      gi -           ~~~~~r                                                               fr
COTE D'IVOIREi                                                                                                          
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTi.
Administrative  Divisions And  Location  Of Communes                                      __MAAURITANIA|
<2OLD C-LIMNES \{<_f  
0     NEW C-^IUNES                                              SENEGAL 
S   PREFECTURE CAPITALS                                 _                                                   AI        ~       ~       '
o SUB3, PREFECTURE CAPITALS                            AH:AMAL\,. 
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIESf   Ub 
- - -- SUB . PRECFCURE BOUNDARIES                            -eSu*/ ¢ 
---  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                            BURIN  FASO-S   (i
O     0           100         1iO          200                                               LIbERIA '        
O                                     KILOMETERS                                                                                                  AbLdio2.
3  wrwo  .............,_. _1...    Af .......... 



