Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14624
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUNE 12, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Period average)
Currency unit:    CFA Franc (CFAF)
1988: US$ 1 00 = CFAF 298
1989: US$ 1.00 = CFAF 319
1990: US$ 1.00 = CFAF 272
1991 US$ 1.00 = CFAF 282
1992: US$ 1 00 = CFAF 265
1993 US$ 1 00 = CFAF 283
1994: US$ 1 .00 = CFAF 555
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO    - Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BSIE      - Budget Special d'Investissement et d'Equipement
CAA       - Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
DCGTx   - Direction et Contr6le des Grands Travaux
DCL       - Direction des Collectivites Locales
DGF       - Dotation Generale de Fonctionnement
DGI       - Direction Generale des imp6ts
BSIE      - Budget Special d'Investissement de l'Etat/Government Capital Expenditure Budget
ICR       - Implementation Completion Report
ILO       - International labor Organization
MAP       - Municipal Action Program
MCF       - Municipal Credit Fund
MDP       - Municipal Development Project
MOI       - Ministrv of Interior
MSP       - Municipal Support Program
NGO       - Non-governnmental organization
PAC       - Programme d'Actions Concertees/Municipal Action Program
SAR       - Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP      - United Nations Development Program
USAID    - United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3128-IVC)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE.
EVALUATION  SUMMARY                                                  ...................................................... I-IV
PART  I - PROJECT   IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ............................................I
Introduction .......................................................I
Project Objectives  ..           .....................................................2
Implementation Experience and Results ....................................................                    4
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned  .................... 10
PART  II - STATISTICAL  ANNEXES                               ....................................................... 1
Table 1   : Summary of Assessments .................................1..................... 1
Table 2       Related Bank Loans and IDA  Credits .                     ................................................ 13
Table 3       Project Timetable              . ..................................................... 14
Table 4   : Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ..................... 14
Table 5   : Key indicators for Project Implementation  .......................................... 15
Table 6   : Key indicators for Project Operation   .................................................. 15
Table 7   : Studies Included in Project .                    .....................................................  16
Table 8A: Project Costs ............                  ........................................... 17
Table 8B: Project Financing ....................................................... 17
Table 9   : Economic Costs and Benefits .                      . ....................................................   17
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants in the Loan Agreement ............................. 18
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                                      ...  20
Table 12 :Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...                               .................................................... 20
Table 13   Bank Resources: Missions ...                   ................................................... 21
APPENDIXES    ...................................................... 22
A. M ission's Aide-Memoire ......................................................                           22
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR  ..                   .................................................... 24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3128-IVC)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Municipal
Development Project (MDP) in C6te d'Ivoire, for which Loan 3128-IVC in the amount of
US$66 million was approved on October 24, 1989 and became effective on December 19,
1989.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1994 as scheduled. The last disbursement
took place on April 4, 1995, at which time a balance of US$18.3 million was canceled. In
addition to the government counterpart contribution and the financial participation of
municipalities, cofinancing for the project was to be provided by UNDP.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Jean Mazurelle (task manager for the project) of the
Infrastructure Division, West Central Africa Department of the Africa Region. It was
reviewed by Mr. James 0. Wright, Chief of the Infrastructure Division, and Mr. Franz
Kaps, Operations Adviser of the West Central Africa Department. Preparation of this ICR
was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission in October/November
1994. It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by contributing the views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire
(appendix A), by preparing its own evaluation of the project's implementation (appendix
B), and by commenting on the draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3128-IVC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction.
I.    Direct Bank involvement in the urban sector began with the First Urban Project,
approved in 1976, which successfully introduced lower-cost, lower-standard solutions to
public transportation and to upgrading low-income neighborhoods in Abidjan. The
Second Urban Project, approved in 1981, focused on improving public transportation and
traffic management in Abidjan. It also included a small secondary cities component, with
municipal development pilot programs in Daloa and Korhogo (C6te d'Ivoire's second and
third largest cities) and a "Secondary Cities Development Strategy" study. The pilot
programs and the study pointed to the need for continued efforts to enhance the capacity
of secondary urban centers to strengthen their contribution to economic growth and to
participate actively in the alleviation of poverty by improving living conditions of urban
residents who are particularly vulnerable to deterioration in basic social services and
infrastructure. The pilot programs and the study led to the identification of the Municipal
Development Project (MDP) being reviewed here. A Third Urban Project, effective in
1989, continued assistance to urban transport in Abidjan and supported the government's
new policy of reducing public subsidies to the housing sector and shifting the burden of
housing finance to the private sector.
Project Objectives.
2.    The MDP was part of a phased program to make the municipalities more effective
centers of economic and social development by (a) developing managerial ctapacity at the
central and local levels in accordance with the respective new roles of central and local
governments within the ongoing municipal decentralization process; (b) improving local
resource mobilization to finance improvements in basic services in secondary centers and
surrounding rural areas, within the framework of an improved investment planning and
allocation process shared between the central government and 18 municipalities; (c)
overcoming the lack of basic infrastructure and social services in a first group of
secondary cities while also redressing inequality of access by the poorest residents; and (d)
initiating in these cities local development actions to increase private and informal sector
participation in both the productive and social spheres. Project objectives were not
revised during implementation.
3.    Project Description and Components. To achieve the above objectives, the
project included four major components: (a) a municipal management component to
strengthen Ministry of Interior (MOI) monitoring capacity and local government



-_j-
management through training, technical assistance, and institutional support; (b) a
resource mobilization component to prepare and launch basic local tax reforms, such as
the property tax and the professional tax; (c) a credit line to the Municipal Credit Fund
(Fonds de pret aux Communes), a special account to be created within the Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) for financing municipal infrastructure, and social and
community facilities; and (d) a development program component for a first set of 10 to 15
selected secondary cities, to fund key infrastructure and development projects, selected at
the city level through a participatory process involving local residents, municipal council
members and government representatives, including small-scale projects to be
implemented with NGO assistance.
4.    Loan Covenants and Special Agreements. The loan agreement included
covenants covering implementation arrangements and the staffing of some government
departments, the timing of fiscal studies and follow-up actions, the operations of the
Municipal Credit Fund, and the selection of additional project municipalities.
5.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project's objectives were clear. They
were important for C6te d'Ivoire and its regional development, as well as for the Bank's
country assistance strategy. The objectives might well have been achievable under normal
economic circumstances but, as it turned out, circumstances were far from normal in C6te
d'lvoire during the project period. The project itself was complex and risky, and imposed
serious demands on govemment and the implementing agencies. During a period of
worsening government finances, for all practical purposes the MDP ceased to be a
government priority.
Implementation Experience and Results.
6.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability. Project implementation
was good for the municipal management component, satisfactory for the development
program and studies components, and clearly deficient for the resource mobilization and
Municipal Credit Fund components. For the whole project, achievements were partial as
regards institutional development, physical and environmental objectives, and public sector
management; achievements were negligible as regards macro and sector policy objectives,
financial objectives, poverty reduction and private sector development. Since most of the
project's major objectives were not achieved, the project cannot be considered sustainable.
However, a new Bank project (the C6te d'Ivoire Municipal Support Program, approved
on May 12, 1995) would continue most of the activities started under the MDP, but under
a much improved macroeconomic environment and with improved implementation
arrangements to enhance the probability of sustainability.
7.    Summary of Costs. The latest project cost estimate is about US$64 million,
compared to the SAR estimate of US$93 million. Only three-fourths of the Bank loan of
US$66 million was disbursed with the balance of the loan canceled; government provided
slightly less than 60 percent of its estimated contribution of US$22 million, while UNDP
fully contributed its agreed US$750,000.



-111-
8.    Implementation Schedule. The project was approved by the Board on October
29, 1989, and became effective on December 19, 1989. A mid-term review carried out in
May 1993 recommended restructuring of the project, which was not completed due to the
drastic nature of the implementation changes recommended. It was decided rather to
close the project as scheduled and prepare a new one, based on the lessons of the MDP.
9.    Analysis of Factors Affecting Major Objectives. The factor that had the
greatest impact on project implementation was the financial crisis which not only
prevented government from providing the agreed counterpart funds, but also led it to take
for its own use funds belonging to municipalities. Other factors were the excessive
centralization of design and execution (paradoxically for a project that intended to support
a decentralization process), and the lack of coordination and even conflicts among the
ministries and agencies involved.
10.   Assessment of Bank's and Borrower's Performance. The Bank's performance
on this project was satisfactory at the identification stage and for preparation assistance,
but deficient at appraisal and supervision. The Borrower's performance was somewhat
less than satisfactory as regards project preparation and deficient as regards
implementation and compliance with covenants.
11.   Assessment of Project's Outcome. The outcome was satisfactory for the
"Municipal Management", "Development Program", and "Studies and Supervision"
components, but unsatisfactory for the other two major components. Overall, the
project's outcome deserves a rating of "unsatisfactory".
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned.
12.   The project was designed as the first phase of a program to make the
municipalities more effective centers of economic and social development in Cote d'Ivoire.
The SAR recognized that many issues would have to be progressively fine-tuned during
implementation and that subsequent phases of technical assistance and funding for
municipal development would have to be considered. Although the project did strengthen
the monitoring capacity of MOI and the management capacity of local governments, the
outcome of the project remains unsatisfactory. With only about 75 percent of the loan
amount disbursed, the project was not carried out to the satisfaction of the Borrower or of
the Bank. The project design overestimated the capacity of the government and the
municipalities to contribute to the financing of project costs and underestimated the
resistance of ministries and state agencies to meaningful decentralization. DCGTx, an
agency initially under the Presidency and later under the Prime Minister, had overall
responsibility for this project, but there was no clear understanding of the roles and
responsibilities of the ministries and other agencies involved. Excessive centralization and
the financial crisis are indeed the two main causes of the unsatisfactory outcome of the
project. Both are closely related to the political and economic conditions at the time. The
objectives of the project were the right ones, but the MDP came at the wrong time.



-iv-
13.   Based on the lessons learned from this project's experience and the
recommendations of an urban sector strategy developed during 1993 and 1994 with the
successful involvement of stakeholders, a new project (C6te d'Ivoire Municipal Support
Program [MSP]) was prepared in 1995. Its two major components (Priority Urban Works
and Municipal Capacity Building) would continue most of the activities begun under the
MDP but with different implementation arrangements to ensure a demand-driven approach
and greater responsiveness to local needs. Under the overall supervision of an
interministerial coordinating committee chaired by the Ministry of Interior, the project
gives as much responsibility as possible to the municipalities in setting priorities and
standards, procuring works and services, and supervising design and implementation.
Also, municipalities will be allowed to keep their investment funds either in an account in
the CAA or in a commercial bank.
14.   The following lessons, which are relevant for future projects in the urban sector
(and not only in C6te d'Ivoire), can be learned from the implementation of this Municipal
Development Project:
* Urban development projects, in particular, municipal development projects,
whether works- or policy-oriented, must be conceived and implemented in a
decentralized context. Rather than being controlled by central autonomous
agencies, municipal development projects should take advantage of
communities' priorities, organizational abilities, skills and willingness to pay;
local governments' understanding of local issues and ability to mobilize local
support and resources; technical agencies' competencies and managerial skills;
and the central government's financial backing and oversight abilities.
* A municipal development project based on a decentralization process and
aiming at supporting that process cannot be managed in a centralized way,
without the active participation of municipalities. Also, in such a project,
government's commitment to decentralization cannot be taken for granted,
since government's priorities may change.
* It is essential that the project and loan documentation include a list of
performance indicators and a plan for a mid-term review, as well as appropriate
loan covenants to facilitate monitoring and evaluation of the project and the
canceling of the loan if government is unable or unwilling to comply with its
obligations and if the project is not properly implemented.
* The Bank should pay more attention to the continuity of staff working on a
project and should ensure that the staff assigned has the right kind of expertise.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3128 - IVC)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1.    INTRODUCTION
A.    Macroeconomic setting
1.1   During the 1980's, C6te d'Ivoire faced successive international trade shocks and a
sharp deterioration of its financial position which led the country to enter into a structural
adjustment process, largely supported by the Bank. The economic crisis and adjustment
influenced population redistribution and urbanization trends. The Abidjan Metropolitan area
growth rate declined sharply, from 10 to 4.5 percent per annum, and the ratio of urban to rural
incomes plummeted. Urban GDP growth per capita decreased sharply (minus 3 percent per
year), particularly in Adibjan, while per capita growth rates remained positive in the rural
sector.
1.2   On the other hand, there were indications that the economic impetus created by a
growing domestic market based on urbanization was persisting. Expansion of domestic
demand for food persisted between 1980 and 1985, and the informal sector, which is largely
urban, was much more resistant to the crisis than the modern one. It played a major role in
providing for basic needs, employment and income generation. During the crisis, however,
most Ivorian cities outside Abidjan experienced a dramatic fall in public investment. In
contrast with the preceding period, and due to their heavy reliance on central budget funds,
these cities were unable to extend services at a pace commensurate with their population
growth. As a result, deficiencies in basic economic and social infrastructure in many
secondary cities contrasted strongly with the development potential of their rural zones of
influence. In the long run, this critical situation could have jeopardized the urban-rural
linkages which had been at the root of the domestic market improvement. Cote d'Ivoire was
reaching a stage where future growth of per capita income of farmers would depend more on
the domestic market than on the export crops market. Therefore, strengthening urban-rural
linkages, and in particular the secondary cities' development potential, was one of the main
challenges Cote d'Ivoire had to face in the decade ahead. In this regard, the decentralization
process, which aimed to give a more important economic, financial and political role to
Ivorian cities through their local elected bodies, deserved strong support.
B.    Bank's Role in the Sector
1.3    Direct Bank involvement in the urban sector began with the First Urban Project (Loan
1347/48-IVC; US$44 M) which was approved in 1976 and closed in November 1983. A



-2-
completion report, dated March 24, 1986, noted that this project successfully introduced
lower-cost, lower-standard solutions to public transportation and to upgrading low-income
neighborhoods in Abidjan. Loan 2048-IVC (Second Urban Project; US$51 M) which was
approved in 1981, and closed in December 1987, focused essentially on improving public
transportation and traffic management in Abidjan. It included a small secondary cities
component with municipal development pilot programs in Daloa and Korhogo, Cote
d'Ivoire's second and third largest cities. Set up on an experimental basis, these pilot
programs were developed essentially with a view to test the technical and institutional
feasibility of future intervention in the municipal sector and in cities outside Abidjan. The
pilot programs had pointed to the need for a continued effort to enhance the capacity of
secondary urban centers to contribute to economic growth, and to actively participate in the
alleviation of poverty by improving living conditions of urban residents who are particularly
vulnerable to the deterioration of basic social and infrastructure services. Loan 2789-lVC
(US$126 M), a third urban project, effective in August 1987 and closed in December 1994,
(see ICR dated May 30, 1995) intended primarily to support the government's efforts to effect
major policy reforms introduced in the housing sector, as part of the SAL II program, and to
continue assistance to the urban and transport sectors in Abidjan.
H. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A.    Original Project Objectives
2.1   The project was part of a phased program to make the municipalities more effective
centers of economic and social development in C6te d'Ivoire by (a) developing managerial
capacity at central and local levels in accordance with the new roles of central and local
governments within the ongoing municipal decentralization process; (b) improving local
resource mobilization to allow improvements in basic services in the secondary centers and the
surrounding rural areas, within the framework of an improved investment planning and
allocation process shared between central government and the municipalities; (c) overcoming
the lack of basic infrastructure and social services in a first group of selected secondary cities,
while also redressing inequality of access by the poorest residents; and (d) initiating in these
cities local development actions to increase private and the informal sector's participation in
both productive and social spheres. Project objectives were not revised during
implementation.
B.    Project Description and Components
2.2   Direction et Contr6le des Grands Travaux (DCGTx), at that time under the tutelage
of the Presidency, was responsible for the overall performance of the project and was to act
as the "Executive Agency". To achieve its objectives, the project consisted of five major
components:
(a) a municipal management component to be implemented by Direction des
Collectivites Locales (DCL) of the Ministry of the Interior (MOI), aimed at
strengthening the monitoring capacity of MOI and the management ability of



-3-
local governments through a comprehensive training program, technical
assistance, and complementary institutional support;
(b)  a resource mobilization component to be implemented by DCGTx and
Direction Generale des Imp6ts (DGI) in the Budget Ministry, consisting of the
preparation and the launching of basic local tax reforms, such as the property tax
and the professional tax;
(c)  a credit line to the Municipal Credit Fund, or Fonds de Prets aux
CollectivitNs Locales (MCF or FPCL), a specific account to be created within
the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) for the financing of municipal
infrastructure, social and community facilities to be implemented by CAA,
DCGTx, DCL and municipalities;
(d)  a development program component for a first set of about twelve secondary
cities, consisting of key infrastructure and development projects (for each city, a
Municipal Action Program [MAP]), selected at the city level through a process
involving residents, municipal council members and representatives of central
government, including small-scale projects to be implemented with NGO
assistance and a nursing and midwifery school in Korhogo to be implemented by
DCGTx and the Ministry of Planning and Industry; and
(e)  a studies and supervision component, including a cartographic program for
about 40 cities, completion of the population and housing census, participation
in the West African regional migration survey, and a specific survey on the social
dimension of adjustment to be implemented by DCGTx and the Ministry of
Planning and Industry.
C.    Loan Covenants and Special Arrangements
2.3   The loan agreement included a number of covenants covering implementation
arrangements, the staffing of some government departments, the timing of fiscal studies and
follow-up actions, the operations of the Municipal Credit Fund, and the selection of additional
project municipalities.
D.   Evaluation of Project Objectives
2.4   The project's objectives were clear. They were important for C6te d'Ivoire and its
regional development, as well as for the Bank's country assistance strategy. There had been a
substantial increase in the number and size of secondary cities, and the network of secondary
cities played an important role in the country's development, particularly through strong
linkages with agricultural marketing. But the potential development impact of urban growth
was constrained by a dramatic fall in public investment in secondary cities due to the country's
general economic and financial crisis. Therefore, it was vital to support government efforts to
enhance the capacity of urban centers to contribute to future growth. Such support was
considered particularly warranted during the ongoing decentralization process. The



-4-
identification and design of the project were influenced by a number of considerations. First,
this was the first municipal development project in Cote d'Ivoire, and one of its thrusts was
capacity building for Ivorian municipalities. Second, government was interested in creating a
financial intermediary between the state and municipalities. Third, more and more donors
were becoming actively involved in the secondary cities, and there was a need for a more
coordinated approach to local development problems, coordination which the Bank could help
bring about. Finally, in the framework of the adjustment process and the poverty alleviation
strategy in C6te d'Ivoire, the project was seen as a useful vehicle for minimizing social
hardship for the most vulnerable urban groups.
2.5   The project's objectives might well have been achievable under normal circumstances.
However, during the project period, circumstances were far from normal in Cote d'Ivoire, and
the objectives turned out to be unrealistic. In a sense, the timing of the project was wrong:
the government was so short of resources that it ended up confiscating funds collected for and
belonging to the municipalities. Direction et Contr6le des Grands Travaux (DCGTx), a
powerful agency, was given the overall responsibility for the project, but there was no clear
understanding of the roles and responsibilities of the ministries and other agencies involved.
2.6   The project itself was complex, risky, and placed heavy demands on government and
the implementing agencies. The project had many components, which were to a large extent
interdependent and had to be properly articulated and implemented in order to avoid delays.
For the project to be successful, the executing agency, DCGTx, was obliged to accept to share
responsibility with the ministries and agencies involved in project implementation at both the
central and local levels; this risk of conflict was highlighted in the SAR. The project provided
new resources that were badly needed by the Borrower. However, the requirement of a
counterpart contribution of 29 percent of project cost was very demanding in the context of
government financial constraints. Government had begun to pass on responsibilities to the
municipalities, but without transferring the corresponding resources. At the time of appraisal,
the project was probably responsive to government priorities. Unfortunately, the already
difficult financial situation of the government worsened during project implementation, and,
for all practical purposes, the Municipal Development Project ceased to be a government
priority.
III. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.    Project's Success and Sustainability
3.1    Assessing overall project success is difficult because of significant differences in
performance among the five major components. Judgments can be made on the project as a
whole reflected in Table 1 of Part II. For the project as a whole, achievements were partial
for institutional development, physical and environmental objectives, and public sector
management; achievements were negligible as regards macro and sector policies objectives,
financial objectives, poverty reduction, and private sector development (other objectives listed
in Table 1 do not apply).



-5-
*  The achievement of physical objectives was substantial for the Municipal
Management component, partial for the Development Program and Studies
components, and negligible for the Resource Mobilization and Municipal Credit
Fund components.
* Macro policies and sector policy objectives were not really tackled because of
other priorities that monopolized the attention of government during project
implementation.
*  Financial objectives were not achieved at all. The new measures that were
envisaged at appraisal for increasing resource mobilization could not be
implemented, and the rate of utilization of the funds made available to the MCF
has been very low.
* Institutional development and public sector management objectives were achieved
for the Municipal Management component, and to a more limited extent for the
Development Program component. Achievements were negligible for the other
components. Virtually no progress was made in improving local resource
mobilization and improving the investment planning and allocation process
between central and local governments. The MCF did not function well, and
experience with that fund was too limited to have a meaningful impact.
B.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
3.2   The Borrower's report in Appendix B provides a comprehensive picture of the
implementation record for the project, including a description of the problems that were
encountered. In summary, implementation was rather good for the Municipal Management
component, satisfactory for the Development Program and Studies components, and clearly
deficient for the Resource Mobilization and Municipal Credit Fund components.
3.3   The Municipal Management Component, which was cofinanced by UNDP, with ILO
as executing agency, can be considered a success. The project team, composed of the
principal technical advisor and two expatriate experts hired by ILO, plus one senior Ivorian
expert and six junior Ivorian experts, has been in operation since July 1990. The planned
program of training, orientation and assistance-advisory tours was completed to everyone's
satisfaction. At project completion, only the local experts remained. The fact that as of May
1993 no counterpart payment had been made put the component in jeopardy, but the Bank
provided supplementary funding, and in 1994 the government did pay part of its counterpart
contribution.
3.4   The implementation of the Resource Mobilization Component was very unsatisfactory
since the Borrower did not fulfill any of its obligations. The studies on the reform of the
property tax and business tax systems were not completed; therefore none of the
recommendations could be envisaged at appraisal could be implemented, although some
adjustments were made to the taxation system. Mainly because of disagreements between the



-6-
DCGTx and the DGI on the handling of the property tax issue, it proved impossible until late
1994 to take any action concerning the preparation of the simplified fiscal cadasters and
assistance to the DGI. As for the development of low-cost designs for urban roads, drainage
systems, community facilities and municipal buildings, a catalog of standard low-cost designs
is being prepared by DCGTx. The loan disbursement rate for this component is only about 15
percent.
3.5   The implementation record of the Municipal Credit Fund Component was
unsatisfactory. By the end of 1994, nineteen loan agreements had been signed to finance 32
projects (an average of eight per year). Of the 19 loans, five involved the supplementary
funding of a USAID project (the counterpart funds to be provided by the municipalities), and
another involved the onlending to a municipality through MCF of a loan from the Caisse
Frangaise de Developpement (CFD). After four years of operations, the percentage of funds
made available to the MCF was very low (about 35 percent). The main problems encountered
were: (a) difficulties experienced by the municipalities in providing their own financial
contribution to project cost, and in preparing bankable projects; (b) the sluggish pace of the
contract award and approval procedures (the average lapse of time between loan approval and
works startup has been more than 18 months, more than two-thirds of which is attributable to
contracting procedures); and (c) some shortcomings in the quality of works supervision,
which led to delays.
3.6   The implementation record of the Development Program Component was rnixed. The
cartography subcomponent (to be continued under the new project), the planning studies for
the project municipalities and the construction of the nursing and midwifery school in
Korhogo have proceeded without any particular problems. On the other hand, the study of
economic exchanges between project municipalities and their rural hinterlands never got
underway. The execution of the Municipal Action Programs (MAPs) in the selected cities
experienced considerable startup delays but, by the end of 1994, the program was about 95
percent complete. The main problems encountered in the implementation of these programs
were the slow pace of contract awards procedures, or approval, and the failure of government
to provide counterpart funds on time.
3.7   The Studies and Supervision Component, which accounted for 10 percent of the Loan,
was implemented satisfactorily.
C.    Summary of Costs
3.8.  The latest estimate of project cost is about US$64 million, compared to the SAR
estimate of US$93 million. Only three-fourths of the Bank loan of US$66 million was
disbursed with the balance canceled. Government provided slightly less than 60 percent of its
estimated contribution of US$22 million while UNDP contributed US$750,000 as agreed.
D.    Implementation Timetable
3.9   The Project was approved by the Board on October 29, 1989 and became effective on
December 19, 1989. A mid-term review carried out in May 1993 recommended a



-7-
restructuring which was not completed due to the drastic nature of the changes required. It
was decided rather to close the project as scheduled, cancel the undisbursed balance, and
prepare a new one based on the lessons of MDP.
E.    Analysis of Factors Affecting Major Objectives
3.10. The factor that most affected project implementation was the financial crisis, which not
only prevented government from providing the agreed counterpart funds, but also led it to
take, for its own use, funds that belonged to the municipalities. The government also decided
in 1992 to reduce the percentage of centrally managed taxes allocated to municipalities.
Another important factor was the excessive centralization of execution, paradoxical for a
project designed to support a decentralization process.
3.11   On the positive side, project implementation was affected by the professional
competence and experience of the ILO (executing agency for the municipal management
component) experts. The flexibility shown by the Bank when it increased its financing share
was also an important factor. Finally, Ivorian implementing agencies were competent and
displayed integrity.
3.12  As a consequence of the financial crisis and excessive centralization mentioned above,
a number of factors affected project implementation negatively: (a) lack of coordination
between the agencies involved (only in 1993 was it decided to create a coordination
committee); (b) improper processing of procurement and disbursement documents; (c) faulty
or inappropriate design and DCGTx's implementation of small-scale municipal works that
could have been better carried out by small local enterprises in the private sector; (d) conflicts
between DCGTx and the central administration that prevented the project from implementing
institutional reforms; and (e) the inability of municipalities, whose budgets and funds were
completely controlled by central government, to mobilize counterpart funds on time.
3.13  Since most of the major objectives of the project were not achieved, the project cannot
be considered sustainable. However, the successful Management Development component of
the MDP has been consolidated into the training component of the new Cote d'Ivoire
Municipal Support Project (MSP) and will allow for new requirements, particularly those for
greater assistance for community infrastructure management. Based on the MDP experience,
the new program will also contain most of the MDP initiatives for municipal capacity building
and the financing of priority urban works, but run more efficiently and successfully (see
"Future Operation" below).
F.    Assessment of Bank's Performance
3.14  Bank performance on this project was satisfactory at the identification and preparation
stages, but deficient at appraisal and supervision. The project was very important for Cote
d'Ivoire and for its regional development as well as for the Bank's country assistance strategy.
In addition, the Bank should not have accepted the assignment of overall responsibility for this
project to DCGTx, without a clear understanding of the roles and responsibilities of the
ministries and other agencies involved. Moreover, by the time of appraisal and negotiations, it



-8-
should have been clear that government would not be able to provide the agreed counterpart
funds (29 percent of project costs), and that the financial capacity of the municipalities had
been overestimated; the financing plan should have been adjusted accordingly.
3.15  In its supervision of the project, the Bank displayed flexibility in agreeing to provide
additional financing to compensate for the lack of counterpart funds. Otherwise, Bank
performance was deficient in several ways during project implementation. The Bank did not
always assign staff with the right skills to supervise a municipal development project. The
failure of some Bank staff to respond in a timely manner to requests for "no objection"
contributed to procurement delays. In the context of a project aimed at promoting
decentralization and municipal development, the most important components were those
dealing with resource mobilization and the MCF. When it became apparent that no
meaningful progress would be made in these areas, the Bank should have already taken steps
to either restructure the project or cancel the loan. In the event, the decision was made
somewhat later to close the loan as scheduled, cancel the undisbursed balance of the loan, and
process a new operation for a Municipal Support Project.
3.16  Borrower Performance. Borrower performance was less than satisfactory for project
preparation and deficient with regard to implementation and compliance with covenants (see
para. 2.3). The success of the Municipal Management component is attributable to the good
performance of the ILO experts, but also to the capacity building efforts of DCL in MOI (the
main ministry involved in local government management). The MOI, and not DCGTx, should
have been in charge of this Municipal Development Project, and municipalities should have
participated more actively in decentralization. The project could not succeed without
government's willingness (and ability) to transfer to the municipalities the means to carry out
their responsibilities, and to let them undertake tasks (such as procurement) up to then done
by the central administration. Project design underestimated the obstacles that would be
raised by ministries and agencies to decentralization; even the MOI continued to follow its
normal procedures, and the centralized procurement procedures followed by other agencies
and ministries resulted in substantial delays in contract awards. The municipalities were
dependent on DCGTx, which had reached the limit of its capacity. The financial crisis was
probably the main cause of the failure of the project, and to a great extent this was beyond
government control. On the other hand, it is difficult to understand why government was
unable to resolve the conflicts between DCGTx and DGI which prevented the implementation
of the very important Resource Mobilization component. In summary, the government should
not have appointed DCGTx as executing agency for the project without adequate
arrangements to ensure the participation of all the different actors; government also failed to
take the measures necessary to ensure the success of decentralization, and did not give
sufficient priority to the project.
G.    Assessment of Project's Outcome
3.17  The project did strengthen the monitoring capacity of the MOI and the management
capability of local governments. But benefits did not materialize, and only about 75 percent of
the loan amount was disbursed. For reasons discussed above, the outcome is satisfactory for
the "Municipal Management", "Development Program" and "Studies and Supervision"



-9-
components, but unsatisfactory for the other two major components. Overall, the project's
outcome deserves a rating of"unsatisfactory". In fact, although the project helped generate
urban employment through increases in public expenditures in secondary cities, it failed at
improving the financial capacity of Ivorian municipalities. Moreover, the inability of the
Municipal Credit Fund to disburse undermined the overall project sustainability.
IV. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
4.1   Future Operation. The project was designed as part of a phasedprogram to make
municipalities more effective centers of economic and social development in C6te d'Ivoire.
The SAR recognized that many remaining issues (including the rules of the game and the
sharing of responsibilities between central government agencies and municipalities) would
have to be progressively fine-tuned during implementation, and that subsequent phases of
technical assistance and funding for municipal development would have to be considered. The
fine-tuning did not take place. As mentioned earlier, rather than restructure the project and
extend its closing date, the decision was made to process a new, refocused project that would
take into account the lessons of experience with the MDP. In the meantime, an urban sector
strategy was developed during 1993 and 1994 with government participation, and
internalization of the strategy recommendations and action plan. The successes and
shortcomings of decentralization were reviewed by working groups that included mayors and
central and local administrators. The successful involvement of stakeholders allowed for data
and information gathering that led to detailed recommendations for the new project's
objectives.
4.2   The main objectives of the new MSP project (C6te d'Ivoire Municipal Support
Program), which was approved on May 12, 1995, are to improve welfare in urban areas
(particularly for low-income groups), to improve the ability of the national and local
governments to implement and sustain urban services by establishing improved finance and
management systems, and to contribute to sustained development through environmental
improvement and protection. The new project has two major components: The Priority
Urban Works component involves capital improvements, including priority works for small
municipalities, service improvements in low-income urban areas, and loans to municipalities
for revenue-earning investments. The Municipal Capacity Building component includes
training and technical assistance, the financing of cadasters in 18 secondary cities, and the
provision of small loans to microenterprises. Most of these activities are the continuation of
those begun under the MDP, but with somewhat different implementation arrangements to
ensure a demand-driven approach and greater responsiveness to local needs. The new project
gives as much responsibility as possible to the municipalities to establish priorities and
standards, procure works and services and supervise design and implementation; in addition,
municipalities are allowed to keep their investment budget either in an account in the CAA or
in a commercial bank. The project as a whole will be supervised by an interministerial
coordinating committee (established under the MDP following the mid-term review in 1992),
chaired by the Ministry of Interior, and consisting of representatives of the main ministries
involved in local government management and at least three mayors. That committee will
supervise, in particular, the work of the support unit within DCGTx, which will be in charge



-10-
of the project's day-to-day management. A number of measures have been adopted in order
to maximize the project benefits. The interministerial coordinating committee will be guided
only by eligibility criteria, and committee decisions will be published to make the process fully
transparent. Performance indicators have been agreed upon and will be closely monitored.
With regard to procurement, these indicators create incentives that, through a progressive
system of sanctions, will encourage continuous adaptation of project implementation.
4.3    Key Lessons Learned. The following lessons, some of which could also apply to
many other projects or have even become standard requirements on more recent projects, can
be learned from the implementation of the Municipal Development Project:
*  Urban development projects, in particular, municipal development projects,
whether works- or policy-oriented, must be conceived and implemented in a
decentralized context. Rather than being controlled by central autonomous
agencies, municipal development projects should take advantage of communities'
priorities, organizational abilities, skills, and willingness to pay; local governments'
understanding of local issues and ability to mobilize local support and resources;
technical agencies' competencies and managerial skills; and the central
government's financial backing and oversight abilities.
-  A municipal development project based on a decentralization process and aimed at
supporting that process cannot be managed in a centralized way without the active
participation of municipalities. Also, in such a project, government's commitment
to decentralization cannot be taken for granted, since government's priorities may
change.
*  It is essential that the loan documentation includes performance indicators
covenants and a plan for a mid-term review to facilitate monitoring and evaluation
of the project and the canceling of the loan if the project is not properly
implemented.
* The Bank should pay more attention to the continuity of staff working on a project
and should ensure that the staff assigned has the right kind of expertise.



-11-
PART 11- STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievements of       Substantial    Partial    Negligible      Not
Objectives                                                     Applicable
Macro Policies                                         x
Sector Policies                                        x
Financial Objectives                                   x
Institutional Development                 x
Physical Objectives                       x
Poverty Reduction                                      x
Gender Issues                                                       x
Other Social Objectives                                             x
Environmental Objectives                  x
Public Sector Management                  x
Private Sector                                         x
Development
Other (specify)                                                     x
B. Project Sustainability    Likely          Unlikely        Uncertain
Since most of the major objectives of the project have not been achieved, the question of
the sustainability of the project does not apply. However, most of the initiatives started
under the MDP for municipal capacity building and the financing of priority urban works
will be continued under the new Municipal Support Program.



-12-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (continued)
C.. Bank Performance          Highly    Satisfactory   Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                x
Preparation Assistance                        x
Appraisal                                                   x
Supervision                                                 x
D. Borrower                   Highly    Satisfactory    Deficient
Performance                Satisfactory
Preparation                                   x
Implementation                                              x
Covenant Compliance                                         x
Operation (if applicable)       n.a.         n a.          n.a.
E. Assessment         Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory        Highly
of Outcome         Satisfactory                                        Unsatisfactory
I     I                 I      ~~~~~~~~~x



-13-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Credit or                       Purpose                         Year of        Status
Loan Title                                                     Approval
Preceding
Operations
First Urban    Urban planning and urban transport focusing on                   Completed
Project        Abidjan.                                            1976           1983
Second Urban   To develop the public transport system and improve
Project        the flow of traffic in Abidjan and, through a pilot  1981        Completed
program  in the secondary cities of Korhogo and                    1987
Daloa, to help implement a balanced regional
development strategy.
Third Urban    To implement a new  housing policy aiming at
Project        shifting part of the social housing investment burden           Completed
from the public to the private and banking sector, to  1987        1994
launch a new land development program for the
housing sector without Government subsidies, and to
maximize the use of Abidjan transport infrastructure.
Following
Operations
Municipal      To improve welfare in urban areas, to improve the
Support        ability of the national and local govemments to     1995       Credit not yet
Program        implement and sustain urban services by establishing             effective
improved finance and management systems, and to
contribute  to  sustained  development  through
environmental improvement and protection.



-14-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle         Date planned   Date actual /
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                2-Feb.-87
Preparation                                  Feb.-88      13-Feb.-87
Appraisal                                    Jun.-88      30-Jun.-88
Negotiations                                              30-Jun.-89
Board Presentation                          17-Jan-89     24-Oct.-89
Signing                                                   25-Oct.-89
Effectiveness                                             19-Dec.-89
Midterm Review                                n.a.           n.a.
Project Completion                         30-Jun.-94     30-Jun.-94
Loan Closing                               31-Dec.-94     31-Dec.-94
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY90   FY91    FY92   FY93    FY94    FY95
Appraisal Estimate    3.50    15.80    32.90    50.60    62.30    66.00
Actual                8.30    10.17    17.87    30.36    37.20    50.50
Actual as % of       237.1%   64.4%    54.3%    60.0%    59.7%    76.5%
Estimate
Date of Final Disbursement:



-15-
Table 5: Key indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/President's Report  Estimated   Actual
Note: Neither the SAR/President's Report nor the Loan Agreement contained any key
indicators for project implementation. A detailed description of the activities carried out
under the project is included in the Borrower's completion report (Appendix B), and
summarized in Part I.
Table 6 : Key indicators for Project Operation
Not Applicable



-16-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study         Purpose as defined at appraisal     Status            Impact of Study
1. Cartographic   Mapping of the overall municipal   Completed   Completed for 27 cities for the
program.         area for about 40 cities and of the              overall as well as the urbanized
urbanized area for about 15 cities.              area. Will serve as a basis for
simplified fiscal cadastres.
2. Municipal     For each of the 18 cities selected as   Completed   Has been and will be used for
planning         beneficiaries, a simplified  master              the planning of municipal
Studies.         plan of the whole municipal area, a              development.
drainage master plan of the urbanized
area, and a priority action plan.
3. Topographic   For civil works included  in the   Completed   Were used for the
works and        Development program component.                   implementation of the
detailed design                                                   component.
4. Economic      To measure the urban-rural economic   Not carried
monitoring       flows between the selected cities and  out.
studies         their rural hinterland, and to assess
the economic impact of the project on
these flows.
5. Census        Continuation and completion of the   Completed   Essential basis for national and
national demographic census.                     sectoral planning.
6. Human         Preparation of a human resources   Completed   Being used for the preparation
resources study   development program as part of an               of an investment and reform
adjustment operation.                            program for the higher
education subsector.
7. Social survey   Survey on the social dimension of   Still being
adjustment.                         carried out
8. Migration     Participation  in the West African    Ongoing
survey.          regional migration survey.
9. Preparation    Preparation of urban and/or rural   Completed   Projects have been prepared and
of development   development projects in municipal                will be financed under the
projects.        areas  to  achieve  stimulation  of              Municipal Support Program.
municipal economic activities with
NGOs' assistance.



-17-
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US $ million)
Project Components                     SAR Estimate   Actual/Latest
Estimate
Municipal Management component                              5.13              5.41
Resource Mobilization component                             2.87             0. 37
Municipal Credit Fund component                            19.42              6.72
Development Program component                             42.22              44.83
Studies and supervision component                          12.22              6.52
Sub-total base costs                                      81.86              63.85
Physical Contingencies                                      0.50
Price Contingencies                                        10.73
Total Project Costs, including taxes                      93.09              63.85
of which taxes                                             12.77              n/a
Total project costs, net of taxes                         80.32               n/a
Table 8B  Project Financing
(US $ million)
Source                         SAR Estimate   Actual/Latest
Estimate
IBRD loan                                                 66.00              50.50
Government Funds                                          21.76              12.60
Municipal contributions                                    4.58               a_
UNDP - ILO                                                 0.75              0.75
Total                                                     93.09              63.85
@ included under "Government Funds".
Table 9  Economic Costs and Benefits
There are no data available to recalculate the economic rates of return that were estimated in the SAR
only for the paving of streets included in the Municipal Action Programs for the first set of municipalities, or
to calculate a posteriori the cost-effectiveness of other components in achieving project objectives.



-18-
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants in the Loan Agreement
Section      Covenant        Present           Fulfillment date                            Description of Covenant                                   Conmnents
Type          Status
Original        Revi-
sed
2.02(b)          1              C          continuous                  Open and maintain two Special Accounts in CAA, and one Special
Account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank.
3.01(a)         4, 5           CD          continuous                 Borrower's commitment to project objectives; Borrower to carry out  Borrower provided only part of the
project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with  agreed upon counterpart funds, and
appropriate practices, and to provide funds, facilities, services and other  with some delays.
resources required for project.
3.01(b)         5, 9            C          continuous                 DCGTx, appointed by Borrower for the supervision and control of
execution of project, to undertake the financial monitoring of project and
the preparation of quarterly reports.
3.01(c)         5,10            C          continuous                 For purposes of the Municipal Fund component, Borrower to deposit
into FPCL the loan proceeds allocated to that category, and to cause
CAA to enter into Sub-loan Agreements with Beneficiaries in accordance
with a Circular satisfactory to the Bank.
3.02            10             C          continuous                 Procedures for procurement of goods, works and consultants' services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.                              ,-
3.03         2, 9,10          NC       Oct. 31, 1990                 Borrower to review, not later than Oct. 31, 1990, in consultation with  Studies were not completed; hence,
for the review,               Bank, recommendations of fiscal studies included in the Resource  their recommendations could not be
and 1992 for                  Mobilization component, to propose in its 1992 budget-law measures  reviewed jointly by Borrower and Bank,
the measures.                satisfactory to Bank to increase yields from the business tax, and to take  and the new  measures envisaged in
the necessary technical measures to facilitate the land property tax  SAR  could  not  be  implemented,
reform and to improve its billing and collection.                although some adjustments were made
to the taxation system.
3.04          5, 10           NC          continuous                 Borrower to take all necessary actions, including the employment of  No action has been taken because of
qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers, to strengthen  disagreements between DCGTx  and
DGI's capacity in billing and collection of the land property and  DGI on the implementation modalities
business taxes.                                                  of that component.
3.05          10, 11          CP        Nov. 30, 1990                Borrower to introduce, not later than Nov. 30, 1990, a mechanism,  Draft decree has been prepared. Since
satisfactory to the Bank, to rationalize the alocation of the Dotation   1990,  Borrower  has  applied   a
Globale de Fonctionnement (DGF) among municipalities and the city of  mechanism similar to the one described
Abidjan.                                                         in the draft decree.
3.06(a)          5              C         condition of                To carry out the Municipal Credit Fund component, Borrower to open
effectiveness               and maintain in CAA the FPCL, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank (condition of effectiveness), and to make an initial deposit
I therein of CFAF 30 million.



-19-
3.06(b)         5, 10            C           continuous                   To carry out the Municipal Credit Fund component, Borrower to
establish and maintain a Steering Comniuttee to, inter alia, (i) issue a
Circular, satisfactory to the Bank, defining the eligibility criteria of
beneficiaries and sub-projects, the terms and conditions of sub-loans
applicable to each category of sub-projects, the guidelines for sub-
project preparation, appraisal and implementation and for the mandatory
control by DCGTx, (ii) monitor FPCL's financial performance, and (iii)
approve any sub-loan application.
3.06           5. 10            C           continuous                   To carry out the Municipal Credit Fund component, Borrower to appoint
(c), (d) &                                                                 a Manager for FPCL with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
(e)                                                                     the Bank, to establish and thereafter maintain a Technical Secretariat,
and to entrust DCGTx with the responsibility of reviewing and
appraising all financial, technical and economic analyses of any
proposed sub-project, before it is submitted to the steering Committee
for approval through the Technical Secretariat.
3.07            10              C         Jan 1, 1990 for                Borrower to select, not later than Jan 1, 1990, the second set of
the second set,               additional project municipalities, and not later than Dec. 31, 1990, the
and Dec. 31,                 third set of additional project municipalities, satisfactory to the Bank, in
1990 for the                 accordance with the criteria set forth under Schedule 5 to this
third set.                  agreement; and Borrower to submit to the Bank for prior approval any
Programme dActions Concertees (PAC) - or Municipal Action Program
(MAP) - prepared during the execution of the project for said project
I___________  I___________                    municipalities.
4.01             1             CD         by June 30 of                  Borrower to maintain adequate project records and accounts, to have the  Audit reports have been submitted with
each year, for                accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and to  considerable delays.
the preceding                 furnish to the Bank, not later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year.                     year, the report of such audit by said auditors.
Covenant types:
I =  Accounts/audits.                                     8 =  Indigenous people.                                    Present status:
2 =  Financial performance/revenue generation from        9 =  Monitoring, review and reporting.
beneficiaries.                                             10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9.    C   = Covenant complied with.
3 =  Flow and utilization of project funds.                11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource    CD = Complied with after delay.
4 =  Counterpart funding.                                 allocation..                                               CP = Complied with partially.
5 =  Management aspects of the project or                  12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/        NC = Not complied with.
executing agency.                                institutional      action.
6 =  Environmental covenants.                              13 = Other.
7 = Involuntaiy resettlement.



-20-
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title            Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. OD 10.60                                  The audit reports were not submitted on time.
Accounting, financial Reporting and Auditing.
2. OD 12.20
Special Accounts.
3. OP 12.30
Statement of Expenditure.
Table 12 : Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project         Planned                 Revised                 Actual
Cycle                                                     _
Weeks       USS        Weeks        US$       Weeks        US$
Preparation to          n/a                     n/a                    83.1
Appraisal                       _-     =_ _ _
Appraisal               40.0                   49.0                    37.6
Negotiations through    n/a                     n/a                    n/a
Board Approval     l           l                                               _ __
Supervision             79.0   r               116.2                  129.5
Completion         T             _ I       I
TOTAL                   n/a    | _         |   n/a        _           250.2



-21-
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions.
Stage of     Month/    Number    Days in    Specialized staff         Performance Rating        Types of Problems
Project Cvcle    Year    of Persons    Field    skills represented
.                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Implemen-  Develop-
tation Stattus   ment
Through          Nov.-87                         EC
appraisal                I
Appraisal        Jun.-88       7                 EC.CONS, MFA,
through Board                                    FA
Approval
Supervision I    Feb.-90       I11    _EC_                                           _
Supervision 2    Jun.-90       I _        10     EC_I_I
Supervision 3    Feb.-91       2          9      EC,UP                    I        _     I
Supervision 4    Mav-91        3          7      EC, STE,TEC              I              I
Supervision 5    Oct.-91       4          7      STE, TEC. CONS
Supervision 6    Feb.-92       2          5      STE,TEC
Supervision 7    Oct.-92       3          4      EC, TEC, MFA             3              3        PDO, PMP, AF, SP,
FP
Supervision 8    Jan-93        2          12     TEC, MFA                 3              3        PDO, PMP, AF, SP,
________________                     ~~~FP
Supervision 9    Jun.-93       2          7      MFA, CONS                3              3        PDO, CLC, PMP,
AF, SP, FP
Supervision 10    Nov.-93      2          4      MFA, YP                  3              3        PDO, PMP, AF,
SP, .FP
Supervision 11    Mar-94       3          7      MFA, HE, CONS            2              2        AF, FP
Supervision 12    Nov.-94      3          7      MFA, HE, CONS            2              2        FP, PP
Completion       Mar-95        2          8      MFA, CONS
Key to specialized staff skills
EC  = Economist                    TEC   = Transport Economist                MFA = Municipal Financial Analyst
FA  = Financial Analyst            CONS = Consultant                          YP  = Young Professional
UP = Ufrban Planner                STE   = Senior Transport Engineer          HE   = Highway Engineer
Key to performance rating
I = Problem Free               2   Moderate Problems        3 = Major Problems        4 = Major Problems -
Corrective action to be taken.
Key to problems
AF  = Availability of funds                    FP   = Financial performance                PP = Procurement progress
CLC = Compliance with legal covenants          PDO  = Project Development Objectives       SP = Studies progress.
PMP = Project management performance



-22 -
APPENDIXES
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
1.    Une mission de la Banque Mondiale, composee de Messrs J. Mazurelle (Chef de
Mission) et P. Geli (Consultant), a sejourne en C6te d'Ivoire du II au 23 mars 1995 pour
finaliser le Rapport d'Achevement du Projet de Developpement Municipal, pour lequel le pret
No.3128-IVC a ete signe le 25 Octobre 1989 et cl6ture le 31 decembre 1994. La mission
remercie tout particulierement S.E. Monsieur E. C. Bombet, Ministre de l'Interieur, de lui
avoir accorde une audience, au cours de laquelle elle a pu lui presenter les conclusions et
recommendations principales de ce rapport d'ach6vement. La mission remercie egalement les
cadres de la CAA et de la DCGTx avec lesquels elle a eu des r6unions de travail dans une
atmosphere constructive.
2.    L'evaluation retrospective du Projet de D6veloppement Municipal faite ind6pendam-
ment par la Banque s'inspire largement du rapport prepare par le Gouvernement, qui
comprend une description detaill&e des activites realisees et des probl&mes rencontres au cours
de l'execution du projet. Le rapport d'achevement qui sera soumis au Conseil d'Administra-
tion de la Banque Mondiale doit presenter les deux points de vue, et il n'est donc pas
necessaire de les harmoniser. La mission a toutefois pu constater qu'il y avait une certaine
convergence de vues entre l'analyse du Gouvernement et celle de la Banque sur l'execution du
projet et ses resultats.
3.    Le projet s'inscrivait dans un programme echelonne visant a faire des municipalites des
p6les de developpement social et economique en renfor,ant les capacites de gestion a
1'echelon national et local, en am6liorant la mobilisation des ressources locales, en remediant a
l'absence de services sociaux et d'infrastructures de base dans un premier groupe de villes
secondaires, et en lan,ant dans ces villes des actions de developpement visant a faire une plus
large place aux secteurs prive et informel. L'ex6cution du projet s6st s'est deroulee de maniere
satisfaisante pour les composantes "Gestion Communale", "Programme de Developpement "et
"Etudes", mais a ete tres deficiente en ce qui concerne les composantes "Mobilisation des
Ressources" et "Fonds de Prets aux Collectivit6s Locales" (FPCL). Le taux de decaissement
du pret de la Banque Mondiale etait seulement de 75 percent a la date de cl6ture. D'une fa,on
g6nerale, ni le Gouvernement ni la Banque mondiale ne sont satisfaits des resultats de ce
projet.
4.    Les objectifs du Projet de Developpement Municipal etaient importants pour la C6te
d'lvoire, mais le projet est intervenu au mauvais moment. La conception du projet, en
prevoyant une contrepartie de 29 percent, avait certainement surestime la capacite du pays a
prendre en charge ses obligations. La crise economique et financiere, qui a fini par mener a la
devaluation du franc CFA, a reduit considerablement les capacites budgetaires de l'etat et a
interdit que son engagement en faveur des collectivites locales soit suivi d'effet. La
dependance financiere des communes s'est meme aggravee lorsque l'etat, ayant de grandes



-23-
difficultes a assurer le paiement des salaires de ses fonctionnaires, a diminue la Dotation
Globale de Fonctionnement (DGF) et a modifi6 A son profit les regles de repartition des
imp6ts locaux sur r6le recouvres par l'administration centrale. Cette crise, qui a nui au bon
fonctionnement du FPCL en particulier, a gravement perturb6 l'economie generale du projet.
Par ailleurs, la composante "Mobilisation des Ressources", dont l'objet etait d'accroitre
l'autonomie financi&re des communes, a souffert de l'absence de definition des r6les et
responsabilites des differents acteurs charges de sa mise en oeuvre. Finalement, la conception
du projet avait egalement sous-estime la resistance des administrations et agences d'tat a une
veritable decentralisation.
5.    Malgre ses insuffisances, le projet a neanmoins permis de mettre en place un certain
nombre d'instruments et de proc6dures, dont la perennite depend entierement de la volonte de
l'Etat Ivoirien de donner aux communes les moyens dont elles ont besoin pour assumer leurs
responsabilites. Cette volonte s'est recemment manifestee A travers un important travail de
preparation (et les negociations d'un credit de l'IDA) pour le Programme d'Appui A la
Conduite d'Operations Municipales (PACOM). Tirant les le,ons de 1'experience du PDM, les
dispositions d'execution du nouveau projet PACOM mettent en avant une stategie pilotee par
la demande et une plus grande sensibilite aux besoins locaux. Sous la supervision d'ensemble
d'un comite de coordination interministeriel, preside par le Ministere de l'Interieur, le PACOM
donne aux communes la plus grande latitude possible pour decider des priorites et
specifications, participer a la conception des sous-projets, passer les marches de travaux et les
contrats de services, et superviser 1'execution, en outre, les communes sont autorisees a garder
les ressources de leur budget d'investissement sur un compte a la CAA, ou dans une banque
commerciale.
Abidjan, le 22 mars 1995.



-24-
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
Introduction
1.    The Municipal Development Project (MDP) was financed in the amount of US$66
million by Loan 3128-IVC, which was signed on October 25, 1989 and became effective on
December 29, 1989. The scheduled closing date for the MIDP was December 3 1, 1994. The
objectives of the project are to help the Borrower strengthen the technical and management
capabilities of municipalities, improve their financial situation through resource mobilization
and by establishing a Municipal Credit Fund (Fonds de Pret aux Collectivits Locales), and to
carry out infrastructure and community development projects and encourage economic
activities in project municipalities. The project consisted of five components:
- Part A: Municipal Management
- Part B: Resource Mobilization
- Part C: Municipal Credit Fund
- Part D: Development Program
- Part E: Studies.
2.    The Borrower was to execute Part A through the Direction Generale des Collectivites
Locales - DCL (Local Government Directorate), Part B through the Direction et Contr6le des
Grands Travaux - DCGTx and, where tax reform implementation is concerned, through the
Direction Generale des Imp6ts (Tax Directorate); Part C through the Management Committee
and the Technical Secretariat; Part D through DCGTx and Part E through the Ministry of
Planning. For the purpose of the project, the Borrower opened and has maintained two
special CFA franc accounts at the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA), one for Parts B,
DI and D5 and E of the Project and one for Part C of the Project, and a third special account
at a commercial bank for Parts D2 and D6 of the Project.
Implementation Of Part A: Municipal Management And Training
3.    Loan agreement. Part A of the MDP, whose primary objective was to strengthen the
technical and management capabilities of municipalities, had two components:
(a)  the establishment, within DCL, of a team of high-level Ivorian staff, practicing
experts and an experienced technical assistance coordinator, to advise and assist
municipal personnel in performing their administrative and financial tasks and in
introducing the decentralization process: procurement of vehicles, equipment
and logistical support needed to strengthen DGL.
(b)  the implementation of a training program to strengthen the capabilities of
municipal technical and management personnel as part of the decentralization
process.



-25-
Part A was also partly financed by a separate Grant Agreement between the Cote d'Ivoire and
UNDP (Project IVC/87/014). Under the terms of that agreement, UNDP assigned
responsibility for the execution and implementation of this Part A to ILO.
4.    Implementation of Part A. The project team, composed of the principal technical
advisor and two expatriate experts hired by ILO, one senior Ivorian expert and six junior
Ivorian experts, was formed and has been in operation since July 1990. The planned program
of training, awareness-raising and assistance-advisory tours took place without problem and
to everyone's satisfaction. At project completion only the national experts remained.
5.    Financial execution. The Bank's contribution to the initial financing was
US$3,640,000; the Ivorian counterpart share was US$910,000 and that of UNDP
US$750,000. In the course of project implementation there were delays in provision of the
Ivorian counterpart funds, and the Bank provided additional funds of US$677,000. In May
1994, Cote d'Ivoire paid the first installment toward its counterpart contribution of franc 100
million, or about US$178,570, and a second installment of franc 86 million, or US$153,570,
in September 1994. The total amount of funds made available was US$5,399,140. The total
amount disbursed, as at October 24, 1994, was US$4,316,487 from the Bank, US$750,000
from UNDP and US$332,140 from C6te d'Ivoire in the form of its counterpart contribution.
The Bank's disbursement rate for part A was 119percent
6.    Main problems encountered. A single major problem needs to be mentioned,
namely the non-payment of the C6te d'Ivoire counterpart contribution on time. As of May
1993 no counterpart payment had been made; the financial integrity of the project was in
jeopardy and in order to maintain the successful implementation of the project the Bank
provided supplementary funding of US$677,000 to make up for the Ivorian counterpart
contribution not paid as of July 1993. It should be pointed out, however, that C6te d'Ivoire
did eventually pay part of its counterpart contribution, in two installments but well past the
due date: in May 1994 (BSIE Tresor) and September 1994 (Japanese grant).
7.    Recommendations. There is only one recommendation to be made, i.e. to carry over
the "training" component to the new Municipal Development Project. This component shall
consolidate the gains of project 3228-IVC and IVC/87/014 and take account of new
requirements, particularly those for greater assistance with community infrastructure
management.
Implementation Of Part B: Municipal Resource Mobilization
8.    Loan agreement. The primary objective of Part B of the MDP was to increase the
resources generated by the municipalities by means of the following:
B 1: the study and implementation, within appropriate timeframes, of measures that
will increase the yield from the land tax and the business tax (patente), particularly by
simplifying assessment issuing procedures and improving the collection of these taxes,
and through the preparation of fiscal cadasters in 30 municipalities, including the ten
within the city of Abidjan.



-26-
B2: strengthening the Direction Generale des Imp6ts - DGI (Tax Directorate) through
staff training and the purchase of vehicles and equipment that will help to improve the
issuing of assessments and collection of land and business taxes.
B3: formulating low-cost technologies for roads, drainage systems, community
facilities and municipal buildings.
9.    In connection with PART B, the Borrower had the following three responsibilities:
(a)  to examine, no later than October 31, 1990, in consultation with the Bank, the
recommendations of the fiscal studies referred in Part B I of the project;
(b)  to suggest, in its 1992 draft Finance Law, measures considered satisfactory by
the Bank that will help to increase the yield from the business tax and to take
whatever technical measures are necessary in order to (i) facilitate land taxation
reform, and (ii) improve issuing and recovery procedures,
(c)  to introduce, no later than November 30, 1990, a mechanism considered
satisfactory by the Bank to rationalize the distribution of the Dotation Globale
de Fonctionnement - DGF (Global Operating Appropriation) between the
municipalities and the city of Abidjan.
10.   Project Implementation
Part B1: The Loan Agreement for the MDP negotiated in July 1989 in Washington
was signed on October 25, 1989 and did not become effective until December 28, 1989 or
five months after the negotiations. Following competitive bidding, the contracts for the
studies of the land taxation system reform and for the rehabilitation of the business tax were
signed on May 23, 1991, or 13 months after the bidding invitations were issued. Under the
terms of the contracts, interim reports were submitted on August 4 and 8, 1991 to the
monitoring and steering committee set up on March 1, 1991. This committee, chaired by Mr.
Jean-Claude Brou (Adviser to the Prime Minister) was composed of the Director-General of
the DGI, the DCL and the DCGTx.
11.   The examination of the interim reports by the monitoring and steering committee did
not produce any results because during this same period the Government initiated a general
study on the tax system in C6te d'Ivoire, whose recommendations (Thill report) gave rise to
the 1992 Finance Law; the recommendations in the interim reports produced by the consulting
firms were less comprehensive than those of the Thill report.
12.   The contracts with the ADRET and JEANTET/C2A consulting firms were canceled
and it was decided, in agreement with the Bank, to initiate an additional study on the impact
of the 1992, 1993 and 1994 Finance Laws on municipal resources. A limited bidding
competition was held, which resulted in the hiring of the BREEF consulting firm, the
corresponding contract being signed on October 15, 1993. Following the devaluation of the
CFA franc and the formulation of special riders, the BREEF studies will begin in May 1995



-27-
under the new Municipal Support Project. The original schedule for compliance with the
Borrower's responsibilities was thus not observed.
13.   Part B2: Because of a disagreement between the DGI and the DCGTx on the
handling of the land tax, it proved impossible to take any action concerning the preparation of
the simplified fiscal cadastres and assistance to the DGI. After the intervention of the MlDP
Interministerial Coordination Committee, contacts between the DGI and the DCGTx were
resumed in April 1994 and a consensus was reached among the DGI, the DCGTx and the
Bank as to the preparation of simplified fiscal cadastres and the assistance that the Project
should provide to the DGI. An agreement was signed between the DGI and the DCGTx,
formalizing the involvement of DCGTx in the preparation of the fiscal cadastres. This
agreement, submitted for approval in July 1994, did not receive the Bank's non-objection until
October 1994. It was agreed that the simplified fiscal cadastres would be prepared on the
basis of the cartographic files developed from aerial photos of the 27 municipalities from the
KOKUSAI project and the 10 Abidjan municipalities, i.e. 37 municipalities in all.
14.   Part B3: A catalog of standard equipment using adapted low-cost technologies in the
roads, drainage and community facilities sectors is being prepared by DCGTx.
15.   Financial execution. The original funding of Part B called for US$2,210,000 from
the Bank and US$902,676 from Cote d'Ivoire, i.e. a total of US$3,112,676. Disbursements
by the Bank under Part B, as at October 24, 1994, totaled US$111,550, i.e. 5 percent. The
impact of the devaluation on the contracts signed amounted to franc 50,887,338, all taxes
included, bringing their cost to a total of franc275,162,478, all taxes included. The portion
of these contracts financed by the Bank is US$451,940. There is a balance available under
Part B of US$1,758,060, which means that the estimated maximum disbursement rate is
20 percent.
16.   Main problems encountered. It should be pointed out that none of the three
Borrower's obligations could be fulfilled:
(a)  since the studies on the reform of the land taxation system and the rehabilitation
of the business tax system were not completed, it was not possible to examine,
in conjunction with the Bank, by October 31, 1990, the recommendations of the
fiscal studies referred to in Part B 1. The same was true of the other commit-
ments resulting from these studies. The Government did, however, take a
certain number of measures:
(b)  the share of municipalities in the land tax revenues was raised from 25 percent
to 35 percent,
(c)  a single imp6t synthetique payable by small artisans and merchants has been
introduced, 35 percent of which is returned to the municipality. The impact of
these measures on municipal resources will be studied by the BREEF consulting
firm;



-28-
The monitoring committee set up to keep track of the studies on the tax reforms has, because
of its composition, not been operational or effective.
17    Recommendations. The actions and studies planned but not implemented under Loan
31 28-IVC must be continued, including, in particular, the simplified fiscal cadastres, assistance
to the DGI, and the impact of the 1993 and 1994 Finance Laws on actual municipal
resources. For every major study to be undertaken it is essential that a technical monitoring
committee be set up, composed of operating and decision-making staff from the agencies
affected by the study.
Implementation Of Part C: Municipal Credit Fund
18.   Loan agreement. The primary objective of Part C was to establish a National Fund
to provide local governments with loans for projects that are economically and socially
justified, including the following in particular: (a) the construction of drainage systems, the
rehabilitation and/or construction of roads; (b) the construction or rehabilitation of markets,
slaughterhouses and truck terminals; (c) the construction or rehabilitation of schools, health
centers and social and cultural facilities; (d) the purchase of equipment for garbage collection,
road maintenance and municipal depots; (e) the construction or rehabilitation of municipal
facilities and municipal government buildings; (f) the financing of specific investment projects
prepared within the framework of the Municipal Action Programs - MAPs (or Programmes
d'Actions Concertees - PA C).
19.   The Borrower had the following four responsibilities:
(a)  to establish and maintain the Municipal Credit Fund - MCF (or Fonds de Prets
aux CollectivitWs Locales - FPCL) at the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
(CAA), on terms considered satisfactory by the Bank, paying in an initial amount
of franc 30 million;
(b)  to establish and maintain a Management Committee chaired by the Director
General of CAA and comprising the Minister of Economy and Finance, the
Minister of the Budget, the Interior Minister and the DG of DCGTx, or their
respective representatives;
(c)  to appoint an administrator of the MCF;
(d)  to establish and maintain a technical secretariat, composed of the administrator
of the MCF and representatives of the DCL and the DCGTx, the latter to be in
charge of coordination.
The effectiveness of the decree establishing the MCF was a condition of effectiveness of the
Bank Loan.
20.  Project implementation. Decree 89-962 establishing the MCF was signed on August
30, 1989. The opening of the special MCF account at the CAA with a payment by the
Government of franc 30 million as stipulated in the Loan Agreement was done on February
20, 1990. The MCF became operational in June 1990 and the Borwower has complied with all



-29-
its responsibilities. The first set of loan agreements were signed on July 19, 1991 between the
MCF and the municipalities of Bouafle, Boundiali and M'batto for the financing of markets in
these municipalities. As of October 31, 1994, nineteen loan agreements for the financing of
32 projects (operations) had been signed between the MCF and the municipalities. Of these
loans, five involved the supplementary funding of a project financed by USAID (the
counterpart municipal funds, in fact) and another involved the onlending to the municipality of
Bonoua, through the MCF, of a loan from the Caisse Fran,aise de Developpement - CFD.
21.   Financial execution. The initial funding of the MCF amounted to US$14,230,000
from the Bank and US$5,812,253 from C6te d'Ivoire, making a total of US$20,042,253. The
drawdowns effected under the various loan agreements between the MCF and the borrowing
municipalities and the advance to the special MCF account totaled US$4,943,167 as of
October 24, 1994. The Bank's share in the total contracts signed and being implemented with
MCF financing, as of October 24, 1994, was approximately US$2,637,385, including the
devaluation riders. At closure of the MDP, the actual disbursement rate for MCF operations
will be between 19 percent and 35 percent. The undisbursed balance of the Bank Loan will,
depending on actual disbursements, be between US$9 million and US$ 11 million.
22.   Main problems encountered. First, two important observations should be made: (aO
the mobilization rate of the funds made available to the MCF after four years of being in
operation is very low (35 percent); and (b) the number of loans granted in four years is small:
32 loans or eight loans per year (actually, it is 19 loans for 32 projects!). One of the main
problems encountered has been the difficulty experienced by the municipalities in developing
their self-financing. Another has been the sluggish pace of the contract award and approval
procedures. The average lapse of time between the decision to grant a loan to a municipality
and the start of the works has been over 18 months, more than 12 months of which has been
attributable to the contract procedures. A third problem relates to the capacity of the
municipalities to present reliable dossiers and to the difficulties of processing the resulting
applications. The fourth concerns the quality and strictness of works supervision: there have
been many slippages in the deadlines.
23.   Recommendations. They can be summarized as follows: (a) assistance to
municipalities in preparing their loan dossiers; (b) reduction in the percentage of self-financing
by the municipalities; (c) direct assistance from DCGTx to the municipal technical
departments in executing certain types of works; and (d) simplification of procedures for
awarding contracts, in keeping with the arrangements to be adopted for the new Municipal
Support Project.
Implementation of Part D: Development Program.
24.   Loan agreement. The development program essentially consisted of
(DI) the execution of the MAPs in the project municipalities in order to improve the
primary infrastructure, including the stormwater drainage system, primary rural roads
and land development;
(D2) the preparation of maps covering the entire municipal territory in about 40
municipalities and maps covering the urbanized parts of the area of about 15 towns;



-30-
(D3) the planning study for the project municipalities, comprising a simplified master
plan of the municipal territory, a master plan for the drainage of the urbanized areas
and a priority action program;
(D4) the study of economic flows between the project municipalities and their rural
hinterland;
(D5) the construction of a nursing and midwifery school in Korhogo and the
purchase of vehicles and equipment for the school;
(D6)  the preparation, studies and supervision of the civil engineering works for parts
Dl and D5 of the project.
The Borrower was to select the second tranche of project municipalities by January 1, 1990
and the third tranche by December 31, 1990.
25.   Project implementation. Part DI (State Maps). The road asphalting works have
been completed in 11 of the 18 municipalities, i.e. 61 percent of them, viz. Bouafle, Boundiali,
Dabakala, M'Batto, Soubre, Adzope, Danane, Divo, Saioua, Zuenoula and Gagnoa: they are
under way and scheduled for completion by December 31, 1994 in two municipalities:
Ferkessedougou and Abengourou, and they might not be completed by December 31, 1994 in
four municipalities: Bouna, Arrah, Guiglo and Toulepleu. The contract for the road and
drainage works in Dikodougou is in the process of being signed and these works will
definitely not be completed by December 31, 1994.
26.   The upgrading of earth and rural roads has been completed in the five municipalities in
the first tranche where these works have been carried out on force account by public works
department teams. The Bank's decision not to finance earth and rural roadworks carried out
on force account, but only those contracted out, as for all the other works, had the result of
increasing the costs of these roadworks; in order to remain within the budget, the line item for
earth roads was lowered and the line item for rural roads was eliminated. The works on the
earth roads with a reduced line item have been completed in five municipalities: Adzope,
Divo, Saioua, Zuenoula and Gagnoa. They are under way in three municipalities:
Abengourou, Danane and Ferkessedougou, with completion scheduled for before year-end.
They have not yet started in five municipalities: Toulepleu, Arrah, Bouna, Dikodougou and
Guiglo and therefore might not be completed by December 31, 1994. Drainage works were
planned in five municipalities: Bouafle, Soubre, Ferkessedougou, Gagnoa and Zuenoula.
They have been completed in the municipalities of Soubre and Gagnoa and have not yet
started in the three other municipalities, i.e. Bouafle, Ferkessedougou and Zuenoula.
27.   There were plans for the supply of equipment for household garbage collection and
haulage in eleven municipalities: Boundiali, Soubre, Ferkessedougou, Saioua, Toulepleu,
Zuenoula, Abengourou, Arrah, Bouna, Dikodougou and Gagnoa. The equipment has been
delivered in three municipalities: Boundiali, Abengourou and Soubre: the contract for the
supply of equipment in the four municipalities of Dikodougou, Saioua, Ferkessedougou and



-31-
Zuenoula is in the process of being signed and the bidding invitation for the supply of
equipment in the municipalities of Bouna, Arrah, Gagnoa and Toulepleu is under way.
28.   The studies and works relating to potable water production and distribution have been
scheduled in three municipalities: in the case of Adzope these studies and works concern the
protection of the lake that supplies the city with potable water, in the case of Abengourou the
protection of the lake that supplies both the city with potable water and tubewells in the
villages of the municipality, and in the case of Boundiali the potable water supply of one
district of the city. The contract for potable water supply in Boundiali has been signed but the
works have yet to be started. In the case of Abengourou and Adzope the studies have not yet
started.
29.   The construction of buildings for medical, socio-educational and administrative
purposes has been scheduled in eight municipalities: M'batto, Divo, Ferkessedougou, Saioua,
Arrah, Bouna, Dikodougou and Guiglo. Apart from the health center in M'batto, which has
been completed, only the study stage is in progress in the other seven municipalities. The
rehabilitation of health facilities in the primary schools has been scheduled in eleven
municipalities: Adzope, Danan6, Divo, Ferkessedougou, Saioua, Zuenoula, Arrah, Bouna,
Dikodougou, Gagnoa and Guiglo. The studies have been completed and bids will be invited
once Bank approval has been obtained.
30.   The main problems encountered in the implementation of Part Dl relate to the slow
pace of the contract award procedure, including delays in obtaining Bank approval and to
failure to pay the Ivorian counterpart funds on time. It should be pointed out in this
connection that a Japanese Grant that was to have helped pay a large part of the Ivorian
counterpart funds remained frozen by the SIB for over two years.
31.   Main recommendations
- that the works and studies that remain to be done under Dl be completed;
* that the counterpart contribution under the new project should not exceed 10
percent.
Municipal Maps
32.   Seventeen municipalities out of the eighteen included in the MAP have scheduled the
construction and/or rehabilitation of their markets, viz.: Bouafle, Boundiali, M'batto, Soubre,
Adzope, Danane, Divo, Ferkessedougou, Saioua, Toulepleu, Zuenoula, Abengourou, Arrah,
Bouna, Dikodougou, Gagnoa and Guiglo; the seven municipalities of Bouafle, Soubre,
Boundiali, M'batto, Ferkessedougou, Abengourou and Zuenoula have obtained a loan from
the MCF for the construction of their markets; the works have almost been completed in the
four municipalities of Soubre, Boundiali, M'batto and Bouafle; three municipalities are waiting
for their loan applications to be processed, viz.: Divo, Gagnoa and Guiglo, and studies are
under way in the remaining seven municipalities.
33.   Six municipalities have scheduled construction and/or rehabilitation of their city halls,
viz.: Bouafle, Dabakala, Soubre, Abengourou, Arrah and Dikodougou; four have obtained a



-32-
loan from the MCF for the construction or rehabilitation of their city halls: Bouafl,
Dabakala, Soubre and Abengourou; the work is in progress in these municipalities and
completion is expected by December 31, 1994. In the case of the other investments being
handled by the municipalities under the MAPs (see annex on works broken down by
municipality), the works will either be self-financed from their own budgets, or from either
FIAU or, if necessary, MCF funds.
34.   Main Problems Encountered (see FPCL). The first issue is the low implementation
rate of the Municipality MAPs. The main problem is the unavailability of municipal funds but
the shortage of human resources and equipment within the municipal technical services should
also be mentioned.
35.   PARTS D2, D3 and D5 have proceeded without any particular problems. The
cartography component should be carried over to the new project.
PART D4 - study of economic flows between the project municipalities and their rural
hinterland
PART D6 - preparation, studies and supervision of the civil engineering works for
parts DI and D5 of the project. All the studies, with the exception of certain studies
on buildings, have been completed. The supervision is continuing under the project.
36.   Recommendations
- that greater assistance be provided, particularly from DCGTx, to the municipal
technical services;
- that efforts be made to involve the decentralized State services and private
consulting firms more closely in the assistance to be provided to the municipalities.
- that an evaluation be made of a similar study carried out on Daloa as part of the
Third Urban Development Project.
* that the arrangements already made and still to be made for the implementation of
the Municipal Support Program be complied with.
Implementation of Part E: Studies.
37.   Loan agreement
(a)  continuation with the national demographic census, preparation of a human
resource development program, surveys on the social dimension of adjustment
and participation in the West African Regional Migration Survey;
(b)  preparation of urban and/or rural development projects in municipal areas to
stimulate municipal economic activities with the assistance of NGOs.



-33.-
38.   Project implementation
* the census has been completed and the share of expenses to be borne by the MDP
has far exceeded the estimate (160 percent)
* the studies planned in connection with preparation for a human resource
development program in the higher education sector are still going on
* the surveys on the social dimension of adjustment have started but are two years
behind schedule
* the studies on West African migration have also begun well behind schedule but are
proceeding nevertheless.
Attention should be drawn to the fact that, while Part E accounts for US$4,630,000 of the
loan amount of US$59,470,000, i.e. almost 8 percent, the creep in census costs will result in
the disbursements for part E eventually accounting for more than 10 percent of the loan for
the MDP!
Conclusion
39.   The MDP negotiated in July 1989 was prepared in 1986 when there was a relatively
sound macroeconomic environment in C6te d'Ivoire. The Bank experts therefore considered
the 29 percent counterpart contribution rate reasonable. But the project was implemented
from 1990 to 1994, during a period of extreme economic crisis, which culminated in the
devaluation of the CFA franc. Until mid-1993 almost nothing had been paid in the way of
counterpart funds, which impacted the municipalities' involvement in the project (particularly
in terms of the MCF).
40.   Implementation of the training component proceeded to everyone's satisfaction: from
the Bank's standpoint, the funds made available were disbursed. But it is regrettable that
UTNDP's financial participation was so small, i.e. US$750,000 out of a total of US$5.3
million, or 14 percent. The problem to be solved concerns the sustainability of all that has
been achieved: maintaining and integrating the advisory assistance unit and the organization
of continuing training for municipal officials.
41.   Implementation of component B was, on the one hand, affected by the fiscal measures
adopted in the 1992 Finance Law as a result of the public finance crisis and the need to find
resources for the Government Funds, and on the other hand, by the disagreement, which was
not resolved in a timely fashion, between the DGI and the DCGTx concerning the handling of
the land tax. The actual impact of the fiscal measures introduced by the recent finance laws,
i.e. the transfer to the municipalities of 35 percent of the land tax receipts and the new imp6t
synthetique, on municipal finances remains to be studied. This component B has the lowest
disbursement rate of the MDP: 20 percent.
42.   Component C, or the MCF, suffers from two congenital defects, for which both the
Bank and Cote d'Ivoire are responsible:



-34-
* where the Bank is concerned, the MCF is seen as a typical project, i.e. the funds made
available to it must be disbursed as smoothly as funds allocated to highway construction or
carrying out a study. The MCF onlends the funds made available to the municipalities.
The projects financed by the MCF do not get started until they have gone through a
lengthy process viz.: discussion and decision by the municipal council, approval of that
decision by the administrative agency responsible for supervision (DCL), preparation of the
loan application dossier, processing of the loan application, loan agreement between the
MCF and the Municipality, approval of the loan agreement, issuing of the bidding invitation
and the award and signature of the contract. This long series of events can take up to 30
months. The Bank's lack of understanding of this process and its failure to take it into
account leads it to speak of the failure of the MCF and of the MDP, merely on the basis of
disbursement flows;
* where Cote d'Ivoire is concerned, because of the "Unicite de Caisse" the municipalities did
not always have access to their own resources, although their counterpart contribution
must be made before the first disbursement of funds; also, the 1992 Finance Law
drastically reduced both the amount of the DGF and the volume of land tax revenues
transferred to the municipalities.
The disbursement ratio for the funds made available to the MCF will not exceed 35 percent.
43.   In the case of component D, the disbursement ratio was satisfactory as far as the State
MAPs are concerned; in the case of the Municipal MAPs, the project did not sufficiently stress
the support that needs to be given to the municipalities.
44.   In conclusion, the MDP is the first multisectoral decentralization assistance project
financed by the Bank in C6te d'Ivoire, allowance must therefore be made for its innovative
and experimental nature. Conceived during years of relative economic prosperity, it was then
implemented during a period of acute economic crisis, culminating in the devaluation of the
CFA franc in January 1994. This devaluation, foreshadowed since November 1994 [sic],
practically blocked the MDP for almost seven months. Despite these handicaps, the
disbursement rate as at December 31, 1994 will be over 70 percent; at November 30, 1994 it
stands at 59 percent.






I M A G I N C
Report No:          14L4;) 24
Type: I, R



