Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3128 IVC
(Municipal Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 25, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3128 IVC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 25, 1989, between the REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations Development 
Program (UNDP) a grant (the UNDP Grant) in an amount of $750,000 to assist in 
financing the management of Part A of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the UNDP Project 
Document) to be entered into among the Borrower, UNDP and the International Labor 
Office (ILO) acting as executing agency for UNDP; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to extend 
the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement and the following 
additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)
"BCEAO" means the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest, the 
central bank of the Borrower;
(b)
"Beneficiary" means a municipality, the city of Abidjan or an 
intermunicipal public utility association (association d'utilite publique 
intercommunale);
(c)
"DGF" means the Dotation Globale de Fonctionnement of the municipalities 
and the city of Abidjan;
(d)
"CAA" means the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement of the Borrower;
 
(e)
"CFAF" or "CFA Francs" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(f)
"Circular" means the circular referred to under Section 3.06 (b) (i) of 
this Agreement setting forth the general terms and conditions for the use by 
Beneficiaries of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (3) 
of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(g)
"DCGTx" means the Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux of the 
Borrower;
(h)
"DCL" means the Direction des Collectivites Locales, a directorate of the 
Borrower's Ministry in charge of Interior;
(i)
"DGI" means the Direction Generale des Impots, a directorate of the 
Borrower's Ministry in charge of Economy and Finance;
(j)
"FPCL" means the Fonds de Prets aux Collectivites Locales referred to 
under Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement; 
(k)
"Project Document" means the project description titled "Assistance to 
communal development", to be signed by the Borrower, UNDP and ILO, as well as the cost 
sharing agreement to
be signed by the Borrower and UNDP;
(l)
"Project Municipalities" means a first set of municipalities including 
Bouafle, Boundiali, Dabakala, M'batto and Soubre, and two additional set of 
municipalities to be selected
during the execution of the Project in accordance with Schedule 5 to this Agreement to 
carry out PACs (as hereinafter defined);
(m)
"PAC" means the Programme d'Actions Concertees to be entered into between 
the Borrower and each Project Municipality, for purposes of carrying out Part D.1 of 
the Project;
(n)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by FPCL to a 
Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (3) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and "Sub-loan Agreement" means the 
agreement between FPCL and a Beneficiary for purposes of making a Sub-loan;
(o)
"Sub-project" means a long-term municipal investment to be made by a 
Page  3
Beneficiary out of the proceeds of a Sub-loan; and
(p)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of sixty-six million Dollars 
($66,000,000), as the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
works, goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF two special accounts in CAA, for Parts B, D.1, D.5 and E, and for Part C of the 
Project, respectively, and a third special account in a commercial bank for Parts D.2 
to D.4 and D.6 of the Project, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
Page  4
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, 
the Borrower  shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the 
preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall 
notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry 
out: Part A of the Project through DCL; Part B of the Project through DCGTx and the 
implementation of the fiscal reforms in said Part of the Project through DGI; Part C 
of the Project through the Steering Committee and the technical secretariat referred 
to under Section 3.06 of this Agreement; Parts D.1 to D.6 of the Project through 
DCGTx; and Part E of the Project through its Ministry in charge of Planning, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
environmental and engineering practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower has appointed DCGTx for the supervision and control of the 
execution of the Project. To this end, DCGTx undertakes the financial monitoring of 
the Project and the preparation each quarter of the reports provided for in Section 
9.07 (a) (iii) of the General Conditions.
(c)
Without limitation upon its obligations under paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall, for purposes of Part C of the Project:
(i)
deposit into FPCL the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to 
time to 
Category (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement; and
(ii)
cause CAA to enter into Sub-loan Agreements with Beneficiaries, in 
accordance 
with the Circular referred to under Section 3.06 of this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
works, goods and consultants' services required for Parts B through E of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than October 31, 1990, review, in 
consultation with the Bank, the recommendations of the fiscal studies referred to 
under Part B.1 of the Project, propose in its 1992 budget-law those measures 
satisfactory to the Bank expected to increase the yields from the business tax, and 
take necessary technical measures, such as the preparation of a fiscal cadastre, to 
facilitate the land property tax reform, and to improve its billing and collection.
Page  5
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary actions, including the 
employment of qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers, to strengthen DGI's 
capacity in billing and collection of the land property and business taxes.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall introduce, not later than November 30, 1990, a 
mechanism, satisfactory to the Bank, to rationalize the allocation of the DGF among 
municipalities and the city of Abidjan.
Section 3.06. In order to carry out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and maintain in CAA the FPCL, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, and make an initial deposit therein of CFAF 30,000,000;
(b)
establish and thereafter maintain a Steering Committee, chaired by the 
President Director General of CAA, and composed of the Ministers in charge of Economy 
and Finance, Interior and Budget, and the Director General of DCGTx, or their 
respective representatives, to, inter alia:
(i)
issue a Circular, satisfactory to the Bank, to the
Beneficiaries which shall include, inter alia:
-
the financial eligibility criteria of Beneficiaries, with an 
annual 
Sub-loan ceiling for the municipalities of 
Abidjan, the city of Abidjan 
and the municipalities of Bouake 
and Yamoussoukro;
-
the financial, technical and economic criteria of 
Sub-projects, and a 
list of Sub-projects which are not 
eligible for FPCL's financing;
-
terms and conditions of Sub-loans applicable to each 
category of 
Sub-project including interest rates, 
repayment and grace periods;
-
guidelines on Sub-project preparation, appraisal and 
implementation, 
and standard Sub-loan request forms and 
Sub-loan Agreements; and
-
guidelines for the mandatory control by DCGTx of the use of 
the funds 
lent under Sub-loan Agreements;
 
(ii)
monitor FPCL's financial performance;
 
(iii)
approve any Sub-loan application;
 
(iv)
adjust, if necessary, with the Bank's prior approval the terms and 
conditions 
of Sub-loans pursuant to FPCL's financial situation, and in 
accordance with 
BCEAO's applicable regulations; and
 
(v)
send to the Bank, for information, quarterly reports on the 
activities of the 
FPCL and the status of approved Sub-projects;
 
(c)
appoint a Manager for FPCL with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank;
(d)
establish and thereafter maintain a technical secretariat, composed of 
FPCL's Manager, a representative of DCL and a representative of DCGTx who shall 
coordinate the activities of said secretariat; the technical secretariat shall, inter 
alia:
-
conduct investigations on the financial eligibility of 
Beneficiaries to 
FPCL's financing;
 
-
propose economical and technical criteria for each type of 
Sub-projects;
Page  6
-
submit any proposed Sub-project to the Steering Committee 
for approval;
-
conduct investigations on any application submitted to the 
Steering Committee;
 
-
prepare FPCL's financial simulations; and
 
-
prepare the quarterly reports referred to in paragraph (b) 
(v) of this 
Section; and
 
(e)
entrust DCGTx with the responsibility of reviewing and appraising all 
financial, technical and economical analyses of any proposed Sub-project, before it is 
submitted to the Steering Committee for approval through the technical secretariat.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than January 1, 1990, select the 
second set of additional Project Municipalities, and, not later than December 31, 
1990, select the third set of additional Project Municipalities, satisfactory to the 
Bank, in accordance with the criteria set forth under Schedule 5 to this Agreement, 
and submit to the Bank for prior approval any PAC prepared during the execution of the 
Project for said Project Municipalities.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Accounts and FPCL for each 
fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as practicable, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such  
fiscal  year,  together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
Page  7
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that:
(a)
Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section the right of the Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the UNDP Grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the UNDP Project Document.
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that: 
(i)
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the  
failure  of  
the Borrower to perform any  of  its  obligations  under  
the  UNDP Project 
Document; and
 
(ii)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with  the  
obligations  of  the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the decree establishing FPCL in accordance with 
Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement has become effective.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower in charge of Economy and Finance is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
P.O. Box V 125
Abidjan
Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINFIN
MINFIN 23747
Abidjan
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  8
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
By /s/ Charles Gomis
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated              % of
                              (Expressed in          Expenditures
    Category               Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Part A of the                                  71%
     Project:
     (a)  consultants'          2,200,000
          services
     (b)  operating costs       1,000,000
     (c)  vehicles and            440,000
          equipment
(2)  Part B of the                                  71%
     Project:
     (a)  consultants'          1,860,000
          services
     (b)  vehicles,               350,000
          equipment and
          maintenance
Page  9
(3)  Goods and services        14,230,000           71%
     for Part C of the
     Project
(4)  Part D of the                                  71%
     Project:
     (a)  civil works          29,280,000
     (b)  consultants'          5,290,000
          services
     (c)  vehicles and            190,000
          equipment
(5)  Part E of the                                  71%
     Project:
     (a)  Goods and             3,610,000
          services for
          Part E.1 of
          the Project
     (b)  Goods and             1,020,000
          services for
          Part E.2 of
          the Project
(6)  Unallocated                6,530,000
                               __________
          Total                66,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs" means expenditures 
incurred under Part A of the Project for vehicle maintenance, for subsistence and 
transportation expenses of DCL staff during travel to municipalities, and for training 
sessions.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
 
(a)
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for 
expenditures: (i) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $116,000, may be made in respect of 
Category (4) (b) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after March 1, 1989; (ii) under Category (1) until the UNDP Project Document has been 
signed among the Borrower, UNDP and ILO; and (iii) under Category (3) until the 
initial deposit referred to under Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement has been made and 
the Circular has been published, satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
no commitments shall be entered into to pay the Borrower or others after 
July 31, 1991 in respect of expenditures to be financed out of Category (3) until the 
mechanism referred to under Section 3.05 of this Agreement has been introduced.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in strengthening the 
technical and management capabilities of its municipalities, improve their financial 
situation through the mobilization of municipal resources and the establishment of a 
municipal credit fund, develop key infrastructure and stimulate economic activities in 
Project Municipalities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Page  10
Part A:
Municipal Management
 
1.
Establishment of a technical team in DCL composed of high-level Ivorian staff, 
field experts and an experienced technical assistance coordinator, to advise and 
assist municipal staff in their regular administrative and financial tasks, and in the 
setting up of the decentralization process, and acquisition of vehicles, equipment and 
logistical support to strengthen DCL.
2.
Implementation of a training program to strengthen the professional skills of 
municipal technical and management staff within the decentralization framework.
Part B:
Resource Mobilization
 
Increasing the resources generated by municipalities through:
1.
Study, and implementation within a reasonable time frame, of measures to 
increase the yields from the land property tax and the business tax including measures 
to simplify billing and improve collection of said taxes, to be followed by the 
preparation of a fiscal cadastre in about 30 municipalities including those of the 
city of Abidjan.
2.
Strengthening of DGI through staff training and acquisition of equipment to 
improve the billing and collection of the land property and business taxes.
3.
Development of low-cost technologies in the design of urban roads, drainage 
systems, community facilities and municipal buildings.
Part C:
Municipal Credit Fund (FPCL)
 
Establishment of a national fund to provide Sub-loans to Beneficiaries for:
1.
Specific economically and socially justified Sub-projects, including, inter 
alia:
-
construction of storm water drainage systems, and construction or 
rehabilitation of 
streets;
 
-
construction or  rehabilitation  of markets, slaughterhouses and truck 
terminals;
-
construction or rehabilitation of schools, health centers and other 
social facilities 
equipments;
 
-
acquisition of equipment for garbage collection, street maintenance, and 
municipal garages; 
and
 
-
construction or rehabilitation of municipal facilities and administration 
buildings.
2.
Specific investment project packages prepared in the framework of the PACs.
 
Part D:
Development Program
 
1.
Execution of PACs in Project Municipalities for primary infrastructure 
improvements, including storm water drainage improvements, primary and rural road 
improvements, and land development.
2.
Mapping of the overall municipal area for about 40 cities and of the urbanized 
area for about 15 cities.
3.
Planning studies for Project Municipalities including a simplified master plan 
of the municipal area, a drainage master plan of the urbanized area, and a priority 
action plan.
4.
Studies of the economic flows between Project Municipalities and their rural 
hinterland.
Page  11
5.
Construction of a nursing and midwifery school in Korhogo and acquisition of 
equipment and vehicles therefor.
6.
Preparation, study and supervision of civil works for Parts D.1 and D.5 of the 
Project.
Part E:
Studies
 
1.
Carrying out of a national demographic census, preparation of a human resources 
development program, survey on the social dimension of adjustment, and participation 
in the West African regional migration survey.
2.
Preparation of urban and/or rural development projects in municipal areas to 
achieve stimulation of municipal economic activities with non-governmental 
organizations' assistance.
*  *  * *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
 
February 15, 1995                                  1,205,000
August 15, 1995                                    1,250,000
February 15, 1996                                  1,295,000
August 15, 1996                                    1,350,000
February 15, 1997                                  1,400,000
August 15, 1997                                    1,455,000
February 15, 1998                                  1,510,000
August 15, 1998                                    1,570,000
February 15, 1999                                  1,630,000
August 15, 1999                                    1,690,000
February 15, 2000                                  1,760,000
August 15, 2000                                    1,825,000
February 15, 2001                                  1,895,000
August 15, 2001                                    1,970,000
February 15, 2002                                  2,045,000
August 15, 2002                                    2,125,000
February 15, 2003                                  2,210,000
August 15, 2003                                    2,295,000
February 15, 2004                                  2,380,000
August 15, 2004                                    2,475,000
February 15, 2005                                  2,570,000
August 15, 2005                                    2,670,000
February 15, 2006                                  2,775,000
August 15, 2006                                    2,880,000
February 15, 2007                                  2,990,000
August 15, 2007                                    3,105,000
February 15, 2008                                  3,225,000
August 15, 2008                                    3,350,000
February 15, 2009                                  3,480,000
August 15, 2009                                    3,620,000
_________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
Page  12
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but 
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not
0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before
1.00
maturity
Schedule 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Section I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable: 
(a)
contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost 
the equivalent of CFAF one hundred fifty million (CFAF 150,000,000) or more each; and
(b)
contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost 
the equivalent of CFAF three billion (CFAF 3,000,000,000) or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Cote d'Ivoire may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of CFAF three billion 
(CFAF 3,000,000,000) per contract, excluding the Borrower Value Added Tax (TVA), goods 
and materials estimated to cost less than the equivalent of CFAF one hundred fifty 
million (CFAF 150,000,000) per contract excluding TVA, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding, in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.3 of the Guidelines, with local advertising for contracts for goods and 
Page  13
materials and, in addition, notification of diplomatic missions in Cote d'Ivoire in 
the case of contracts for works, all in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of CFAF five hundred million (CFAF 500,000,000) or more, excluding TVA, and 
each contract for goods and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of CFAF fifty 
million (CFAF 50,000,000) or more excluding TVA, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contracts are to be made out of the Special Accounts, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special 
Accounts in respect of such contract. 
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Accounts, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ, or cause to be employed, consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Such consultants shall be  selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Criteria for the selection of any
additional Project Municipality
Any additional Project Municipality shall be selected, inter alia, in accordance 
with the following criteria:
-
balanced geographic repartition between the regions;
 
-
urgent need of  basic infrastructure and community facilities with 
respect to the 
demographic and economic potential of the Project 
Municipality and its rural 
hinterland;
 
-
record on previous and planned urban investments by the Borrower or other 
sources;
-
commitment of the Project Municipality to support the PAC, and in  
particular  its 
resource mobilization component; and
 
-
the Borrower's development strategy.
 
Page  14
SCHEDULE 6
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (2) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for of Parts B through E of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount equivalent to 
$4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account opened for Parts B, D.1, D.5, and E of the Project; (ii) an amount equivalent 
to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn and deposited into the Special Account opened for Part C 
of the Project; and (iii) an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account opened for Parts D.2, D.3, D.4 and 
D.6 of the Project, pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of any Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish it shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into said Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of a Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the relevant Special Account at 
such intervals as 
the Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the relevant Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been made 
out of such 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective  eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
Page  15
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the relevant 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts B 
through D of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in a Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of a 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the relevant Special Account (or, if the Bank shall 
so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Bank into a Special Account shall be made until the Borrower 
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit into the relevant Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
