CIRCULATING COPY           RESTRICTED
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK    Report No. P-690
FILE COPIF
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT                      z   W
C   0  Z   m
C/)  x     --I
TO THE                       r          C
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS                 >          --I
ON A                        °  CfX U@>
0>   C)
PROPOSED CREDIT                              3 I
TO THE           Im
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO            M         w
FOR                          '\
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
April 24, 1969



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSCCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $6 million to
the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In the course of the Bank's economic mission in February/March
1968, the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo requ6sted
the Association and the UNDP to provide technical assistance for highway
administration. An appraisal mission visited the Congo in August 1968,
and negotiations for the proposed Credit and for the UNDP Plan of Opera-
tion were held in Washington in March 1969. The Government was repre-
sented by a delegation headed by Mr. Kanyama, Adviser to the President
of the Republic.
3.        The proposed credit would be the first Bank Group operation in
the Democratic Republic. Prior to independence, the Bank made five loans
to the then Belgian Congo, with the guarantee of Belgium. The following
is a summary statement of Bank loans as at March 31, 1969:
Loan No.     Year     Borrower     Purpose     Amount (US $ million)
47 BE     1951     Congo      Development            40.0
184 BE     1957     Congo      Highway                40.0
250 BE     1960     Congo      Agriculture             7.0
251 BE     1960     Congo      Transport              28.0
252 BE     1960     OTRACO     OTRACO                  5.0
120.0
Cancellations                                    28.4
Total (less cancellations)                       91.6
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                            54.1
Total now outstanding                            37.5
Amount sold:                        53.8
of which has been repaid           45.7          8.1
Total now held by Bank                           29.4



- 2 -
4.        When the negotiations for the three 1960 loans were completed
and the loans were submitted to the Executive Directors for approval, it
was already known that the Congo would achieve independence in June 1960,
and the President's Report (P-216) pointed out that much would depend on
the political situation which would emerge after independence. In fact,
disbursements had to be suspended shortly after independence, initially
for technical reasons, and subsequently because of the unsettled condi-
tions and uncertainties in the Congo. Early in 1962, two missions were
sent to the Congo to see what might be done to salvage the projects and
allow disbursements to be resumed. Between June 1960 and March 1965,
the Bank cancelled $28.4 million in respect of projects that could not
be carried forward satisfactorily, and agreed, after special arrangements
between the Congo and Belgium as Guarantor, to disburse the balance.
5.        In 1964, a mission visited the country to assess the economic
situation, and prepared a report (AF-23a) dated July 8, 1964.  Internal
disturbances precluded new operations, and more than three years passed
before there appeared to be any real prospects that the Bank Group could
provide effective help. A Bank economic mission that visited the Congo
in February/March 1968 concluded that efforts should be made to resume
operations in certain high priority areas, with particular emphasis on
rehabilitation of the transport networks. The proposed Credit stems
directly from that conclusion.
6.        In addition to the proposed Credit, other actions with which
the Bank Group is or may be associated include:
(a) A River Transport Study, to be financed by UNDP with the Bank
as Executing Agency, to assist the Government in planning and
implementing measures to increase the efficiency and capacity
of ports and of the river transport system. A contract has
already been concluded between the Bank and the consulting
firm, Berenschot-Bosboom (Netherlands) in association with
GIREC (Belgium). The study is expected to start in April
1969 and to be completed within twelve months. The consult-
ants have been asked to recommend investment programs for
1970-72.
(b) Assistance in setting up within the Office of the President
of the Republic a team of five experts to assist the Princi-
pal Adviser to the President, who is Secretary of the Inter-
Ministerial Commission for Economic and Financial Affairs.
I expect to recommend shortly that the Bank make a technical
assistance grant to finance part of the foreign exchange
costs of this team for a period of two years. A further con-
tribution to the foreign exchange costs would be provided
under French technical assistance and the balance by the
Government of the Congo, which would also meet the local
costs.



- 3 -
(c) Establishment of a development finance institution to pro-
vide medium and long-term finance for private and mixed
private/government enterprises engaged in manufacturing and
in othier productive economic activities, including agricul-
ture. The Bank Group expects to send a mission in June 1969
to review the status of preparation of this institution, for
which the Government has requested assistance from the Bank.
(d) Preparation of agricultural projects for possible financing.
An FAO/IBRD cooperative program identification mission
visited the Congo in February.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
7.        Borrower:       Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Purpose:        Provision of technical assistance for the
improvement of the highway administration
and for road maintenance and rehabilitation;
Purchase of an emergency supply of spare
parts, vehicles, materials and maintenance
equipment;
Energency maintenance and rehabilitation
work.
Amount:         Various currencies equivalent to $6 million.
Amortization:   50 years, including a 10-year period of grace
through semi-annual instalments of one-half
of 1 percent from June 15, 1979 through
December 15, 1988, and 1-1/2 percent from
June 15, 1989 through December 15, 2018.
Service
Chare:         Three-quarters of 1 percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        A report entitled "Highlway Technical Assistance and Mainten-
ance Project: Democratic Republic of the Congo", PTR-3a, is attached.
9.        The Congo's major centers of population, production and trade
are widely scattered and, consequently, lines of communication are very
long. An efficient and extensive transport system is essential, if the
country is to be integrated politically, adninistratively and economical-
ly. Before independence, the transport system and the highway network
were well-equipped and were able to handle efficiently the traffic being
offered. Since independence, infrastructure and equipment suffered



damage from disorders, and deteriorated because repairs and maintenance
have been neglected. There has been very little investment in replace-
ment. Operating entities have been seriously weakened by the massive
and sudden departure of qualified expatriates before Congolese citizens
were capable of taking over. The development of the Congo cannot move
ahead unless much of the infrastructure is first rehabilitated. The pro-
posed project is thus of primary importance.
10.       The project consists, first, of the provision of consulting
services, which will be financed jointly by UTNP/SF and the Association.
The consultants will be responsible for helping the Government to improve
the highway administration and to carry out road maintenance and rehabili-
tation work for a period of about two and one-half years.   The Bank will
be the Executing Agency of the UNDP/SF project, which will provide $1.5
million to finance the headquarters team of consultants to be established
in Kinshasa.  The proposed Credit will include $1.5 million to finance the f or-
eign exchange cost of regional teams of consultants, who will be stationed in
four of the eight provinces of the Congo (K'ongo Central, Kasai Occidental and
Oriental, and Province Orientale) to provide direct managerial, operational and
organizational support to the local highway administration services, and to
help in carrying out emergency programs in these provinces. A single
contract for the consulting services has been negotiated by the Govern-
ment with "Research and Development" (Belgium).
11.       Ln a first phase, to be completed within seven months, the
consultants are to recommend programs for the organization of the high-
wXay administration and for the most urgent road rehabilitation work in
1970. During a second phase of sixteen months, the consultants will
prepare programs for road maintenance and rehabilitation in the years
1971 through 1973 and for training highway administration personnel.
Finally, in the last phase of about eight months, the consultants will
assist the highway administration in starting the 1971-73 road mainten-
ance and rehabilitation program. The Association and the Government will
exchange views with respect to the evaluation and implementation of the
recommendations of the consultants.
12.       Secondly, the proposed project covers the importation of emergency
equipment to provide for the irnediate essential services of the
highway administration until such time as an adequate organization can
be built up and its needs established. The consultants will have the
responsibility of preparing a specific emergency list of spare parts,
tools construction materials and vehicles.   The Association twill review
this list and approve purchases up to the value of $500,000. These small
items would not be suitable for international competitive bidding. The
consultants will go on to prepare a more comprehensive list, for agree-
ment with the Association, of items to be tendered for on the basis of
international competition in an amount of $1.6 million.
13.       Finally, provision is also made for contracts with a foreign
exchange cost of up to $2 million for maintenance and minor improvement
works necessary to keep Lmportant roads open. This includes the con-
struction of small bridges and the repair or replacement of inadeouate



running surfaces. To limit the delay in initiating the rehabilitation of
the highway network, the contract work to be financed by the proposed Credit
will be identified and prepared after the credit is made. However, the
consultants will submit the appropriate contract documents for review by the
Association.  The Association will approve the program of work, the tender
documents and the award of contracts on the basis of international compet-
itive bidding.
14.       The proposed project will be executed over a period of about three
years from 1969 to 1971. It will be carried out under the responsibility of
the Principal Adviser responsible for Technical Matters to the Presidency of
the Republic (tConseiller Principal Charge des Affaires Techniques a la
Pr6sidence de la Republique").
15.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $9.5 million
equivalent, of which the UNDP would contribute $1.5 million, the Associ-
ation $6 million including $0.4 million for contingencies, and the Government
$2 million for local cost contribution in cash and in kind. In addition,
the Government has undertaken to provide funds estimated at $1.2 million
annually for the recurrent expenditure on operating, maintaining, repairing
and replacing the emergency equipment.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUEMNTS AND AUTHORITY
16.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Congo and the Association, the recommendation of the Commit-
tee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement,
and the text of a draft resolution approving the credit are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
17.       The draft Development Credit Agreement conforms generally to the
pattern of Agreements for projects of this type. However, its effectiveness
is conditional upon the effectiveness of the UNDP Plan of Operation, and
suspension or termination of the Plan of Operation would also be an event of
suspension or default under the Development Credit Agreement.
PART V - THE ECOUOMY
18.       The report on the "The Congo's Economy: Evolution and Prospects"
(AF-85a), which was circulated to Executive Directors last November, gives
a detailed account of recent economic developments in the Congo and of the
major problems which it now faces. The civil disturbances which followed
independence in 1960 caused a large-scale exodus of Belgian civil servants
and of other foreign residents, which had very serious economic consequences.
Agricultural production suffered a drastic decline, and the public services
could not be maintained. Only the mining and some manufacturing industries
were able to carry on at anything like their pre-independence levels.



- 6 -
19.       Since President Mobutu took over in 1965, there has been a gradual
restoration of order and stability and a determined effort made to give some
sense of unity and purpose to the country. Important constitutional reforms
have been introduced which have reversed the trend towards decentralization
and considerably strengthened the control of the central government over the
provinces.  In 1967, a mercenary-led rebellion, which broke out in Kisangani,
was successfully put down.
20.       The Government has also made serious efforts to improve the finan-
cial situation of the Congo. After independence there were large budget
deficits, sometimes amounting to half of total expenditures. These budget
deficits led to rapidly rising prices and balance of payments deficits. By
mid-1967 prices had risen sevenfold over the level in June 1960. A stabi-
lization program was introduced in June 1967 under the auspices of the INF,
under which the currency was devalued, a number of controls were lifted and
budgetary reforms were introduced. As a result, while there was a budget
deficit of g 14.7 million in the first half of 1967, there was a surplus of
Z 6.1 million in the second half. The improvement lasted during most of 1968,
but towards the end of the year there was a deterioration owing to heavy
extra-budgetary expenditures which resulted in a deficit for the whole year
of Z 7.9 million.  Although the budgetary situation is still not satisfactory,
the balance of payments has been favorable largely because of good copper
prices. Foreign exchange reserves have risen from $39 million in June 1967
to slightly over $150 million in June 1968. In early 1968, they amounted to
about $160 million.
21.       In 1968, there has been some evidence of a spontaneous revival in
agricultural production which can be expected to continue if the Government
is successful in maintaining an atmosphere of security and confidence. It is
reasonable to expect a considerable increase in investment in manufacturing
and mining and perhaps the achievement of an overall growth rate of as much
as 4-5 percent in the next few years.  However, if this is to be achieved,
a number of difficult problems will still have to be tackled energetically.
22.       The first of these is an improvement in the management and opera-
tion of government services and enterprises. It is encouraging in this
respect that there is an increasing realization that, for several years to
come, greater recourse must be had to expatriate assistance; a number of
important management contracts with foreign firms have recently been concluded.
The method by which the present project will be executed also illustrates
this trend. A second problem is to bring more control to government budgeting
and expenditure; a team of five Belgian experts has been taken on by the
Finance Ministry to assist in this work. The proposed team, to be recruited
and partially financed by the Bank to assist an Inter- Ministerial Committee
to examine and screen investment projects, will also be of great significance
in this respect.
23.       The Congolese state debt, repayable in foreign exchange, was
reported to total the equivalent of some $340 million as of mid-1968,
including $221 million reported by the Congo as being the sum of the pay-
ments to be made by the Congo into the Fonds Belgo-Congolais d'Amortisse-
ment et de Gestion de la Dette Publique as its share of the service on
the pre-independence external debt not guaranteed by Belgium. After tak-
ing into account supplierst credits contracted by public and semi-public



undertakings as well as supplierst credits of the private sector for
service of which the National Bank has assumed the obligation to provide
foreign exchange, annual debt service over the 5-year period 1968-72 is
estimated at an average of around $21 million, representing about
4.4 percent of the foreign exchange proceeds of exports of goods and
services in 1969.
24.       The Congo's exceptional potential, currently favorable external
position and moderate debt burden should not obscure the fact that it is
still a poor country, highly dependent on the market for a single commodity,
copper. Although earnings from copper exports have surpassed pre-independ-
ence levels, their future course is uncertain. Moreover, average income
per capita has fallen from about $100 in 1959 to possibly no more than
$80 in recent years. In these circumstances, and given the volume of
external capital still needed for rehabilitation, I consider the Congo
eligible at this stage for IDA assistance.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREUVRIT
25.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
26.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By J. Burke Knapp
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
April 24, 1969



