REXU RN TORESTRICTED
REPORTS                                                             Report No. PTR-3a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affIliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report moy
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOiMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A
HIGHWAY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
April 10, 1969
Transportation Projects Department



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit          -       Zair (Z)
US$ 1                  =       1/2 Z
z 1=                          US$ 2
Z 1 million            =      US$ 2 million
Fiscal Year
January 1              -       December 31
Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric: British/US Equivalents
1 kilometer (km)       =      0. 6Z miles (mi)
1 meter (m)           =       3. 28 feet (ft)
1 metric ton (m ton)   =      2204 pounds (lbs)
0. 98 lg. ton
1. 1 US short ton



DEMOCRATIC REPUELIC OF THE CONGO
APPRAISAL OF A HIGIRAY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
SUMMARY
1.  1I1TRODUCTION                                            1
2.  BACKGROUND                                               2
3. TRANSPORT SECTOR                                          3
A, General                                               3
B. Highways                                              h
4. THE PROJECT                                               7
A.  Description                                          7
B.  Consulting Services                                  7
C. Purchase of Equipment                                 9
D. Maintenance Work by Contract                          9
E.  Cost Estimates                                       9
F.  Execution                                           12
5.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                     13
6.  RECOIUIENDATIONS                                        15
ANNEX: Terms of Reference - Highways Services
MAP:  1. Democratic Republic of the Congo: TRANSPORTATION
2. Democratic Republic of the Congo: ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS       -
This report was prepared by Messrs. A. van Dijck (Engineer) and V. WIouters
(Economist) on the basis of missions made to the Congo in February and
August 1968.



DE1YoRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SUMAY
i.        The Government of the Democratic Republie of the Congo (Kinshasa)*
has asked for the joint help of the International Development Association
and the United Nations Development Program in financing a comprehensive
program of technical assistance for the highway sector in the country.
ii.       The project, which is based on the recommendations of a Bank Econo-
mic Mission which visited Congo (K) at the Government's request in February-
March 1968> consists of: (a) a two and a half year program of consulting
services to give managerial and operational support to the highway adminis-
tration, (b) the purchase of an emergency supply of spare parts and equipment,
and (c) the execution of a small program of high priority maintenance and
rehabilitation work by contract.
iii.      Since independence in 1960 Congo (K) has experienced many diffi-
culties mainly due to civil disorders and the sudden departure of many
expatriates, As a consequence there has been a serious decline in adminis-
trative efficiency in key sectors of the country. The present poor condition
of large segments of road network results from the fall in the efficiency
of the highway administration which in many areas of the country has virtually
ceased to function. The praposed project is designed to make the highway
administration operational again and will help to arrest further deteriora-
tion of the highway system.
iv.       The proposed project will be the first operation in Congo (K) by
either the Bank or IDA since its independence. A Bank loan of US$40 million
to the Belgian Congo made in 1957 for highway improvements was completed
satisfactorily. In 1960 a US$28 million loan was made for roads, ports and
harbours which was partly cancelled in 1964 due to the difiicult conditions
then prevailing in the country. The project is the initial step to revita-
lize the transportation sector and is of an emergency character. Once the
consultants, ta be financed by the project, have improved the highway adminis-
tration and prepared the necessary information the next step should be
financing of a comprehensive maintenance and rehabilitation program.
v.        IDA and UNDP will each finance about half the foreign exchange cost
of the consulting services; the contribution of UNDP is restricted by its
budget.  In addition, IDA mill finance the foreign exchange cost of the
equipment purchase program and the foreign exchange cost of the highway
maintenance and rehabilitation program.  The Government will finance the
* hereaiter Congo K) for brevity



- îi -
lozal cost of the project. The total cost of the project is estimated at
US$9,5 million of which Us$6.0 million (63%) will be financed by IDA, US$1.5
million by UNDP (16%) and the remaining US$2.0 million (21%) by the Government,
vil       The benefits of the project will be undoubtedly high by providing
the basis for sound highway management, halting further deterioration of the
highway network, and lowering transportation costs, thereby establishing the
rudiments of road serviceability and enabling trade to flow freely. Similar
Bank projects in other countries show adequate benefits; they will be high
in Congo (K) because the road conditions are generally worse and also because
the project will concentrate on roads with the highest economic priority.
vii,     -The Conseiller Principal Charge des Affaires Techniques a la
Presidence de la Republique will be responsible for the execution of the
project, assisted in management and operations by consultants. The GovernnEnt
of the Congo (K) has agreed to the terms of reference prepared by the Bank
and a contract with consultants acceptable to the Bank has been negotiated
with Research and Development (Belgium).
viii.     In addition to assistance for the highways, the Governnent has
obtained help from UNDP for a US$770,000 program of technical assistance for
improving river transport, The Bank has agreed to act as Participating and
Executing Agency with respect to this latter assistance as well.
ix.       The project provides a basis for an IDA credit of US$6 million
equivalent to the Governnent of the Congo (K).



DEMOCRATIC RE-PUBLIC OF TFE C0VGO
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHt4Y TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND MADITENANCE PROJECT
1. Il.TRODUCTION
1.01      The proposed project is based on reconmendations for a highway
program made by the Bank's economic mission which visisted the Congo (K) at
the Government's request in February-March 1968.  (See Volume III of the
report on the Congo's Economy: No. AF-85a).
1.02      The Governnent has asked for financial assistance from the Associa-
tion and the UNDP for this program,  The purpose of the present project is
to provide managerial and operational support to the highway administration
in its headquarters and in the regional offices of three major provinces in
the country, and to finance a small supply of essential maintenance equipment
and urgently needed rehabilitation works to be carried out by contractors,
Assistance will be given by a team of consultants for a period of about 30
months. The project has an emergency character and is the start to re-
establishing adequate highway administration and highway maintenance in the
country. It would pave the way to larger and better defined programs for the
1971-73 period. The UNDP assistance was approved by the Governing Council
in January 1969.
1.03      In 1957 the Bank made a US$40 million loan to help finance road
construction and improvement works in the then Belgian Congo. The works
were completed satisfactorily.  A second loan of US$28 million for roads,
ports and waterways was made in 1960, of which US$20 million was for roads.
The works wmere only partly carried out and finally in 1964 the remainder of
the Loan (US$20 million) was cancelled because there was no hope of comple-
ting the project under the turbulent conditions resulting from the breakdown
in law and order after independence. Despite the restoration of stability
the efficiency of the highway organization has further declined and the
condition of the roads greatly deteriorated.
1.04      The total cost of the project is estimated (in rounded figures) at
Us$9.5 million of which US$6 million would be financed by IDA, US$1.5 million
by UNDP and US$2.0 million by the Governnent. The consultants services will
cost US$3.9 million, the supply of maintenance equipment US$2.1 million and
the emergency prograàm for rehabilitation works by contract US$3 million; the
balance ($0.5 million) of the total cost represents contingencies.
1.05      The project represents a modification of the Bank's normal approach,
in that the contract work which is to be financed by the credit will not
have been identified and prepared until after the credit is made. This depar-
ture is necessary in order that there will a minimum delay in initiating the
rehabilitation of the highway system.  The Association will review all the
preliminaries to letting contracts.
1.06      This report has been prepared by Messrs. A, van Dijck (Engineer)
and V. IWouters (Ecanomist) on the basis of missions made to the Congo (K) in
February and August 1968.



2. BACKGROUND
2.01      The Democratic Republic of the Congo (K), which is about one-fourth
the size of the U.S.A., is the second largest country in Africa. It is
situated on the west coast of Central Africa, astride the equator. From the
coastline of only 30 km on the Atlantic Ocean the country stretches deep
inland to the great Central African lakes which divide east and west Africa.,
The Congo River and its tributaries provide the main access from the interior
to the Atlantic.
2.02      Congo (K) is a sparsely populated country, with a total population
of less than 17 million# growing at a rate of 2.3% annually. About 85% of
the people still live in smaJJ conmunities, but since 1960 there has been an
increased movement of the opulation to the important urban areas, especially
Kinshasa.
2.03      Congo (K) is a country of great diversity in climate, soil and
topography. It has considerable development potential in agriculture,
forestry, minerals and hydro-electric power.  These resources are still
largely untapped. Although about 70% of the people make a living in agri-
culture, this sector accounts for only 20-25% of the gross domestic product
(GDP); mining and manufacturing contribute about as much to the GDP. A large
part of internal production is transported long distances to the sea for export,
the principal export products being copper and other non-ferrous minerals,
coffee and palm oil.
2.Q4      Since 1960 Congo (K) has experienced many difficulties and the
departure of many expatriates from positions that few Congolese had been
trained to filli has caused a serious decline in administrative efficiency,
in agricultural production, in exports and in essential imports. There has
been a consequent drop in per capita income from a level of about US$100 to
about US$80 per annum, Recently, political stability has been restored
and, following the monetary refom  in mid-1967, the economy has started to
recover.



-3-
3. TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. General
3.01           The lines of communication are long because the major centers
of production and trade are widely scattered; export products from the inte-
rior, including copper and palmoil, which are the country's two main export
goods, have to cover long distances to reach maritime ports. An efficient
transport system is vital for the integration of the country politically,
administratively and economically.
3.02           There is little duplication of transport services and the
country has in fact a higbly integrated network of rail, river and road
transport. This also means that the separate modes comprising the system
are highly interdependent, in that the performance of one mode greatly
depends on and influences the performance of connecting modes.
3.03           The Congo river and its tributaries and some lakes constitute
a valuable natural asset. They provide a vast system of waterways, about
15,000 km long that penetrates deeply and widely inland and which is navi-
gable for most of the year.  Properly organized, the waterway services could
provide an important low cost means of transport, a role which they histori-
cally served as the principal arteries of the transport network from which
railways and roads were developed as feeders and links in the network.
Freight traffic by river currently amounts to about 900 million ton-Ikn, which
is less than half the traffic in 1959.
3.o4           In addition to the waterways, the transport network comprises
about 5,000 km of railways and about 140,000 km of roads and tracks. The
railways serve either as a bypass for unnavigable river sections, or as ex-
tensions of the watenrays into the hinterland. Consequently, four separate
railway networks have been developed. Freight traffic by rail currently
amounts to about 2,200 million ton-km, only slightly less than in 1959, The
road network serves mainly as a feeder system to the waterways and the rail-
ways; Congo (K) has only a few main trunk roads, mainly in the north-éast of
the country where there are no rivers or railways. Although no statistics
are available, it is evident that freieht haulage by truck has declined in
all areas of the country, except in the province of Kongo Central.
3.05           The efficiency of the transport system has seriously declined
to the point where it is now barely able to handle the present demand even
though this has declined by about 30' since 1959. Occasionally valuable
cargoes have been either completely lost or seriously damaged because no
transport was available at the apprcpriate time to move the goods to markets
or to processing centers. In recent years the country has become more
dependent on the transport systens of neighboring countries than it would be
if the national systen functioned efficiently. The changes which have taken
place in the direction of traffic can be illustrated as follows. The combined
volume of imports and exports declined from about 2.5 million tons in 1959



- 4 -
to about 2.0 million tons in 1967. The loss is concentrated on the national
route Katanga-Port Franqui-Kinshasa-Matadi.  In contrast, traffic through
Lobito in 7noola increased, mainly on account of higher inports of fuel and
coal. The volume of exports from Katanga through Zambia has risen slinghtly
mainly on account of copper shipments to Beira in Mozambique. In sum, the
Matadi route accounts presently for about 50%, the Lobito route for about
30% and the route via Zambia fLor less than 20Ç5 of the comeoined volum,ie o2
exports and imports.
3.06           Althoue the condition of the transport system is not yet a
general restraint on the economy, there is a serious danger that it will
become one, as traffic requirements increase in line with the recovery of the
economy no'j underway.  It is expected that the railways iill be able to
handle the increase in traffic with their present equipment and that already
on order. However, the situation of road and river transport is critical and
their limited capacity and poor condition constitute serious threats to the
revival of agricultural production. In the cotton growing areas of the Ueles
in the north of the Province Orientale, for example, an increasing number of
farmers have been restuing cotton cultivation, but great difficulties have
been encoumtered in distributing seed and collecting the harvest, largely
because bridges and ferries are out on a number of important roads. In the
Kasai, the condition of the roads appears also to be a serious limiting
factor in increasing much-needed food production for the domestic market.
3.07           The Government has taken some measures to improve the situation.
Import regulations have been liberalized and increases in transport tariffs
permitted in order to enable the transport organizations to import the nece-
ssary spare parts for essential repairs and maintenance. Imports of motor
vehicles have also been liberalized to facilitate the re-building of an ade-
quate vehicle fleet. In addition to assistance for the highways, the Govern-
ment has asked help from UNDP for a US$ 770,000 program of technical assistance
for improving river transport. The Bank has agreed to act as Participating
and Executing Agency wsith respect to this latter assistance as well.
B. HÉçways
3.08           Of the 140,000 km of highways and tracks, about 40,000 lm are
of national importance; the rest serve regional and local traffic. Only 1,900
km lhave a bituminous pavement. The bulk of the highway system consists of
earth tracks.
Highway Network
Total       Bitumen    Gravel    Earth
Highways of' National Importance      40,000        1,800      13,800    24,400
Other Highways and Tracks             100,000         100      16,900    83,000
Total    14Q,000       1,900      30,700   107,400



3.09           The Ministry of Public Works is responsible for the construc-
tion and maintenance of highways.  It is divided into six Departments, one of
which is that of Highwaays and Bridges (Ponts et Chaussees). Highway equip-
ment and vehicles are under a different department. For future reference in
this report, "Highway Administration" is defined as a combination of both
fLmctions.
3.10           The Highwiay Administration has no expatriate or local staff
with civil engineering degrees. Since 1965 the United Nations have provided
a number of advisors of which only 12 are still in the Congo. In many dis-
tricts the Highway Administration has virtually ceased to function.
3.11           The highways are now in a critical condition,  The majority of
them had been constructed for small numbers of light trucks and would have
been improved gradually by the maintenance divisions as traffic increased.
However, highway maintenance has been neglected since independence, Highway
maintenance equipment and vehicles became *navailable because of military
action and lack of spare parts, tools and skilled personnel. Road workers
and their supervisors were not regularly paid, or not paid at all, and there-
fore did not render proper service. Many ferries stopped operating because
of lack of maintenance and spare parts. Bridges that have collapsed or been
destroyed have not been replaced. Paved roads have reached the state where,
unless maintenance is undertaken immediately, costly reconstruction works
ivill shortly be necessary.
3.12           This neglect of maintenance is due to the serious decline in
efficiency of the highway administration. It is also attributable to lack of
funds. The total highway budget has been reduced from the equivalent of
about US$ 12.0 million in 1958 to US$ 3.0 million in 1968. The larger part
of current expenditure is for salaries of office staff and little has been
available for physical works.
3.13           The trucking industry is also in a difficult situation, because
many enterprises lost a significant part of their equipment during the dis-
turbances and the remaining fleet is in poor operating condition, partly
because of lack of spare parts and poor labor discipline.
3.14           To alleviate the poor road conditions, the Government has
relied, especially since 1966, on assistance from UNDP in making available
advisors and on USAID counterpart financing to implement a system of mainte-
nance by "conventions." Under this system, minimal road maintenance is
being carried out on a contract basis by plantations, private industrial
enterprises and others. This stop-gap measure currently covers about
22,000 km.
3.15           The system of conventions does not meet all present requirements.
It does not cover some roads which are important to the economy, mainly in
areas where peasant agriculture predominates and where there are no large
agricultural or industrial enterprises prepared to undertake road maintenance.



-6-
Also, a large part of the road network has already deteriorated beyond the
point where convention maintenance can serve a useful purpose. Most enter-
prises have taken part in this program on a temporary basis as an emergency
measure and may decide to discontinue their efforts. Also, the UN and USAID
are not prepared to continue the emergency nature program indefinitely.
USAID and UNDP have indicated, however, that they will continue their assis-
tance on an interim basis and at least in 1969, until highway maintenance
can be put on a fimer basis. During negotiations the Government confirmed
that each year it liiU review with the Bank the financing of the maintenance
program,
3.16           For these reasons, the Government is seeking increased help
from USAID, especially for deferred maintenance on the paved roads, and has
asked the IJNDP and IDA to finance a program of technical assistance which
is the substance of the proposed project.



- 7 -
4.  THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The project consists of:
(i) consulting services for a program of technical
assistance to assist the Government in improv-
ing the Highway Administration and in carrying
out efficient road maintenance and rehabilita-
tion work for a period of about two and & half
years;
(ii) the purchase of an emergency supply of spare
parts, vehicles, materials and maintenance
equipment; and
(iii)  the execution of a limited number of emergency
maintenance and rehabilitation works by con-
tract.
B. Consulting Services to the Highway Administration
4.02      The consulting services will provide direct managerial and opera-
tional support to the Highway Administration and will prepare a program for
improving and restructuring its organization. An emergency maintenance and
rehabilitation program for the years 1969-70 will be prepared for the most
important roads in four out of eight provinces, as well as a program for
the years 1971-73 for the maintenance and rehabilitation of all major roads
under the jurisdiction of the Highway Administration. Also a program for
training of Highway Administration personnel will be prepared.
4.03      The consultants will assist in implementing the program for the
highwqay organization and the 1969-70 emergency maintenance program, and
will start the 1971-73 maintenance and rehabilitation program and the train-
ing program. In order to obtain maximum coordination the consulting ser-
vices under the project will be carried out in close association with other
Government agencies and the UIDP/USAID Conventions program.
4.04      The terms of reference for the consulting services (see Annex)
were prepared by the Bank and agreed by the Government. The services will
include assistance and direct participation in management functions and in
day-to-day operations. The consultants will assist in compiling inventory
data on personnel, the road network, workshops and equipment. An important
feature of the consulting services will be recommendations for appropriate
design standards and for suitable procedures for the maintenance and rehabil-
itation of the roads. For longer term purposes the recommendations of the
consultants for either improving the existing Highway Administration or, as
the case may be, for establishing a new highway organization will be of vital
importance.  The recommendations will be based, among other things, on a



- 8 -
general forecast of the overall operational requirements in the 1970's.
The forecast will take into account the financial constraints of the
country and will be based on a realistic timetable for the rehabilitation
of the country's highway network. Recommendations will also be made on
policies for improving the development of road transport, for increasing
the amount of public funds for highways and for establishing satisfactory
accounting procedures. After agreement on the recommended program for the
Highway Administration has been reached between the Government and IDA,
the consultants will assist in its i:mplementation.
4.05           As mentioned earlier, except for the minimum maintenance
work under the UNDP/USAID conventions programn, very little actual road
maintenance and rehabilitation work is being carried out, The project
provides for the immediate preparation of a 1969-70 emergency program.
The country is too big to embark on emergency programs in all provinces
simultaneously and this program will therefore be limited to four provinces:
Kongo Central, Kasai Occidental and Oriental,and Province Orientale (see
Map 2).  These areas were chosen because of their agricultural importance
on the recommendation of the Government (see para 5.05),
4.06           The 1971-73 maintenance and rehabilitation program will cover
the most important roads in all parts of the country. The consultants'
recommendations will include estimates of additional manpower, equipment,
spare parts and materials required for the implementation of the program
and wilU indicate how the necessary work can be expeditiously carried out.
The consultants will assist in starting the implementation of this programe.
4407           The training program to be prepared by the consultants will
be based on a study of the availability and qualifications of the existing
personnel of the Highway Administration. A program for recruitements for
training engineers, technicians and operators, and for establishment of
teaching facilities will be prepared. The consultants wiil also assist in
initiating the program,
4.08           The consulting services will be performed by a "Central Team"
working in highway headquarters in Kinshasa and by "Regional Teams" in three
provincial capitals. All teams will participate jointly in the compilation
of inventory data and in the preparation of highway rehabilitation and
training programs. The Central Team will be responsible for (1) the coor-
dination of the work of the Regional Teams, (2) management and operational
support of the Central offices of the Highway Administration, (3) prepara-
tion of the program for improving the Highway Administration, and (4) sub-
mission of all reports. The Regional Teams will be stationed in Matadi,
Luluabourg and Kisangani, capital cities of Kongo Central, Kasai Occidental
(-,hich covers both Occidental and Oriental profinces) and Province Orientale.
They will work directly iiith the local offices of the Highway ,drinistration
in these citiez.. The Regional Teams will be responsible for (1) management
and organizational support o£ the local of£ices and (2) £urnishing assistance
in the implem-entation of programs in the four provinces,



- 9-
C. Purchase of Emergency Equipment
4.09      The financial constraints and the disorganization of the Highway
Administration have meant that even the most essential spare parts, tools,
vehicles and maintenance equipment are no longer available. The project
will provide US$2,1 million for this purpose. This is a small sum in
relation to the total needs, which may be perhaps as high as ten million
dollars annually; it is included to provide the minimum essential services
of the Highway Administration until such time as an adequate organization
exists and its needs are established. The equipment will be purchased in
two installments. The consultants will prepare for agreement with IDA a
specific emergency list of spare parts, tools, construction materials and
a small number of vehicles to be ordered as soon as possible. Its value
is esti-mated at about US$ 50O,000 and will not be subject to international
competitive bidding (see para 4.17). A second more comprehensive list
would be prepared by the consultants, agreed with IDA and will be tendered
on an international competitive basis after the Government and IDA have
agreed on the emergency maintenance program for 1969-70 and IDA has
reviewed and approved the tender documents.
D. Maintenance and Rehabilitation Work by Contract
4.10      Initially there will be many areas where the highway organization
will not be able to carry out directly the necessary maintenance and rehabi-
litation operations and where the convention program does not operate.
The Credit therefore includes a small amount of US$2.0 million for contracts
for minimum maintenance work and for minor improvements necessary to keep
important routes open. These include the construction of small bridges and
the repair or replacement of inadequate running surfaces. The total need
for work of this kind is estimated conservatively at about US$10 million
annually. The consultants will prepare appropriate contract documents for
these high priority works each of which would be of relatively small magni-
tude (see para 4.18),  TDA will review and approve the program of work, the
tender documents and the award of contracts.
E. Cost Estimates and Financing
(i) Consulting Services
4.1l      The Goverrunent is seeking assistance in financing the cost of the
Central Team from the UNDP and of the Regional Teans from IDA.  UNDP was
limited in its total expenditures; the division of labor has been made on
an arbitrary basis. There will, however, be only one contract with one
consulting firm for all services. The Bank will be Participating and
Executing Agency of the UNDP financed part of the project.  The estimated
cost of the technical assistance program and the sources of financing
are summarized below:



- 10 -
(in thousands of US$ equivalent)
UNDP            IDA        Governnent Total
Foreign Local Foreign Local   Local
Central Team
Study team (30 manmonths)         115    20      -      -         -         135
Ianagement team (284 manmonths)  950   215       -      -         -       1,165
Travel                             5°    55      -      -         -         105
Counterparts, clerical, equip-
ment, offices, miscellaneous,
unallocated                      135    80      -      -        280        495
(in kind)
Subtotal  1,250   370*    -       -        280      1, 900
Rg?onal Teams
Professional staff
(24.6 manmonths)                -     -       800    -         170        970
Works superintendents
(189 manmonthe)                 -     -       355    -         155        510
Travel                            -     _         60    -          75       135
Counterparts, clerical, equip-
ment, offices, miscellaneous    -       -       285    -        100        385
Subtotal   -     -      1,500    -        500      2,000
Grand Total     1,250   370*  1,500    -          780*    3,900
The UNDP uirll finance the foreign exchange cost and part of the local exchange
cost of the Central Teame IDA will finance the foreign exchange cost of the
Regional Teams. The Government will finance the remainder of the local costs,
-    (ii)  Purchase of Fquipment
4.12      The estimated cost of the maintenance equipment is summarized below:
(Thousands of US$)
Emergency supply of spare parts,
materials, tools and vehicles                       500
Maintenance equipment and vehicles
including spare parts                             1,600
Subtotal     2,100
* The Govermnent will make a cash contribution of US$120,000 towards the
local costs included in the UNDP subtotal of US$370,000. The grand total
of the Government contribution i,ould therefore be IJS$900,000 and that of
the U     sDF US$1,500,000,



- il -
The above equipment items are an estimate of the minimum requirements to
make the Highway Administration operational again. The recurrent expendi-
ture for operating and replacing them is estimated at US$1.2 million
annually.
(iii) Maintenance and Rehabilitation Workby Contract
4.13      The foreign exchange cost of the maintenance and rehabilitation
program by contract in 1969-70 period is estimated at US$2.0 million and
its local cost at US.$1.0 million. The consultants will assist in identify-
ing and preparing suitable projects under this heading. It is estimated
that maintenance of about 2,000 lm of additional road and rehabilitation
work on sections of road totalling about 200 km in length can be carried
out for this amount.
(iv) Cost Sunmm.
4.14     A summary of the cost estimates of the proposed project, indica
ting UNP, IDA and Government's contributions, is as follows:
(in thousands of US$ equivalent)
ttlDP    IDA    Govt.    Total - Foreign    Local
Consulting Services 1,500   1,500     900    3j900    2,750       1,150
Equipment             -     2,100      -      2,100    2,100        -
Work by Contract      -     2,000   1,000    3,000    2,000       1,000
Unallocated           -       400     100       500      400        100
Subtotal     1,500   6,000   2,000    9,500    7,250       2,250
During negotiations the Government agreed to provide the local funds re-
quired for the project as well as the recurrent expenditures for operating
and replacing the emergency equipmaent.
4.15      Disbursements will be made on the basis of 100% of the foreign
c,ost of the purchase of equipment and the consulting services and of two-
thirds of expenditures (the estimated foreign exchange conponent) on the
contracts for the emergency program. The UNDP financing includes a small
amount of local currency disbursement.  On the assumption that the credit
would be signed in mid 1969, IDA and UNDP disbursements are expected to
be as follows:
Fiscal Year (US$ millions)
1909      1970      1971      Total
Forecast IDA disbursements      0.5        2.0       3.5      6.0
UNDP disbursements              0.2       0.8        0.5      1.5



- 12 -
F. Execution
4.16      The Conseiller Principal Charge des Affaires Techniqua a la Presi-
dence de la Republique will be responsible for the project. The consultants
will give management and operating support, order the necessary spare parts,
draw up the bidding documents for the purchase of equipment and for the
contract works under the emergency maintenance and rehabilitation program.
IDA will review and approve the equipment list, the list of road works, the
tender documents and the award of contracts.
h.17      The procurement of the emergency list of spare parts for existing
equipment and of the tools, construction materials and the small number of
vehicles mentioned in para 4.09 will be through local agents
without international competitive bidding as it is desirable to obtain them
with the minimum of delay. The rest of the supplies will be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with normal Bank/
IDA procedures. Equipment suppliers will be required to provide an adequate
servicing organization including a supply of spare parts,
h.18      Maintenance and rehabilitation work by contract will follow Bank/
IDA practices. Because of the need to undertake works quickly as specific
needs are identified by the consultants, it is probable that individual
contracts within the US$3 million provided for the 1969-70 program will not
be of a size which would be attractive to contractors not already established
in the country.  Advertisements for individual projects will therefore be
limited to local newspapers unless the estimated amount of a single contract
exceeds US$250,000. About US$1 million is expected to be spent in this
category. However, all appropriate member countries of the Bank andSwitzer-
land will be informed of the program as a whole.
4.19      The project represents a modification of the Bank's normal approach,
in that the contract work which is to be financed by the credit will not
have been identified and prepared until after the credit is made. This
departure is necessary to limit the delay in initiating the rehabilitation
of the highway network. The Association, however, will review the works and
the arrangements made for bidding before the contracts are let.
4.20      There will be only one contract for the consulting services which
has been negotiated with a firm selected on the basis of proposals received
in January 1969. A consultants' contract has been negotiated by the Govern-
ment with Research and Development (Belgium). The effectiveness of the
Credit, the Plan of Operation and the consultants' contract will be inter-
dependent.



- 13 -
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.01      The main objectives of the project are to establish an efficient
highway administration and to implement effective maintenance and rehabili-
-tation prograns on the more important roads especiaIly in three regional
areas. The economic benefits expected from the project are not quantifiable
because of the lack of data. However, previous Bank analyses of road main-
tenance projects in Africa (Niger, Chad, Togo) indicate that such projects
yield adequate benefits., The benefits are likely to be high in the Congo
because the road conditions are worse and the project will concentrate on
roads which have the highest economic priority; they can be summarized as
f ollois:
(a) more efficient use of personnel and of the financial
resources being devoted to highway maintenance and
rehabilitation;
(b) a reduction of future expenditure on costly reconstruc-
tion works by arresting and reversing the current rapid
deterioration of the road network;
(c) substantial savings in vehicle operating costs; and
(d) increased production by removing potential bottlenecks
to the recovery of the economy.
Bach of these benefits is briefly explained below.
5.02      The highway administration has a large staff of employees, but
little physical work is being accomplished because there is no effective
planning and organization of the work and very little supervision and direc-
tion of field personnel.  The project .wi1l attempt to remedy these weak-
nesses and foeus on the most urgent and important work. The project could
thereby significantly increase the effective utilization of manpower and
money.
5.03      Many roads are reaching a stage of deterioration where costly
reconstruction may become necessary. The prompt execution of highway main-
tenance or rehabilitation work could still prevent such costly works in
many cases.
5.04     'Vehicle operating costs are increasing and are already fairly
high, about 10 US cents per ton-km, partly because of the poor condition
of the roads. Proper highway maintenance and rehabilitation could reason-
ably be expected to reduce vehicle operating costs by as much as 40%.
5.05      Last but not least, the project  yill contribute to the revival of
economic activity now underway, especially to the reccvery of general agri-
cultural production, As explained above, many areas are accessible now only



- 14 -
with difficulty and at high cost because the roads are in poor condition and
many ferries and bridges are out of order, or function poorly.  Prompt
action to remedy these difficulties would reassure farmers that they can
count on adequate transport to evacuate crops at the appropriate time for
marketing or processing.  For example, the port of Aketi which helps evacuate
the agricultural products of the Province Orientale handled only about 20,000
tons in 1967 as compared with 75,000 tons before independence, Also, producers
of robusta coffee in other parts of the Province Orientale experience extra-
ordinary delays in transporting their products to Kinshasa. Another exanple
is the Kasai Occidental Province which used to have a high production of
maize with surpluses being transported by rail to Katanga. Now Katanga has
to import its needs from Zambia partly because of the deterioration of the
feeder road system in Kasai and the resulting very high marketing costs.
The Kongo Central Province, finally, had fetq disturbances and increased
its output of food crops; however, the bad condition of the roads and the
scarcity of trucks are the major irpediments to a further very necessary
increase in production to supply food for the fast growing Kinshasa metro-
politan area. Without the assurance of better roads offering regular access
to markets there is little incentive for farmers to raise production beyond
subsistence levels. For this reason, the project works have been oriented
towards the four provinces with a rich agricultural potential as discussed
briefly above, They, therefore, can be expected to make a significant con-
tribution to the recovery of the economy. The import of motor vehicles bias
been liberalized to facilitate the rebuilding of an adequate vehicle fleet.
5.06      The project as a whole will provide only a small part of the
eventual needs for re-establishing a viable highway system and administration;
however, it should provide the necessary start and stimulus to this objective.
In addition, the project will help to lay the basis for further assistance
by international lending agencies or foreign governments in the highway field
in the country. It is, therefore, considered to be acoromically justified.



-15 -
6.  RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During credit negotiations the Governnent's intention to provide
the local financing for the project and for the operation and replacement
of the equipment supplied under the project have been confirmed (para 4.14).
The Governnent has also confirmed that it will review each year the finan-
cing of its overall maintenance program with the Bank (para 3.15),
6,02      The entry into force of the Plan of Operation, the credit and the
consultants's contract will be interdependent (para 4.20),
6.03      The proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit to the Govern-
ment of US$6.0 million.
April 10, 1969



ANNEX
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
1969-71 Highway Services
Terms of Reference
I.   OBJECTIVES
IIQ SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
A.   General
B.   Highway Organization Support
C.   Inventories
1.   Road System, Bridges and Ferries
2.  t"aintenance and Construction Equipment
3.  Administration and Personnel
D.  Action Programs
1.   Improvement of the Highway Administration
2.   1969-70 Rehabilitation Program
3.  1971-73 Rehabilitation Program
4.   Training Program
E.   Organization of the Services, Tîe Schedule and Reports
III.   DATA, LOCAL SERVICES ANID FACILITIES TO BE THE RESPONSIBILITY
OF THE RDC
A.   Economic, Traffic and Technical Data
B.   Cooperation of Governnental Agencies
C.  Facilities and Supporting Staff for the Consultants



- 1 -
I. OBJECTIVES
The purpose of this assignment is to assist the Government of the
Democratic Republic of the Congo in improving the administration, mainten-
ance and rehabilitation of the national highway system.   To this end, the
1969-71 Highway Services shaU provide:
(1) management and operational support to the sections of the Ministry
of Public Works in charge of roads and bridges, highway equipment
and ferries (hereinafter called the "Highway Administration");
(2)  a recommended program for improving and restructuring the organi-
zation of the Highway Administration;
(3)  a recommended program for emergency maintenance and rehabilita-
tion in the years 1969-70 for the most important roads in three
provinces;
!4)  a recommended program for the maintenance and rehabilitation of
ail major roads under the jurisdiction of the Highway Administra-
tion in the years 1971-73;
(5)  a recormended program for the training of Highway Administration
personnel; and
(6) assistance to the Highway Administration in implementing the pro-
grams recommended for (2) and (3) above and in starting the pro-
grams recommended for (4) and (5) above.
II. SCOPE OF CONSULTING SEPRVICES
A.  General
The 1969-71 Highway Services (hereinafter called the "Services")
shall cover all intercity and rural highways which have a significant role
in the national economy of the country. Urban roads shall not be considered
unless they have an effect on the operation of intercity and rural roads
(e.g. bypasses and connections to major terminals).
The Consultants shall perform all engineering and economic analyses,
field investigations, organizational and financial studies, and related work
herein described, as required to attain the objectives outlined in Section I
above.   In performing the Services, the Consultants shall work closely
with the RDC and other public agencies, which are to provide the data, ser-
vices and facilities outlined in Section III hereof.   Ihe Consultants shall
also coordinate their work with technical assistance programs being provided
by others to the Highway Administration and with the work on ports and river
transport being performed concurrently by other consultants under a separate
contract.   The Consultants shall be solely responsible, however, for the
analysis and interpretation of all data received and for
the findings, conclusions and recommendations contained in their reports.



- 2 -
The Services shall be performed in collaboration with (1) the central
office of the Highway Administration and (2) three of the offices responsible for
rids in the provinces (hereinafter called "Local Offices";  for locations and
areas of jurisdiction see E. below).
The Services shall be conducted in three consecutive phases. Throughout
these phases the Consultants shall provide all necessary management and operation-
al support to the Highway Administration (as defined in B. below) and compile
inventory data on the highway system (C. below).
Phase I of the Services shall result in recommended programs for the or-
ganization of the Highway Administration and for the most urgent road rehabilita-
tion work in the years 1969-70 (D-1 and -2 below).   This phase shall be completed
within seven months.
Phase II of the Services shall consist of the implementation of programs
recommended in Phase I. During Phase II, the Consultants shall also prepare pro-
grams for road maintenance and rehabilitation in the years 1971 through 1973 and
for training of Highway Administration personnel (D-3 and -4 below). Implementa-
tion of the personnel training program shall commence as early as possible in
Phase II with the assistance of the Consultants. This phase shall have a duration
of 16 months.
In Phase III of the Services, the Consultants shall assist the Highway
Administration in starting the road maintenance and rehabilitation program recom-
mended in Phase II and continue to assist in the personnel training program.   In
addition, Phase III shall be a period in which the tasks of the Consultants are
transferred to permanent personnel of the Highway Administration or to the staff
of consultants to be retained under other contracts.   This phase shall have a
duration of eight months.
The Services may be terminated during Phase II if the RDC and the Bank
are unable to reach agreement within six months of the completion of Phase I on a
program Lor improving or restructuring the Highway Administration.
The Consultants shall provide practical training for the counterpart
personnel assigned by the RDC throughout the duration of the Services.
B.   Highway Organization Support
The Consultants shall assist the Highway Administration in its central
office and in the Local Offices to improve the efficiency of management and of
all operations that affect transport on the major roads of the national highway
system.
During Phase I of the Services, the Consultants shall:
(1) compile preliminary inventory data in collaboration with the Highway
Administration, on highway personnel, the road network, workshops,
road maintenance and construction equipment and other basic information;
(2) expedite and recommend procedures for the maintenance, rehabilitation
and upgrading of the most i.mportant roads;
(3) recommend appropriate structural and geometric design standards for the
roads on which rehabiîitation is in progress;



-3-
(4)  recommend measures for optimum utilization of equipment, materials,
government personnel, and contractors capable of performing road
maintenance and rehabilitation work;
(5)  recommend improvements in management controls;  and
(6) establish traffic counting systems (including origin and destina-
tion surveys), estimate vehicle operating costs for different types
of roads, and collect all other data required for the economic
evaluation of highway projects and for studying the economics of
road transport.
During Phases II and III of the Services, the Consultants shall
continue to provide managenent and operational support to the Highway Admini-
stration in its central office and the Local Offices.   The primary objectives
of this support shall be to assist in implementing the recommendations for
Action Programs (D. below).
If the Consultants recommend that members of the Consultants' staff
be assigned to executive positions in the Highway Administration during Phases Ml
and/or III of the Services, the scope of their excecutive responsibilities and
their duties shall be defined in the First Progress Report (E. below) and such
assignments shall only become effective after specific authorization by the
RDC and the Bank.
C.   Inventories
The Consultants shall prepare a program, detailed instructions, and
forms for a general inventory of the existing highways in the country, the
equipment and materials available for the construction and maintenance of
highways, and all e-xisting organizations and personnel having major respon-
sibilities for highway administration, construction and maintenance.
In Phase I of the Services, the Consultants shall complete a pre-
liminary stage of the inventory work, by compiling all relevant data currently
available in the Highway Administration and in other public agencies respon-
sible for roads and road transport.   The Consultants shall supplement these
data by (a) visual inspection of a representative sample of roads, (b) det-
ailed inspection of a representative sample of maintenance and construction
equipment and related shop facilities, and (c) discussions with officials
and key personnel in the responsible organizations (including those engaged in
road maintenance by the "conventions routieres" system*).   This shall form
the basis of the Action Programs covered in D-1 and D-2 below.
During Phases II and III of the Services, the inventory shall be
gradually completed and updated, so that the data available to the Highway
Administration at the time of termination of the Services shall be in accord-
ance with the general criteria given in the following.
*    (A system of road maintenance financed by USAID counterpart funds and
supervised by UNDP personnel).



- 4 -
1.   Road System, Bridges and Ferries
The inventory of the highway network shall provide classifications
of roads as primary, secondary or tertiary (feeder).   Sections of each road
shall be identified which have similarity in function and principal physical
characteristics.   For each section of road, the inventory shal  indicate
the length;  data on location and general aligrnent;  and, where feasible,
data on profile, width, type and condition of pavement and shoulders; type of
subsoil; location, type of construction, spans, width, clearances and ap-
parent condition of bridges;  general conditions of drainage, including obvious
or known flooding;   right-of-way width;  adequacy for present traffic;  any
obvious features which can readily be identified by visual inspection, such
as conditions dangerous under present traffic, etc; and the location, capacity
and condition of ferries.
The inventory shall also summarize all available data on the present
volume of traffic for each section of road and on annual freight tonnages
carried by the traffic (by major comodity groups and direction).
2.   Maintenance and Construction EqLuipment
the inventory of highway maintenance and construction equipment
sahal comprise data on all equipment available for highway operations in
the country.   The inventory shal  provide data on (1) the  location of the
equipment; (2) classification of the equipment by type, capacity, and manu-
facture;  (3) the condition of the equipment and its remaining useful life;
(4) the need for spare parts and repairs;  and (5) assignnent of the equip-
ment to appropriate maintenance and/or construction tasks.
The inventory shall also record the location, type, size and functions
of maintenance shops, warehouses and related facilities that are used for repair
and storage of highway maintenance and construction equipment; this shall
include classification of the type of repair equipment in use, assessment of
its condition, serviceability and capacity, and data on the type and quantity
of spare parts available for both highway and shop equipment.
In addition, the inventory shall provide data on the types and
quantities of materials available for highway construction and maintenance
in each region, indicating the locations of sources, storage areas and dis-
tribution points.
3.   Administration and Personnel
The inventory shall provide data on the functions, authority,
staffing and organizational structure of each agency having major responsi-
bilities in the administration, planning, maintenance, or construction of
highways in the country.   This shall also include data on the general quali-
fications of present professional and administrative staff and of labor employ-
ed by the agencies; recruiting and training procedures; methods employed in
contracting, in the performance of maintenance and construction work by
departmental forces and by the "conventions routieres" system; procure-
ment procedures; and recent cost experience in construction and mainten-
ance works for various classes of roads and in different types of terrain.



- 5 -
The inventory shall also summarize budgetary allocations (own and foreign
resources) and annual expenditures of each agency; the organizational relation-
ship among the different agencies; the regulatory policies of the RDC
for trucking and other highway traffic; and a detailed breakdown of highway
user charges.
D.  Action Programs
1. Improvement of the Highway Administration
In the course of the highway organization support activities during
Fhase I of the Services (B. above), the Consultants shall observe the day-to-
day operations of the Highway Administration and identify the operations in
which improvements appear to be most urgent.   In addition, the Consultants
shall review and evaluate the inventory data to be compiled during Phase I
of the Services (C. above) and make a general forecast of the overall opera-
tional requirements of the  Highway Administration in the 1970's.
The forecast of operational requirements shas be based on the as-
sumption that rehabilitation of the country's highway network is to be com-
pleted in accordance with a realistic time schedule.  ¶Ihe forecast shall also
reflect the financial resources available to the country, which would have a
bearing on the standards that can be applied to road maintenance and construc-
tion work and to the acceptable conditions of the roads.
Furthermore, the Consultants shall review:
(a) the country's technical and administrative capabilities for carry-
ing out road maintenance, rehabilitation and construction work and
the alternative methods available for performing such work;
(b) the functional, administrative and financial relations between the
Highway Administration and local authorities responsible for high-
ways;
(c) the budgetary allocations, accounting methods and payment practices
currently used by the Highway Administration;
(d) the level, structure and the economic effects of highway user charges
and simalar taxes on transport (including import duties on vehicles,
spare parts, fuel, etc.) and the amounts, use and accounting of the
revenues accruing from such charges and taxes;
(e)  Government regulations relating to import procedures and the avail-
ability of bank credit for the purchase of vehicles and spare parts;
and
(f) regulatory policies on trucking and other road traffie (including
inspection, licensing, safety, size and weight regulations, etc.).



- 6 -
The Consultants shall also determine (a) whether greater centraliza-
tion of authority, functions and finances would increase the efficiency of the
Highway Administration and expedite the execution of the road programs and (b)
whether establishment of a "road £und" would be the appropriate way to assure
adequate resources for highways.
On the basis of the foregoing, the Consultants shaU make recommenda-
tions on:
(i)  a program for improving the Highway Administration or for establish-
ing a new highway organization (in the latter case, the Consultants
shall identify and prepare an outline of the necessary legislative
actions required for its implementation);
(ii) policies for improving the developament of road transport and for
increasing the amount of public funds available for highways; and
(iii) measures to establish accounting procedures that will enable
the  1RDC   to exercise adequate control over coste for all types
of road maintenance and construction work.
These recommendations shall be accompanied by a detailed time
schedule of implementation for the balance of 1969 and the year 1970.   The
Consultants' recommendations for these improvements shall be submitted in
Interim Report A (ref. E. below).
2.   1969-70 Rehabilitation Prograi
On the basis of a general review of inventory data to be compiled
during Phase I (C. above), the Consultants shall identify the road sec-
tions that are in the most urgent need of maintenance, repair
and rehabilitation work.   The Consultants shall also review the system of
maintenance by "conventions routieres," assess its effectiveness, and det-
ermine which of the most urgent projects could be accomplished efficiently
by this system.   For the remainder of the most urgent projects, the Consuz-
tants shall recommend the most suitable alternative procedures for expeditious
completion (i.e. work by departmental forces of the Highway Administration or
by contractors).
For the areas in which "Regional Teams" will be stationed (see Et
below), the Consultants shall prepare cost estimates for each of the most
urgent projects, identifying the foreign and local currency components. Thîs
shall include (a) maintenance, repair and construction projects, (b) itens
of equipment, materials and spare parts required for the most urgent mainten-
ance and rehabilitation work by the Highway Administration, and (c) any repair
shop equipment needed to ensure proper maintenance and operation of the High-
way Department's construction and maintenance equipment.
The Consultants shall rank the most urgent projects and proposed
equipment acquisition items by economic priority and prepare a detailed pro-
gram for emergency works to be completed by the end of 1970.   This progran
shall comprise a budget of foreign and local currency costs by item and a
time schedule for the acquisition of equipment and for contracting procedures.



-7-
The Consultants shall also prepare tender documents for the execu-
tion of the repair and maintenance work recommended to be accomplished by
contracting and for the acquisition of the equipmient, materials and spare
parts included in the pregram.  These documents shall be submitted simul-
taneously with Interim Report A (ref. E. below).
3.   1971-73 Rehabilitation Program
For the most important roads in all parts of the country, the
Consultants shall prepare a detailed program, similar to the 1969-70 Re-
habilitation Program, covering the three-year period 1971-73.   The program
shal include estimates of the additional manpower, equipment, spare parts
and materials required for its implementation and the Consultants shall
identify the items obtainable locally and the items to be imported.
The Consultants shall prepare cost estimates and outline specifica-
tions for all major items in the program.  For the equipment items suitable
for international competitive bidding, the Consultants shall s,ibmit appropriate
contract documents.  The Consultants shall also prepare the basic drawings
and contract documents for selected road rehabilitation and maintenance pro-
jects that would be suitable for international competitive bidding.
Furthermore, the Consultants shall prepare detailed recommendations,
including a time schedule and cost estimate, for any additional consulting
services required to implement the 1971-73 program.
The Consultants shall use the recommended program as a basis for
preparing the Highway Administration's annual budget estimates for 1971
through 1973. The Consultants shall also provide an economic justification
of the proposed road maintenance and improvement program based on quantitat-
ive comparisons of benefits and costs.   The reconmendations for the 1971-73
Rehabilitation Program shall be submitted in Interim Report C (ref. E. below).
4.   Training Program
The Consultants shall assess the availability and qualifications of
persmnmel of the Highway Administration and determine the deficiencies which
exist in the staff and labor available for highway administration and related
government operations in the country.   This shall include classification of
required additional personnel by type (managerial, professional, technical
and administrative), by level of responsibility in the proposed organization,
and by the year in which the deficiencies will have to be met. The Consul-
tants shall rank these requirements in accordance with the effect each would
have on the programs proposed in D-1, -2 and -3 above.
Ihe existing capacity in the country to train personnel in the high-
way sector shall be determined in cooperation with the RDC and the Con-
sultants shall then establish the net short-fall of trained personnel, prepare
a program for recruitment, for training and for the establishment of associa-
ted teaching facilities.   The recommended Training Program shall be submitted
in Interim Report B (ref. E. below).
After approval of the Training Program by the RDC and the
Bank the Consultants shnll assist in the implementation of this program.



- 8 -
E.  Organization of the Services, Time Schedule and Reports
The Services shall be performed by a "Central Team" and by "Regional
Teams" of the Consultants' staff.   All teams shall partlcipate jointly in
the compilation of inventory data (C. above) and in the preparation of Re-
habilitation and Training Programs (D-2, -3 and -4 above).
The Central Team shall be stationed at l'insh2sa, and shall be respon-
sible for (1) the coordination of the work of the Regional Teams, (2) manage-
ment and operational support to the central offices of the Highway Administra-
tion, (3) preparation of an Action Program for Improvement of the Highway
Administration (D-1 àbove), and (4) preparation of all reports (E. above).
The Regional Teams shal  be stationed at liatadi, Luluabourg and
Kisangani and shall work directly with the local offices of the Highway Admini-
stration in these cities (the "Local Offices").   The Regional Teams shall
be responsible for (1) management and organizational support to the Local
Offices and (2) furnishing assistance in the implementation of Action Programs
primarily in the f ollo ing provinces:
(a) Kongo Central;
(b) East and West Kasai; and
(c) Province Orientale.
A "Steering Committee" consisting of representatives of the
RDC and the Bank will provide general policy guidance for the Services. The
Steering Comittee will meet at appropriate intervals to review the Consul-
tants' reports, the progress of theïr work and the implementation of programs
recommended by the Consultants.
The Consultants shall prepare and subnit the following reports within
the periods indicated:
(1) An Inception Report, within three months after the Starting Date
summarizing the initial findings of the Consultants (10 copies in
French to the RDC and 10 copies in English to the Bank).
(2) Progress Reports, at two-month intervals after submittal of the
Inception Report, giving a statement of all work performed during
the reporting period, a summary of interim findings, and an out-
line of the work program for the next two reporting periods.   The
first Progress Report, which is due within five months of the
Starting Date, shall include a preliminary outline of the Consul-
tants' proposals for Improvement of Highway Administration and the
1969-70 Rehabilitation Program (D-1 and -2 above), with tentative
equipment lists and budget estimates.   The sixth Progress Report,
which is due within fifteen months of the Starting Date, shall in-
clude a preliminary outline of the 1971-73 Rehabilitation Program
(D-3 above) with tentative equipment lists and budget estimates (10
copies in French to the RDC and 10 copies in English to the Bank).



-9-
(3)  A Statistical Supplement (for the Central Team only) showing
personnel employed, equipment ordered and delivered, and sub-
contracts entered into for the preceding periods of January 1
to June 30 and July 1 to December 31, due by July 31 and Jan-
uary 31 respectively (5 copies in English to the Bank).
(4) Interim Report 'A,' within seven months of the Starting Date,
presenting the Consultants' proposals for Improvement of the
Highway Administration and the 1969-70 Rehabilitation Program
(D-1 and -2 above) (40 copies in French to the RDC and
20 copies in Ehglish to the Bank).
(5) Interim Report 'B,' within ten months of the Starting Date, on
the recommended program for the training of Highway Administration
personnel (D-4 above) (40 copies in French to the RDC and
20 copies in English to the Bank).
(6) Interim Report 'C,' within eighteen months of the Starting Date,
presenting the 1971-73 Rehabilitation Program (D-3 above) (40
copies in French to the RDC and 20 copies in Eiglish to
the Bank).
(7) A Draft Final Report, within twenty-seven months of the Starting
Date, sumarizing (a) all work performed, (b) major findings and
conclusions and (c) recommendations for any further assistance to
the Highway Administration (10 copies in French to the RDC
and 10 copies in English to the Bank),
(8) A Final Report, within thirty months of the Starting Date, incorpora-
ting (a. all revisions deemed appropriate by the Consultants after
receipt of comments on the Draft zinal Report from the RDC and
the Bank and (b) a summary of the comments by the RDC and the
Bank which have not resulted in revisions of the report (number of
copies to be determined by the RDC and the Bank).
The reports mentioned in 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 above shall contain
a concise first chapter summarizing all major findings and recommendations of
the Consultants.   The estimate of costs and benefits and ail economic analyses
which support the Consultants' conclusions shall be presented in sufficient
detail to permit checkirng of aIl calculations without supplementary data. The
Draft Final Report (7) shall be carefully edited and complete, so that the
production of the Final Report (8) can proceed without delay.
III. DATA, LOCAL SERVICES AM FACILITIES TO
BE THE RESPONlSIBILITY OF TEE RDC
A.  Economic, Traffic and Technical Data
The RDC is to provide the Consultants with all available data
on:
(1) the present organization and functions of Governmont fliniotries and
other public agencies responsible for transport;



- 10 -
(2)  the organization and functions of sub-units of the national governnment
administration, of local governments, or of other agencies con-
cerned with highways or highway transport;
(3)  the economic development plans of the Democratic Republic of the
Congo, both national and regional, including the distribution of
population and the location of agriculture, mining, and industrial
production and consumption;
(4) maps of the country and its transport networks, including existing
inventory data and all available aerial photographs;
(5) cost experience on recent construction projects;
(6) transport costs and revenues, including national and local taxes;
(7) the operations and accounting systems of the governnent agencies
and local authorities responsible for highway transport maintenance
and administration;
(8) previous studies sponsored by the RDC and FED on Transporta-
tion and on developments that will have an impact on transport
requirements;  and
(9) traffic by all modes of transport.
B.   Cooperation of Governmental-Agencies
In connection with work by the Consultants that requires the coopera-
tion of local governments or other public agencies, the RDC is to pro-
vide liaison and to ensure that the Consultants have access to all information
required for the completion of the Services.
The RDC is to take all necessary steps, including the provis-
ion of "laissez-passers,," to enable the Consultants to travel without hindrance
in all parts of the country, as required for the performance of the Services.
The aDC is to assign qualified counterpart staff to vork.
with the key personnel of the Consultants.   The counterparts are to be as-
signed on a full-time basis, for the purpose of liaison, training, and review
of the findings and recommendations of the Consultants.
C.  Facilities and Supportig Staff for the Consultants
The RDC is to provide the following facilities and staff to
help the Consultants in performing the Services in the Democratic Republic of
the Congo:



- il -
(a)  Office furniture for the Central Team (excluding the study team)
and for the regional teans including, desks, chairs, tables, and
filing cabinets, and the following office equipment:
(i)  4 mechanical typewriters (i for Central Team and 1 for each
Regional Team)
(ii) 1 electrical typewriter (Central Team)
(iii) 1 stencil machine (Central Team)
(iv) 4 photocopiers (l for Central Team and 1 for each Regional
Team)
(v) 4 dictaphones (1 for Central Team and 1 for each Regional
Team)
(vi) 8 drafting tables (2 for Central Team and 2 for each Reg-
ional Team)
(vii) 5 electric calculating machines - 4 operations (2 for
Central Team and 1 for each Regional Team).
(b) Administrative, secretarial and clerical services including:
(i)  4 typists (1 for Central Team and 1 for each Regional Team)
(ii)  4 clerks (1 for Central Team and 1 for each Regional Team)
(iii) 13 messengers and orderlies (4 for Central Team and 3 for
each Regional Team).
(c) Supporting staff including:
(i)  senior draftsman - approximately 30 man-months (Central Team)
(ii)  draftsmen as required, approxinately 240 man-months (60 man-
months for Central Team and 180 man-months for Regional Teams)
(iii) field assistants as required, approximately 330 man-months
(60 man-months for Central Team and 270 man-months for
Regional Teams).
(d) Surveying equipment including:
(i)  9 theodolites (Regional Teams)
(ii) 9 levels (Regional Teams)
(iii)  steel tapes, chains, levelling staffs as required (Regional
Teams)



- 12 -
(e) Transportation within the Democratic Republic of the Congo including
(i) local air, rail and river transportation, (ii) twenty-two
drivers (approximately 210 man-months for Central Team and 375
man-months for Regional Teams) for the vehicles purchased by the
Consultants for the Services and (iii) two vehicles with drivers
(approximately 12 man-months for the Study Group of the Central
Team).
(f) Utilities, telephone, postage, telegraph and telex services.
The RDC is to assist the Consultants in locating satisfactory
and appropriate hotel or other living accommodations for the personnel of the
Consultants.



s           I t h       I    I    -'        O v                                                                                         -
w zr w 3~~~~~~~~~~<                                   t                          _O A            ~C&/ 
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II*-



DEMOCRATIC   REPUBLIC  0F  THE  CONGO                   DETA               F       AN         REP            I                
ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS                                       i                                           ,
k  4-
4,bé W f ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..   .......     ........ t_- 2
OLJSALA                        .
O           R       I      E C C I  N   T E      A       L
=  4  i  ->^s_t-twSt rs--- -G 4 i                                  't
1 X~~ ~  ~~~~~~~~~ .YNA~ L&%OErlDNG;>S                                                U          C;-
E   Q   U   A   T   E   b   R0                           N 4  1
OBUENDE SI                                        -<E/  t
INONGO                    
R  E P U B L I CW                                                                                                       U
KINDUO       \" 
0F  THE     ~ SANDUNDU                     Q       t          i       vkN~ 
K~~~~I NSKA'              ~            ASAI 'N            o~N
t;      KIKWIT   '>
KON90    CENTRALCI"~NAL                                              J 
J   K0N~~~~O    CENTRAL   f                   Wl   IBUJI-MAVI ~~~~~~~~KALEMIE0 
MATADI                              - ~~~~~~~~~ULAOURG     '1                t
TSHIMBULUO
f-N
~~~                CU~~~KAMINA           ~k/
o                                X~~~~~~~~~             ~~OLWEIKA k  7
QttL  c                              ''~~~~~~~~~J»j~~ÈUBUMSAUMBSHIN
U ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z                                                   A



