CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 301 GUA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
GUYANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 26, 1972
S


﻿CONFORMED COPY
S
CREDIT NUMBER 301 GUA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
GUYANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 26, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 26, 1972, between GUYANA (hereinafter called
the  Borrower)   and  INTERNATIONAL       DEVELOPMENT       ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has requested from the United Nations Development
Programme financial assistance in an amount equivalent to approximately one
million two hundred thousand dollars ($1,200,000) to finance Parts D, F and G
of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an


﻿4
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million four hundred thousand
dollars ($4,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, as revised in May 1971, and in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 1982 and ending April 1, 2022, each installment to and including the
installment payable on April 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, engineering and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) in order to assist the Borrower
in carrying out Parts B and E of the Project, employ engineering consultants
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association; and (ii) in order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts D, F
and G of the Project, employ, or otherwise obtain the services of, engineering
and economic consultants acceptable to the Association, upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, provided that the consulting services for Parts F
and G of the Project shall be obtained within six months after the date of this
Agreement or such further time as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall use its best efforts to obtain financial assistance
from the United Nations Development Programme in an amount equivalent to
approximately $1,200,000 to assist in the financing of the services referred to in
paragraph (a) (ii) hereof.
(c)   The Borrower shall make qualified counterparts available to work with
the consultants under Part F of the Project and, in consultation with the
Association, shall: (i) promptly after the first phase of the services of said
consultants, determine a timetable to implement the recommendations agreed upon
by the Borrower and the Association for the second phase of their services, and
(ii) before the end of the second year of the services of said consultants, review
the progress of the proposed improvements and shall assess, in consultation with
the Association, the need for further technical assistance.
(d)   The Borrower shall make qualified counterparts available to work
full-time with the consultants under Part G of the Project and, in consultation
with the Association, shall review, before the end of the second year of the services
of said consultants, the progress of transport planning and shall assess the need
for further technical assistance.
Section 3.03. (a) In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿6
(b)   The general design standards to be used in the construction of the
roads included in Part A of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement, as modified from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or cause to be insured,
the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to inspect
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land, properties and rights in respect thereof
as shall be required for carrying out Parts A and C of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to keep the
road-way clear and to prevent obstruction of the right-of-way for roads under
Part A of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting


﻿7
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and repair its declared public
roads in accordance with sound engineering, economic and financial practices, and
shall provide promptly as needed the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
hereof, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall,
by June 30, 1973, and on the basis of the recommendations made by the
consultants referred to in Section 3.02 hereof, formulate a road maintenance policy
and a five-year maintenance program in accordance with said policy, both
satisfactory to the Association; and shall thereafter maintain its roads in accordance
with the said policy and program.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall collect and record in accordance with
appropriate statistical methods and procedures such data as are required to assess
the technical, economic and financial aspects of the Borrower's road system for.
proper planning of maintenance, improvements and extensions thereof.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1973 or such other date
as shall be agreed with the Association, take all appropriate steps, including the
issuance of adequate regulations, to ensure that limits on dimension and axle-loads
of vehicles, consistent with the structural and geometric design of the Borrower's
roads, are adopted and enforced.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall:
(a)   by December 31, 1973, submit to the Association, for consultation,
a plan to phase out its railways between Georgetown and Mahaica and between
Vreed-en Hoop and Parika; and
(b)   maintain in its Ministry of Economic Development a transportation
planning unit.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall complete the road improvement works
presently being carried out between Uitflugt and Parika by December 31, 1972
or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, and shall provide
promptly as needed the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
S


﻿9
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in this Agreement
notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has
obtained financial assistance from the United Nations Development Programme or
other sources, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, in an amount
sufficient to cover the cost of carrying out Parts D, F and G of the Project.
Section 8.02. The date August 29, 1972 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.02, 4.03,
4.04 and 4.05 (b) of this Agreement shall cease and terminate on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20 years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
86


﻿10
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Public Building
Georgetown, Guyana
Cable address:
Minfin
Georgetown
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
0


﻿11
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
GUYANA
By /s / Rahman B. Gajraj
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Simon Aldewereld
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.    Road improvement             2,600,000           68% of total ex-
penditures (rep-
resenting the
estimated for-
eign expenditure
component)
II.  Weighbridges                    200,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
III.  Consultants under              800,000           100% of foreign
Parts B and E                                     expenditures
IV.   Unallocated                    800,000
TOTAL        4,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term  "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.


﻿13
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I shall
S


﻿14
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:    improvement of the following four road sections, totalling about 34
miles: (a) West Coast Road; (b) West Bank Road; (c) Canal Road
No. 1; and (d) Canal Road No. 2;
Part B:    supervision of works under Part A;
Part C:    provision and installation of permanent vehicle weighbridges in such
number and at such locations as shall be agreed with the Association;
Part D:    feasibility studies of about 200 miles of roads to be agreed upon with
the Association;
Part E:     detailed engineering of about 100 miles of high priority roads to be
agreed upon with the Association resulting from the studies under Part
D;
Part F.    provision of consulting services to improve the organization and
operations of the Ministry of Works, Hydraulics, and Supply; and
Part G:    provision of technical assistance to the transportation planning unit
of the Ministry of Economic Development.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1975.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    Prequalification of bidders as described in paragraph 1.3 of the Guidelines
referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement will be used for bidding on road
construction and at least 45 days will be allowed for the submission of
prequalification documents. The Borrower shall, before prequalification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and furnish the
text of notices to the embassies and advertisements (with a list of the publications
in which such advertisements shall appear) of inviting contractors to prequalify
and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association together
with the recommendations of the Consultants for Part B of the Project on
prequalification for its comments before the applicants are notified and the
Borrower shall make such additions to or deletions from the said list as the
Association shall reasonably request.
2.    Contracts for road construction will be on a unit price basis. For the purposes
of bidding, the road works will be divided into two bidding lots to be tendered
simultaneously, either singly or in combination, one lot comprising the road sections
specified in Part A (a) and (b) of the Project and the other, those specified in
Part A (c) and (d) thereof.
3.    Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification
or addition to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders. A period of at least 60 days will
be allowed for submission of bids. Bids will be accompanied by a bid bond or
bank guarantee amounting to 3% of the bid amount.
4.    The bidding documents shall make adequate provisions, inter alia, for the
following:
(a)   The successful bidder shall be required to furnish at their option, either
a performance bond of 100% of the contract price or a bank guarantee by an
acceptable financial institution in an amount of 10% of this price, which guarantee


﻿17
or bond shall remain in effect until the works specified in the contract are
completed.
(b)   The contract with the successful bidder shall contain the following
provisions:
(i)         the contract shall provide for retention monies of 10% of the
cost of works stated in each monthly invoice until 50% of total
contract payments have been made, after which the retention
deductions may be reduced or eliminated at the discretion of
the Borrower. Any amount of retention monies in excess of 5%
of the total cost of contract shall be released after provisional
acceptance of the works. The balance of the retention monies
shall be retained until fourteen days after termination of the
contractor's responsibility in respect of defects;
(ii)        at any time during the con.    iction or warranty periods the
contractor shall have the option of substituting a bank guarantee
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association for such
retention in which case the retention money shall be released
to him; and
(iii)       the warranty period during which the contractor remains
responsible in respect of defects in the works (fair wear and
tear excepted) shall extend for one year after acceptance of the
work.
5.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom     it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the Borrower's
consultants on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendations for award of said consultants, and the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it has any
objection to the intended award and shall state the reasons for any objection it
may have.
6.    If the contract shall be awarded over the Association's objection or if its
terms and conditions shall, without the Association's concurrence, materially differ
from those on which bids were asked, no expenditures thereunder shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿18
7.    Two copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Association promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawals of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any
such contract.
0
0


﻿19
SCHEDULE 4
General Design Standards
Urban        Rural            Type of
Characteristics                 Unit      Areas        Areas            Surface
Geometric Design Standards
Speed                      mph          30           50              n.a.
Pavement - width          ft            22         20-22*            n.a.
Shoulders - width          do          6-8           4-6**           n.a.
Minimum radius of          do         760           760              n.a.
curvature
Stopping sight distance    do          350          350              n.a.
Right-of-way - width       do          80           130***           n.a.
Structural Design Features
Maximum axle-load         lbs                     18,000             n.a.
Bridge loading             n.a.                 AASHO H20            n.a.
Pavement Surface
West Coast Road            n.a.      n.a.           n.a.        Asphalt concrete
West Bank Road             n.a.      n.a.           n.a.        Bituminous double
surface treatment
Canal Roads                n.a.      n.a.           n.a.        Bituminous double
surface treatment
*          20 ft on sections on Canal Roads for present traffic under 300 vpd.
**         Width of shoulders varies according to traffic and anticipated degree of slow moving traffic
and pedestrians.
Due to location of adjoining canals, the right-of-way width will be reduced for the Canal
Roads.
Note:      n.a. means not applicable.


