Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7006
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1554-ME)
November 9, 1987
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniv in the perfomiance of
their official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be dir d wit *i  Wfre I P  - Wt I '7 t'



Country Exchange Rates
(Yearly Average)
Currency and (Abbreviation)                Peso (Mex$)
Year                            Mex$ per US$
1975 (Project Preparation Started)             12.50
1976 (Project Appraised)                       15.43
1977 (Project Re-appraised)                    22.57
1978 (Project Approved)                        22.77
1979 (Project Becomes Effective)               22.81
1980                                           22.95
1981                                           24.51
1982 (Expected Closing Date)                   56.40
1983 (Loan Account Closed)                    120.09



FOR OUV1a1 L u   ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. DC 20433
US^
Oce CA Ovcohvc..f4al
Op..aeumw bvaklub'
November 9, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Performance Audit Report on Mexico Lazaro Cardenas
Conurbation Development Project (Loan 1554-ME)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Performance Audit Report on Mexico Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation
Development Project (Loan 1554-ME)" prepared by the Operations Evaluation
Department.
Yves Rovani
by Ram K. Chopra
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I~~~~2



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
MEXICO LAZAPO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PR(
(LOAN 1554-ME)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaRe No.
Preface                             ...........i
Basic Data Sheet ......................................         . .ii
Evaluation Summary ................................................            v
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMOPNDUM
I. BACKGROUND ................                                            1
II.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIOI .         . ................................  5
III. PROJECT RESULTS                       .......    7
IV. CONCLUSIONS                       .. .......  12
TABLE  Project Progress                          . . .                         15
ANNEX  Borrower Comments                          . . .                        18
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. Introduction                     ..                  . ........  27
II.   r--ject Identification, Preparation and Appraisal .......           28
III.   Project Description and Implementation ..................           29
IV. Operating Performance                 . .            ...    30
V.   Economic Re-evaluation           .. ...........................     35
VI. Conclusions                          ....   36
ANNEX I
Table 1  Population of the Lazaro Cardenas Region .......          38
Table 2  Physical Achievements and Final Project Costs..           39
Table 3  Implementation Arrangements ....................          40
Table 4  Comparative Income Statements ..................          41
Table 5  Project Benefits ...............................          42
Table 6  Internal Rates of Return .......................          43
Table 7  Disbursement Allocations .......................          44
Chart 1  Implementation Schedule            .... ..          .     45
MAPS
IBRD 12489R
IBRD 13455
IBRD 17795
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



,,of~ 6
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
i"IEXICO LAZARO CARDLNAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1554-ME)
PREFACE
The following is an Audit report on the performance of the Lazaro
Cardenas  Conurbation  development  project  in  Mexico.   This was one of the
earliest Bank projects to address uirban development, and the first in Mexico.
A loan to assist in financing the project was approved in April 1978 (Loan
1554-ME, US$16.5 million); however, it did not become effective until February
1979 because Mexico had difficulties ir. meeting an effectiveness condition.
The loan was expect-d to be fully drawn down and the account to be closed in
June 1982, it was closed, and the loan fully disbursed, only a year late in
June 1983. The project was followed by the Second Urban and Regional Develop-
ment Project approved in May 1981 (Loan 1990-ME, US$164.0 million).
This report consists of a Project Performance Audit Memorandum
(PPAM) prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and a Project
Completion Report (PCR) prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean Regional
Office (Li.). The PPAM is based on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR), tuLe President's Report (PR), the legal documents on the project, the
Minutes of the E~,ecutive Directors' Meeting at which the loan was approved,
the PCR, Bank records and files, interviews with Bank staff familiar with the
project, and a field visit in  March 1987.   The  PCR is  based on  a Borrower
Completion Report (BCR) prepared by consultants hired by the Borrower and
financed partly under the follow-up project, and on a field mission in Septem-
ber  1985.    The  assistance  of  the Mexican Government, the Borrower (Banco
Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, BANOBRAS) and the Executing Agency
(Fideicomiso Lazaro Cardenas, FIDELAC) are gratefully acknowledged.
The PCR presents a succinct factual account of the project. It
acknowledges that project goals and objectives were only partially achieved
(para. 4.1), but does not continue to explain in detail why this was the case.
The PPAM examines the reasons for the shortcomings more fully, it reviews the
background and history of the project, and draws lessons from the event.
The draft PPAR was sent to the Borrower and other Governm.ent agen-
cies for comments, they are reproduced as Annex I to the PPAM.



-/'~2



.Li
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
MEXICO LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1554-ME)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Key Project Data
Appraisal     Actual or
Item                         Expectation    Reestimate
Project Costs (US$ mln)                  36.1 1/        68.4
Cost (Underruns) or Overruns (Z)          0             90
Loan Amount (US$ mln)                    16.5           '6.5
Disbursed   (US$ mln)                    16.5            -.5
Cancelled   (US$ mln)                     0              0
Repaid       (US$ mln)(02.28.87)                         5.7
Outstanding (US$ mln)(02.28.87)                         13.8 2/
Project Completion Date                 12/81          12/83
2 Completed by Expected Date             100             65
Economic Rate of Return (Z)               24             23  3/
Other Project Data
Original             Actual or
Plan             Reestimated
First Menti3n in Files                                06/75
Government's Application           -                  11/76
Appraisal                        10/76                11/76
Negotiations                     03/78                03/78
Board Approval                   04/78                04/78
Loan Agreement Date              07/78                09/78
Effectiveness Date               12/78                02/79
Closing Date                     06/82                06/83
1/   A project worth US$91.0 million was originally appraised and a loan worth
US$50.0 million was intended to be made to assist in its implementation.
After appraisal the project was considerably  restructured and eventually
it was  reappraised.   The figures  shown refer  to the revised, cut down
project.
2/   Includes a positive foreign exchange adjustment of US$3.0 million.
3/   Lack of information prevented the Audit from verifying the rate of return
expected at appraisal and a review of the rate estimated on completion
revealed that the estimate was questionable (PPAM, paras. 27 and 28).



iii
Other Project Data
(Continued)
Borrower                     Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos
Guarantor                    United Mexican States
Executing Agency             Fideicomiso Ciudad Lazaro Cardenas, FIDELAC
Fiscal Year of Borrower    January 1 to December 31
Follow-on Projects           Second Regional and Urban Development Project
(Loan 1990-ME, US$164 million, May 1981)
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83
Estimated             3.2    9.0   13.2   16.5    -
Actual                0       1.8    4.3    8.5   16.5
Actual/Est. (Z)       0       20     33      52    100
Staff Input
(Staff-Weeks)
FY76   FY77   FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81
Preparation        18.9   42.8      .7
Appraisal            .    83.1   64.5
Negotiations         .       .     5.1
Supervision          .       .     1.0   27.1   15.8   23.3
GRAND TOTAL       18.9  125.9   71,3   27.1   15.8   23.3
FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86  TOTAL
Preparation         .       .      .       .      .    62.4
Appraisal           .       .      .       .      .   147.6
Negotiations        .       .      .       .      .      5.1
Supervision       18.1    5.9   11.0    5.6    9.3  117.1
GRAND TOTAL       18.1    5.9   11.0    5.6    9.3  332.2



iv
Field Mission Data
Month/    No.of       No.of      Staff     Report
Item          Year       Weeks4/   Persons   Weeks         Date
Identification       06/75       0.4          2        0.8          -
Preparation          07/75       1.0          3        3.0       08/75
Preparation         11/75        0.4          1       0.4           -
Preparation          03/76       0.4          1        0.4        07/76
Preparation          06/76       2.0          3       6.0        07/76
Preparation          08/76       0.2          1        0.2          -
Preparation          09/76       1.5          4        6.0        10/76
Preparation          09/76       0.4          3       1.2           -
Appraisal            11/76       3.0          9       27.0          _
Post-appraisal       02/77       0.5          1       0.5           -
Post-appraisal       02/77       2.0          1        2.0       03/77
Post-appraisal       05/7,       1.0          2        2.0       05/77
Reappraisal          06/77       2.0          4        8.0        07/77
Post-reappraisal   08/77         0.4          1        0.4       08/77
Post-:eappraisal   08/77         0.4          1       0.4        08/77
Post-reappraisal   10/77         2.0          5      10.0        11/77
Post-reappraisal   10/77         0.2          2        0.4          -
Supervision I        10/78       1.0          4        4.0       01/79
Supervision II      01/79       2.0           4       8.0        03/79
Supervision III    10/79         1.4          4        5.6       11/79
Supervision IV       05/80       1.0          2       2.0        06/80
Supervision V       09/80        1.0          2       2.0        10/80
Supervision VI      06/81        1.0          3       3.0        07/81
Supervision VII    12/81         1.0          2       2.0        12/81
Supervision VIII   02/82         1.0          2       2.0        03/82
Supervision IX       03/82       0.2          1       0.2        04/82
Supervision X       04/82        1.0          2       2.0        05/82
Supervision XI      10/82        1.0          2       2.0        10/82
Supervision XII    12/83         1.0          3       3.0           -
Completion           04/84       1.0          2        2.0        C6/84
Completion           06/84       0.2          1        0.2       07/84
Completion           09/85       2.0          4       8.0        08/86
GRAND TOTAL                                         114.7
a/   Many missions  included the  simultaneous supervision  of other projects;
figure shown is estimate of time spent on this project only.



(qk, 4'/



v
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
MEXICO  LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1554-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
The town of Lazaro Cardenas came to face a chaotic social, environ-
mental and urban planning situation as a result of the installation of a large
steel mill (SICARTSA), which the Bank helped to finance under Loan 934-ME
(PPAM, para. 1 to 10). The Government approached the Bank to assist in find-
ing a solution to these problems (PPAM, para. 11). The project that followed
was one of the earliest Bank projects to address urban problems, and the first
of that nature in Mexico. It included (i) a shelter component (upgrading of
5,582 plots, preparation of 1,790 serviced plots, and self help shelter cons-
truction loans); (ii) a productive activities component (construction of 5
industrial workshops buildings, 4 community centers, and loans for small
enterprises and artisans); (iii) an infrastructure component (feeder roads and
water control works on the Balsas river); and (iv) studies and technical
assistance (PPAM, para. 15).
The Fideicomiso Ciudad Lazaro Cardenas (FIDELAC) was the executing
agency in charge. The project was to strengthen FIDELAC's finances and to be
a catalyst to clear up a large debt owed it by SICARTSA. Under the project,
FIDELAC was expected to turn into a self-sufficient, competitive developer, an
example to be followed elsewhere in Mexico in implementing a new spatial
policy and regional development strategy for the country (PPAM, paras. 2, 11,
12, 16, 35 and 36).
Implementation Experience
Loan effectiveness was delayed quite considerably by the Govern-
ment's difficulty in complying with the condition that the loan owed to
FIDELAC be paid off. Notwithstanding the delay, according to Bank supervision
reports, the project appeared to get off to a good start and continued to
progress much better than expected during execution (PPAM, paras. 19 to 25).
On completion, however, it was realized that it had not been all that success-
ful in achieving its objectives. Of the 5,582 plots to be upgraded only 2,858
were done; of the 1,790 serviced plots that were to be prepared only 1,319
were done; of the 5,300 self-help shelter construction loans only 1,803 were
made; of the 176 small business loans only 134 were made at a cost of US$1.0
million, instead of the planned US$5.0 million; of the five industrial work-
shops buildings none was done but a commercial shopping center was financed
instead; the four community centers were built, but they were much larger than
planned; of the seven feeder roads three were claimed to have been done but
only one was completed, another was missing 10 km and the third was not built;



vi
finally, the river control structures were not constructed as planned and had
to be  completed with funding outside the project (PCI, para. 4.1 and Annex 1,           3
Table 2; PPAM, para. 26 and Table 1).
Project Results
Despite the project's failure to produce but a portion of the re-
sults expected, the PCR estimates the ..ate of return to have been 23? (PCR,
para. 5.3 and Annex 1, Table 6), compared to a rate of 242 expected at apprai-
sal.   The Audit has reviewed the calculations and concludes that the estimate
is questionable (PPAM, paras. 28 to  33).   In addition,  the project  did not
achieve the financial and institutional objectives expected (PPAM, paras 34,
35 and 36).
Although the project fell significantly short of providing the
benefits promised at appraisal, it did provide, in the face of great diffi-
culties, housing and other services to a considerable number of people. Costs
may have been high (PCR, paras 4.2 to 4.4) and the economic yield comparative-
ly low (PPAM, paras. 34 to 36), but Lazaro Cardenas and the nearby town of
Guacamayas are, in spite of their many remaining problems, better off now than
they would have been without the project (PPAM, paras. 37 and 38).
Findings and Lessons
The Audit agrees with the PCR that the project was over-ambitious in
its objectives.   In  the process  of reaching  for the larger objectives with
which the Bank approached the project, the immediate tasks at hand were ne-
glected, their execution was supervised leniently and, as a consequence, the
whole project veered off course (PPAM, paras. 38 and 45).
FIDELAC's institutional instability contributed significantly to the
project's difficulties.   While in general the Bank usually seeks the greatest
institutional stability for project agencies, this is not always possible,
particularly with strong and important Borrowers (PPAM, para. 47). Moreover,
because of structural shortcomings, FIDELAC does not seem to have been the
best institution with which to reach the goals set for the project. In the
view of the Audit these inadequacies should and could have been foreseen by
the Bank before engaging in the project (PPAM, para. 48) 5/.
5S   The Government  and the  Borrower, in general, agree with this assessment
although they point out that FIDELAC had no control over the institu-
tional and political events that contributed to the project's difficult-
ies. They also point out that the Bank shares in the joint responsibili-
ty for the results observed (see Annex I, General Comments, para. 2).



I
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
MEXICO LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1554-ME)
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Environment
1.        Lazaro Cardenas,  named after  Mexico's president from 1934 to 1939,
is located on the mouth of the Balsas River, the borderline between two of
Mexico's least  developed states  - Michoacan  and Guerrero.   It used to be a
small, bucolic, rural town on the Pacific Coast with a hinterland endowed with
rich natural resources (iron ore, fertile land, water and forests).
2.        In the  1960s a  dam (La Villita) and a hydro power plant were built
on the Balsas, and plans to exploit the iron ore deposits were drawn up.   The
closeness of the ore (19km), the existence of a natural harbor at the mouth of
the Balsas, and plentiful water from the river and power from the new plant
were strong  inducements to  undertake the  development.   But, exploiting the
iron ore was to be more than that. The Government intended to process the ore
at a steel mill which would be the first, and key, industrial concern to be
placed in the area and would trigger the development of other industries
which, together with the construction of a deep water industrial harbor and
employment in the service sector, would propel the area into becoming one of
Mexico's principal  growth poles.   Growth poles were the cornerstone of a new
Government spatial strategy to attract development away from established urban
centers. They would be new cities provided with a substantive industrial base
and with industrial parks for future development.   The strategy  was expected
to relieve congestion in Mexico City, Guadalajara and Monterrey, and distri-
bute living standards more homogeneously among regions.
3.        The steel industry project was ambitious, not so much because of its
size (although it was the largeet irndustrial pruject underraken in Mexico to
that date), but because the plant was to be erected in a remote and undevelop-
ed area, in a town that lacked most, if not all the infrastructure needed for
such a complex undertaking.
4.        The Bank first became  involved with  the steel  industry project in
1971,  when  the  newly  created  Siderurgica Lazaro Cardenas-Las Truchas S.A.
(SICARTSA) had completed pre-feasibility studies and was seeking financial
assistance to carry out the multi-million dollar project. The Bank appraised
the project in late 1972 after a number of additional studies were completed.
The appraisal was centered on the technical, financial and economic feasi-
bility of the project.   Despite  the massiveness  of the  undertaking, little
attention was devoted to its social, environmental and local implications.



2
5.        The project  included the  development of the iron ore and limestone
mines, construction of a crushing and concentrating plant near the mines,
construction of a slurry pipeline to transport the concentrate from the plant
to the steel works, a pelletizing plant, a battery of coke ovens, a blast fur-
nace for  the production  of pig  iron, a  steel making  plant with two oxygen
converters, three billet casting machines  and  two  rolling  mills.    It was
estimated that over 7,000 workers would be needed to build the mill and that a
work force of about 4,000 would eventually be employed permanently.  All these
people were to be accommodated in a sparsely populated and unserviced town.
It could therefore have been foreseen that the pressure for housing and social
services would  become severe.   However,  these matters were not perceived as
directly related to the steel project and were consequently disregarded.   The
feeling at the time was that shelter and other urban services would either be
generated without intervention, or could eventually be taken care of through
conventional programs.
6.        To carry  out one of these conventional housing programs the Federal
Government created a Trust Fund in 1973, the Fideicomiso Ciudad Lazaro Carde-
nas (FIDELAC).   It  was made responsible for planning and constructing houses
on a 696 ha lot ceded to it for the purpose. FIDELAC was also to ensure that
other services were provided (water, sewerage, power, streets, refuse collect-
ion) in a coordinated way. However, responsibility for the respective servi-
ces remained with the line agencies.
7.        The  steel  mill  project  was completed somewhat behind schedule in
1976. FIDELAC's housing program, however, was not carried out as expected, by
1976 only  25Z of  the houses  were completed.   The reason was FIDELAC's poor
management, weak planning, poor accounting practices, lack of internal infor-
mation, coordination and control. Simi'ar constraints affected the provision
of the other urban services as each agency took actions on its own without
much concern for the overall goal. Moreover, housing programs in Mexico had
traditionally not been well tailored to the means of the intended beneficia-
ries,  and  FIDELAC's  was  no  exception.   The few houses that FIDELAC built
catered mostly to middle income households and not to the large numbers of low
income workers that flocked into the area. As a result, large squatter set-
tlements, lacking services and minimal hygienic facilities, sprung up.
8.        Operation of the steel mill compounded the urban  problems of Lazaro
Cardenas.   The rather primitive road system of the area became grossly inade-
quate for the traffic intending to access the steel mill, and congestion
became widespread in Lazaro Cardenas, and in the neighboring communities of
Guacamayas, La Orilla and other little towns along the way to SICARTSA.
SICARTSA, in turn, paid no land, territorial or property taxes and made no
effort to help defray the increasing costs of public services and housing for
the thousands of workers who were attracted to the mill and the area general-
ly.
9.        This  disorganized,  degraded  urban  environment  caused widespread
dissatisfaction in the population, including SICARTSA's own employees. Absen-
teeism and staff turnover in the comra:ny, at all levels, became (and still



3
are) very  high, and  as a  result SICARTSA  has had to maintain a iach la*x.
wor-kforce than expected, further contributing to the housing shoriage 6/.
10.        Environmental degradation could only  be  expected  to worsen with
further development.   At  the time, expansion of the port, construction of an
industrial park for small and medium industries, installation of a fertilizer
plant were already decided, and several other industries were known to be
considering moving to the  area.   Finally, growth  in the  service sector was
expected to compound the housing, water supply, sanitary, waste disposal and
other problems. The Bank, as a major financier of the steel mill first, and
some of the other projects later, notably the port expansion and the fertili-
zer plant, failed to foresee in time the urban problems which would flow from
the development of the mill.
B. The Project
11.       To cope  with this  chaotic situation, the Government approached the
Bank for assistance in finding a solution 7/. To the Bank this appeared as an
interesting opportunity, as it had growing concerns about Mexico's spatial
(regional development) policies, in particular about Mexico City's urban
congestion.   At the  time, the Bank was in the process of studying this prob-
lem, and the reasons why decentralization had not, up till then, been very
successful 8/.   Accordingly,  the Bank saw the project more as an opportunity
to improve the spatial distribution of growth in the country, than as an
answer to the plea for help from one community. Spatial policy was emphasized
6/   The Government and the Borrower do not agree with the  view that absente-
eism was a factor in generating the housing problem. They believe that
the rural urban migration was at the root of the problem (see Annex I,
Specific Comments, para. 2).
7/   The Government  and the  Borrower point  out that the Bank was invited to
participate in the project in order for it to share in the experience of
the first urban development program in Mexico and in order to rely on the
technical assistafiCe Llhe BDuLk  could offer  (Annex I,  Specific Comments,
para. 4).
8/   Three  significant  pieces  of  research  were completed about that time:
"Economic Development of the Isthmic Region of Mexico' (World Bank Report
1080-ME, March 1976) which was a review of regional development policies
and how they could be applied to a specific region; 'Urban Development in
Mexico' (World Bank Report 1449-ME, January 1977); and "Spatial Develop-
ment in Mexico' (World Bank Report 1081a-ME, January 1977).   The reasons
for the lack of success of decentralization policies were reviewed in
'Spatial Development in Mexico." The conclusion was that the industrial
parks and new cities program was not as powerful an instrument of decen-
tralization as expected. Unfortunately the reviews did not produced ex-
plicit recommendations on what to do and, therefore, despite the conclu-
sions of the study, preparation of the project continued.



4
4wa;n proajct preparation and the contents of the regional plan for the
Lazaro Cardenas Area as well as institutional arrangements to carry out the
plan featured high in it. Two other concerns of the Bank were housing stan-
dards and cost recovery policies. Both became important aspects in the pro-
ject's design (SAR, Chapter I, section D and para. 6.14).
12.       The Mexican Government, for its part, saw the project in a much more
practical light.   It  wanted to  use the  project to  (i) reduce housing plot
sizes and construction standards, to build cheaper houses for families that,
so far, had been excluded from shelter programs in Mexico; (ii) make loans to
those who could still not afford the cheaper dwellings; and (iii) broaden the
economic base of the area by building industrial premises and financing loans
to small enterprises and artisans.   These  two sets  of concerns  (the Bank's
and the Government's) were eventually married in the project which became an
urban development project in a regional development context.
13.       Project preparation  proceeded  swiftly.    Project  components were
tailored to take care of the housing backlog in the area, and the demands of
an expanded steel mill (SICARTSA Stage II was about to be initiated, again fi-
nanced partly by the Bank, under Loan 1308-ME, June 1976 9/). The project was
to comprise four major components (i) basic infrastructure (upgrading of
existing plots and building of more serviced plots including water, sewerage,
electrification, and access roads); (ii) social infrastructure (health and
nutrition centers, training centers, community centers, aad erosion control
works on the Balsas river); (iii) productive investments (industrial premises
and small business loans); and (iv) technical assistance and studies. Project
costs were estimated to be about US$91.0 million and a loan of about US$50.0
million was recommended.
14.       However, plans  to expand  SICARTSA fell  through.   The Ministry of
Public Works then proposed to trim down the project quite considerably giving
priority to urban upgrading, the serviced housing plots, industrial loans, and
infrastructure that  did  not  depend  on  SICARTSA's  expansion.    After the
SICARTSA expansion was dropped the Bank was unconvinced of the need for the
project. But, the problem of providing shelter and urban services for the
more than 30,000 low income families that had migrated to the area remained
critical.
15.       The view that the project was  still necessary  eventually prevailed
in Mexico and Washington. A more modest project with a total cost of US$36.2
million was designed and appraised. It included (i) a shelter component (up-
grading of 5,582 plots, preparati..n of 1,790 serviced plots, and self help
9/   That project too was appraised without much regard for its  local impact.
It was expected that the urban project being discussed concurrently would
take care of the additional needs imposed by the expansion of the mill.
The Bank's involvement with the urban project was considered assurance
enough that problems in the provision of social services would be taken
care of.



- b- eltet enttruction lo*nls) 1f; fit) a productive activities component (cons-
truction of 5 industrial workshops buildings, 4 community centers, and loans
for small enterprises and artisans); (iii) an infrastructure component (feeder
roads and water control works on the Balsas river); and (iv) studies and
technical assistance.
16.       Despite FIDELAC's  poor track  record it  was felt preferable to im-
prove it than to create a neat Master  Trust as  proposed earlier.   However, a
new General Manager, a financial manager and an invc  ment specialist were
hired, and operational and administrative changes wer. wiade to correct past
deficiencies.   In particular, FIDELAC was directed to become a self-financing
developer, rather than just a channel for disbursing Government funds. It was
also mandated to recover all project costs from beneficiaries. Thus, the
costs of shelter upgrading, serviced plots, construction loans, small enter-
prise loans,  and of  the industrial pr>mises were all to be recovered through
charges and fees. The Agency was not expected to repay the funds provided it
by the  Government or  by the  pro' -t; instead, the revenues were to create a
fund to continue activities after the project was completed.
17.       FIDELAC as executive agency in charge  of the  project was  to carry
out directly the shelter and productive activities components (about half the
total expected costs), and contract the feeder roads and the studies not rela-
ted to the Lazaro Cardenas region with the Ministry of Works (SAHOP), the
river control works with the Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
(SARH), and the studies directly related to the region with the Lazaro Carde-
nas Conurbation Commission (CONURBAL). Because the project was expected to be
a model for national programs based on similar premises, particular emphasis
was placed on the creation within FIDELAC of a monitoring and evaluation unit
to keep continuous track of field progress and experience.
18.       A US$16.5  million loan to support the project was approved in April
1978.
II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
19.       Loan effectiveness  was delayed  by Government  difficulties in com-
plying with  a condition that a large loan owed to FIDELAC by SIrA.RTSA be paid
off. Financial projections prepared in the Bank indicated that this was
necessary to ensure FIDELAC's financial soundness and independence from Go-
vernment budgetary contributions. After eight months of dela,y the Bank accep-
ted instead assurances that the debt would be paid off later. The loan was
then made  effective  in  February,  1979.    However,  even  though  the Bank
10/ There is a minor discrepancy between Table 2 in Annex 1 of the PCR and
the Audit's accounting of what was to be  done (PPAM,  Table 1).   In the
PCR all plots for which titling regularization was to be done were coun-
ted as plot upgradings; however, there were 1,178 more regularizations
than actual plot upgradings. Thus, the total number of upgradings was
only 5,582 and that of regularizations 6,760.



6
threatened to suspend loan disbursements, and FTDTLACs external audltors made
numerous criticisms about the situation, SICARTSA has, to date, not paid the
debt.
20.       The delay notwithstanding, the project was  reported to  have made a
good start. Even before the loan became effective significant progress was
noted in Bank superviiion reports on all components. In November 1979, a year
and a half after project approval, progress was said to have been "better than
expected.' In June 1980, the first supervision report with comparative fi-
gures vis-a-vis appraisal expectations (see PPAM, Table 1) showed better than
anticipated progress for the shelter component, the feeder roads, the communi-
ty centers and the CONURBAL studies. Delays were reported in the industrial
premises component, the small business loans, the river control works and the
SAHOP studies, but things were said to be improving. Shortly after that, in
October 1:80, progress figures on the more active components (the urban upgra-
ding and the construction loans) were downgraded somewhat, but the project was
still considered to be making very satisfactory progress. It was noted in the
supervision report that FIDELAC's external auditors had refused to certify the
1978 statement of accounts partly because of deficient controls over the
construction loans, but the issue was downplayed. The construction loans com-
ponent was described as the most successful in the project, one that the
Porrower wanted to expand.
21.       In December  1980, FIDELAC's  top management  and most of the senior
staff were replaced. A supervision mission in July 1981 reported that as a
result of the staff changes significant improvements were being introduced in
FIDELAC. Although there was confusion about the number of serviced plots
completed and those for which costs would be recovered (863 vs. 122 respec-
tively), about the cost of the feeder roads (on which little progress had been
made beyond some studies), and about the river control works (which had not
yet started but on which cost estimates had already more than doubled), the
project was considered to be making good progress.
22.       In December  1981 the project was considered to be progressing well.
Some components were reported to have exceeded targets (urban upgrading in
particular), others previously delayed were said to be making good progress
(e.g. small enterprise loans), and accounting deficiencies (the reason of the
auditor's challenge) were being corrected. Yet, in March 1982, FIDELAC's top
management and key staff ware changed again.
23.       In May  1982 a  supervision mission  reported that  targets had been
reached or surpassed, and that most project components were nearly or fully
completed. Yet, the report also said that the community centers, the small
enterprise loans component, the SAHOP and CONURBAL studies and the river
control works were behind target.
24.       In the October 1982  supervision report,  a considerable downgrading
of achievements was shown, particularly in the number of plots upgraded, the
serviced plots completed, the number of construction loans made, and the
number of small enterprise loans made. The studies component was said to have
made little headway, particularly the SAHOP studies, and the river control



7
ort**. while  underway, were reported to be still far from finished.  Yet, the
project was declared substantially completed.
25.        In June 1983, a guideline  for  the  preparation  of  the Completion
Report was sent to FIDELAC, and by November a draft report had been produced.
A Bank mission visited Mexico to review the  draft.   It concluded  that defi-
ciencies in the information collected for the report made it necessary to hire
a consultant and prepare an improved version. In May 1984 a follow-up mission
found that the consultant had not been hired for lack of funds to pay for the
services. Eventually the consultant was hired under the subsequent Bank
project (the Second Urban Project, Loan 1990-ME) and paid partly with proceeds
of that loan and partly by PACDU, the program financed under that Loan. By
November 1984 the consultant had written a detailed report. That report was
later submitted to the Bank as the Borrower's Completion Report (BCR) and was
the basis on which the Bank's Project Completion Report (PCR) was drafted.
26.       There was,  thus, considerable  difficulty throughout  the period of
project execution in establishing the exact status of  the project.   Supervi-
sion reports in particular, gave a somewhat conflicting, and perhaps unduly
sanguine picture of the situation as against the salient features of it. Such
limitations may well have affected the capacity of the Bank to react to prob-
lems as they arose 11/.
III. PROJECT RESULTS
Physical Achievements
27.       According to the PCR the project did not achieve its physical objec-
tives: of the 5,582 plots to be upgraded only 2,858 were done; of the 6,760
plots for which titling was to be regularized only 2,858 were done (in fact,
the same ones that were upgraded); of the 1,790 serviced plots to be prepared
only 1,319 were done; of the 5,300 self-help shelter construction loans only
1,803 were made; of the 176 small business and artisan loans 134 were made and
US$1.0 million instead of the planned US$5.0 million was spent on them; of the
five industrial workshops buildings none was built but a commercial shopping
center was financed instead; the four community centers were built but they
were much larger and expensive than planned; of the seven feeder roads three
were claimed to have been done; and the rivet control structures were insuffi-
cient and only partially done (PCR, para. 4.1 and Annex 1, Table 2; see also
PPAM, Table 1). These findings were essentially confirmed by the Audit.
However, during the field visit the Audit also found that of the three feeder
11/  The Government and the  Borrower point  out that  the scheduling  of Bank
supervision missions was poor and that frequently their terms of refer-
ence were not known to the Borrower. This, in their view, affected the
success of the missions because the information on the status of the
project was not always readily available (Annex I, Specific Comments,
para. 5).



8
road;s  claihed  to  have  been  built  fPCR,  pera. 4.5) only one  *e &etuelly
completed (La IJnion-Coahuayutla), another was partially built (Los LLanos-La
Cuadrilla of which the last lOkm are missing) and the third (Los Coyotes-
Guacamayas) was never put in place 121. The Tabachines shopping center claim-
ed to have been constructed under the project had, in fact, been built earlier
with FIDELAC's own resources. Although the building did not fit the descrip-
tion of the Project Agreement, the Bank agreed to have the funds used to
refinance part of the costs of the center when loan proceeds intended to
finance the industrial workshops could not be used for that purpose (because
FIDELAC had problems finding land on which to put the buildings). Finally,
according to the Borrower Completion Report (BCR), the vehicles purchased with
loan proceeds (an afterthought not included in the Loan Agreement), could not
be located or were not being used for the intended purpose.
Economic Impact
28.       At appraisal  project components  with a significant amount of civil
works (urban upgrading, sites and services plots, feeder roads, river control
works) were estimated to be likely to yield an average economic rate of return
of 24Z (Staff Appraisal Report para. 7.10). Yet, the lack of documentation on
how the rate was calculated (the Report does not explain and there are no
records on the subject) does not allow to audit the project in similar terms.
29.       On completion, despite the evident failure of the project to produce
the results expected, the PCR estimates the rate of return to have been 23?
(para. 5.3 and Annex 1, Table 6) citing the Borrower Completion Report as
source.   The economic analysis of the PCR was based on the BCR and not on its
own independent calculations. The Audit has reviewed the estimate in the PCR
and concluded that it is questionable.
30.       A rate  of return  of 26%  was estimated  in the PCR for the housing
component of the project (urban upgrading and preparation of serviced plots)
based on costs and benefits valued at local market prices. The fact is, howe-
ver, that there is no active local real estate market in the Lazaro Cardenas
area as FIDELAC holds a tight, monopolistic control over the ownership, use
and disposal of land once it is built up. Indeed, it is the sole landowner of
about 860 ha around Lazaro Cardenas and 225 ha in Guacamayas, and was given
exclusive right to subdivide, develop and build up these large pieces of real
estate. It has held to this privilege by allowing citizens to be eligible for
just one property in a lifetime, and by not selling any part of its holding to
12/  The Government  and the  Borrower have  requested that a reference to the
condition of what exists instead of the road not be included (Appendix I,
General Comments.  para. 4).   The  fact remains though, that what exists
is a natural track which cannot be travelled regularly by motorized
vehicles.



private developers. The ostensible reason for these limitations is to prevent
the use of the subsidized properties for speculation 13f.
31.       Thus, in assessing the cost of  the housing  component, for purposes
of calculating the economic rate of return, land was valued nominally at just
US$50 per plot, as the real economic value of the plots was not known.   Simi-
larly, in the absence of concrete information about the benefits of this com-
ponent it was measured by proxy as the difference in the rent of improved vs.
unimproved plots assuming that the former was more than seven times higher
than the latter on account of the project (1978Mex$1500 per month vs. 1978
Mex$200).   Thie PCR  gives no  background to substintiate the estimate.  Given
the shortage of housing in the area, the Audit estimates that benefits are
likely to be higher than estimated. Thus, since both costs and benefits are
likely to be highe,t than accounted for in the PCR, there is no certainty that
the rate  oS returr  on the  investments in urban shelter was in fact what was
estimated in the PCR.
32.       A rate of return of 19Z was estimated in the PCR for the investments
in feeder roads based on assuming that all roads were built, and that 35Z of
lands within 10km on each bide of the roads would benefit from theit construc-
tion.   The fact  is, however,  that only one of the roads was completed, that
another is missing 10 km. and that the thifd was not done. The two roads that
were fully or p.-tially built are along narrow valleys in mountainous terrain.
The valleys are scarcely a couple of kilometers wide, and no significant eco-
nomic activitv takes place in them. This not only makes suspect the benefits
claimed to be associated with the roads, but makes questionable the rationale
for building them in the first place. The attempt to reach La Cuadrilla from
Los Llanos seems to have been particularly questionable as the locality was
already connected to the trunk network via El Zapote, a shorter and better
road than the project would have built. Judging from traffic estimates on the
Coahuayutla to La Union road (less than 10 vehicles per day) few benefits have
been derived from that investment. This project component, therefore, appears
unlikely to have an acceptable rate of return.
33.       The Audit  finds that,  rather than  the roads that were built under
the project, it might have made more sense to build the road from Guacamayas
to Los Coyotes to connect Guacamayas' hinterland to the town. Because FIDELAC
owns the urban land in Guacamayas and has not developed it at the pace of
demand growth, newcomers have had to opt for settling, legally or otherwise,
beyond the town limits. If the road had been built, it would have been these
settlements that  the road  would have  served.   In addition to these, mostly
illegal settlements, thle road would have traversed smallholder properties
which produce  the basi   staples for  Guacamayas and  Lazaro Cardenas and are
presently only accessile crosscountry, in good  weather, and  then at  a very
high cost   Not building this road was a missed opportunity; it would have had
13/  The Government  and the  Borrower point  out that  FIDELAC's control over
land in the area was established because (i) no other company could
compete with it in this field, and (ii) the limited purchasing power of
the population in the area made subdividing unattractive to private
developers (Annex I, Specific Comments, para. 6).



:                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~10
a sizeable impact and FIDELAC, centinuously short of  funds, is  not likely to
be aTble to build the road in the near future.
34.       A  rate  of  return  of  23Z was estimated in the PCR for the river
control works on the assumption that the works  carried out  under the project
(construction of a culvert dike and some dredging of the right bank of the
river) were the only ones necessary to stabilize the flow of water on the
river and ensure a regular supply for SICARTSA (the planned benefits, SAR,
para. 7.16). However, as it turned out, additional works were indispensable
to reach  that objective.   These  additional works (notably, another dike be-
tween the La Palma and El Cayal islands, and a control structure to channel
water to  the steel  mill) and  those that were planned but not done under the
project (e.g. redirecting the El Barco creek), were subsequently undertaken
without project  firancing at an unknown cost.  Yet, only costs financed under
the project were included in the economic analysis; thus, the total investment
that was  necessary to  reap the  benefits was much larger than accounted for,
and the rate of return, therefore, significantly lower  than estimated  in the
PCR.
Financial Impact
35.       The  project  was  expected  to  be a catalyst to clear up FIDELAC's
receivables, in particular the large debt owed it by SICARTSA.   The  debt has
not been paid and, thus, the project failed to achieve this objective.
36.       Together with  reducing the outstanding receivables, the project was
also expected to help strengthen FIDELAC's finances by setting up adequate
mechanisms for  recovering costs.   This  would turn  the agency  into a self-
sufficient real estate developer. The project failed in all these tasks.
FIDELAC's  financial  position  has  continued  to  be weak, mostly because no
effort was mad-, during project implementation or subsequently, to recoup
investment costs.   It  has therefore  continued to depend on Government allo-
cations for its activities, and, as such funds have been limited, FIDELAC has
been unable to keep up with the needs of the area.
Institutional Achievements
37.       Finally,  the  project  was  not  successful as a model for regional
development: it did not produce an improved institutional set up for regional
development, and it failed to create a model for a self-sustained decentrali-
zation and urban improvement process.
38.       Nevertheless, the project did help the area.  By supporting FIDELAC,
the project  supported the  only institution  in a position to provide housing
and other social services in Lazaro Cardenas and Guacamayas.   FIDELAC was, in
fact, the alternative created by the Federal Government to bypass the lack of
capacity and financial expertise of the local Municipality. The political and
economic support FIDELAC received from the Federal Government turned it,
rightly or wrongly, into the most powerful local institution, one that over-
shadowed all others (municipal or state) and to which the local population



turned in their plight for housing and other services (water, **"rag.
tEreets,  trash  collection).    Although  far  short of expectations, FIDELAC
succeeded, with the assistance of the project, in  providing houses  and basic
services for many people.
39.       While the broader objectives with wnich the Bank approached the pro-
ject were not achieved (a national decentralization policy, regional develop-
ment, cost recovery, model institutions, broadening the economic base of the
region), a more modest but certainly meaningful impact has been reached. Cost
may have been high (see PCR, paras. 4.2 to 4.4 which shows that costs were
considerably higher than expected) and the economic yield comparatively low,
but Lazaro Cardenas and Guacamayas are, in spite of their many remaining
problems (housing, water supply, refuse collection and others). better off now
then they would have been withouS the project. In comparative terms, they are
better off than many other small and medium sized Mexican cities which have
grown very rapidly in the last few years and have not had the benefit of Bank
assisted projects (e.g. Minatitlan, Coatzacoalcos and many others).
What went wrong?
40.       Why did the project go as far off course as  it did.   The  BCR pro-
vides an  unusually candid  assessment of  the subject.   According to it, the
project never got off to the promising start described in Bank supervision re-
ports. From the very beginning, the BCR says, FIDELAC was unable to adequate-
'y monitor its activities, and therefore to identify, much less correct, defi-
ciencies.   The Audit agrees with the BCR's indictment, that both BANOBRAS (as
Trustee) and the Bank (as the periodic overseer of project execution) are
responsible for not recognizing this shortcoming.
41.       The upbeat  supervision reports that the Bank received did not iden-
tify the problems which, it is  now evident,  existed at  the time.   This, in
turn, may have been caused by the inadequate, incomplete, or erroneous infor-
mation with which FIDELAC was working. Still, however, Bank missions should
have been more careful to reconcile figures with facts.
42.       In particular,  Bank missions  should have  been less sanguine about
the location of FIDELAC's headquarters in Miexico City, 800 km away from Lazaro
Cardenas.   In the  view of  the Audit, this was, for a considerable period of
time, until the agency's top executives were moved to Lazaro Cardenas, one of
the principal reasons for the poor control which FIDELAC's management exer-
cised over the project.
43.       The frequent changes in FIDELAC's top management did not help to im-
prove the performance of the institution. As it often happens in many coun-
tries, these changes were accompanied by a full turnover of most technical and
support  staff.    Institutional  instability,  appears  to  go  a long way in
explaining the failings of the project.
44.       However, in addition, FIDELAC  had a  structural characteristic that
further helps explain project results. It was set up as a public monopoly and
its management appears to have seen the role of the institution as an exten-



12
sion of  the public  welfare system,  rather than  as that  of an  fnterprioUn
developer.  FIDELAC's management appears to have perceived its role (and still
largely does) more as the administrator of public expenditures and the guar-
dian against speculators, than as an efficient provider of the services it was
supposed to  render.  In fact, FIDELAC as a monopolistic public enterprise had
no incentive to be any  more  efficient  and  effective  than  it  was, either
financially  or  operationally  14/.        The only potential check that existed
against inefficienev was the Bank's oversight, but this was quite lenient 15/.
45.       The net result of the project  was  the  creation  of  a politically
powerful FIDELAC that has overshadowed the Municipal and other local Govern-
ment, that has a stranglehold on land and its development, lacks efficiency in
dealing with the demand for housing -nd other community services, has genera-
ted, but at the same time coped with high levels of discontent in the local
population and, thanks in part to the project, has made those favored with
houses within the confines of its holding, comparatively better off than they
would have been otherwise.
IV, CONCLUSIONS
46.       The Audit  notes that  the PCR mission was in Mexico during the 1986
earthquake and that as a consequence, not only did considerable information on
the project get lost, but the mission's task was considerably hampered. The
Audit was also confronted with data deficiencies which could not be overcome.
Inevitably, therefore, reports on this project are more limited than ideally
desirable. Nevertheless, the Audit emphasizes that maintenance of reliable
project records in the Bank is essential to effective project management and
this project would have benefited from better in-house record-keeping. Stili.
the record suffices to permit the formulation of several important conclu-
sions.
47.       The main Audit findings are in line with those of the PCR.  Basical-
ly, the project did not meet its goal because the main implementing agency,
FIDELAC, was not capable of overcoming its institutional and political cons-
traints. The framework within which the project had to be carried out was not
fully considered and consequently, important actors such as the municipalities
and  beneficiary  groups  were  left  out.   However, the project must also be
viewed in the context of existing circumstances, in particular, the political
and social conditions of Mexico and the critical situation in Lazaro Cardenas.
Bank staff take the iew that, under the circumstances, the Bank really cnly
had the choice betw en being involved in a difficult project or not being
involved at all.
14/ For a more detailed discussion of this subject see PCR paragraphs 4.6 to
4.17.
15/  The PCR has a different view on this issue, see paragraphs 4.20 to 4.22.



48.       The Audit does not agree that those were the only alternatives.  The
Audit believes, as does the PCR (paras. 6.1 to 6.4), that a simpler, less
ambitious project would have had a much better chance of succeeding. Instead
of keeping goals modest and confined locally, the project was expected to
transcend regional boundaries and become a model for the nation. In the
process of reaching for this goal, problems with the immediate tasks at hand
were not recognized, and as a consequence, the whole project veered astray.
4.       The Iroject  may also have had a higher likelihood of succeeding had
the supervision been more focused and active.  The Audit notes, moreover, that
this was not due to a lack of supervision visits (see Basic Data Sheet, Staff
Input), but principally for want of firmness in demanding performance.
50.       In addition, the project may have been more successful had  it coped
better  with  institutional  instability.   Frequent changes in administration
that permeate to the lowest ranks and working levels are not uncommon in
Mexico, particularly if the project straddles two presidential periods. In
many cases this is unavoidable, but little attention appears to have been paid
at the time to the negai 4ve effects of th.S change in administration on the
project. No analysis of the potential impact was done, and no countermeasures
to alleviate these effects were devised.
51.       Finally, there  is the issue of the selection of the project agency.
FIDELAC was the chosen instrument and, in practice, it carried the major
burden for  execution of  the project.   At  the start,  it was to be directly
responsible for about half the project expenditures; at the end, however,
this proportion had risen to two-thirds. Bank staff point out that other go-
vernment agencies were also part of the project.   Their  performance was also
deficient in  important aspects:   BANOBRAS, FIDELAC's trustee, in particular,
nor SAHOP or SARIf, the agencies  in charge  of roads  and river  control, per-
formed efficiently undpr the project. However, FIDELAC set the tone for the
project and was the key to it's overall performance.
52.       Bank staff think that the project had only  the options  of choosing
between a weak FIDELAC or an even weaker municipality. The Audit believes
that these were not the only options; in fact, the Bank was initially prepared
to support a full restructuring and strengthening of the institution of the
Fideicomisos or Trust Funds, but eventually did not persevere. Alternatively,
a more modest and less ambitious project could well have been done through the
weaker municipalities. That would have contributed to the provision of the
immediately needed facilities, and also to strengthening basic governmental
structures 16/.   The use of a Trust to achieve the larger scheme of regional
16/ The Government and the Borrower agree that the project should have made
provision for assisting the institutional development of the municipal-
ity, as has been done in subsequent Bank projects (Annex I, Specific
Comments, para. 7).



14
development and urban decentralization was certainly questionable. According
-        to the PCI (para. 6.4), it has now  been recognized  that such  Trusts are un-
suited to achieve those larger schemes. The Audit concludes that the project
should preferably have had more modest objectives and worked through the
municipality; alternatively, if it was to have pursued larger policy oriented
objectives it should have worked through an agency of national scope and
powers.



POJE"  PERFORMANCE AUDIT EMORANDUN                           TABLE 1
MEXICO LAZAWb CARDENUS CONURIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1554-ME)
SAR                PROGRESS PER SUPERVISION REPORTS                     ACTUALS
04/78  021/9179  06/2C/80  10115180  07/10/81  12/28/81  10/20/82    I BC"R   P
SHELTER COMPONENT
Urban Uegrading (No. of Plots)
Lazaro cadenas            -         - 
Guacasayas           4,172          -     1,500      1,110     3,721     4,268      3,467   2,858       -
Playa Azul              54                                         -         -          -       -
La Mira                 93        -                      -                   -          -       -       -
4,319       -~    TM~    Trm              IT~      4,268      T7"   2
Petacalco              290                    -          -         -         -          -       -       -
Zacatula               237          ,         ,
Buenos Aires           307          -         -          -
Acalpican               161         -         -          -         -         -          -       -       -
El Habillal            268                         -               -         -          -       -       -
TOTAL            5,582        481     1,500     1,100      3,721     4,268     3,467    2,858  2,858
Regularization (No. of Plots)
Lazaro Cardenas           -         -         -          -         -         -          -        -      -
Ouacamayas           4,172          -     2,060     2,283      2,684     2,759      3,133    2,740  2,858
Playa Azul             475          -         -          -         -         -          -        -      -
La Mira                561          -         -          -         -         -          -        -      -
8        --    '2,060       2,283      2,684     2773       3,133    2,740  2,858
Petacalco              290          -         -               -              -          -        -      -
Zacatula               237                    -                    -         -          -        -      -
Buenos Aires           307          -         -          -         -         -          -        -      -
Acalpican               161         -         -          -         -         -          -        -      -
El Habillal            268          -         -         -          -         -          -        -      -
San Francisco           68          -         -          -         -         -          -        -      -
Naranjito               150         -         -          -         -         -          -        -      -
El Bordonal             71          -         -          -         -         -          -        -      -
TOTAL            6,760       481      2,060     2,283     2,684      2,759     3,133    2,740  2,858
Sites and Services (No. of Plots)
Lazaro Cardenas
Contiguo a INDECO     600        416       416       850        563       739       563       563      -
Guacamayas
Colindante A. Ponce   242          -         -          -         -         -          -      340      -
Colindante L. Toriz   271          -         -          -         -         -          -        -      -
Area Ejidial Sur      677          -         -          -         -         -          -        -
Colonia La Huerta                  -         -          -                   -          -      416      -
TM190       -         30      -            300G      31                  756      -
TOTAL            1,790        416       716     1,351        863     1,055       941    1,319  1,319
Construction Loans
No. of Loans         5,300        412     1 556      1 512     2 083     2,205     2 943    1 803       -
Value    Mex$m          -           -                                    152 .1 3  Tit T9 f
USSm         2.08          -         -         -          -         -         -     5.37   5.64



16
ffi                              P0ffi;;~~~LN T. MUMSRPlC  /UT ZiWo^"4                           TABU I
MEXICO  LAZARO CARDENAS CUNURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                   (Cont.J
(LOAN 1554-ME)
SAR                 PROGRESS PER SUPERVISION REPORTS                        ACTUALS
04/78  02/09/79  06/20/80  10/15/80  07/10/81  12/28/81  10/20/82    BCR    PCR
PRODUCTIVE ACTIVITIES COMPONENT
industrial Workshops (Costs)
SSitructures   Mex$m    -            -               -          -          -                -       -
Tabachines Ctr,Mex$m    -            -          -      22.6       22.6       22.6           -    22.60       -
Vehicles
2 Vehicles      Mex$m    -           -          -          -          -          -         -      0.70       -
Equipment       Mex$m    -           -          -          -          -         -          -      2.30       -
TOTAL       Mex$m    -          -          -          -          -          -          -    25.6        -
US$m   0.9          -          -          -          -          -          -      1.4     1.4
Community Centers (Costs)
Buildings
Guacamayas
Cpto. Obrero  Mex$m  2.5           Yes     2.80       2.80       2.80       4.40       1.70    1.60         -
Ctro. L.Valle Mex$m  2.5           Yes     2.20       2.20       2.20       3.50       3.40    3.40         -
Petclco/Zactla Mex$m  2.5            -          -          -      0.50       1.90       6.60    7.70         -
LaMira/Pya.Azl Mex$m  2.5            -          -          -      1.10       2.00       3.20    3.20         -
Vehicles
2 trucks        Mex$m    -           -          -          -          -         -          -    1.10         -
3 wagons        Mex$m    -           -          -          -          -         -          -    0.70         -
TOTAL     Mex$m 10.00          -       S.OC       5.00       6.60      11.80     14.90   15.90         -
US$m   0.45         -          -          -          -          -          -    U.54        -
Production Loans
Artisan Loans  No.       130         -          -        21         29        128        132       37        -
Value           Mex$m      -                            1.9        4.0       25.0       25.6    5.28         -
US$m    0.19                                                                    0.23        -
Small Business No.        40         -          2         2          2          2          2       92        -
Value           Mex$m      -                 0.6        0.6        0.6        0.6        0.6   20.25         -
US$m    2.00                                                                    0.74
Medm. Business No.         6         -          -          -          -         -          -        S        -
Value           Mex$m      -         -          -          -          -         -          -    3.16
US$m    1.50                                                                    0.04        -
TOTAL  No. of Loans    176           -          2        23         31        130        134      134
Value  US$m      5.00        -          -          -          -          -          -    1.01    1.28



17
PMOEt  PtR$OPMRCE AUDff MEMOMNDUH                            TABLE 1
MEXICO  LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                (Cont.)
(LOAN 1554-ME)
SAR                PROGRESS PER SUPERVISION REPORTS                      ACTUALS
04/78  02/09/79  06/20/80  10/15/80  07/10/81  12/28/81  10/20/82    BCR    PtR
INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENT
Feeder Roads (Km)
La Union-Coahuayutla  -                                                                 -     70
Llanos-La Cuadrilla   -            -          -         -          -         -          -     42       -
Lagunillas-Cienaga    -            -          -                    -         -        -         -
Guacamayas-Coyotes    -            -                                                          19        -
Juntas-Vallecillos    -            -          -         -          -         -          -      -       -
Palo Ptdo-Toluquilla  -            -          -         -          -         -          -      -       -
Espinal-La Pareja      -           -                                                           -
TOTAL   Km        198           0          0         32         49       177        177    131      -
Mex$m      -            -         -         2         76.0       70                97       -
USSm       7.22         -         -                               -                4.1    4.4
River Control (Cost)
New Culvert Mex$m      -           0          0         0          0         -          -     91.2      -
Dredging    Mex$m      -           0          0         0          0         -          -    325.5      -
TOTAL    Mex$m      -           0          0         0          0        25.0      246.2  416.7     -
US$m      5.86         -         -          -         -          -         -      16.4    18.5
STUDIES AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
Studies (Costs)
SAHOP Studies   Mex$m   -          -          0         0          0         4.1       17.1    37.5      -
Conurbal Stds   Mex$m   -          -          4.1       5.9        9.3      14.0       20.7    20.7      -
TOTAL   Mex$m        -         -          -         -          -         -          -      58.2     -
US$m       4.50        -         -          -         -          -         -        1.7     2.6
Technical Assistance (Costs)
TOTAL   Mex$m       -          -           -         -          -         -          -    14.7      -
US$m       0.30        -          -          -         -          -         -     0.2       0.7



18
8810200   October 2, 1987
Spanish   (Mexico)
OEDD2     PS/JVSsmec
Direccion General de Credito Publico
Direccion de Organismos Financieros Internacionales
Subdireccion de Prc ectos del Sector Servicios
Mr. Ram Kumar Chopra                                   September 15, 1987
Director, Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Sir:
I am writing with reference to your letter of June 30, 1987, enclo-
sing a copy of the Project Performance Audit Report on the Lazaro Cardenas
Conurbation Project (Loan 1554-ME), on which you asked for our comments, with
a view to their consideration in the formulation of the final report to be
submitted to the Bank's Executive Board.
In the  first place,  it is important to bear in mind that this pro-
ject, financed in part by the World Bank, was one of the first urban develop-
ment  projects  to  be  undertaken  by  the  Bank and the first of its kind in
Mexico. Fideicomiso Lazaro Cardenas (FIDELAC) was the executing agency and
the borrower was the Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos (BANOBRAS).
The total cost of the project was US$68.4 million, with IBRD providing US$16.5
million, and the implementation period was four years (February 1979 to June
1983).
I want to emphasize that the report contains some valuable input
which will help improve project appraisal, implementation and monitoring
mechanisms, not only for projects already in progress but also for the plan-
ning and organization of future projects.
The report  mentions at  various points  that the  project goals and
objectives we-e only partly achieved, due in many  cases to  situations beyond
the control of the implementing agency. Tne overall conclusion, however, is
that the project has been of great benefit to the people of Lazaro Cardenas
and Guacamayas.
In  general  terms,  we  consider  that the document prepared by the
Operations Evaluation Department covers all aspects of the project's implemen-
tation. However, for the sake of clarifying certain aspects of the report and
to elaborate on its content we should like to make a few comments -- some



19                         ANNEX I
general and some specific -- which we would be glad to see incorporated in the
final report.
It should be pointed out that these comments were prepared, in the
main, by staff of the Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (Secretariat of
Finance and Public Credit), in its capacity as Guarantor, the Secretaria de
Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia (Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology),
in its capacity as sector coordinator, and the Banco Nacional de Obras y
Servicios Publicos - BANOBRAS (National Bank of Public Works and Services), in
its capacity as Borrower.
General Comments
1.   The report fulfills several  objectives, including  the following in
particular: it highlights the key aspects of project implementa-
tion, evaluates the project's achievements and analyzes the way in
which problems that arose during project execution were handled.
2.   We agree  that the  Lazaro Cardenas  Conurbation Project encountered
many difficulties in the course of its implementation, due, among
other things, to problems of institutional development and to poli-
tical issues over which FIDELAC had no control; the prevailing
conditions in the region and the critical economic situation expe-
rienced by the country at that time; the poor supervision on the
part of the agencies to which that responsibility had been assign-
ed. We feel that it is pertinent, however, that the report stress
the Bank's role and its joint responsibility ror the various stages
of project execution. The various supervision missions could have
identified the problems that occurred during project execution and
could have suggested solutions.
3.   The report persistently mentions that the project was very ambitious
and  that  this  was  why  its objectives and goals were only partly
achieved.  It must be remembered in this respect that the  Bank took
part in each and every stage of project development and we therefore
feel that the report should emphasize the Bank's  involvement in the
original project design.
4.   As regards  the form and presentation of the report, we feel that it
contains judgments (including some inadequate choice of adjectives)
which, instead of accurately representing reality, detract from what
the report is trying to say and reflect erroneous judgments, which
undermine the objectivity of the document. We regret the reference
in paragraph 27, page 7 [to the condition of the road from Los
Coyotes to Guacamayas] because it reflects insensitivity in writing
the report, and lack of knowledge of the pejorative meaning of
certain expressions  in [Mexican]  Spanish.   We hope that reference
will be taken out of the report, along with any superficial comment
we expressed outside formal working sessions. Such comments tend to
distort the facts and obscure the sense and content of the document.



20                            ANNEX I
Specific Comments on the Project Performance Audit Report
1.   We suggest that the date given for the creation of the Trust Fund in
paragraph 6 be revised, since it was established in 1973.
2.   We do not agree with the viewpoint expressed  in paragraph  9, clai-
ming that SICARTSA had to expand :ts workforce for reasons including
absenteeism in the company, whi.i 'ad in its turn been  triggered by
dissatisfaction among the people over the degraded urban environment
of the area.
On the contrary, we believe that  the effects  of rural-urban migra-
tion triggered by the generation of new sources of employment were
at the toot of various problems, including the housing shortage. To
give the reason stated for SICARTSA's need to increase its workforce
is, to our minds, a very simplistic analysis of the situation.
3.   We concur with the  statement made  in paragraph  10 that  a further
lesson to  be learned  from this  project is  that greater attention
should be given to social and environmental aspects  and that provi-
sion  should  be  made  for  the recipient population to play a more
active role.
4.   We do not agree with the assessment contained  in paragraph  11.  We
do not believe that the Mexican Government sought the World Bank's
assistance with the project because of the chaotic situation in the
project  area.   It  was  rather that the Mexican Government invited
IBRD to participate in the project to enable it to share in the
experience of the first urban development programs to be undertaken
in Mexico, and in order to rely on the technical assistance the Bank
could offer.
5.   With reference  to paragraph  26, it  must be pointed out that, from
the Mexican authorities' standpoint, the scheduling of World Bank
missions  is  poor.   Frequently  missions are sent without the bor-
rower, guarantor or executing agency being informed of their terms
of  reference.   This  significantly  affects  the  success of these
missions because the information needed in order to determine the
exact status of projects is in many cases unavailable.
6.   With regard  to paragraphs 30 and 31, we agree that it is impossible
for an internal rate of return calculation based solely on economic
considerations to be valid when the information used is distorted by
a non-competitive  market situation.   We believe,  however, that to
link an analysis of this IRR to an evaluation of FIDELAC's perform-
ance in the housing sector is bound to be extremely superficial
unless various factors are taken into account, such as:
(a) FIDELAC's control over land tenure and infrastructure develop-
ment arose at a time when there was no other company that could
compete in this field; this situation remains true to this day and
does not lend itself to an active real estate market; (b) because of
the limited  purchasing power of the beneficiary population, private



21                         ANNEX I
companies eould hardly be expected to be interested in building
houses in this area, which is why FIDELAC is responsible for co-
ordinating and directing the manner in which property is to be
granted and distributed among beneficiaries.
7.   With reference to paragraphs 45 and  47, we  agree that  the project
should have made provision for assistance to the institutional
development of the  municipality.   This  lesson  has  been learned,
however, and the appropriate changes have since been made in subse-
quent projects financed by the World Bank in Mexico.
Finally, it is important to keep in mind that thi was the first
experience with this kind of project. It must also be remembered that at the
time of project appraisal the municipality lacked the technical, economic and
institutional capacity to handle the execution of a project of this magnitude.
Very truly yours,
/sl Jose Luis Flores H.
Director of International Financial Organizations
Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
Copies as per original



22                            -I
DIRECCION GENERAL DE CREDIIO PUBEltO
DIRECCION DE GRGANISMOS FINANCIEOS
INTERINACIONALES
Subdirecci6n de Proyectos del Sector Servicios
SR. RAN KUNAR CHOPRA
Director del Departamento do
EvaluacI6n de Operaciones
Banco Mundlal
Washington, 0. C.
Hago referencia a su comunicacion de fecha 30 de junio de 1987,
mediante la cual envra copia del infonre de Auditorra del Proyecto de Conurba-
cion Lazaro Cardenas (pr$stamo 1554-HE) y solicita comentarios al mismo con el
fin de que sean considerados en la elaboracion de la version final, antes de -
que esta sea distributda al directorio ejecutivo del Banco.
Primeramente, cabe sehalar que el proyecto de referencia, finan
ciado parcialmente con recursos del Banco Mundial, fue uno de los primeros pro
yectos de desarrollo urbano que instrument6 el BIRF y el primero de esta natu-
raleza en nuestro pars. Su ejecucl6n estuvo a cargo del Fideicomiso Lazaro --
Cardenas (FIDELAC), el prestatario fue el Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios
Publicos (BANOBRAS) y el costo total del proyecto ascendi6 a 68.4 millones de
dolares, de los cuales el BIRF particip6 con 16.5 millones con u.n perfodo de -
ejecucion de 4 aflos (febrero 1979 - junio 1983).
Cabe destacar que el informe de referencia contiene valiosas -
aportaciones que coadyuvarSn a perfeccionar los mecanismos de evaluacion, desa
rrollo y seguimiento tanto para proyectos en eJecuci6n como en la elaboracion
y promoci6n de futuros proyectos.
En algunos renglones del Informe se menciona que los resultados
obtenidos del proyecto no lograron alcanzar las metas establecidas, en muchos
casos por situaciones fuera del control del organismo ejecutor. No uostante,-
se estima como conclusl6n genera., que el pioyecto fue de gran beneficiu pars
las poblaciones de LSzaro Cardenas y Guacamayas.
En tirminos generales consideramos que el documento labcrado -
por el Departamento de Evaluaci6n de Operaciones contempla todos los aspectos
relacionados con el desarrollo del proyecto. Sin enmbargo, con el fin de escia
recer varios aspectos del informe y enriquecer su contenido, a continuacion -
nos permitimos preseaitar algunos comentarios tanto generales como particulares
que es de nuestro interSs se incluyan en el inforniu fiiial.
Cabe seAlalar que estos comentarios fueron elaborados principal-
mente por funcionarios de la Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito PMblico 'n S! ca
lid.ad de garante, la Secretarra de Desarrolln Urhano y Fculoqti. comn-
' ra sectorial, asr como ei Banco Nacional de Obras y Scrvicio-; P.Dblice, on -
su calidad de prestatario.



23                           Al I
Comentarios Generales
1. Se considera que el presente docuniento cumiplo con varios objetivos,
entre los que sobresalen:  destacar los aspectos mas ir;nortantes -
del desarrollo del provecto, evaluar los logros obtenidos y anali-
zar la forma en que se dio atencion a los problernas surgidos duran
te su ejc-ucion.
2. Estamos de acuerdo en que el proyecto de Conurbaci6n LSzaro Ct5rde-
I;Js enfrento m'ultiples dificultades durante su ejecucion debido --
entre otras causas a: los problemas de desarrollo instiiucionial -
y aspectos pol'ticos a los cuales no pudo sobreponerse cl FlDELAC;
las condiciones existentes en la regio'n y la crTtica situaci,;n eco
n6mica por la que atravesaba el pars en e5as fechas; la deficiente
supervisi6n por parte de los organisrnos involucrados encargados de
1levarla a cabo.  Sin embargo, se&cbnsidera pertinente que el info,
me resalte la participacion y corresponsabilidad del Banco en las
distintas etapas del proyecto, ya que las difcrentes misionc.  1,.
supervision pudieran haber detectado los problemas del proyecto du
rante su ej^cucion, ofreciendo opciones -iables para solucionarlos.
3. De manera persistente el inlurme senala que el proyecto fue muy am
bicioso y por lo mismo solo cumplio' parcialmente con los objeLivos
programados.  Al respecto cabe recordar que el Bancc participo en
las distintas etapas del d-,sarrol.lo del proyecto, por lo que el in
forme deberfa enfatizai su partlcipacio'n en el disenio original deT
mi smo.
4. En relCcion a la forma y presentacion del docume..o de referencia,
creemos que este contiene un sinnu'mero de adjetivos calificativos
(incluso con palabras impropias), que m'as qucai)Dndar a presentar -
una situaci6n real, demeritan el fondo de lo que --c quiere expre--
sar y provoca que se den juicios de valor er-r-6neosen deme'rito de -
la objetividad que un documento como este deberfa tener.  Asimis--
mo, lamentamos los comentarios de la pagina 7 inciso 27 ya que --
estos demuestran la poca sensibilidad de los funcionarios del Ban-
co que escribit'ron el reporte, asf como un desconocimiento de la -
connotaci6n peyorativa que tienen ci'rtas expresiones en el idioma
esparlol y que resultan ofensivas.  Esperamos se elimine toda refe-
rencia, asf como los comentarios superficiales que se escuchan fue
ra de sesiones de trabajo for-males. Tales comentarios opacan el -
sentido y contenido del docun.-nto y falsean uni situacion real.
Comentarios Particulares al Memoran-Itm de Auditorla de
Proxecto
1. Se sugiere revisar en el inciso (, la fechla  < creaci6n dol Fi ke;-
comiso.  Lo anterior considorando que dicho organinmo so fiu  " en
1973.



24                           ANNEX I
2. No compartimos el punto de vista que se menclona en el iniciso 9 y
que se refiere a un aumento en la planta laboral de SiCARTSA, de-
bido entre otras causas al ausentismo de los trabajadores, que a
su vez fue provocado por un desco;itento de la poblacion por la -
condiciones ambientales de la localidad,
En cambio, creemQj que los efectos de migraci6n rur31l- rhana pie
se dieron como resultado de la creaci6n de nuevas rlJfctite- (le tro-
bajo, han sido causa de distintos pr I'lcmas entre los que destCa a
la falta de vivienda. Arirmar que por este niotivo SICART$A terira
que aumentar la contrataci6n de trabajadores desdce nuiestro punto -
de vista es un an5li-is muy simplista de la Situaci6'n.
3. Coincidimos con el postulado del inciso 10, en clue otra experien--
cia del proyocto que se debe aprovechar, ser3 el dedicar una rniyor
atenci6n a los aspectos sociales , jiibientaies, ast -omo llevar a
cabo una participaci6n mas activa de la poblaci6n beneficiada.
4. En relacion al inciso 11, no estamos de acuerdo con la aprecioci6n
contenids en este.  Considerarnos que el Gobierno de Me&ico n) soli
cit6 la participacion del Banco Mundial en el proyecto por(Lue hIU--
biera una situacifin caotica en el area de localizaci6n del misino.-
Por el contrario, el Gobierno cle Mexico invii3 a dicho o.   iSnwo -
financiero a particiDar _.. el pruyecto a fin de conipartir !a Pririce
ra experiencia c  la instrumcntacion de prog  n,as de desarroll2 ur
bano en el pais y para apoyarse cii la asistencia tecnica que ofre-
ce el Banco Mundial.
5. Sobri el inciso 26, es importante destacar por el lado de las auto
ridades mexicanas que la programnaci6n de las mision5 .1  Banco --
Mundial es inadecuada; estas se presentan con frccu...ia sin quL -
el prestatario, garante y ejecutor tonnan conocimientu de los ter-
minos de referencia de las mismas. Lo anterio. afecta significati
vamente el desarrollo de las misiones,  ya que en oi.oiones no se
cjenta con la informacion oportuna que refleje la situacion rc.l -
en la que se encuentran los proycctos.
6. Por lo que respecta a los incisos 30 y 31, estamos do acuerdo (n -
que el analisis de una TIR desde cl punto de vista mcramente ccone
mico, no refleja una situaci6n real cuando la inforinaci6n propor---
cionada esta distorsionada por una situaci6n de mercado no competi
tiva. Sin embargo, pretender hacer una critica sobre la funcion -
que desempena el FIDELAC en el sector de vivienda, a pat-tir del --
ana'lisis de dicha tasa interna de retorno, crecmos quc es dematia-
do superficial si no - toman en cuonta diversos factores Lales --
como: a) El control que ticne FIDELAC sobre la Lcnencia de la tie
rra y la creaci6n de infraestructura se dieron sin que existieri -
en soi momento ninguna empresa quo pudiera.competir (n esta rtn-., -
situacio6n que prevalece actualinnte y quo no permite unr niwrf.1( ac
tivo de bicne5 ra Ices. b) Del)iIo -.I r-du(ci Jo  1. r    rii -L  -- t 
poblacion beneficiada dcl proyocto, las emiprosis privo,!)'a  di ',i l-



25                           ANNEX I
mente estartan interesadas en la creaci6n de vivienda en esta zona,
lo cual justifica que el FIDELAC coordine y oriente sobre la forma
en quo deb. do ote%rgarse y distrlbuirse la propledad entre los bene
ficiarios.
7. En relaci6n a los incisos 45 y 1,7, coincidimos coo el planteanriento
de que se debi6 haber pr*visto un apoyo al desarrollo institucional
del municipio. Eli experiencia ya ha sido superadi, mediante cam-
bios en los proyectos ulteriores quo ha financiado ei Banco Mundial
en MEXICO.
Finalmente, no debe perder- de vista que esta fue )a prirnera experien
cia en un proyce.to de esta naturaleza. Asimisno, es importante tomar en cuenta
que al moniento do la evaluacion del proyecto, A1 -iunicipio no contaba con 1la ca
pacidad tecnica. economica e institucional pav-a-llevar a cabo la ejecucion de -
tin proyecto de esta magnitud.
Atentdaen te,
Lic. Jose  uis Flores H.
Director do Organismos Financicros
Internacionti ls
Secretarra de Hacienda y Credito
Pu'bl ico.
c.c.p.  Sr. Rainer B. Steckhan.- Director para MCxi.o y Ccnt ro !'nlcrica.- Banco
Mundial.
c.c.p.  Sr. Rene A. Ril l.- Banco Mundial.
c.c.p.  Lic. Fernando Silva Nieto.- Coordin,m!or General do Delegaciones.- StDUE.
Ciudad.
c.c.p.  Lic. Jos6 Pliego A.- Subdirector Internacional y de Tosorcria.- BANOBRAS.
S.N.C. - Ciudid.
c-c-p-  Lic. Timoteo Harris H. - Asistento T6cnicc del DirecLor CjocuLivo por --
Mexico.,- Barnco Mundial.
*/scpt iLambre/1987



I
la
l          C~~l
-i
l~~~~~~~~~~l~
,Il



&I
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS CONTIRRATION PROJECT
(loan 1554-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1      Lazaro Cardenas is located on Mexico's Pacific Coast and in the
state of Mlchoacan which Is richly endowed with iron ore, water power,
fertlle land and forests. Its rich natural resource base led the
government to identifv It as a "pole of development". Bty the early 1960's,
a dam and power plant were built on the Balsas River whlch runs through the
area, ahout 15,000 ha. of land were opened up for Irrigated farming, and a
major deep water port was later developed, serving both commercial and
naval needs. In 1972, the Government Aecided to develop Lazaro Cardenas
even further. Consequently, it built the Siderurgica Lazaro Cardenas --
Las Truchas steel plant (SICARTSA) whlch began operation in 1976. Rall and
road links to Mexico City and other regions were also under construction
duiring this period.
1.2      Annex 1, Table 1, provides details on population movement In the
Lazaro Cardenas region between 1950 and 1984. Even though the absolute
numbers are small, In relative terms, there was a substantial change In the
population between 1973 and 1976. The h:ydroelectric and steel mill
construction works drew large numbers of workers with varying degrees and
types of skills from all regions of the country. Initially, the government
did not appear to have fully considered the impact of having migration of
so many workers and their families from other areas. Consequently, the
houslng and utility service svstems were completelv overwhelmed by the
sudden influx of people. Prices for shelter and food sky-rocketed and
squatters and shanty-towns mushroomed.
1.3      Principal Project Agencies.  When the Government realized that the
housing and social demands of the population were not being adequately met
by private initiatlves, It attempted to have SICARTSA finance its
employees' hotusing needs through specific housing programs. In 1973, the
Government created a tnrst fund, FIDETroMIsol/ Lazaro Cardenas (PIDELAC),
which was orlginally funded through Nacional Financiera (NAFINSA) but was
later transferred to the Ranco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos
(RANORRAS). FIDELAC's primary task initially was to develop a 695 ha. slte
to provide housing for SICARTSA and government emplovees. However, its
role was later expanded with the creation of the Lazaro Cardenas
Conurbation Commission, established by Presidential Decree to coordlnate
1/   FIDEICOMISOS (trust funds) were widely used during the last decade to
deal with specific development issues in Mexico. Their life was
supposed to be only for the duration of the assigned tasks and they
were financially well endowed with a high degree of autonomy.



and monitor development of the conurhation area with FTDELAC being the
executitng arm for the commission.
1.4      Althoti h FIDELAC was created with a rather great depree of
autonomv, its budget allocation was through the Secretaria de Asentamientos
Pl4manos v (Thras Puhlicas (SAROP, which was later reorganized into SEDITE).
A technical committee (Comite Tecnlco) was established to oversee FTDELAC's
work. Its president was the Minlster of SAIOP and Its other members were
representatives of the Minlstrv of Finance (SUCP), the National Workers
Hotusing Fund (INFnNAVIT), the National Institute of Com-munity Developnent
(INPECO), the state governments of Michoacan and Guerrero and the
municipality of Lazaro Cardenas. Day-to-day operations of FIDELAC were
handled by a general manager and his staff. Ry mid-1977, FIDELAC had about
son emplovees, 75t of whom were in its Lazaro Cardenas office and the rest
in its office in Mexico City. Financial and technical details of FIDELAC's
strticture and operation are in the appraisal report (pp. 33-35 and Annex
3).
II. PROJECT IDENTIFTCATION, PREPARAIION AND APPRAISAL
2.1      The Government reauested Bank assistance in June 19_,  o support
Its efforts to nrovide shelter and urban services to low-income groups in
Lazaro Cardenas region. Preparation works began in mid-1975, followed by a
second preparation mission in June 1976.  However, because of unfavorable
economic conditions, by mid-1976, the Government began to curti l many of
its investment programts, incltidlng plans for a second-stage expansion of
SICARTSA.   The final preparation mission made several adjustments in
project scope in September 1976, and the appraisal of the project followed
In November of that vear.
2.2      Project Objectives.  The main objectives of the project were "to
support Covernment efforts to initiate a process through which shelter and
urban services can be provided to low-income groups in an efficient and
replicable Tnmnner, and to increase the distribution of social and economic
benefits in the Lazaro Cardenas region" (appraisal report, p. 6). Also,
associated goals included refinement of institutional arrangements and
svstems to develop "an efficient model for the successful implementation of
additional regional development projects in other areas of the country"
(appraisal report, p. 6.). A number of such projects was to be prepared
through financlng fron the Lazaro Cardenas project.
2.3      The appraisal team noted the problems of cost recovery and lack of
housing programs for low-income groups in Mexico. Thus, during appraisal,
the project was viewed as a model which "would effectively solve these
problems" through more stringent financial and institutional arrangements
and with the significant reductions in construction standards, plot sizes
and design criteria. Another project objective was to promote artisan
enterprises In the region through a special credit line.



2.4       As uncertainties ahout the econonmv grew, rore Investment plans
were Suhiject to shelving and cuirtailment.  A post-appraisal misslon visite-d
Mexico In June 1`177, followed 'ny another misisIon In Octoher of that vear.
As a reutilt of tbece rmissi,ns, the size and scope of the project were
stchstantfallv reducer1 irom an oricinal amotint oF ahott TI'SS91 million to
ahont 1 STh million.  Amons' t'he maior changes were the river works which
were redutp(i from ahotit T'SS2R rillion to about I'SS4 mIllion.
Annr.ximatelv, I'Sp'c  million for water anr' sewerape and electrification
wc,rts were also deleted, and4 abotit I'SSS nillion were addled for studies.
2.S       Althouch the econoric problemrs of Mexico were the major cauise of
proiect (changes, therefarf s also concern abont the imple menting capacitv of
FIDPLAC.  Postponement of tho cecond stage SICAPTSA expanc'on and the
general nzeed tro redrce vovr-rnomnt expendtitures added to reductions of
project scope and thtus brought the Project to a more manageable dimension
f(or FTPFIA(C Trod t he irnI erwi-nting agencies.
2.f'      Tn Pereralq, hrtk the- Rnnk and Covernment officials realized that
ttev were work In  in a steadily-changling environment.  The needis of Lazaro
Card(enas were clear ancd tireent.  P7owever, the overall airt was to deal with
suich needs in a broader context, using existing institutions as mucll as
pc,scible, a4nd developing these institutions Into models for other areas of
the conntrv.  PTIPFlAC was th-e most visihle institution with a clear-cut
mandHate and adeoiiate fundinr.  As such, it hecame the key implementing
agenc-v in the area.  Tlb& role of local mtinicipalities was never reallv
develop-ed or definled during appraisal.  In retrospect, these were the
Important insttitutionc whbich should have been developed more and given
greater a-sisftance  to address the problems of the region.  Nevertheless,
since FT)PFIAC' wac alreadv in existence It would have been difficult, If not
impossible, for the appraisal team to get the rlvernnent to abolish FITFLAC
In favor of weak and almost nonexitent minicipalities.  Tt mav have helped
if some mire focus was given dtirinr prolect preparation to the
muniip.alities an9 had thev been explicitiv Involved in a more direct
wav21 fti nr,iect Forriilatoin qn4 Implementation.
liT.  PPOIFCT TWSCRTPTTON AND TMPLEMFNTATION
).l ,|1Proiect eTeScriptInn.  T1--e proiect could be divided into three
ntevcoriee-  shelter and related components consisting of tirban upgrading,
sitec acd sorvices, crnstruction material loans and training centers with a
total coCt of ahorut 1'5',12.S million; construction of regional feeder roads
and a firct-ta ae river contrnl 'choere, estimated at l'Sf12.9 Tnillion, and a
credit facilitv for artisan and small-scale enterprises and construction of
,-T, indulstrinl  Orshop, cT. ifmtf'd' at l      rSS.9 million.  The technical
assistance and national stkidles components was estimated at VTSS4.R
mill ion.  Anr-x 1, Table 2, providesF details of prolect components
includIinS atppraisal an.d actual targets anl costs.
2'   FITIP AC's h,oard barl a mnicipal representative 'see para. 1.4 abok,e)
blit thisq w- T'ot a nosition nowerfill enougrh to  I nfl uenice substtantial
policv cha?nges.



30
3.2      Implementing Arrangements.  FTDELAC, the primary implementing
agencv, was responsible for implementlng the housing components dlrectly,
and to enter into contractual arrangements with the Rio Balsas Commission
(which was integrated Into the Agriculture Ministry (SARW)) for
implementing river control works, and with SAHOP (later SEPTIE) for
implementing the feeder roads and part of the studies components.  The
mutnicipalitles and electricity and water companies were to be responsible
for the operatlon and maintenance of the urban upgradlng and serviced
sltes, while SAHOP and SAR1 were to have responsibility for maintenance of
the roads and river works respectively.  Annex 1, Table 3, provides details
on project implementation arrangements.  The project implementation period
was estimated at four vears (1978-IQRI) as indicated In Annex 1, Chart 1.
3.3      Procurement.  RANORPAS was responslble for overseelng procurement,
preparing tender documents and bid Invitations and evaluating and awarding
contracts.  Onlv the river control work was subject to IC8 procedures for
contracts over 11SS25,0O0. Other works (including the river works
contracts below [tSS25O,000) were relativelv snail and scattered and not
considered suitable for ICE and, therefore, LCR procedures acceptable to
the Bank were to be used.
3.4      Monitoring and Evltluatlon.  Two levels of monitoring and
evaluation were envisaged, one at FIDELAC's level, and the other through
RANORRAS. FIDELAC's role was one of analyzing "its field experiences",
assessing "the impact of project implementatlon", and monitoring and
evaluatlng "execution of the work process" as well as "changes In the level
of urban services social conditions and economic situation of project
beneficlarles".  A speclal untt was to he established by FIDELAC with the
support of SAHOP tc do these tasks.
3.5      FIDELAC's monitoring and evaluation role was complemented by that
of BANORRAS, focusslng primarily upon management and financial Issues. As
trustee of FIDELAC, BANORRAS had responsibility for supervising FIDETLAC's
operations lncludnlg the preparatlon of nuarterly financial reports by
project components, for submission to the Rank.
TV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
4.1      Project Achievements.  Although, apart from the training centers,
there Is no other instance of full achievement of appraisal targets, there
were relatively greater successes in the sites and services and material
credit components than for the others. At the other extreme,
non-achievement of stated appraisal targets was worse for the small-scale
enterprise and artisan credit components and upgrading and regularization
works. In terms of institutional, financial, cost recovery and replication
goals, the project was unsuccessfil, although In a few cases (e.g., in
reduction of lot size), some gains were evident. Thus, while the project
succeeded In assisting many low-Income groups and lmproving living
conditions within the Lazaro Cardenas region, its achievements were rather
limited, and its Institutional and national goals were essentially not
met. Some of the principal reasons for the shortcomings of the project are
dlscussed below.



31
4.2      Cost Analysis.  Actual project costs were approximately US$68.4
million (Annex 1, Table 2) compared to appraisal estimates of about US$36.1
million, (i.e., about 90% above original estimatps for a significantly
lesser number of units provided). Among the reasons for these cost
overruns are higher than projected inflation rates, changes in design and
scope of the project, and the longer project implementation period (3 1/2
years versus 5 1/2 years). In comparing these costs, It should be borne in
mind that since the physical targets were not achieved, the actual average
unit costs were even higher then originally envisaged.
4.3      As Annex 1, Chart 1 indicates, the works were scheduled for
completion by the end of 1981. However, it was not until December 1983,
that actual completion took place. Moreover, implementation was rather
skewed and weighted more toward the latter part of project life. Estimated
inflation rates at appraisal were 9% for 1q78 and 1979, and 8% thereafter
but the acttual rates for the 1975-1978 pertod averaged 19.4% annually.
For the 1978-19h3 period it was 41.8%, and the rates in 1982 and 1983 were
58.9 and 101.8% respectively.
4.4      The impact of changes in project design and scope and FITDELAC's
use of higher design standards also contributed to higher project cost.
Specifications for material, width, etc. of the paved roads, open spaces,
length of plot frontage, pedestrian bridges, etc, were all higher than the
Rank thought necessary (as noted in the BTO report of March 16, 1979).
There were some cases (i.e. pedestrian bridges) in which FIDELAC
reconsidered its designs and reduced the standards after discussions with
the Bank. Inadequate physical contingencies also contributed to higher
project costs. Unfortunately, a breakdown of cost overruns attributable to
Inflation, design changes and expanded scope of the project cannot be
accurately determined because of lack of data.
4.5      Physical Achievements.  Relatively speaking, the most successful
elements of this project have been the sites and services component (about
1,300 solutions compared to appraisal target of about 1,800 were completed)
and the material credit component (approximately 3,000 loans were made,
compared to appraisal estimate of about 5,000). For the urban upgrading
works, only about 2,900 out of about 6,800 plots benefitted. None of the
five industrial workshops was built although a commercial area was
constructed. There were about 37 artisan loans, made out of an appraisal
estimate of 130. However, for the relatively larger loans for small- and
medium-size enterprises, there were 97 loans made compared to the 46
planned at appraisal. The four training centers were constructed as
envisaged, but they were much larger in size than originally planned. The
rural roads and river works were constructed as originally planned with the
river works incorporated into a much larger comprehensive river works
program. Seven studies were financed through SAHOP and five were done
through COUJRRAL.
4.6      Performance of FIDELAC.  FIDELAC performed reasonably well for
implementation of the physical project works for which it was directly
responsible. However, as executing agency and in its attempts to achieve
better institutional and financial operations, its record has been



32
disappointing.  As one of several Fideicomisos established by the
Government to address specific needs in the country in an era of booming
oil prices and revenues, Mexico increasingly used these special funds to
by-pass various bureaucratic obstacles and to channel resources to deal
with specific problems.  Unfortunately, not much thought was given to wider
institutional issues (e.g. integration and coordination of activities), and
questions of cost recovery were rarely, if ever, addressed either directly
or indirectly.  Consequently, FIDEIAC's focus and its efforts in these
areas were less than satisfactory.
4.7      When the Bank became involved in the sector, its options for a
project implementation agency were limited, viz:  select one of the
municipalities in the area, select FIDELAC, or establish a totally new
agenev.  Given (a) the urgency of the problem as it existed at that time;
(b) the weak state of the municipalities; and (c) the government's
designation of FIDELAC as implementation agency, the Bank's only viable
option was to accept FIDELAC and strive to strengthen it.
4.8      Among the first Bank actions aimed at strengthening FIDELAC were
recommendations regarding staff reductions, relocation of staff to Lazaro
Cardenas, and establishing of more stringent accounting procedures. The
Hank also flagged the issue of debts owned to FIDELAC by SICARTSA for
houses which FIDELAC built for SICARTSA. All Bank financial projections
were based upon the assumption of repayment of these debts and it was
included as a condition of loan effectiveness. The Finance Ministry gave
assurances that the debt to FIDELAC would be repaid and based on such
assurances, the loan wa declared effective. Unfortunately, up until the
end of the project in 1983, the debt was never repaid and it impaired
FIDELAC's financial position, and continually showed up in the negative
reports of the auditors.
4.9      II) retrospect, the Bank's estimation of FIDELAC's administrative,
financial and technical capacity, and overall performance ability was too
high. During the five years of project life there were three project
directors. In addition to bringing in entirely new staff at almost all
levels, these directors embarked upon comprehensive restructuring of
departmental and divisional roles without consulting the Bank.  Agreements
on cost recovery, monitoring of project implementation, and implemention of
improved accounting practices were all put into effect to some extent when
the project began.  However, after the change of administration in 1981,
these were ueglected as various administrative and related problems arose
and it hecame more difficult to recover costs from beneficiaries.
4.11     During the entire life of the project, FIDELAC's audited reports
never arrived on time, and even when they were received, they were never
free of qualifications by the external auditors.  While it is true that the
SICARTSA debt issue featured prominently throughout the period as a problem
area, there were other troubling factors such as inability of the auditors
to verifv use of loan proceeds under the materials credit program -- a
problem which led to Bank refusal to reimburse against expenses in this
category until a Bank mission took an auditor to review the issue and he
concluded that appropriate remedial measures were being taken.



33
4.11    'Whlle serviced sites and other phvslcal works were being
implemented in a somewhat acceptable manner, the artisan and 5SF componients
faced manv initial obstacles. Some of these were caused bv factors
external to FTIDELAC (e.g., the presence of competing FOCAIN funds at more
attractive rates and terms). However, even after adjustments were made to
eoualize lendlng conditions, organizational problems still persisted. This
resulted in FIT)ELAC taking full control of the operations (instead of using
commercial banks). Visits to Ecuador were arranged by the Rank to show how
a similar program was being managed there.  Infortunatelv, these visits
never materialized because of various bureaucratlc reasons and staff
changes. When the program finallv began to achieve some degree of success,
another administrative change occurred and the new director stopped the
program to studv other alternatives.  rhis effectively killed the program
and resulted in the dishanding of a verv efficient and stuccessful
implementation unit for this component.
4.12     As executing agency for the river works and the feeder roads and
studies components, FIDFLAC was at Its weakest.  Its varions directors
never fully grasped its role in this respect.  After s.everal attempts bv
the Rank to get FTDFILAC to assume its responsibilities, supervision
missions ended tup dealing directly with officials of SFDTJE and SARH (rather
than through FTDELAC) in order to get the work done.
4.13     Deficiencips in FIDELAC were due to various factors.  In the first
place, offlcials of the agencv never really appeared to have had a full
understanding of their roles regarding project implementation and
execution, even though the Bank tried throughout the period to assist.
For tupgradlng operations in non-ejido land, for example, there was no
problem implementing the project. However, when it came to dealinF with
other agencies to expropriate land from the ejidos, FIDELAC was unable to
do this successfully. This was the major reason for shortfalls in Its
tupgrading program. The frenuent changes of staff at all levels did not
help much either, and, apart from that, capable personnel were continuouslv
being siphoned off bv STCARTSA and other neighboring public and private
organizations which offered more attractive compensation.
4.14     BANOBRAS and SFDDUE did not provide the necessary help to FIDELAC
for It to futnction as an implementation agenev as envisaged. One of the
kev problems was the Inherent conflict between the organizational/legal
relatlonships among BANORRAS, SEDITE and FIDFLAC.  Legallv, FIDELAC was
responsible to SEDUE while project funding came through BANOBRAS, and the
Governor appointed its director. Therefore, in terms of accountability,
neither SFDITE, BANORRAS nor the Board of FIDELAC was really in a position
to criticallv review and intervene In FIDELAC's operations.
4.15     Annex 1, Table 4, contains appraisal projectlons of FIDELAC's
income and compares this with the acttual figures. Whereas appraisal
projections showed a positive cash flow from 1978 onwards (including
renayments by SICARTSA), the actual was almost a doubling of losses from
about US$2.2 million in 197R to about US$4.1 million in 197C.  By 1Q83,
drastic Government cutbacks and curtailment of FIDELAC's investment program
led to a substantial reductlon in its deficit positi.,n which was
nevertheless still significant.



34
4.16     Performance of BANORRAS.  As trustee of FIDELAC, BANOBRAS had
variouts supervision responsibilities especially regarding monitoring of
financial activities. IJnfortunately, BANORRAS was never able to exercise
Its ftunctions either a. trustee or to oversee project works.  one of the
primary reasons for this was the power of FIDELAC's director vis-a-vis
officials of BANOBRAS who were assigned the task of dealing with FIDELAC
(see para. 4.18). Nonetheless, BANOBRAS could have appointed a senior
level official to deal with FIPFTAC and to enlist the aid of SEDUE and SPP
for resolution of problems.
4.17     Changes in management, personnel, and organizational structure
occurred in FIDELAC throughout the life of the project.  BANOBRAS had no
sav on these changes or regarding financial Issues to have FIDELAC iTprove
its operations either through direct or Indirect technical assistance.
Moreover, there were long delavs in submission of reimbursement
applications to the Bank, and In this regard BAL14BRAS was not able to fully
review and assist FIDELAC. Also BANOBRAS was unable to function as
envisaged for developing an institutional model for use In other areas.
Although, quarterly flnancial reports were generally submitted on time,
they were not used by BANOBRAS as a tool for assisting FIDELAC. In short,
BANOBRAS functioned as a passive agent, transmitting quarterly reports of
FIDFLAC, but powerless to take the necessary actions envisaged during
appraisal.
4.18     Performance of Other Agencies.  The two other primary project
agencies were SARR (for the river works) and SAROP (for the feeder road and
studies components). In general, these tasks were treated as marginal
phvsical investments by the agencies and there were no major problems once
the Bank initiated direct contacts and explained project recuirements.
Their performance on the whole was satisfactory.
4.19     Maintenance of Infrastructure Works.  The operation and
maintenance works of infrastructure Investments were envisaged to be the
responsibility of the approprlate municipal and utility entities after
construction.  However, these entities do not appear to have bad the
ability or resources to undertake the job. For the water and the sewerage
operations especially, there have been serious maintenance problems arising
mainly from lack of funding and appropriate technical personnel.  The weak
municipalities were not able to adequately manage these operations and they
have been receiving limited financial and technical assistance from
FIDELAC. FIDELAC has been functioning as a back-up for the municipalities
in many respects, and this accotnts for some of the subsidy FIDELAC
received from the Government. Recently, the Government published new
regulations for decentralization and strengthening of municipal
governments. Implementation of these regulations should assist the
municipalities in obtaining comprehensive assistance to better manage their
assets and provide essential urban services.
4.20     Bank Performance.  One of the key project objectives was to
resolve the immediate problems of Lazaro Cardenas, while at the same time
to capitalize on project experience to develop an institutional model for
application in other parts of the country. Despite the fact that the Bank



35
tried as much as possible to minimize project risks by having appropriate
commitments (e.g., for the SICARTSA debt repayment), it appears as if it
tried to do too much at one tire with institutions which were not easy to
change.
4.21     From the earlv supervision reports, problems such as the SICARTSA
debt, implementation of the non-FIDELAC components, overdesignlng issues
and non-receipt of audited reports began to appear. Each mission trled to
work through FIDELAC and BANORRAS to resolve these problems and
communications between the Bank and the appropriate authorities indicate
that promises were made to rectify the problems. However, remedial actions
were slow In being implemented, and bit bv bit, the mlsslons began to work
more and more on a direct basis with the agencies rather than through
BANOBRAS and FIDELAC. Meetings with SARR (river works), SEDTITE (feeder
roads), and CORRETT (land acquisition) were held and some success was
achieved, especially with the river and feeder road components. However,
this was more of an effort to get the works done rather than in support of
FIDELAC's role as an executing agency.
4.22     In the case of FIDELAC, various "trade-offs" and tvpes of
assistance were offered to induce it to improve its performance. For
example, for the artisan and small- and medium-scale loan program, the Rank
agreed to have FIDELAC manage the entire operation instead of using
commercial banks (which were not interested in the program primarily
because of high administrative costs and lack of collateral from
beneficiarles). The Bank also offered more technical assistance resources
and arranged visits to other countries to encourage FIDELAC to promote this
component. Similarly, for the Industrial buildlngs for artisans, the Bank
agreed to finance a commercial building (which was under construction) if
FIDELAC agreed to also build the indtustrial buildings. The Bank tried to
maintain a position which was generally practical and firm, but
accommodating. As many of the institutional and replicability goals became
unattainable because of nonperformance by FIDELAC and BANOBRAS, the Bank
strived to continue meeting the needs of the residents of the area (e.g. by
allowing project implementation to continue while FIDELAC's accounts were
clarified). However, after FIDELAC's audited report problems worsened,the
Bank temporarily halted disbursements against expenditures In the materials
credit program until the matter was satisFactorily resolved.
V. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
5.1      Project Benefits.  Benefits identified during appraisal are of two
types: those associated with the works in Lazaro Cardenas and those
arising from the lnstitutional model which was to be applied to other parts
of the country. Under the former type, it was estimated that about 47,000
people would receive some type of benefit from the shelter-related
programs. Also, it was estimated that about 16,000 man-months of temnporary
jobs would be created through constructlon works. Annex 1, Table 5
summarizes appraisal estimates of project benefits and current estlmates of
these.



36
5.2      In general, the originally estimated benefits compare relatively
better with respect to actual estimates in terms of the number of
beneficiaries from the shelter-related programs and jobs created by the
projpct works.  However, because of limited suecess of the artisan program
and the industrial workshop component, the nu: her of beneficlaries for
these components were lower than anticipated.
3      F.j   Economic Rates of Rettirn.  The appraisal report includes economic
rates of return for the shelter-related component, the feeder roads and the
river control works.  Unfortutnately, the assumptions and methodology used
are not in the report nor in the project files.  The PCR mission did not
have an opportunity to collect its own data and perform Its economic
analysis. However, the PCR prepared by consultants for BANORRAS contains
an economic re-evaluation of the project. Annex 1, Table 6 presents the
appraisal and these recalculated figures. Before the consuiltants made
their analvsis they received Bank guidance in terms of data collection and
methodology. Discussions with officials of BANOBRAS and the consultants
Indicate their economic analvsis was done essentially in accordance with
Rank methodologv.
5.4      As the table indicates, the economic viability of the project did
not suffer fror' cost Increases and delays In project execution. This is so
primarily because the associated benefits of the various components kept
pace with cost increases. The attractiveness of the Lazaro Cardenas region
to new settlers continues to he great, and recent plans to invest in
expanded port facilities, hulk storage terminal, indtustrial estates, etc.,
will continue to attract migrants. Consectuently rental and property values
for both homes and business will tend to Increase as production lags behind
unsatisfied demand.
VT.  CONCiJTS IONS
6.1      In drawing conclusions on lessons learned from this project, there
is need to hear In mind that this was one of the early Rank projects in the
urban sector and the first in Mexico. It was formulated and prepared
during an era in which the Rank was busilv trying to convince its clients
that a new approach to highly subsidized solutions was feasible, and
reduction of norms and standards, cost recovery and institutional
re-orientation were some basic ingredients.
6.2      For Mexico, it was felt that a project designed to address
immediate physical development needs as well as building a proto-type
institutional development model for application in other parts of the
cotintry would be appropriate. The institutional risks mentloned in the
appraisal report were Indeed the main ones to which the project was
subjected.  However, the counter-measures devised to overcome these risks
(e.g., initial restructuring measures of FIDELAC), were apparentlv not
sufficient.



6.3      Tn retrospect, it mav have been better to devise a model involving
hoth PT5FTDAC and the municipality.  Civen the Government's emphasis upon
Fidelcomisos at that time, it would not have been possible to by-pass
FTfELAC entirely.  However, with the inclusion of the municipality, the
stage wotild have heen set for an alternative to rInFLA('.
6.4      The shortcoinings of Fideicomisos have long since been recognized
and the rovernnent has begun to Implement a program of strengthening
municipalities and allowing them to set local priorities for development of
their areas. The Bank Is currently Involved in providing both technical
assistance and some investment capital.



ie~~~~~~~~~~~z
CAV                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANMF~X I
t  s v  M                                ~            TARLF I
MEXIC('
LAZARo CARPVNAS CONIIPRATION PROJECT
(loan 1554-MP,)
POPITLATION OF LVAARO CARIENAS RFMION
(195r-1984)
19sqa/  1q60a/   1Q70a/   1973M/   197Pc/   1Q78C/  198Oa/   19A4e/
Total Poptilation          5,045   7,704   24,319   3R,318   99,66Q   60,000   62,355  8n,000
Increw-nts from
previous dates             -    2,699   16,615  1,4q9   61,351  -39,66Q    2,355  17,645
Increases:
Naturald/                  -    2,017    3,418       21,667    2,Q60    2,152    2,306   7,60R
MFigration                 -       642   13,1Q7    11,332   5R,391  -41,821           49  10,037
POPITLATTON OF MAJOR LOCALITIES
Lazaro Cardenas           847   1,4906    4,766    9,577   38,793   25,n0n    26,217  36,000
Cuacamavas                166      271    4,146    7,759   25,343   12,000   13,66Q  21,00n
La Mira                   429      342    1,690    3,500    8,272    7,000    7,164   7,An0
La Orilla                  -        -        168       265       746    3,n00      3,022   3,200
Other localities       3,603   5,185   13,549   17,217   26,515   13,000   12,278  12,0no
a/  1950, 1960, 1970, 198O, C(keral Census of the Ponulation, State of Mlchoacan.
h/  1973, FITTFLAC Censuts In lazaro Cardenas and Cnacanayas.
c/  1976, 1Q7R, 1984 rentro ae Fstudios y Provectos' estimiates based on lnformatlon frovn
SPP, STCARTSA, FIPElAC.
d/  Fstitnates based on the difFerence between births and deaths in the State of Michoacan
as follows: 1950 to 1960 (3.4?2), 1960 to 1Q70 (3.740), 1Q70 to 178 (3.53%), 1978 to
1980 (3.27%), and 1980 to 19R4 (2.Q2%).
SOT'RCF: Centro de Estudlos y Provectos, Fconomicos, S.C., Mexico.



39
AM I
TAMF 2
amm
LAZARD rA*TWW9~ (TNMTI(t PWflJWrT
(lom 1554-W.)
PMWTCA4L AM7DWVFMe1  AMq  WPMiJ PROJECT (ITS7
APP'RAISL               A4M7W.           A(MTL 'MAL    AMTAL 'TAJ,
ItRS M                 tt  M     f    Tt1   AS.    rrT Aq 7
0I4TVF?S                     # I1N.       A,Tsr ff T1TWI    MIC (,           APPAISAL EST.  APPR. F.
A. tTrban TTpprading           6,760     7.65        2,858       13.0(           42               170
B. Sites and Services          1,790     2.36        1,319      20.35            74               Rh2
C. Construction Materials
loans                  5,3(l)     2.C8         ,nnn       5.64            57               271
n. rraining Centers
(cwuunitv)                 4      0.49            4       0.80           100               178
F. Production rredit%s.          176     5.n00          134       1,28           76                ?i
F. rIndstrial Presnises           5      0.90            (P/     1.14             n               1?7
C. River Control                  -       5.68           -      18.52             -               3?6
H. Regioal1 Feeder Roads        198 km'  7.22          131 kn    4.39            66                61
T. Stitides                       -      4.5n           12       2.S9             -                5R
J. Technical assistance           -       0.30           -       0.65                             217
iry.                                36.14                   6A.36                             189
a/  ramercial area tas constnticted.



40
ANIEX I
TAALF 3
MF XI C.
LAZARO CARTFNAS CONURRATTON PROJErT
(loan 1554-MF)
Tmplerientation Arrangenents
Implenentation             Operation and
Component                  Responsibilities            Maintenance
TTrhan TTpgrading          FIDETCOMISO                 Municipalitv, CFF and
Junta de Agtia Potable
Sites and Services         FITEICOMTSO                 Municipalitv, CYF and
Junta de Agua Potable
Material Loans              FTDFTCOMISn                Reneficiaries
Tralning Centers           FTDFICOMISO                 TI)ETICOMISO
Productlon Credits         FTDFICOMISO                 Reneficiaries
Industrial Premises        FIDEICOMTSO                 FIDEIrOMISO
Feeder Roads               SARnP                       SAPOP
River Control              CRR/SARB                    CRB/SARI-
Technical Assistance       Each agency
Stuidies                   SAROP/FTnEIrnMIso



MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS CONlRBATION PROJECT
(Loan 1554-ME)
Comparative Incose Statesents 1978-1983
(Mexican pesos sillions)
Appraisal Projections                                                                Actual
1978         1979          1980      1981         1982                    1978         1979      19BO       1981      1982      183
Sales                   43.0          49.4         55.8       62.2         68.6                    22.6          6.9      53.4      38.2      81.5       33.1
Other Revenues               20.3         24.3          2B.3      32.4          36.4                     1.3          1.7       5.1       6.9      13.0      21.8
Total Revenue                63.3         ?3,7          84.1      94.6         105.0                   23.9           8.6      58.5      45.0      94.5      54.9
Less Sale Costs              2'.0           29,8         J3.6      37.4          '1.2                                  5.7      34.9       0.6        1.4       1.5
Net Revenues                '7.3         4'.9          50.5      57.2         63.8                    23.9           2.9      23.6      44.4      93.1      53.4
Operations Expenses             35.1          37.9         40.7       43.5         46.3                    86.1        139.8    279.9    314.6    430.4    479.6
et Revenue from Operations           22           8.0 9O9                13.7          17.5                  -62.2       -136.9   -256.3   -270.2   -337.3   -426.2
Less Interest                21.9         23.5          26.9      28.7          28.0                   65.8           3.6      32.0      46.8    487.9    310.4
Deficit                 -19.7         -17,5         -17.1    -15.0         -10.5                  -128.0       -140.5   -288.3   -317.0   -925.2   -736.6
Governeent Transfers for
OperatiDns                                                                                          178.4         48.7      47.2       59.U    127.8    114.6
Paysents by SICARTSA            20.0          20.0         20.0       20.0         20.0
Net Surplus                  0,3          2.5           2.9       5.0           9.5                   50.4        -91.8   -241.1   -258.0   -697.4   -622.0
Actual data does not include payaents by SICART6A



42
ANNEX 1
TA W. 5
lA7K) r'ARTFNAR (TRRATTI(? PROJFfT
(loan 154W)
Project Renef1ts
7- rairrent
est.
to Appr.
Comnonentrs                  ATpraisal Fsti?ate       rbrrmt Fstimates         Fst.
A.  Trhan Tpgrading           37,00n benefaciariesa/  15,225 beneficiariesa/    41
B. Sites and Serv.            10,000 heneficlarlesa/  .5,252 heneficiariesa/    53
C. Construction materials
loans                  37,000 beneficiarlesa/   5,292 heneficiariesa/    14
. ffl aining centers
(coavunltv)            14&,400 emloyees          2,75Q emplovees           19
F. Production credits          1,2n0  new jobs          3A5 new johs             32
F. Tndustrial premises         1,2nO new lobs            385 new ,obs            32
C. River Control             -
P.*  Reglonal feeder roads    25,O(U  heneficiaries    6,790 heneficlaries       27
T.  Studies
J.  Technical assistance
a/ penef.1ciaries covers indivi duals, not families.
0 TR(y: Thesis docremnt 'The Provisioin of Lw-Incnme Pousing within the context cf a
New Tom  in Iazaro C(arenas - Las Truchas, W3dco" by Jumn M4arcos Lwrence, June
1985.



43
ANNFX I
TARLE 6
FX I CO
LAZARO CARDFNAS CONTIRRATION PROJFCT
(loan 1M54-'Fs)
Internal Rates of Return
Appraisal Estimate          Re-Evalt1ationa/
A.  Urban Upgrading                   227)
26%
R,  Sites and Services                28%)
M.  Reeional Feeder Roads             22%                          IQ.5%
C.  River-- Control                   28R                          21%
CONSOLIDATED Iv                   24Z                         23%
a/ As ner econoriic re-evalulation performeied hv PANORRAS' consultants.



-=-X: :                              ~~~~~~~~~44                            ~
ANNEX I
TALEF 7
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS rnMTTRATInN PROJECT
(loan 1554-MF)
Disbursement Allocations
(US4)
9/78          R/81           9/82          6/83
Coinponent                       SAR Allocation   Revised         Revised        Aetual
A.  Urban upgrading                 2,100,000       2,100,000    3,405,000    4s,33,347
R.  Sites and services                600,000         900,000    3,709,300       4,066,651
C.  Constr. material loans            0oo0oo0       1,100,000    1,620,000       1,700,165
n,  Pror-uction credits            2,200,000        2,200,000    1,124,7n0         371,62A
F.  Training centers                  100,000         500,000       288,000        351,172
Fopt. and vehicles                50,000           50,000        50,nno 300269
F.  Industrial premises               400,000         400,000       400,000        373,560
Foulp. and vehicles               50,000           50,n00        53,000         52,227
C.  Regional Feeder Roads           1,800,000       1,800,000    1,800,000       1,605,369
R.  River control                  2,200,000        2,200,000    2,200,000       2,18q,155
I.  Constultants for studies       4,500,000        4,500,000    1,199,000       1,253,723
PROR?OTION FOR A-F               300,000          300,000       300,000        466,684
TTNALLorATFD                   1,4noo             4n0,0no       S51 nnn        -
T O T A L                     16,50n,000       16,5n0,0OO   16,500,000    16,5n0,000



CVAr I
LAZARO CATdM$  n!WATffN PRflJCr
(loa 1554-W)
Trlerentaticn Schehdue
1978        1979        1980         1981        IqA2         1983
1 2       3 4   2 2  3 4  1 2  3 4  1 2  3 4  1  2  3 4    12 3 4
FCh- &   RSErFS
(Enstniction In-
-.zaro rarderas
ailha  Pnce__
'one F.jiial
W,'C;vrrr(w
WRTAL   AN'S_
RAINT?E (YIrSI-- 
frOMCK.(YFPlT2-ll                  I               -  -  - i--l -1-  -  -  -1-  -  -
~LAL
GTOMAJ, FFFTQ   1 l                _t                 _t -   
CtxercJal cnters 1'ARAPArTNFS"
APFstinate



To Ur'.o0 Moei la                                     To Co,ond.ro         Jose' MgHbroos 
104                              S G,do(a1oro                                         g Aaoizmg&             Dam  J
i                    M I C H OAC A N                                                                       GU E R R E R O
, ,yK rR ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OPSE D:
uOCOfnO as3 cuo  a Vci
/Bordornal                                                Lo rzilla          DI nKE 2     .                                                             1- 
r"'t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
'';' ''                  /                  l        \   \  ~~~~~~~~CARDENAS\--
M        E X I C           Buenos SAnrFrancisco
LAZARO  CARDENAS CONURBATION                                                                                                                               rb ,w- he sw W&Adb ft
DEVELOPMENT   PROJECT                                         RoIootciW} Cr -j&                                                                        - -3  .d .d-1ltt,   (,f,,_ _f
Upgrading                                                                                     oyoE      w ) ,tcd        t$                    e    h
Sites ctnd Services                                                                                                                            'f6aff_ v  %  ' wo td ^.
Hndustaial Area                                                            SI          I RTS
Main Poved Roads                              jf/                          SCRS                                                         e    e    * 
--- PaaAl                                                                                                     -    ElMain Payed Road Under Construction  hikeey  U S A
Dirt Roadsk                                                                                   ,.,.
e+Railroctd (Under Construction)                 N+/                                           <cmeco 
N~~~~~
____ Lazaro Cardenos Fideicorniso Area             -N                                                             s  Sa    nio
>       ME I Built up Areas
ir                        Stote Boundaries                 o    1    2    3   4   s                                                                                      .
LAAR  CRDveNAs  CONURBATIN
DEVELOPMENT   PROvErT                         t                                        -LOMETERS                                                  cr AS
3 104                                                                                   103*                                                         ----~   jo--           t! .i..
LoMii'a  Upgrading ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hoyo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d  (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



I B R D 13455
T1O Ution *         10200o                                      t130'                        MARCH   1978
102030'~~~~~~~~~~62                                                            0''0
M I C     O                     A C A N
1803e                ~~~~~~VALLE-CITO   PA.oe 800
0ASCALOTE          PINTADO
O,PAJAL,
?IVALLE
ESPINOZA CESPNAL  
>-NTAS            ~~~TOLUQUILLA.
LSjUNTAS
ARTEAGA                             \        COAI-.JAYUTLA       ATr IO
SAc  I  UZA       ANTON SIMON
0ARi NUEVO
ELINFIERNILLO /             AA0NIOUEEVOAN
TEPEOGAJES              G    U    E   R   R   E   R   0
}   (                           ~~~~~~~~~~NARANJOS 
O                                  NAj LASVIBORANS S 'COLMENEROS   ,d  NUEVA CUADRILL
CI0                                                              LAASOV COOTAS                   PASO LIMON
H6Y te plUTLA      /4QSCOYOTES                                                           0 VALLECITOS
I LA tFlRA&   \  >               JUNTA DE R IOSuf                      /0 PLAN DE SOLEDAD
9 ~ \  \  /?|GUACANIAYAS                                 - NIOUAJNCUIL                           18Do01
t80w  Et.BILA>   )                       4ARA                                               400PT.A.U'ACATE                                sw
Y PLAYA A2UL75    %      ~                  \             CEDRALP PAROTA
LAZARoO  .              #<9 LA UNION   }z;~jpALM    LAS TROJES               We0m=a tbdWPAWSWbY0
W4dZ  'Ssafdd&YF
CARDENAS                                 ETIBO       HWiESl CUATES                                 woftrof
CADEA  EL LA CULERA                            t" not O"  l thJ It IS tfthrd
LNOCARROVO IGRANDE                             bvdiso~mW  A
.IRNIEGA                    00~~~~~~~~d sOt=x2i  I h*'=f ellA
T  A GUN I LLAS                           A    1t  0 tO.  gM *01 of
M  E     X I C O                                                101030\ ttWf_
AZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEEDER ROADS                                                                            U 
PROPOSED FEEDER ROADS
EXISTING MAIN ROADS
-- -      MAIN ROAD UNDER CONSTRUCTION
:                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MEX ICO
SECONDARY ROAD
;   i_t    DAMS                                                                             STATE OF
-.  -.  STATE BOUNDARIES                                           1731MICHOACAN
RiVERS                                            t 7                               30    H0~itAS
?   6 10   1,6i 202630 "i.STATUERRERO OP                                         SE
KILOMeTERS   IOUINTERATIONdAL                    i       1JEAAM
10203d                          ~~~~~~~~1020001                               BOUNIDARIUE       of MAP



M E X I C O
LAZARO CARDENAS INDUSTRIAL PORT PROJECT
EXISTING  FACILITIES                                                                    PROJECT.
AND    PROJECT                                         .           /h '                 Railroads
- /  --  Collector Sewers
*  J  O Sewage Treatment Lagoons
.-I-    Sewer Outfoll
Medium and Small
Industrial Parks
River Rectification
".:A -AY                           ;w4,>4 EXISTING:
Selected Roads
</- t X *., DIQUE TAPON                      '    Railroads
Z       ACATuLA         Bridges
\         * ~~A    L A  4/ \       Xr+ | 
1  |    >           \           \          - --,    >s E~~~~~~~~~L NARANJITO
PETACALCO
/  \  \         /  '    9        R    --~~~~~~~~ ;=\F~ RANCISCO|
IEL\4T    ASTILLEROS
' LAZ                     i  T
//    CARDE NAS            1 |t                         W
CONASUPO/
sX4g X           V                ~~~~~~~~~~~N K S   -
PEMEX
/~~     ~       ~~~~~~~ iC SAR ISA 
!                X                             o~~~~~



io-               10'O              MARCH 19j9a
UNITED STATES Of AMeRICA
-30'-                                                       36S
io   1   2          3         4         5 Kllomiels
M E X I CO 0
rths map has been prepared bs The World Banik s staff exalus'vety for the convenience of
the readers and is exclusi,ery for the internal use of The World Bank and the krternatiorial   - 20'                                                        2 1
Fewnce Corporation The denominaltons used and the boundan,es shown on this ,nap do not                                              *
wr4V  on the part of The Wonid Rank and the Internalonal f-inance Corporaton any judgment                                            M*xico
ion the legal status of anv te,io'v or any endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries                      Oe   Co6edas             City
101                   10(1,           GU,ATEMALA
FUTURE  MASTER  PLAN                                                                                                      Selected Roads
La Vlllito Donm          ---    Railroads
I  8(_r Bridges
|                    t               \                                       Selected  Collector Sewers
Sewage Treotment Lagoons
/                               J                                                           Sewer Outfoll
/                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Medium and Small
Industrial Parks
Former River  Bed
GUAr AMAYAS                   
//  
_ 8 / ~~~~~~~~~~~~DIQUE TAPON
-4  0  J               /"-;               /      \       s  |  ~~~~~ZACATULAI
/ | \ wARAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JITO,
PETACDEAO
/ /                  |    ~~~~~CELASAP 
/  /                  \               ~~~~~~PEMEX 
,  \s < ,,    ~~SICARTSA_                                           .



