Document ofu                               n     o
The World Bank                    REpORTS z
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                      WITHIN
ONE WEEI~
Report No. 190 4-ME
FILE Copy
MEXICO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 4, 1978
Urban Projects Department
This document has a restrieted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diselosed without World Bank authorization.



MEXICO
APPRAISAL OF TRE LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit                    =    Mexican Peso (Mex$)
US$1                             =    Mex$22.5
MEX$1                            =    US$0.04
Mex$1 million                    =    US$44,400
UNITS AND MEASURES
mm            =   millimeter (0.03937 inches)
cm           -   centimeter (0.3937 inches)
m             =   meter (39.37 inches)
km2          =   kilometer (0.62 miles)
ce           =   square centimeter (0.1550 square inches)
m             =   square meter (10.764 square feet)
ha2           =   hectare (2.471 acres)
ky           =   square kilometer (0.386 square miles)
m             =   cubic meter (264 US gallons)
lt           =   liter (0.264 US gallons)
kW           =   kilowatt
kWh               kilowatt hour
FISCAL YEAR
January   1    -    December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                                                 Page No.
I.  URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL BACKGROUND  ...................                            1
A.   Urban Trends  and Problems  ..........................                         1
B.   Spatial Policy  .....................................                          2
C.   The Lazaro Cardenas Region  .........................                          4
D.   Project Objectives  .................................                          6
II.   PROJECT COMPONENTS, COSTS, AND FINANCING ...............                            8
A.   Project Description  ......           .............. .                         8
(a)   Urban Upgrading  ...............................                       12
(b)   Sites and Services  ............................                       13
(c)   Construction Material Loans  ...................                       14
(d)   Training Centers  ..............................                       15
(e)   Production Credits  ............................                       17
(f)   Industrial Premises  ...........................                       19
(g)   Regional Feeder Roads  .........................                       20
(h)   River Control  .................................                       20
(i)   Technical Assistance  ..........................                       21
(j)   Studies  .......................................                       22
B.   Cost Estimates  .....................................                         24
C.   Financing  ....... ...............              ....................          27
III.   DESIGN STANDARDS AND PROJECT SPECIFICATIONS  ....                    ........       28
IV.  BORROWING AND EXECUTING AGENCIES  .......................                           31
A.   Borrower - BANOBRAS  ................................                         31
B.  Executing Agency - the Fideicomiso Lazaro Cardenas..                           32
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ...............            ..      ................        35
A.   Implementation Arrangements  ........................                         35
B.   Procurement  ........................................                         36
C.   Disbursement  .......................................                         37
D.   Monitoring and Evaluation  ..........................                         37
E.   Accounts  and Audits  ................................                        38
This report was prepared by Messrs. M. Rothschild (Chief of Mission) and
R. Chavez of the Bank and Messrs. M. Arbell, J. Espino, and E. Shluger
(Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without IFC authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
VI.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .....................................         38
A.    Cost  Recovery   ......................................    38
B.  Affordability ......................................         40
C.  Replicability ......................................         41
D.  Project Cash Flows .................................         42
VII.  ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS ...........................         42
A.  Project Benefits ...................................         42
B.  Economic Rates of Return ...........................         44
C.    Risks   ..............................................     46
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS ......... .. .........       46
ANNEXES
1.   Population in Project Areas
2.   Effects of Urban Upgrading Component
3.   Financial Tables
4.   Implementation Arrangements
5.   Implementat.on Sehedule
6.   Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements
7.   Cost Recovery Sources
8.   Income Distribution in Project Areas
9.   Costs and Affordability of Shelter Related Units
10.   Description of Core Units
11.   Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File.
MAPS
World Bank 12489R - Country Map
World Bank 12488R - Regional Area
World Bank 13454 - Project Location
World Bank 13455 - Feeder Roads



LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BANOBRAS           -   Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos
(National Public Works and Services Bank)
CC                 -   Comision de Conurbacion (Conurbation Commission)
CFE                -   Comision Federal de Electricidad
(Federal Electrical Commission)
COPDEMICH          -   Comite Promotor del Desarollo Socioeconomico
del Estado de Michoacan
(Development Promotion Agency in Michoacan)
CORETT             -   Comision Nacional de Regularizacion de la Tenencia
de la Tierra
(National Commission for the Regularization of Land
Tenure)
CRB                -   Comision del Rio Balsas (Balsas River Commission),
now integrated into SARH
DGCR               -   Direccion General de Caminos Rurales
(Rural Roads Department of SAHOP)
INDECO             -   Instituto Nacional de Desarrollo de la Comunidad
(National Community Development Institute)
IMSS               -   Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social
(Social Security Institute)
INFONAVIT          -   Instituto Nacional del Fondo para la Vivienda de
los Trabajadores (Workers Housing Fund National
Institute)
NAFINSA            -   Nacional Financiera S. A. (National Financing
Agency)
SAHOP              -   Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras Publicas
(Ministry of Human Settlements and Public Works,
formerly SOP)
SARH               -   Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos
(Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources,
formerly SRX and SAG)
SEP                -   Secretaria de Educacion Publica
(Ministry of Education)



- ii. -
SHCP              -   Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
(Ministry of Finance)
SICARTSA           -   Siderurgica Lazaro Cardenas -- Las Truchas
(Steel Mill)
SPP               -   Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto
(formerly Ministry of the Presidency)
SRH               -   Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos - now
expanded to be become SARH
SSAP              -   Secretaria de Salubridad y Asistencia Publica
(Secretary of Health)



I. URBAN SECTOR AND REGIONAL BACKGROUND
A. Urban Trends and Problems
1.01      In thirty years Mexico has changed from a rural country with only
weak economic links among its diverse regions, to an urbanized and geograph-
ically integrated society. Mexico's population growth has been among the most
rapid in the world, and this growing population has migrated to cities at an
even greater pace. The percentage of the population living in places of 2,500
or more inhabitants grew from 35% in 1940 to 59% in 1970.
1.02      In 1975 there were some 11 million people living in and around
Mexico City making it the third largest metropolitan area in the world (after
Tokyo and New York). Its population has been growing annually at over 5%,
which means about 600,000 new people each year. U.N. projections based on
recent trends show it growing to be the largest city in the world, with a
population of over 30 million people, by the year 2000. Within the metropoli-
tan area, in 1975 the Federal District alone had 14 percent of the nation's
people, and accounted for over 30 percent of the natíon's output in manufac-
turing, 40 percent of the nation's sales in commerce, and over 50 percent of
the nation's production of services. To stop the growth of Mexico City is
probably not possible and may well not even be advisable. However, to
slow it down to some extent by promoting growth in other parts of the country
would be beneficial.
1.03      Mexico is now suffíciently developed for a strategy of selective
decentralization to succeed. The nation has many cities that are reasonably
large and growing, where additíonal workers can be highly productive. The
second and third largest cities, Guadalajara and Monterrey, each with popula-
tions of over one million, are major industrial and service centers, and have
been growíng even faster than Mexico City. Forty-four other Mexican cities
each had over 100,000 inhabitants in 1970. Most of these cities also have the
ínfrastructure, transport and communications links, labor pool, and other
advantages that induce future growth. Measures to increase such growth and to
manage it in an orderly fashion, paying due attention to the needs of low-
income residents and immigrants, have a double pay-off: problems of managing
the growth of the capital can be reduced (at least slightly), while efficiency
from the national point of view can be increased.
1.04      Promoting faster growth in selected medium and smaller cities would
be far more than a means to reduce growth in the largest cities. Indeed, the
likely effects of applying growth-promotion measures to selected cities of
less than one million inhabitants might be to reduce Mexico City's future
growth from about 600,000 per year to perhaps 500,000 per year--a useful
result, but hardly a momentous one. More important goals are to generate
additional productive work in many parts of the country, and to increase the
access of people living in smaller and rural towns to markets, credit, health,
and other urban services. Such policies would not only improve the economic
and social welfare of people in these areas, but in so doing, also help reduce
the enormous social tensions that prevail in Mexico because of large díffer-
ences in living standards.



-2-
1.05      Mexico has large regional disparities in welfare--as do other large
semi-industrialized countries. Per capita income per month in 1969 ranged
from Mex$628 in the Federal District to Mex$109 in Oaxaca--a range of almost
six to one. Access to health care, education, potable water, and other basic
needs also varíes dramatically from one region to another. Although some poor
regions present very difficult barriers to attempts to raise incomes, many
other parts of Mexico can become more prosperous if appropriate policies are
followed. Among the poorest and least-developed regions that are especially
promising are: (a) parts of the coast of the Gulf of Mexico in the states of
Veracruz and Tabasco, (b) the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, in the same states and
also in Oaxaca and Chiapas, and (c) the Lazaro Cardenas-Zihuatanejo region of
the states of Michoacan and Guerrero. 1/
1.06      Promoting growth in promising medium-sized urban areas such as
those on the Gulf Coast, the Isthmus, and the Lazaro Cardenas area is,
therefore, in the national interest. Such a strategy can both (a) bring
employment and urban services to less developed regions and guide growth in
these places so as to be orderly and productive, and (b) shift growth, albeit
slightly, to places other than the largest cities.
B. Spatial Policy
1.07      Mexico, like most other nations, has not had a strong explicit
spatial policy. Instruments that have affected spatial development have
not been well coordinated--at least until very recently.  Among the most
important measures (both intentional and unintentional) have been:
(i)  Tax reforms established in 1972 that exempt from some
levies industries located outside the three largest
metropolitan areas. The objective of attracting new
industries to outlying areas has had very limited success;
(ii)  The establishment, since 1971, of industrial parks and
new urban complexes in many new places. But for a few
exceptions, the exclusive reliance of these schemes on
the provision of physical infrastructure has limited its
impact;
(iii)  Financial programs to assist small- and medium-sized
industries outside the three largest cities. About one
third of all eligible firms have been helped by these
programs;
1/   Recent World Bank studies of regional strategy options in Mexico, based
on research done in early 1974, are: Economic Development of the Isthmic
Region of Mexico (IBRD 1080-ME), March 30, 1976; Spatial Development in
Mexico (IBRD 1081a-ME), January 31, 1977; and Urban Development ín
Mexico (IBRD 1449-ME), January 31, 1977.



- 3 -
(iv) The "maquila" programs, which created duty-free zones
for manufacturing in cities along the U.S. border.
Some cities have successfully taken advantage of these
schemes;
(v) A structure of utility charges across the nation that has
not been effectively used to discourage further growth
in Mexico City.
1.08      Within the last year, Mexico has moved towards establishing a
stronger, coherent and explicit spatial policy.  The Law of Human Settlements,
adopted in June 1976, provides the legal authority for planning and imple-
menting programs to achieve spatial goals. The stated objectives of the law
include improved rural-urban integration, more balanced growth as among cities
and regions, promotion of growth in medium-sized cities as alternatives to the
largest cities, greater citizen participation in solving urban problems,
land use control, better provision of urban services, and improvement of the
housing location-job location-commuting situation within cities. In practice,
the most important objectives that seem to be emerging are:
(í)  At the national level, to reduce the growth of Mexico
City, and to concentrate resources to develop a few
promising alternative regions; as opposed to the past
practice of generalized incentives described in para-
graph 1.07 above.
(ii) At the state level, to establish priorities for allocat-
ing investment among cities or regions within each state.
(iii) At the local levels, to plan for more orderly urban growth
and implement these plans with public investments and
land use control.
1.09      The new Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP),
has already completed (December of 1977) a National Urban Development Plan
that converts a significant part of the objectives enunciated in the Law of
Human Settlements into operational goals. In order to implement Government
policies in this sector, SAHOP is promoting a series of background and pre-
paratory studies. SAHOP is also chairing all conurbation commissions, advising
state and municipal governments on their own relevant laws and plans (at their
request), and coordinating the execution of the National Plan. Perhaps the
most important part of its execution role is to review investment plans of the
government and public sector agencies for consistency with this Plan.
1.10      The Law of Human Settlements provides for new planning instrument
for cases of contiguous urban areas cover more than one municipality, or are
part of more than one state; namely, the Conurbation Commissions. These
commissions can be established by the federal or state governments, depending
on the extensio of the affected urban zone.



these Commissions are not binding, they are a powerful guiding instrument for
all federal, state and local authorities.   Conurbation zones will be estab-
lished mainly in cases of large metropolitan areas (Mexico City was the
first), and of smaller areas where either present structure or desired future
growth crosses state boundaries (Lazaro Cardenas and the other two conurbation
zones of Torreon - Gomez Palacio--Lerdo, and Tampico - Ciudad Madero--Pueblo
Viejo).
1.11      The Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development project is part of
Mexico's first attempt to improve urban planning and administration in multí-
state urban areas, to select and promote growth in areas where such growth
will provide jobs and services for residents, and to reduce migration to the
largest cities--in short, to plan and implement a coherent national spatial
strategy. The World Bank can play an important role in connection with this
ambitious attempt by supporting the successful implementation of this first
project. The experiences gained in the process would be a valuable contribu-
tion and a basis for the expansion of this first scheme into a nation-wide
program.
C. The Lazaro Cardenas Region
1.12      The Lazaro Cardenas region is located along the Pacific Coast in the
southwestern part of the country (IBRD Map 12488R). The region is endowed with
rich natural resource9 (iron ore, water, power, fertile land, and forests) and
covers some 12,000 km  that include portions of two of the least developed
states in Mexico -- Michoacan and Guerrero. The major physical characteris-
tics of the region are a sea coast of great beauty, a narrow coastal plain,
and a low mountain range, broken by the winding lower Balsas River. The
climate is subtropical with a heavy rainy season that averages about 600 mm. a
year. The focal points of the region are Lazaro Cardenas itself, at the mouth
of the Balsas River, and the developing tourist center of Zihuatanejo-Ixtapa,
about one hour's drive down the coast.
1.13      Lazaro Cardenas, who was president of Mexico from 1934 to 1939,
envisioned and promoted the area as a future growth pole. Subsequent admini-
strations included it in their plans to develop new economic centers as
alternatives to the excessive growth and concentration in the central part of
the country. Beginning in the 1960's, a dam and power plant were built 15 km
from the mouth of the Balsas River, including a 15,000 ha. irrigation project.
During the last administratíon, a major desp water port was developed, and in
1972 the construction of the Siderurgica Lazaro Cardenas--Las Truchas (SICARTSA)
steel plant was begun.  SICARTSA's first stage came into operation in 1976.
Highways under construction will soon link Lazaro Cardenas to Mexico City
(about 400 km away) vía Ciudad Altamirano and Toluca and with the coastal
highway coming down from the north.  A rail link with Mexico City through
Nueva Italia, to be opened up in 1978, will complete the area's basic communi-
cations structure. The Bank has supported much of the development in the
region, including highways, the SICARTSA steel mill, as well as the tourist
development of Zihuatanejo-Ixtapa and its international airport. The Lazaro



Cardenas regíon is projected to be an important development pole, based not
only on economic activities around the steel mill, but also upon the develop-
ment of the port, small- and medium-sized industrial enterprises, agricultural
development and essential marketing services in support of all these activities.
1.14      Among shortcomings of the original development program for Lazaro
Cardenas was the Government's reliance on the traditional notion that the
development of the new growth pole would only require the establishment
of a strong economic base. Characteristic of such an approach has been
the mistaken belief that shelter and other urban services required to ensure
the organic and balanced pattern of growth of the new center would either be
generated without intervention, or could be taken care of by a traditional
housing program. As usual, little attention was given to the needs of scores
of new immigrants, mostly in the low-income bracket, that flocked to the area
in search of employment and better living conditions. The pattern of life in
Lazaro Cardenas, dependent almost exclusively on the operations of the steel
mill, has suffered from strong fluctuations in employment and in the general
level of economic activities. This has caused serious disruptions in the
physical structure and social fabric of the expanding communities; for example,
when the construction stage of the steel mill was completed and scores of
construction workers were suddenly out of a job. Life in the Lazaro Cardenas
area has continued to be extremely sensitive to the ups and downs of its
enclave economy, a situation that will probably not improve until the
economic base of the region has been sufficiently broadened.
1.15      The situation in Lazaro Cardenas has been further aggravated by the
lack of coordination among those agencies that were originally entrusted to
carry out shelter and other urban development programs in the area. 1/ Given
this fragmentation of efforts, even the few programs that were established
have been extremely inefficient; especially in their impact on low-income
groups. The least expensive housing units presently available in the region
cost about Mex$ 75,000 (or about US$3,300), without including land nor all
infrastructure costs. Even with the benefit of current subsidized interest
rates, such units are only affordable to about 25% of the area's population;
that is, households with monthly incomes above Mex$ 6,000.
1.16      Today, three urban zones make up the conurbated area of Lazaro
Cardenas: the larger towns of Lazaro Cardenas and Guacamayas located on the
left bank of the Balsas River; the La Mira-Playa Azul system, including four
smaller communities, and located further inland on the Michoacan side;
and the four small villages of the Zacatula-Petacalco system, across the river
in the State of Guerrero. Of the conurbated area's total population of about
59,000 inhabitants, about 78% (46,000) are located in the first zone; namely,
in Lazaro Cardenas and Guacamayas.  After an explosive annual population
1/   Responsibility for the provision of housing was assigned to three dif-
ferent agencies (INFONAVIT, the former CRB, and the Fideicomiso); water
supply to the former SRH and later to the Fideicomiso; sewerage networks
to the Fideicomiso; electrification to CFE; roads to SAHOP; health
facilities to IMSS and to SSAP; education and training to four different
agencies, etc.



-6-
growth of about 25% resulting from massive investments in the area between
1972 and 1976, and then a slump in 1976-1977 due to the postponement of the
steel plant's second stage, it has been estimated that future growth in Lazaro
Cardenas and Guacamayas wíll be about 10% a year between 1978 and 1981, and
7% in the other towns. 1/ Population estimates for the conurbated area, as
well as the corresponding expected demand for future shelter units, are shown
in Annex 1.
1.17      As can be seen in this Annex, most of past growth in the region
has been concentrated on the two larger cities; namely, Lazaro Cardenas and
Guacamayas. Also, clearly distinguishable, ís the population drop in some of
the other towns between 1974 and 1977; as a matter of fact, some will not
grow to their 1974 levels even by 1981. 2/  Furthermore, these yearly figures
convey only partially the true scope and range of population fluctuations
ín the project region.
D. Project Objectives
1.18      The main objectives of this project are to support Government
efforts to initiate a process by which shelter and urban services can be
provided to low-income groups in an efficient and replicable manner; to
promote the development of new regional growth centers; and to increase
the distribution of social and economic benefits in the Lazaro Cardenas
region. The institutional arrangements that were developed during project
preparation have been defined with the objective of correcting some of the
weaknesses of past urban related programs in Mexico in general, and specific-
ally in the Lazaro Cardenas area. These arrangements will provide an effi-
cient model for the successful implementation of additional regional develop-
ment projects in other areas of the country. An important objective of this
project will be the preparation of such projects though a number of appropriate
studies.
1.19      A common facet of many earlier public shelter programs established
in Mexico has been the lack of correspondence between the costs of the units
provided and the paying capacities of the íntended beneficiaries. These
differences have led to substantial losses by the implementing agencies,
either because they have not been able to sell the finished units, or because
of the financial draín caused by the required subsidies. In many cases the
units have therefore been eventually sold to higher income users, thus de-
feating the original purpose of these programs. The proposed project pre-
sents a scheme that would effectively solve these problems and in so doing,
1/   Although these estimates are considered to be adequate, they are probably
on the conservative side, jn view of recent annuncements about the
establishment of a Guanomex fertilizer plant and Pemex oil storage
facilities in the area.
2/   See, for example, Zacatula, Naranjito, La Mira, El Habillal and El
Bordonal.



- 7 -
provide a solution to families with income levels that have until now been
effectively excluded from shelter programs. This will be achieved by signifi-
cantly reducing construction standards, plot sizes and design criteria
to levels that, while still adequate, are much lower than those traditionally
used in programs of this kind.
1.20      Publicly supported shelter and urban services programs in Mexico
have also suffered from an additional problem that has seriously limited
their expansion possibilities; namely, inefficient cost recovery. Thus,
whenever implemented, such programs have resulted in a serious drain of
public funds, not a very attractive solution for a seemingly endless problem.
Experiences have been similar in connection with public supported credit
programs for small- and medium-scale enterprises. The lack of rigorous
financial guidelines has often led to failure of well-intended efforts in
these sectors.
1.21      A mechanism commonly used in Mexico to implement public develop-
ment programs of these kinds has been to create Fideicomisos (Trusts) which
by their very structure have often been confined to supervise fund disburse-
ments, and have not been responsible for recovering them. In support of new
Government efforts to reduce public subsidies, a major contribution of this
project has already been the restructuring of the existing trust (the Fidei-
comiso Lazaro Cardenas. (See paras. 4.04 to 4.14). From its previous
lirmited function of managing the disbursement of budgetary transfers, it
will now have much wider responsibilities and become a financially self-
sufficient agency. Significant efforts have thus gone into developing not
only a balanced and technically sound project for the Lazaro Cardenas area
itself, but also into establishing an institutional approach directed to the
full recovery of costs associated with the provision of shelter and other
services for the area's low-income groups.
1.23      The project will also promote the establishment of a more diversi-
fied and balanced economic base for the region. To this effect, it will
offer a special credit line and the construction of standard factories to
support the development of complementary high-potential economic activities in
the region. These activities will be particularly geared to take advantage of
the existing markets and the agricultural potentials of the conurbation area.
In this connection, the project will also finance the construction of re-
gional feeder roads to increase the accessibility of presently isolated
outlying agricultural areas to the urban centers of the region. The project
will, in addition, support some river control works needed to secure sub-
stantial investments already made in the region. These works are required to
safeguard the operations of the SICARTSA steel plant financed under a previous
Bank loan, and to prevent grave siltation problems in the Lazaro Cardenas
harbor. Funds will also be provided for the completion of studies required
to consolidate the development of the Lazaro Cardena region and to prepare
additional urban projects in other high priority areas of the country, as well
as for some technical assistance required to complement ongoing efforts by
Fideicomiso.



- 8 -
II. PROJECT COMPONENTS, COSTS, AND FINANCING
A. Project Description
2.01       Corresponding to the objectives described in the previous section,
the main elements of the proposed project will include the establishment of
an efficient and financially viable institutional structure; the provision of
some form of shelter at affordable cost to about 47,000 low income people; the
generation of about 1,200 permanent jobs plus another 16,000 man-months of
temporary work during the construction period (not including work involving
self-help); the construction of regional infrastructure; the preparation of
additional urban projects; and the provision of technical assistance to ensure
the project's success. 1/ Total cost of the project will be about Mex$ 812.2
million (US$36.1 million), of which the Bank is expected to finance about Mex$
371.3 million (US$16.5 million). 2/ The project components can be grouped
into the following programs:
(i) Shelter and related elements; including Urban Upgrading,
Sites and Services, Construction Material Loans, and
Training Centers (total cost of these elements amounts
to about US$12.5 million);
(ii) Establishment of a Credit Line for Productive Activi-
ties and the construction of complementary Industrial
Premises (approximately US$5.9 million);
(iii) Construction of Regional Feeder Roads and the first
stage of a River Control scheme (about US$12.9 million);
(iv) Preparation of Studies designed to support further develop-
ment in the Lazaro Cardenas area, and the preparation of
additional projects in other regions of the country (US$4.5
million); and
(v)  Provísion of Technical Assistance to the implementing
agencies (US$0.3 million).3/
2.02       In analyzing the alternative strategies available to solve the
problem of inadequate shelter and other urban services for low-income groups
in the project areas, the mission was confronted with two major problems. One
was the difficulty of producing reliable population growth projections for
each project area. The other, the very large size of individual plots prevail-
ing in the region; which made the design of affordable units extremely difficult.
The fírst problem was caused by the extremely uneven population growth patterns
1/   Additional discussion of project benefits is provided in Chapter VII,
section A.
2/   Further cost details are provided in Section B of this Chapter.
3/   During negotiations is was agreed to limit this program to the indicated
level because substantial assistance is alreadly being provided to
Fideicomido through ongoing programs.



the region has experienced in past years. This issue was resolved by designing
a flexible shelter program based exclusively on upgraded and serviced plots,
complemented by the provision of three alternative construction material loan
packages for self-help and mutual-aid schemes. Thus, and although appropriate
shelter demand estimates for each of the region's towns were computed, the
exact phasing of the units to be built will be determined by the acLual
demand in each area during the four-year implementation period of the project.
2.03      Solving the issue of the prevaíling plot sizes required extensive
discussions with the Government and the affected communities. Eventually,
and realizing that the proposed plots would have to be affordable to the
area settlers and that full cost-recovery of the proposed programs was
essential, agreement wvs reached on the need t9 reduce th2 traditional plot
sizes from up to 600 m to an average of 125 m and 200 m (for Sites and
Services and Upgrading areas, respectively).
2.04      A major objective of the planned shelter program will be to
regularize the structure of land ownership and to provide legal and secure
tenure to the settlers of the area. This will be accomplished through
the preparation of an extensive program of regularization. At present, parts
of many settlements in the project area are, in formal terms, illegally built
on ejidal lands. 1/ The planned regularization will involve the expropriation
of the built-up areas by the Government and the transfer of ownership to the
present settlers through legal sales. This would generate enough funds to
recover the indemnization paid to the original "ejidatarios" and ensure
replicability of such programs. 2/
2.05      A total of about 600 ha of land will be affected through the proj-
ect, of which 226 ha correspond to Sites and Services and 373 to the upgrading
areas. All land required for Sites and Services, but for about 19 ha in
Guacamayas, is already property of the Fideicomiso. On the other hand,
most of the land on which upgrading schemes are planned will need to be
expropriated. Of these 373 ha, about 156 ha correspond to areas that will
1/   State-owned lands transferred in the past by the Government to rural
communities. The ejidatarios or beneficiaries were given a "parcela
ejidal" in unsufruct, for agricultural production, plus a lot to buíld a
dwelling, Demand created by immigrants led to illegal sales or squatting
on parcelas ejidales contiguous to the communitíes.  Dwellers of these
lots have no legal titles and hence no security to tenure.
2/   By law, the indemnization price for ejido land is set at a figure equiva-
lent to twice the agricultural value of the land, plus a value-added
(plusvalia) margin.



- 10 -
only be regularized and not provided with any infrastructure. Summarizing,
of a total of about 600 ha, only 217 ha represent areas that could delay
actual loan disbursements; almost all of which (95%) are lands that corres-
pond to upgrading areas. The Fideicomiso will prepare a detailed program and
schedule to complete expropriation procedures. Disbursements in upgrading
areas that have to be expropriated will be conditional on the actual completion
of expropriation procedures in these areas.
2.06      The expropriations will be carried out by CORETT, 1/ the govern-
ment agency responsible for such actions on ejido lands all over the country.
Once expropriated, the land will be transferred to the Fideicomiso for
regularization. The Fideicomiso will then remodel and develop the communities.
Dwellers will then purchase their "own" properties, paying for both the land
and the new urban infrastructure.  In addition to the expropriated lands, the
Balsas River commission 2/ will hand over property it owns in Guacamayas and
on which it has allowed the settlement of migrants free of charge.
2.07      In order to reduce the costs of the provided services, efforts were
also made to increase the densities of existing urbanized areas and thus, in-
crease the number of households that will share in the cost of general infra-
structure works. This will be achieved by remodeling the layouts of the
existing urbanized areas, and through this remodelling, reduce the size of
existing large plots, reduce and straighten out roads and footpaths, and plan
housing clusters in the empty cores of large street blocks. Preliminary
remodelling of these layouts has already been made and, as a result, a
significant number of new plots has been identified in these areas.
2.08      In estimating the need for future shelter in the region, these
theoretically recoverable plots were considered part of the potential supply
of new units, and the scope of the Sites and Servíces component was derived
accordingly. Jointly, the Upgrading and Sites and Services components of the
project will provide a total of some 7,370 plots with adequate urban services.
Some 5,580 of these will be located in the upgrading areas, of which 3,980
will be upgrading of existing units and 1,600 plots gained in existing block
cores. The remaining 1,790 new serviced plots will be provided through the
Sites and Services component on new areas selected for this purpose.
2.09      The following table summarizes the combined expected impact of
the Upgrading and Sites and Services programs on the project's area. A more
detailed description of each component is given in separate sections below.
1/   National Commission for the Regularization of Land Tenure.
2/   This Commission does not function as an independent agency any more and
was integrated into the Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources
(SARH) in December of 1977.



- 11 -
Number and Location of Upgrading and
Sites and Services Plota
Total  Estimated  % of New
Upgrading        Sites and   Total Serv-  New    New           Demand
Area               Old Plots  New Plots  Services    iced Plots   Plots  Demand /a  Satisfied /b
Lazaro Cardenas/
Guacamayas           2,924      1,248        1,792       5,964       3,040   3,906          78%
Zacatula/Petacalco    419         108            -         527         108      180         60%
La Mira/Playa Azul    633         250            0          883        250      495         50%
Total:          3,980      1,610       1,790        7,380       3,400   4,580          747
la   From table in Annex 1.
lb   It is assumed that part of the difference relates to higher income
groups and will be covered by other schemes.
As can be seen Erom these figures, the largest number of serviced unita
will be provided in the principal centera of the region, namely in Lazaro
Cardenas and Guacamayas. This reflects the Government's objective to
strengthen the concentration of urban life in a few viable centers, and
to discourage the establishment of low-density scattered and smaller towns
in the region.
2.10      The upgrading programm  will provide serviced plots costing
Mex$15,000 (US$667) and Mex $18,500 (US$822) in the smaller towns and in
Guacamayas, respectively. The cost of a fully serviced plot under the
Sites and Services scheme in Lazaro Cardenas will be about Mex$24,000
(US$1,067). 1/ The differences in cost reflect variations in land cost
and the level of services provided. 2/ The units provided under the up-
grading and remodeling schemes (6760 units) 3/, make up about 80% of all
shelter related units provided in the project. Regular Sites and Services
comprise the remaining 20% of the shelter program (1790 units). In combina-
tion with the construction material loans detailed below, the joint Urban
Upgrading and Sites and Services programs would offer a series of alternatives
to accomodate different income levels ranging from Mex$1,425 (US$63) to
Mex$2,540 (US$113) per month. The least cost element of this program (a
1/   Quoted prices include costs of professional services as well as all
physical and price contingencies.
2/   See Section (a) below for more detaíls.
3/   This includes 1,180 that would only be legalized.  See para. 2.13.



- 12-
serviced plot in smaller towns) is affordable by about 97% of the area's
residents, and the most expensive element (a dwelling core in Lazaro Cardenas)
by 72% of the area's population. This corresponds to yearly household incomes
of about US$670 and US$1,350 respectively. About three quarters of the pro-
posed shelter units would be affordable by households between the 7th and 22nd
percentile of the region's income distribution. 1/ The various possible com-
binations, including respective total costs and monthly charges, are described
in the following table.
FiRures in Mexican Pesos
Serviced Plot Only         Basic Unit           Sanitary Unit        Dwelling Core
Total      Monthly    Total       Monthly    Total      Monthly   Total    Monthly
Cost       Charge /a  Cost        Charge /a  Cost       Charge /a Cost       Charge /a
Upgraded plot
in towns        15,000      189        21,500       285      22,700       302      29,000      393
Upgraded plot
in Guacamayas  18,500        233       25,000       330       26,200      347      32,500      438
Sites and
Services        24,000       302       30,400       400       31,600      417      38,000      508
/a   Assuming 10% downpayment on the plots, no downpayment on the construction materials
and the rest payable at 15% over 15 years.
(a) Urban Upgrading
2.11      In response to the accelerated growth and the urban problems that
ensued as a result of the construction of the steel plant, the Government
implemented a special investment program in the Lazaro Cardenas region in
1975-1976. With it, water, sewerage, electrical and circulation networks
were brought up to near standard levels in Lazaro Cardenas itself and parts
of Guacamayas, La Mira, and Playa Azul. However, much of Guacamayas and eight
other towns in the conurbated area were untouched by the program and have had
to make do with already inadequate utility networks. The upgrading component
consists of a program to complement the urban infrastructure in most of those
areas that lack adequate services.
2.12      The program will provide for two levels of upgrading; namrely, a
fully serviced level for the upgrading of the densely populated, larger, and
faster growing Guacamayas, and a reduced level in the smaller towns of the
area. The difference in the proposed schemes corresponds to the paying
capacities of the population in the alternative centers and thus to the level
of infrastructure that can be afforded. 2/
1/   Assuming that a family would spend 15% of its income if only buying a
serviced plot. Terms are 10% downpayment and 15% interest over a period
of 15 years. A detailed description of the affordability structure is
provided in Annex 9.
2/   The level of upgrading in the smaller towns will include, for example,
simpler sewerage disposal systems and less expensive road networks.



- 13 -
2.13      It is estimated that the upgrading program will affect about
6,760 plots in Guacamayas, Playa Azul, La Mira and other towns on both sides
of the Balsas River. Of these, an estimated 5,580 existing and recovered 1/
units will be upgraded and the remaining 1,180 will only be legalized. The
latter group includes about 890 already serviced plots (in La Mira and Playa
Azul) and about 290 units in smaller towns where the upgrading of services is
not yet justified. The table in Annex 2 summarizes the range of this program.
2.14      The upgrading program will provide about 3,550 water, the same
number of sewerage, and 2,570 electrical connections, as well as about 17.0 km
of access roads. Off-site infrastructure is only required and will be built
in five smaller towns included in the program.
2.15      In conjunction with the corresponding part of the proposed Con-
struction Material Loans program (see section "c" below), this component will
benefit an estimated 37,000 people in the region 2/.  Total cost will be
about US$7.65 million, including the costs of all infrastructure, prof essional
services and contingencies.
(b) Sites and Services
2.16      The sites and services component has been designed to complement,
with additional serviced plots, the overall upgrading program. This com-
ponent envisages the preparation of about 1,800 new serviced plots distributed
in three sites in Guacamayas (1,200 plots) and Lazaro Cardenas (600 plots),
the fastest growing settlements in the conurbated area. Each of the plots
will have individual water, sewerage, and electrical connections. The settle-
ments will also be provided with access roads and street lighting.
2.17      The 600 serviced plots planned for Lazaro Cardenas will be located
on an 11.8 ha site contiguous to a previous Sites and Services project carried
out by INDECO on the original property entrusted to the Fideicomiso. The
units in Guacamayas will be broken into two areas: (a) to the north, on
two sites adjoining the colonias Aníbal Ponce and Lucrecia Toriz, with 242 and
271 lots, respectively, and (b) to the south, in the urban ejidal area of
Guacamayas, totalling 677 units. The total area for the three sites is
about 28.7 ha.
2.18      The only community facilities to be established as part of the
project will be the training centers described in section (d) of this
chapter. As part of its regular activities, these centers will also offer
training of prof essional skills, adult education, promote health and nutri-
tion related campaigns, and provide first aid. Regular health and education
services will be provided from existing facilities considered to be adequate
for the projected population in the project areas (see para. 2.29).
1/   These are units that will be gained by reducing the size of existing
plots and by opening up previously locked areas in the middle of large
street blocks.
2/   Average family size in the Lazaro Cardenas area is 5.5 people per
household.



- 14 -
2.19      The Sites and Services plots will average about 125 m  in size and
cost about Mex$24,000 (US$1,070) each; including the corresponding land costs,
infrastructure, professional services and all physical and price contingen-
cies. Total cost of this component is estimated at about US$2.4 million, and
it will benefit approximately 10,000 people.
(c) Construction Materials Loans
2.20      This program has been designed to improve and increase the housing
stock in the area by providing, in combination with the Urban Upgrading and
Sites and Services components, a range of construction material loans of
various alternative amounts to suit the needs and financial possibilities
of different low-income groups throughout the conurbated area. The possible
combinations of these options with upgraded plots or serviced sites, range
from about Mex$21,500 (US$956), for a basic unit in one of the smaller towns,
to about Mex$38,000 (US$1,689) for a dwelling core in Lazaro Cardenas (see
Annex 9). The program, described in more detail below, will provide some
5,300 material loans with technical assistance for a total of about US$2.08
million.
2.21      The component will be modelled after a successful 50-unit pilot
program currently being carried out by the Fideicomiso in Lazaro Cardenas.
Relying basically on self-help and mutual-aid construction techniques, the
objective of the construction material loan program is two-fold: (a) to
upgrade existing dwelling units, and (b) to produce new housing for low-income
groups. The program will be complemented by two supporting schemes offered
in the training centers; namely, training of basic construction skills and
actual production of building components.
2.22      Loans will be made by the Fideicomiso to individual household
heads. Material and building parts will only be provided in kind, 1/ whereas
equipment will be rented and labor contracted 2/ by the Fideicomiso. These
loans would include: (a) materials, such as cement, gravel, reinforcement
bars, wood; (b) building components, such as concrete blocks, pipes and
prefabricated beams or asbestos sheets, wooden or metal doors and windows,
cement sinks and toilets; (c) equipment, ranging from shovels, picks, trowels
and wheelbarrows to small concrete mixers, usually on a rental basis; and
(d) specialized labor such as for plumbing and electrical installations, or
semi-specialized labor such as for masonry and other less-skilled tasks.
2.23      Although the proposed loans will be for varying amounts to cover
specific needs of borrowers, it is assumed that they will generally involve
the construction of one or more room-units. The breakdown of these loans by
1/   This system was adopted because of serious supply problems in the area's
relatively small market for construction materials.
2/   This refers to skilled labor that will gradually have to be financed by
each applicant from loan proceeds, as well as unskilled labor to be con-
tracted by loan applicants that are unable to carry out such work them-
selves.



- 15 -
type was determined according to the results of a preliminary demand survey
and the paying capacities of the potential beneficiaries. This breakdown is
shown in the table below.
Unitary      Number        Total Cost
Unit Type    Unit Area    Cost (US$)   of Units   (US$ million)
Basic Unit      12 m        289.0         2,000            .58
2
Sanitary Unit  12 m2        342.0         2,000            .69
Dwelling Core  24 m          622.0         1,300           .81
5,300          2.08
2.242     The basic unit designed for the project will consist of a single
12 m  room.  The sanitary unit will also have 12 m  of floor area and consist
of a bathroom with shower, toilgt and sink, plus a kitchen with a kitchen-
laundry type of sink. The 24 m dwelling core is a combination of the two
previous elements. Design details are provided in para 3.09 of this report
and in Annex 10.
2.25      The construction material loans program will be operated out of
the training centers to be implemented in the project (see next section).
Materials, equipment and specialized labor will be made available at four
center warehouses or from smaller temporary warehouses to be set up in nine
selected areas where concentrated upgrading or dwelling construction is
planned to take place 1/. If required, technical assistance will also be
provided from these centers (see para. 2.37).
2.26      The proposed criteria for selecting recipients of these loans is
based on a point system that takes into account household income and expendi-
tures, employment base, family composition, permanence of residence, land
tenure situation, and an appraisal of the existing, if available, dwelling.
The approval of a loan would also take into account the recommendations of
the community's committee in which the potential loan recipient lives. A
tentative selection system has been developed by Fideicomiso and will be
presented to the Bank for review not later than December 31, 1978.
(d) Training Centers
2.27      The proposed component will consist of the construction and
equipment of four centers, primarily for the promotion of self-help con-
struction using the proposed material loans and in support of the proposed
credit line for artisans and small and medium-scale enterprises.
1/   The warehouses will be set up in model core dwellings which will
function as an administrative base in the area, and will then be put
up for sale upon the completion of the program.



- 16 -
The centers will also house a number of additional community wide programs
organized under a general development program. Both the physical facilities
and the training programs were requested by and coordinated with the com-
munity organizations in the project areas. Despite the relatively recent
establishment of these settlements, a strong and efficient community struc-
ture led by articulate leaders exists in these areas (uniones de colones).
Their active participation during project identification and preparation, as
well as their planned role during implementation, has been considered to be
a key condition for the project's success.
2.28      The centers will provide facilities for conducting training
courses, including open air and enclosed workshops. The self-help construc-
tion training programs will specifically provide basic skills in masonry,
carpentry, and plumbing, as well as in the production of building elements.
Instruction in basic skills will be given to groups of about twenty trainees
each, while training in the production of building elements has been planned
as a continuing open-ended program.  Among the building elements will be
electrical and plumbing fixtures, wooden doors, windows, furniture, concrete
blocks, tiles, lintels, and pipes. The components will either be used by
the trainees in self-help construction and improvement of their own dwelling
or sold.
2.29      Training courses for the promotion of productive credits will be
in fields such as management, accounting, and marketing. Special training
courses will also be provided to the area residents in other technical
subjects to improve their professional skills and increase their productivity.
This training will be in areas such as auto-mechanics, electricity, air-
conditioning and cooling, etc. Complementing these, a general development
program has been planned to provide basic adult education in other essential
fields such as general education, home economics, health promotion, preven-
tive medicine and first-aid. The preventive medicine and first-aid programs
will be run by personnel of the Secretaria de Salubridad y Asistencia in a
similar fashion to established arrangements in already ongoing programs of
this kind. All other programs will be run by the Fideicomiso staff. Specific
terms of reference, including course contents, duration and methodology are
being prepared by the Fideicomiso and will be presented to the Bank for review
not later than December 31, 1978.
2.30      Neither the first-aid program nor the training courses are intended
to substitute the medical or educational systems in the area, but rather to
complement these with services already offered in the project areas. Thus,
the first-aid unit will only provide emergency attention and refer, if re-
quired, patients to the larger facilities in Lazaro Cardenas. The other
planned courses will offer practical training that is not usually provided
by schools, and much less, for adults.
2.31 2    Each training center will consist of 2 multi-purpose area of about
600 m of covered area plus an additional 800 m of open space. The component
includes one center each in the Zacatula-Petacalco and La Mira-Playa Azul
systems, and two in Guacamayas. Lazaro Cardenas has adequate facilities



- 17 -
already and will therefore not need any new ones at present. The location
of each center was primarily selected as a function of the concentration
pattern of low-income groups in the area. It is estimated that each
center, when operating at full capacity, will be able to train a total of
about 1,200 persons each year. The total population directly benefiting from
the four centers over three years will thus be about 15,000 people.
2.32      Total cost of the proposed four training centers amounts to about
US$450,000. This includes all construction costs, professional services and
contingencies.  Some vehicles and equipment were considered to be part of the
promotional effort of these programs and as such will be charged to the
project. These costs are included in the Technical Assistance component
treated separately in section (i) below.  The Government will be expected to
cover, through regular appropriations, the costs of staffing and maintaining
the centers, similarly to its regular support of schools, clinics and training
institutions. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
(e) Production Credits
2.33      This component will offer credits to artisans 1/ and other small-
or medium-scale enterprises in the Lazaro Cardenas region, which until now
have had no access or only limited access to institutional credit. 2/ Al-
though credits for small and medium sized industrial enterprises are theo-
retically available through commercial banks, such programs are of national
focus and not effective in the project area. The proposed program will be
part of a locally coordinated comprehensive approach to the needs of the
region. Besides industrial activities, it will also support badly needed
service enterprises. A total of US$4.0 million equivalent will be made
available to the Fideicomiso to establish and operate a revolving fund for
on-lending to beneficiaries through three commercial banks. 3/ This sum will
include a US$300,000 reserve guarantee fund and be complemented by another
US$1.0 million in self-contributions by the beneficiaries, thus adding up to
the US$5.0 million total cost of this component. In terms of actual disburse-
ments, it is estimated that about 130 micro-enterprises would obtain credits
averaging about US$1,500 each and totalling about US$200,000 equivalent;
another 40 small-scale enterprises (SSE) would receive an average of US$50,000
each for a total of about US$2.0 million; while six medium-scale enterprises
(MSE) would be granted credits averaging US$250,000 equivalent each and
1/   This group includes carpenters, shoemakers, electricians, mechanics,
plumbers, and other small operators called in Mexico "micro-enterprises".
2/   Credits for artisans are occasionally available from "private lenders,"
but at interests that reach up to 50% annually.
3/   During project appraisal, assurances in principle were obtained for the
participation in the lending program from Banco de Comercio de Mexico,
Banco Nacional de Mexico, and Banco del Atlantico. These are the largest,
second, and fifth largest commercial banks in Mexico.



- 18 -
totalling about US$1.50 million. A thorough analysis of actual and potential
demand for such credits has been conducted by both the mission and local
consultants, and the proposed line of credit has been defined accordingly.
2.34      Local artisans applying for credits will first be interviewed by
the respective Uniones de Colonos (Settler Committees) to assess their personal
integrity and repaymenticapacity. The Fideicomiso will then assist serious
applicants with the preparation of theír credit applications for submittal to
a special credit Committee that will include representatives of the con-
cerned commercial banks. Applicants will be required to satisfy certain
eligibility criteria to be developed jointlv bv the Fideicomiso and the
commercial banks, and which will be submitted to the Bank for review not later
than December 31, 1978. Final action on each package or individual application
for credit will be the responsibility of the commercial banks. 1/
2.35      The Fideicomiso will engage in a forceful program designed to
identify and promote new subprojects and to attract private investors from
other parts of Mexico. It has already contracted the services of a consulting
firm which will focus on identifying and developing possible agro-industrial
and agro-business enterprises to be based on identified potentials of the
zone. This, and additional complementary promotion efforts, including
some equipment, will be financed through a special US$39,000 contribution by
the Government. 2/
2.36      Commercial banks will make loans to end-beneficiaries in Mexican
pesos at an interest rate of 15% per annum. In the case of loans to artisans
and small-scale enterprises, this rate will include an annual 1% Guarantee
Charge. This charge will be collected and transferred to the Fideicomiso for
deposit in a US$300,000 special Credit Risk Guarantee Fund to be established
and operated as part of the credit line by the Fideicomiso (see para. 6.05 for
additional details). Credits for the first five small-scale and all six
medium-scale enterprises will be reviewed and approved by the Bank. Assur-
ances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
2.37      The Fideicomiso is in the process of increasing its capacity to
identify and evaluate industrial and service projects and to promote regional
economic development. Within this program, it will train four officers in the
areas of loan promotion, preparation, appraisal, business management and
achievement motivation. Other experts will train and assist the sub-borrowers
in thís component. Technical assistance to artisans during the fírst three
years of this program will be rendered free of charge, while the costs of such
assistance to all other enterprises, if required, and to artisans after the
first three years will be charged to the beneficiaries.
1/   Terms and conditions of these credits are discussed in Chapter VI,
Section A.
2/   This amount has also been added to the Technical Assistance component
of the project.



- 19 -
2.38      The proposed credit line is expected to broaden the economic base
of the region and provide new employment to families in the project areas. It
is estimated that these credits will generate about 1,200 new jobs at an
average cost per job of about US$600, US$8,000 and US$14,000, respectively,
for micro-enterprises, SSE and MSE. 1/ The consolidated average for the compo-
nent will be about US$4,200, which is about a third of the US$13,000 Bank's
Urban Poverty Benchmark for Mexico.
2.39      Total estimated cost of this component is about US$5.0 million.  The
project will directly benefit about 7,000 people, 2/ and is expected to have
additional indirect benefits through multiplying effects and the promotion of
tertiary activities.
(f) Industrial Premises
2.40      In support of the credit line for productive activities, and in
order to facilitate the establishment of new enterprises in the zone, the
project will also build standard workshop halls and industrial buildings
to be rented to artisans and larger enterprises, respectively. The buildings
would allow many firms to avoid the need to tie up large resources in unneces-
sary expenditures, and instead, utilize these funds for more productive uses
and at a lesser risk. The proposed facilities will encourage the development
of productive ventures at their early stages of growth and provide a service
not presently available in the zone at adequate standards. The smaller work-
shops will be located between the industrial zone and the residential and
commercial areas of Lazaro Cardenas, while the industrial buildings for
larger enterprises will be located in an existing industrial park itself.
These well located sites will offer significant benefits of agglomeration and
complementarity of production and services.
2.41      The proposed component 2will consist of three workshop halls with
individual units ol 100 to 200 m each, and two larger industrial structures
of 800 to 1,000 m each. The facilities will be built in stages over a
three year period, as a function of actual demand. 3/ The buildings will be
simple but adequate in their construction standards and cost about Mex$2,500
per m , íncluding engineering and all contingencies. The facilities will
be provided with complete services that will be expanded according to parti-
cular needs, and will be managed by a special unit of the Fideicomiso within
the department in charge of handling the proposed production credits. 4/
1/   These jobs and cost estimates are based on detailed demand estimates
prepared by Fideicomiso and Bank consultants, and a thorough review
by the mission with the support of IDF staff.
2/   This figure corresponds to the households of the above mentioned 1,200
new jobs.
3/   An analysis of the potential demand for this type of facility conducted
by the mission indicates that the size and number of proposed premises
are adequate.
4/   A similar, but larger and national program for building standard factories
is included in a proposed Small and Medium Scale Industry Development
project to be financed by the Bank. Design and construction standards
presently being prepared under this program would be made available to
the Fideicomiso.



- 20 -
2.42      Total cost of this progran will be about US$9.90 million.  The
estimated annual rent of about Mex$550 (US$24.4) per m is lower than the
rents presently charged in the region for facilities of much lower quality and
service standards. 1/
(g) Regional Feeder Roads
2.43      This component will consist of constructing and upgrading eight
roads--with a total length of about 198 km--that will link 40 villages
in the project's macro-region to the Lazaro Cardenas-Guacamayas network.
The existing uneven dirt roads, which in some cases are scarcely more than
paths, become unusuable in the rainy season isolating the villages and hamper-
ing the trade of their products. The projected roads are expected to have
a dual impact; namely, to improve access by the villagers to urban services
and facilities, and to offer better marketing possibilities to the region's
agricultural output.
2.44      Only in one section; namely, between Guacamayas and Lazaro Cardenas,
a road already exists. Because of the relatively heavy traffic it carries,
this section will be upgraded and fully paved. This road shortens travel
distance for vehicles from Guerrero to Guacamayas and to Central Mexico by
12 km and decongests traffic along the busy La Mira-Lazaro Cardenas highway.
Preliminary engineering for all roads and detailed engineering for some of the
projects have been completed by the Direccion General de Caminos Rurales of
SAHOP.  The execution, operation and maintenance of the roads will also be
carried out by this agency.
2.45      Total cost of this component will be about US$7.2 million.  The
roads will benefit about 25,000 people in one of the country's most backward
regions. A total of some 62,000 ha of cultivated land will be connected to
the growing Lazaro Cardenas market by the new roads, of which about half will
be new areas presently without any road link at all. Another approximately
44,000 ha in new areas for livestock production will also be opened to potential
development by the proposed network.
(h) River Control
2.46      In the 15 km stretch between the dam of La Villita and the mouth of
the river, the Balsas River passes by four towns and the city of Lazaro
Cardenas. The river is the most important single natural factor in the
region. One way or another it affects every aspect of viable development in
the entire area: it provides water for drinking, irrigation, and industrial
uses; indirectly, it supplies all power for industry and lighting for homes
and commercial establishments; and finally, the deep waters of its estuary
allow Lazaro Cardenas to maintain a seaport of growing importance.
1/   These rents correspond to about 15% of total investment costs per m2
See para 6.06 for further details.



- 21 -
2.47      Since the construction of La Villita dam in 1965, the river regime
has been undergoing significant changes brought about by erosion, siltation
and seasonal floodings. These changes have had increasingly detrimental
effects as the urban areas along the river have grown denser. Thus, for
instance, over the last two or three years more than 200 ha of prime land
have been lost to, and some urban areas endangered by erosion; the siltation
problem has begun to endanger the movement of large ships in the port and
reduced the hydroelectric output of the dam; and the operations of SICARTSA,
the steel plant, have been adversely affected. SICARTSA draws all its water
supply from the river and has suffered substantial damages due to sudden drops
and increases in the water flows of the river.  Following consultations
between a number of affected agencies, the Secretariat of Agriculture and
Hydraulic Resources has decided to implement a long-term water management
program to control the effects of the river. The proposed component will be
the first stage of this program.
2.48      The component will consist of a set of works designed to increase
and regulate the flow of water along the right branch of the Balsas river (see
Map 13454). This will involve the construction of a large culvert that
will act as a drain or spillway for small discharges by the dam, while
restricting the flow caused by large discharges and floods. The proposed works
will also involve partial dredging of the river on both sides of the culvert.
2.49      In regulating the flow of water along the right branch of the river,
the planned works will address some of the most urgent problems in the Delta
and specifically:
(a)  provide an adequate supply of water for the use of SICARTSA
(and other industries);
(b)  avoid the effects of large discharges from the dam
that presently result in substantial siltation of the
channel and the inner harbor of the port;
(c)  partially reduce the continuing erosion along the left
branch of the river (by decreasing the flow along it
through increasing flows down the right branch); and
(d)  provide an adequate flow of water to safely dispose
of sewage plant effluents along this branch of the river.
2.50      Additional improvements and corrections planned in the comprehensive
river control program will be implemented through future stages of this
program and following the gradual development of the Delta area. These
planned works include the construction of spur dikes and levies along the left
branch of the river, as well as dredging operations below the La Villita
dam.
(i) Technical Assistance
2.51      Competent and efficient institutional arrangements are necessary to
ensure the successful implementation of this first Bank supported urban



- 22 -
project in Mexico, and to establish procedures that can serve as a model
for an extended program of additional urban projects across the nation. In
addition, support must also be provided to project beneficiaries to enable
them to take full advantage of the planned programs.
2.52      In response to these requirements, the Fideicomiso is presently in
the process of adjusting its operational structure and management practices.
These actions are being taken in accordance with recent decisions by íts
board, which has directed the Fideicomiso to complete a comprehensive program
of improvements. 1/
2.53      These improvements are in the fields of budgeting and planning,
financial management, billing and collecting, project design, management of
the construction material loans, management of the training centers, and
promotion of production credits. The Fideicomiso is also in the process of
setting up a monitoring and evaluating unit.
2.54      All the costs associated with these efforts are considered to be
promotional support by the Government to the development of the Lazaro
Cardenas region, and as such will be covered by it though regular appropria-
tions. Future costs of this kind will be covered through appropriate sur-
charges to the beneficiaries of the various schemes. Assurances on all these
matters were obtained during negotiations.
(j) Studies
2.55      Complementing the implementation of this first urban project, the
Government has requested Bank support for a package of studies required for
the preparation of additional urban projects in Mexico and of integrated zonal
plans in the Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation area. The total cost of this com-
ponent will be about US$4.5 million, of which about US$3.1 million will be for
preparatory studies and US$1.4 million for studíes in the Lazaro Cardenas
area.
2.56      Although the Government has already identified a number of addi-
tional high-priority urban areas it wishes to support and develop 2/, sub-
stantial preparatory work is still required before actual projects in these
areas can be considered for financing. A first such effort is already under-
way for the Coatzacoalcos region, one of the sites proposed for a second Bank
supported urban project in Mexico. The areas selected by the Government as
targets for preparatory studies are: Coatzacoalcos-Villahermosa-Itsmo,
Quertaro-Irapuato-Leon-Lagos de Moreno, Tampico-Ciudad Madero-Valles,
Guaymas-Ciudad Obregon-Guasave, and Manzanillo-Barra de Navidad.
1/   Assurances that the Fideicomiso is carrying out and will complete this
program were obtained during negotiations.
2/   In its National Urban Development Plan.



- 23 -
2.57      These areas were selected because of their potentials for sustained
economic growth, their strong linkages with corresponding areas of influence,
and the critical urban problems presently afflicting them and requiring
immediate attention.  The proposed studies will result in integrated urban
development plans for each of these regions and spell out detailed develop-
ment programs for the 1979-1982 and 1983-1988 periods.
2.58      Preliminary terms of reference for these studies have been prepared
by SAHOP, reviewed by the mission, and found to be adequate. The specific
subjects that will be covered include the identification of:
(a) population projections by economic activity
and income groups;
(b) present and future needs for housing, urban services
and public facilities;
(c) present and future transportation (public and private)
and communication needs;
(d) urban projects to be implemented in each project;
(e) present and future land-use distribution and ownership
structure;
(f) financing and credit needs for each program; and
(g) the institutional framework required to administer and
supervise each program;
The studies will be consolidated and analyzed together with local authori-
ties to determine a list of possible projects by order of priority.
2.59      The studies to be implemented in the Lazaro Cardenas region are
required to complete the Development Plan (Plan de Ordenacion) to be pre-
pared by the Conurbation Commission for the region. 1 Such an integrated
plan is long overdue considering the uncoordinated manner in which substantial
ínvestments have already been made in the region, the adverse impact of
unpredicted migratory movements generated by these investments, and the
disorganized manner in which urban growth has developed in the area.
2.60      The main objective of the studies planned for this area will be
to anticipate the future impact of planned activities, integrate these with
present deficiencies and imbalances, and develop a comprehensive and adequate
development framework for this region.
2
1/   This zong has a total extension of about 12,000 km , of which only
2,000 km have been surveyed and analyzed.



- 24 -
2.61      The Conurbation Commission, which is in charge of completing the
Development Plan for the area, is not equipped to carry out the necessary
studies by itself. Therefore, most of this work will have to be done by
consultants and will only be coordinated by the Commission. Preliminary
terms of reference for each of these studies have been prepared by the Com-
mission, reviewed by the mission, and found to be adequate. The proposed
studies will include the following areas of investigation:
(a) population projections and development of an
integrated settlement policy;
(b) regional resources and economic growth plans;
(c) detailed hydraulic conditions and development
possibilities in the Balsas River estuary;
(d) seismic zoning of the estuary areas; 1/ and
(e) pollution control. 2/
2.62      Final terms of reference for each of the studies proposed in this
component will be presented to the Bank for approval. The Bank will also
coordinate supervision of these studies during implementation, for which
outside consultants will be used. About 12 man months of such supervision
will be required during the three year implementation period, and the
associated expenses (about US$75,000) have been included in the component's
cost. Contracts for the elaboration of studies will be awarded according
to procedures acceptable to the Bank. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations on all these conditions.
B. Cost Estimates
2.63      Total project costs, including all professional services and con-
tingencies, have been estimated to be about US$36.1 million. The direct and
indirect foreign exchange component amounts to about US$16.5 million.
2.64      These cost estimates are based on preliminary engineering and price
quotations actualized to December of 1977. They include 3% for design costs,
7% for supervision, 15% for physical contingencies, as well as price contin-
gencies of 9% in 1978 and 1979, and 8% thereafter, for both local and foreign
1/   This study is in response to recent preoccupation with the subject and
the need to map out secure zones for future industrial and urban areas.
2/   To establish norms and standards to control the increasing effect of
local industry on the fishery potential and human environment of the
region.



- 25 -
costs. 1/ Price contingencies are based on Bank forecasts for international
inflation, and it has been assumed that the rate of exchange will fluctuate
to compensate for any differences between the Mexican and the international
rate of inflation. The estimated contingencies are consistent with other bank
supported projects in Mexico and considered realistic and appropriate for a
project of this nature. A summary of total project costs is shown in the
following table.
1/   No contingencies were included for Construction Material Loans, Produc-
tion Credits, Studies, and Technical Assistance because costs estimates
for these components are considered flexible enough to absorb possible
cost variations.



- 26 -
SUMMARY PROJECT COSTS /a
%       % of Total
Foreign    Foreign
Local    Foreign    Total    Exchange   Component
- ----- In US$ million ----
A.  Urban Upgrading                3.79       1.57       5.36      29           10
B.  Sites and Services             1.08       0.38      1.46       26            2
C.  Construction Material
Loans                          1.54      0.54       2.o8       26            3
D.  Training Centers
(Community)                   O.19       0.09       0.28       32           1
E.  Production Credits             2.80       2.20      5.00       44           13
F.  Industrial Premises            0.50       0.11      0.61       18            1
G.  River Control                  1.66       2.03      3.69       55           12
H.  Regional Feeder Roads          2.56       1.73      4.29       4o           10
I.  Studies                         -         4.50      4.50      100           28
J.  Technical Assistance            -         0.30      0.30      100            2
Subtotal      14.12      13.45      27.57       -           (82)
Professional Services  l           1.84       0.01      1.85        1            -
Contingencies                                13
(i)  Physical                 1.4o       1.33       2.73         
(ii) Price Escalation          2.30       1.71       4.ol      45           18
Subtotal        3.70      3.04       6.74       45          18
Total Cost of the Project
including land cost /d         19.60      16.50      36.10       46         100
/a    These costs do not include interest during construction.
/b    These costs include: 3% design, 7% supervision on base cost plus physical
contingencies.
L     Assuming annual price increases of 9% in 1978 and 1979, and 8% thereafter,
for both the local and foreign costs.
Ld    Land acquisition costs for components A, B, F and H above amount to
Mex$53.68 million and are included in respective local costs.



- 27 -
C. Financing
2.65      The proposed loan to BANOBRAS will be in the amount of US$16.5
million, which corresponds to the foreign exchange component of the project,
net of duties and taxes. The Government will finance, by means of a grant to
BANOBRAS, as trustee of the Fideicomiso, another US$18.0 million, while
end-beneficiaries will finance the remaining US$1.6 million of the project
costs. The following table summarizes the financing sources by project
component.
Financing (in US$ millions)
Total Cost   IBRD        GOM   Beneficiaries
A.   Urban Upgrading                     7.65       2.29        4.91       0.45
B.   Sites and Services                  2.36       0.53        1.64      0.19
C.   Construction Material Loans         2.08       0.90        1.18       -
D.   Training Centers                    0.45       0.12        0.33        -
E.   Production Credits                  5.00       2.20        1.80       1.00
F.   Industrial Premises                 0.90       0.44        0.46       -
G.   River Control                       5.68       2.73        2.95       -
H.   Regional Feeder Roads               7.22       2.49        4.73       -
1.   Studies                             4.50       4.50         -         -
J.   Technical Assistance                0.30       0.30         -         -
Total     36.14      16.50       18.00       1.64
2.66      The loan will be made to BANOBRAS (Banco Nacional de Obras Publicas),
who will repay the loan plus interest and charges to the Bank.
2.67      The financing of the project will follow a standard procedure of ten
used in Mexico; namely, through a Fideicomiso, or Trust Fund. To this purpose,
the structure of the existing Fideicomiso Lazaro Cardenas is being modified
and expanded to meet the needs of the project. 1/ The Fideicomiso's trustee
will continue to be BANOBRAS. The Government will instruct BANOBRAS, as
trustee of the Fideicomiso, to establish an appropriate project account and
will replenish this account as disbursements are made by the Fideicomiso and
as required for the implementation of the project.
2.68      All project funds will be channeled through the Fideicomiso Lazaro
Cardenas, who in turn will transfer as required funds to the Ministry of
Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources (SARH) for the implementation of the River
Control scheme, to SAHOP for the implementation of the Regional Feeder Roads
and the studies for other areas of the country, and to the Conurbation comission
(CC) for the implementation of studies in the Lazaro (Ardena) region.2/
1/   See Chapter IV for a discussion of BANOBRAS and the Fideicomiso, and
Annex 4 for a list of implementing agencies.
2/   Implementation arrangements are described in more detail in Chapter V,
Section A, and in Annex 4.



- 28 -
2.69      All funds recovered by the Fideicomiso from the Sites and Services,
Urban Upgrading and Construction Material Loans will be retained in a Revolv-
ing Fund from which the Fideicomiso will continue to finance expansions of
these schemes in the area. Similarly, all funds recovered through repayments
of Production Credits and rents for Industrial Premises will also be retained
by the Fideicomiso in a separate Revolving Fund to continue this particular
program. 1/ Confirmation was obtained during negotiations that the Government
agrees to these arrangements and that the Fideicomiso will use these funds
exclusively for promoting programs similar to those implemented under the
present project.
III. DESIGN STANDARDS AND PROJECT SPECIFICATIONS
3.01      All detailed engineering for the project components is being prepared
by the Fideicomiso, except that concerning regional feeder roads and the river
control components which are being prepared by SAHOP's rural roads department
and SARH, respectively. The following paragraphs provide some basic data on
the design standards for each of the project components. More detailed
background material was reviewed by the mission and found to be adequate.
Urban Upgrading
3.02      All lots covered in this component will be provided with indi-
vidual water and sewerage dwelling connections. In Guacamayas, La Mira,
and Playa Azul, only expansions of the distribution and collection networks,
but no new off-site installations will be required. On the other hand,
complete self-contained water and sewage treatment plants will be built in
the five smaller communities. Although initial consumptions are estimated to
be lower, the design criteria was based on a daily per capita water con-
sumption of 200 lts to 250 lts 2/ and 75% of that as discharge.
3.03      The off-site infrastructure and trunk networks have been designed
for population increases up to 1990, although the distribution network that
will be implemented at the present stage will only cover expected demands
through 1980. The sewage treatment systems planned for the five smaller
communities will, due to their relatively small populations, just be primary
treatment systems, based on sedimentation ponds. The ponds will discharge
into selected gulleys at safe distances from the villages, or into the left
branch of the river on the Guerrero side which carries a more than sufficient
flow of water for this purpose.
1/   See Table 3 in Annex 3.
2/   These figures apply to the smaller towns and Guacamayas, respectively.
They are considered adequate in view of the tropical/industrial en-
vironment of the area. The national standards established by SARH
are considered adequate and have been used throughout the project.



- 29 -
3.04      The electrical elements in the component consist of expanding the
existing network to provide street lighting and individual dwelling connec-
tions, including individual meters to an additional 2,570 dwelling connections.
The design criteria for the electrical network was based on an estimated
demand of 3,150 watts per capita with an 0.6 factor, or about 2,000 watts per
capita. It is estimated that for the type and size of the locali-y, this
figure will adequately cover street lighting and all other non-residential
consumption. The proposed low-cost 'rural' type street lighting system is
based on concrete posts and mercury lamps.
3.05      The upgrading of the circulation network will consist of two
steps; namely, the remodelling of urban layouts (as described in para. 2.07),
followed by the paving (two types) of a selected part of the system to provide
year round access to all parts of the town. Network designs and proposed
standards were reviewed by the mission and found to be adequate.
Sites and Services
3.06      The relatively hilly topographic conditions of all sites, except
the urban ejidal area of Guacamayas, makes the development of efficient layout
designs in the area very difficult. Nevertheless, the proposed designs
achieve relatively favorable land use ratios between public and private areas,
making good use of the available terrain. A maximum inclination limit of 20
degrees for slopes was set in order to keep down infrastructure construction
costs. A preliminary analysis, which is summarized below, reveals that these
layouts compare reasonably well with optimum solutions 1/.
Guacamayas
Urbano        North           Lazaro          Optimum
Ejidal         Area           Cardenas         Model
Lot proportion         1/32          1/3   2           1/3  2          1/3  2
Lot size             137 m          116.6 m          113.2 m           119 m
Private land           50%           59%              57.6%             54%
Public land            25%           27%              27.2%             29%
Semi-Public land       25%           14%             15%                16%
No. of lots/ha.        36.5          50.6             50.9              46
3.07      All sites and services lots will be served with individual water
and sewerage dwelling connections. None of the selected sites and services
areas require any off-site infrastructure.  The proposed expansions will
simply be hooked to existing networks that are near the sites 2/. Design
standards for the water and sewerage as well as for the electrical networks
of this component are the same as those applied in the upgrading program.
1/   The `Optimum Model" is derived from the guidelines for the evaluation
of design efficiency for low-income settlements in the Urbanization
Primer (Internal Document, Urban Projects Department).
2    Existing networks were designed with expansion capacities for
population growth projections up to 1990.



- 30 -
3.08      The circulation network in all three sites is only intended to
provide access to the settlement and not total coverage. All streets are
designed to be eventually upgraded. In designing the access network, pre-
dominance was given to pedestrian paths rather than to vehicular streets.
Construction Material Loans
3.09      The basic unit designed for the project will consist of a single
room while the sanitary unit will consist of a bathroom with shower, toilet
and sink plus a kitchen with a kitchen/laundry type of sink. The so-called
dwelling core is a combination of the two previous units. All three options
will be built with stone foundations, concrete structure, brick walls,
polished cement floors and asbestos sheet roof. The units are modularly
designed in order to allow for their progressive development. The designs
also respond closely to the climatological requirements for the region by
allowing cross ventilation and affording adequate protection against monsoon
rains and heavy winds (see Annex 10).
Training Centers
3.10      The physical facilities of the training centers will be adapted
from structure and components provided by the National School Building
Program (CAPTCE). The proposed buildings will be simple and inexpensive
in their construction and maintenance, and be similar to those currently
being used in the area. The proposed combination of a metal structure,
masonry, and asbestos sheet roof units appears to be adequate for both the
proposed functions and the existing environmental conditions.
Regional feeder Roads
3.11      Only one of the projected roads; namely, the Guacamayas-Los Coyotes
section, will be fully paved. All other roads will receive less expensive
gravel surfacing that can eventually be upgraded to full service levels. The
former's travelled way will be 7 m wide and the estimated cost for this
type of road will be about Mex$2.0 million per km. The unpaved roads will
have 4 m carriageways and cost approximately Mex$0.6 million per km.
3.12      Given the topographical conditions of the area, ranging from flat
lands through hills to mountaineous terrain, a road type "E" has been chosen
for the unpaved roads 1/. Construction of this type of road involves labor-
intensive methods and will be built using available labor organized and
technically assisted by SAHOP 2/.
1/   Road types and technical specifications were established by SAHOP and are
considered adequate.
2/   Meetings to inform and organize the local populations to this effect have
already been initiated and "pro-camino" committees to resolve the expro-
priation issue have been formed.



- 31 -
River Control
3.13      In 1976 the Institute of Engineering of the National University
carried out a first integral study of the Balsas River Delta for the Balsas
River Commission (now SARH).  The study proposed a water management policy and
the works required to implement it. An ad-hoc committee formed by the new
Ministry of Programming and Budgeting, SICARTSA, the Federal Electrical
Commission, and the Balsas River Commission, then suggested in 1977 that the
proposed works be broken up into a staged program and that more economical
alternatives be analyzed in view of the Government's restricted investment
policies. The current proposal is the result of a new and integral study of
the Delta completed by the Balsas River Commission and the Institute of
Engineering.
3.14      The integral study of the Delta includes a mathematical model
which was used to determine the water surface elevations based upon various
flood probabilities and with different channel control features such as
levees, spurs and deepening of channels by dredging. Based on historical
flooding levels and storage volumes in the river and over bank, the model
is able to project the level of flooding throughout the Delta for various
theoretical levels of discharges imposed on the Delta by flows from La
Villita dam. This model has been reviewed by Bank consultants and found to
be adequate.
3.15      Preliminary engineering studies for the proposed culvert envisage
two alternative solutions with varying number and different diameter of pipes.
Those studies, prepared by SARH, have been reviewed by the mission and found
to be adequate. Detailed engineering for the project is expected to be
completed by August of 1978.
IV. BORROWING AND EXECUTING AGENCIES
A. BANOBRAS--Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos
4.01      The proposed borrower of the loan will be Banobras (Banco Nacional
de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A.) 1/ In addition to its role as borrower,
BANOBRAS will continue to be the Government-assigned Trustee of the Fideicomiso
Lazaro Cardenas, which is the Trust that has been selected as implementing
agency of the project. As Trustee, BANOBRAS will receive from the Government
all the funds required for project execution and be responsible for general
supervision of the Fideicomiso's financial and administrative performance.
BANOBRAS will also be responsible for processing all forms and communications
with the Bank relating to loan withdrawals, and prepare the Project Completion
1/   BANOBRAS has been selected by the Government to be the financial
agent for urban projects in the country.



- 32 -
Report. It will also repay to the Bank the loan's amortizations. Assurances
on all these points were obtained during negotiations 1/.
4.02      BANOBRAS is a national development bank whose corporate objectives
are to finance public works and services; to advice public entities in the
planning, financing and implementation of same; to act as technical advisor
in like matters to the Federal Government and state and local Governments,
at their request; and to carry out and finance low cost housing projects
and public works of municipalities. It is a well-organized institution with
strong management and technical capabilities. Its technical department has
about 120 engineers and technicians.  BANOBRAS 1as investments of over US$65
million and holds in reserve about 25 million m of urban land on which about
86,000 new housing units will be built in the coming years. In the Lazaro
Cardenas urban area, BANOBRAS already administers the existing trust fund
which manages about 695 ha for residential, commercial, and industrial uses.
To date, BANOBRAS has participated in the development of more than 30,000
serviced lots and in the construction of about 75,000 housing units. It has
developed imaginative programs for home ownership, upgrading, slum redevelop-
ment and for applying techniques of cross-subsidization as well as capturing
"incremental value" (plusvalia) to benefit lower-income families.
4.03      BANOBRAS has had extensive experience in managing fideicomisos
or trust funds. It utilizes the mechanism of trust management in different
urban development works, as for example, in the development of housing proj-
ects integrated with commercial and industrial development. As of December
31, 1976, the assets of all trusts under BANOBRAS were approximately US$900
million.
B. TRE EXECUTING AGENCY
4.04      In the process of selecting an appropriate implementation mechanism,
careful attention was given to an institution already operating in the project
area; that is, the Fideicomiso Ciudad Lazaro Cardenas. The financial record
and past management procedures of this agency were so deficient though, that
an alternative possibility had to be considered; namely, the establishment
of completely new implementation arrangements. Assuming that it would be
more beneficial in terms of overall development objectives to improve the
operations of an existing institution than to create a new one, agreement
1/   Several Bank missions have extensively analyzed BANOBRAS and most
recently in connection with the Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage
Project, Loan Number 1186-ME.



- 33 -
was eventually reached that the existing Fiedeicomiso will be the implement-
ing agency for this project. 1/. This decision required that a number of
actions be taken by the present management of the Fideicomiso and by the
Government to correct past deficiencies (see para. 4.07 below).
4.05      The Fideicomiso Lazaro Cardenas was established as a trust in
January 1973, originally under NAFINSA, the national Financing Agency, as
trustee. In 1975 the trust was transferred to BANOBRAS, the National Bank
of Public Works and Services. The operations of the Fideicomiso are super-
vised by a technical committee (Comite Tecnico) whose president is the
minister of Human Settlements (SAHOP) and whose members are representatives
of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, the National Workers Housing
Fund (INFONANIT), the National Institute of Community Development (INDECO),
the state governments of Michoacan and Guerrero, and the municipality of
Lazaro Cardenas.
4.06      Actual operations and administration of the Fideicomiso are handled
by a general manager and his deputy. The Fideicomiso had, by mid-1977, a
staff of about 490 people organized under three main departments; namely,
Administration, Finance, and Legal. Of its staff, about 75% are located
in the Lazaro Cardenas area and the rest in the Mexico City office. About
half of the staff are workers engaged in the construction activities of
the Fideicomiso and the rest is made up about equally by professionals,
technicians and administrative staff. A new general manager and a number
of key officials were appointed to the Fideicomiso at the end of 1977.
4.07      The financial situation of the Fideicomiso had, under íts previous
management, steadily deteriorated over the past years (see tables in Annex 3).
One of the main reasons for this situation has been the continuous discrepancy
between the cost of and the conditions under which the Fideicomiso has been
receiving funds and the conditions it put on funds made available to íts bor-
rowers; that is, to the buyers of the houses it builds. Specifically, the
Fideicomiso has been borrowing at relatively high market rates of interest,
including floating rates, while offering much lower and fixed rates to its
borrowers. Another serious problem has been the large amount of receivables
in its accounts. Its largest debtor; namely, the SICARTSA steel mill for
which most of the housing units have been built in the past, was by the end
of 1977 in serious arrears to the tune of about Mex$100.0 million, which
constitutes most of the Fideicomiso's outstanding receivables from benefi-
ciaries.
4.08      All these and many other deficiencies were clearly the result of
inadequate management practices. The lack of proper mechanisms to plan,
review and manage financial operations are a common characteristic of many
1/   The Fideicomiso would implement most of the project components, but
for the river control works, the regional feeder roads and the proposed
studies which would be implemented by other agencies as described in
more detail in Chapter V, Section A.



- 34 -
trusts of this sort. Fideicomisos are often conceived as temporary financial
channels for development projects, while their responsibilities and existence
are often limited to the implementation period of such projects. One parti-
cularly important matter often treated only very lightly in their charters is
their responsibility for financial self-sufficiency. Implicit is often that
all necessary funds will somehow be made available by the Government; little
is said about cost-recovery.
4.09      Confronted with this situation, agreement was reached on a number
of operational and administrative changes to improve and strengthen the
capacity of the Fideicomiso to implement the proposed project. First, the
Fídeicomíso's new management agreed to reorganize the trust's administrative
and operational structure in line with its new orientation and objectives;
namely, to change from being merely a disbursement agent for the Government in
the urban sector to that of becoming a self-financed, corporation-minded
promoter of such programs. Of primary importance in this context was the
recognition that the Fideicomiso will from now on be responsible not only for
proper implementation of works and disbursements of associated funds, but also
for the recovery of all costs related to the provision of shelter solutions
and other urban services to individual beneficiaries.1/
4.10      Prior to the preparation of the now proposed project, the Fideicomiso
had been mainly concerned with the development of a 695 ha site to provide
housing for SICARTSA and government employees. No coordination had been prop-
erly established for the overall development of the area, while complementary
urban services were left to the responsibility of individual agencies. Under
its new role as executing arm for the Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Commission 2/,
the Fideicomiso's new orientation and administrative structure will for
the first time ensure an integrated effort to the development of the region.
4.11      In practical terms, the Fideicomiso is in the process of reassign-
ing its present managerial staff and of recruiting new personnel. Among
these, the Fideicomiso has already recruited two new key officials; namely, a
full-time project manager, and a new financial manager. A productive invest-
ment specialist will be recruited shortly. Additional staff will be contracted
according to needs as the new structure is established. These expansions will
be carried out simultaneously with a reduction in the number of existing
staff; particularly if redundant according to the new orientation of the
agency. In this context, and as a first consequence of its reorganization
effort, the Fideicomiso has already been able to reduce its staff by about 100
people (or 20% of total personnel).
4.12      Complementing these internal improvements, the Government for its
part, has assumed the responsibility for helping to resolve all outstanding
1/   Most of the proposed changes have been formalized in the report by the
Fideicomiso's board dated January 19, 1977 (Reunion del Comite' Tecnico).
2/   Established recently by Presidential Decree.



- 35 -
financial issues between the Fideicomiso and Government-owned or controlled
bodies, and specifically the debts of SICARTSA. Following Government instruc-
tions to this effect, SICARTSA has already agreed to settle its outstanding
debts to the Fideicomiso and a tentative schedule of repayments has been
established. 1/ The government will take all necessary action to ensure
payment of all outstanding debts of SICARTSA to Fideicomiso as a condition of
loan effectiveness.
4.13       The Government has also agreed to the Bank's request that the
Fideicomiso be allowed to retain all recovered payments from end-beneficiaries
of shelter related schemes and of productive credits as a contribution to its
equity. The recovered payments will be managed through two revolving funds
from which expansions of these programs will be financed by the Fideicomiso.
The Fideicomiso will prepare a four-year investment plan detailing the pro-
posed use of its funds in the coming years, and particularly those managed
through the proposed revolving funds. Repayments of the Bank loan will be
made through separate Government transfers chanelled directly by BANOBRAS.
Assurances on all these matters were obtained during negotiations.
4.14      Implementation of the measures agreed upon by the Government and
the Fideicomiso will have a significant impact on the financial situation
of the Fideicomiso as can be seen in table 1 of Annex 3. Additional
financial information is provided in the other tables provided in this Annex.
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Arrangements
5.01      Overall responsibility for the implementation of the project will
rest with the Fideicomiso Lazaro Cardenas. Certain components will, however,
be implemented by other government agencies. To this effect, the Fideicomiso
will enter into contractual arrangements with SARH, SAHOP, and CC for the
implementation of their respective components. Annex 4 gives a summary of the
agencies responsible for the implementation and subsequent operation and
maintenance of each of the project components.
5.02      The Department of Rural Roads in SAHOP (DGCR) will be responsible
for the implementation, operation, maintenance and eventual upgrading of
the regional feeder roads component. The Department of Territorial Planning
for Human Settlements, under SAHOP's Subsecretariat of Human Settlements,
will carry out all the studies not directly related to Lazaro Cardenas.
SAHOP's operational budget for 1977 was over Mex$168.0 billion and this agency
1/   This Schedule has been incorporated in the financial projections of the
Fideicomiso (see table 1 in Annex 3).



- 36 -
is well capacitated to implement the two above mentioned project components
whose costs have been estimated to total about Mex$232.5 million over three
years.
5.03      The river control component will be implemented by the Ministry
of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources (SARH).  In this it will be assisted
by the now absorbed Balsas River Commission (CRB). The CRB was, until its
incorporation into SARH, a semi-autonomous agency (under SARH) with a total
yearly budget of almost Mex$890.0 million. The Commission has implemented in
the past similar and much larger works than the Mex$128.0 million component to
be financed in the project, and its staff (now at SARH) is technically well
suited to implement the proposed component. SARH will also be responsible
for operation and maintenance of the proposed works.
5.04      The Conurbation Commission (CC) will assist Fideicomiso in carry-
ing out the studies pertaining to the Lazaro Cardenas Region 1/.
5.05      Operation and maintenance of the various elements in the upgraded
areas and sites and services projects, once completed, will be the res-
ponsibility of the corresponding local agencies. Thus, the operation and
maintenance of electric networks will be by the CFE 2/, and of water networks
by the local Juntas de Agua Potable 3/. The Lazaro Cardenas municipality
will be responsible for maintenance of the sewerage networks and local roads.
All these responsibility assignments were confirmed during negotiations.
5.06      It is estimated that overall project implementation would take
about four years, that is, until the end of 1981. The chart in Annex 5 shows
the anticipated implementation schedule for the project by component.
B. Procurement
5.07      BANOBRAS, through the Fideicomiso, will act as the primary pro-
curement agent. It will prepare tendering documents, invite for bids, eval-
uate these and award contracts. Contracts for the River Control component
will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding, except for
those under US$250,000 whích will be awarded under regular procedures used by
the Government and acceptable to the Bank. 4/ Since most of the other civil
works envisaged in the project are either self-help intensive or relatively
small and at scattered locations, foreign contractors are not expected to
participate. Therefore, all these other contracts for civil works will be
1/   The CC has a technical unit of about 15 professionals, including
economists, planners, engineers and sociologists.
2/   CFE is the Federal Electrical Commission which operates all electrical
systems in the area.
3/   These local water boards are, by law, set up by SARH to operate and
maintain water systems independently of the Municipality.
4/   Up to a total of US$1.25 million.



- 37 -
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures or other pro-
cedures acceptable to the Bank.  As;u3iances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations. Local procurement procedures have been reviewed by
the Bank and found to be adequate.
C. Disbursement
5.08      The Bank will disburse against:
(a) 45% of all civil works costs 1/ (including costs of
engineering and supervision);
(b) 40% of construction material loans, and production credits;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for imports, or 50% of local
expenditures for locally procured equipment and vehicles; and
(d) 100% of amounts disbursed for studies, for promotion activities
by Fideicomiso, and for technical assistance by consultants.
5.09      The mission recommends that a total of up to US$350,000 be made
available for retroactive financing of expenditures made for the project after
August 1, 1977. These funds would cover costs for engineering studies as
well as other studies done by SAHOP in preparation of additional projects 2/.
5.10      Disbursements will be fully documented.  The Fideicomiso will
process all documentation under the supervision of BANOBRAS which will set up
a project account and will monitor withdrawal applications received. Loan
disbursements are expected to be in accordance with the schedule shown in
Annex 6.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.11      Because of deficiencies in past urban program in the region and the
importance of this project as a model for a national program of similar
schemes across the nation, particular attention has been given to the develop-
ment of an effective monitoring and evaluating process. It is proposed to
carry out this function at two levels; namely, at the Fideicomiso itself and
at BANOBRAS. The Fideicomiso's role will mainly be to analyze the field
experiences and assess the impact of project implementation. It will monitor
and evaluate the execution of the work process itself, as well as the changes
in the level of urban services,social conditions, and economic situation of
1/   These correspond to the estimated average foreign exchange costs.
2/   See Chapter II, Section (j) for a description of these studies.



- 38 -
of project beneficiaries. A special unit would be established by the Fide-
icomiso for this purpose which will be supported by the Directorate of Program-
ming and Budgeting of SAHOP.
5.12      A complementary monitoring and evaluating role will be assumed
by BANOBRAS which will deal primarily with management and financial matters.
As trustee of the Fideicomiso, BANOBRAS will supervise the former's operations
and, in addition, develop from the experiences gained in this project an
institutional model that\could be used for the promotion and implementation of
all future urban projects of this kind in Mexico. The establishment of proper
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank by each of the mentioned agencies was
confirmed during negotiations.
E. Accounts and Audits
5.13      Separate project accounts will be maintained by BANOBRAS, the
Fideicomiso, SARH and SAHOP. As project components are implemented and
disbursements made, the Fideicomiso will submit to BANOBRAS quarterly
financial reports by project components. During negotiations, agreement
was reached that annual (external) audited accounts of the Fideicomiso
would be made available to the Bank no later than five months following the
close of the Government's fiscal year.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Cost Recovery
6.01      Considerable progress has been made in this project toward ensuring
that appropriate pricing policies will be followed and that full recovery of
costs will be attempted in order to ensure project replicability. In design-
ing a strategy for full cost recovery, special attention was given to the
establishment of a proper balance between project costs and the income levels
of beneficiaries. Almost as important, was the establishment of proper cost
recovery mechanisms for each of the project components where such recovery
was applicable.
6.02      The benefits of about half of the project components can be traced
directly to individual beneficiaries, and the associated costs will therefore
be directly recovered from them. On the other hand, the benefits accruing
from the river control, regional roads, training centers, technical assis-
tance, and studies would be difficult to assign to individual beneficiaries;
the associated costs will thus be borne by the Government. The Fideicomiso
will, specifically, recover most of the costs associated with the Urban
Upgrading, Sites and Services, Construction Material Loans, Production
Credits, and Industrial Premises components through individual loan and



- 39 -
credit contracts or rental charges to beneficiaries. Costs of shelter related
programs will be recovered directly by Fideicomiso through its own collect-
ing system, which is assisted by experienced social workers. The awarding
of land tenure titles to individual participants in these programs will be
conditional on their record of repayments. Production credits will be
recovered from beneficiaries by commercial banks. The table in Annex 7
provides a summary of the extent of cost recovery by components.
6.03      Although the Fideicomiso itself will not repay any of the funds
provided in this project by either the Government or IBRD, and thus, will
receive these funds as a grant, the terms and conditions of the sub-loans
and credits to the beneficiaries will for the first time in the project area
cover the real cost of such programs. Compared to prevailing practices,
the proposed interest rates will in the case of shelter schemes, be more
than double those presently charged in some prograns (15%, instead of 6%
to 8%). Over time, the proposed terms will correspond to real rates of
interest and cover the expected rates of inflation 1/. Financial conditions
for production credits and industrial premises will be compatible with
conditions proposed in the Bank-supported Small and Medium Scale Industry
Development project.
6.04      In the case of the Site and Services and Upgrading programs, the
cost of land, land preparation, and on-site infrastructure (except access
roads), including professional services and contingencies, will all be re-
covered directly from beneficiaries through regularization charges or sale
of lots. Differential pricing of lots in the project areas will be applied
on the basis of locational advantages. The sale of upgraded and sites and
services plots, as well as that of regularized lots will be on the basis of a
10% downpayment and monthly payments for the remainder of the unit costs at
annual interest of 15% over a 15-year period. The construction material loans
will be recovered 100% through monthly charges reflecting an annual interest
rate of 15% over a 15-year period (no downpayment).
6.05      Production credits will also be recovered 100% from credit benefi-
ciaries. The commercial banks will offer the credits at 15% annual interest
and be entitled to finance up to 80% and 75% of each subproject's cost (for
artisans, and for small- and medium-scale enterprises, respectively). 2/ The
beneficiaries will put up the rest in matching funds. The Fideicomiso will
rediscount 100% of the commercial bank's credits and allow the banks a spread
of 2.5% on credits to small- and medium-scale enterprises, and of 3.5% on
credits to artisans to cover higher administrative costs. The amortization
period of the credits will range from seven to 12 years for construction,
four to seven for machinery and equipment, and one to two years for working
capital. These terms will also include grace periods of nine to 12 months
for credits assigned to industrial constructions, and of six to nine months
1/   Inflation is expected to drop below 10% by 1981, compared to 15%
interest charged in the project. The Fideicomiso is also planning
to use stepped rates of interest; for example, starting with a
flat 12% and adding another 6% every year. This would lessen the
initial burden of beneficiaries and strengthen the Fideicomiso.
2/   Interest rates for new credits will be reviewed and changed over time
to reflect market conditions.



- 40 -
for purchases of equipment. The Fideicomiso's risk in connection with credits
to artisans and small scale enterprises will be covered through a special
US$300,000 Guarantee Fund that wíll initially be set up by the Fideicomiso
and replenished from an annual fee of 1% included in the 15% charges by the
commercial banks.
6.06      The costs of industrial premises will be recovered 100% by the
Fideicomiso from rents and leases to interested entrepreneurs. Annual rents
for space in workshops and standard factories will amount to about 15% of
total investment costs per m  of covered area.  These rents will cover
amortization of the facilities (7%), maintenance (1%), and insurance (0.2%),
as well as financial charges equivalent to market interest rates. In addition,
rents will be inflated in order to cover possible revenue gaps due to an
assumed occupancy factor of only 80%. Confírmation on these arrangements
was obtained during negotiations.
-B.  Affordability
6.07      In designing the shelter related components of this project, special
attention was given to the needs and financial capacities of the beneficiary
groups the project wants to reach. The basis for this analyis was the prep-
aration of a detailed socioeconomic survey of the population in the project
area.   In it, both the priorities of low-income groups in the urban sector
as well as their paying capacity were clearly identified. 1/   One of the
main parameters used in the analysis was the region's income distribution
which is summarized in Annex 8.
6.08      Considering that a specific goal of the project will be to reach
income groups below the 40th percentile of the region's income structure, the
figure of Mex$3,125 2/ became a significant factor in establishing the highest
level of services to be offered by the project. The various solutions that
are proposed in the project have been designed against this limitation and
assuming that between 15% and 20% of a household income will be available to
pay for the offered services 3/. As detailed in Annex 9, the least expensive
serviced plot available ín the project will cost about Mex$15,000; will
require monthly payments of about Mex$189 4/; and be accessible to monthly
1/   This survey was carried out during project preparation by a special unit
of the Fideicomiso.
2/   This monthly income corresponds to the 40th percentile.
3/   It has been assumed that 15% of household incomes would be available
for serviced plots, while up to 20% if combined with dwelling con-
structions.
4/   At 15% interest over 15 years and 10% downpayment.



- 41 -
incomes of about Mex$1,250. Only about 3% of the area's population will, in
theory, be excluded from this lowest-cost option (see table in Annex 8). On
the sther hand, the most expensive option offered by the program; namely, a
24 m dwelling core on a fully-serviced plot in Lazaro Cardenas, will cost
about Mex$38,000; require monthly payments of Mex$508 and be available to
monthly incomes of about Mex$2,540. These units will be accessible to
about 72% of the population.
6.09      By comparison, the least expensive units presently available in the
Lazaro Cardenas area cost about Mex$75,000 or about US$3,300. 1/ Although
these units are offered at subsidized rates of interost, ine.cffact, they are
only affordable to monthly incomes above Mex$6,000.  Less than 25% of the
region's population can benefit from the lowest priced units presently offered.
A detailed cost description and affordability for each shelter solution is
shown in Annex 9.
C. Replicability
6.10      Simultaneously with the efforts made to ensure that the options
offered by the project are within the area residents' paying capacity,
attention was also given to the need for community acceptance of the proposed
schemes. Intensive discussions were continuously held during project prepara-
tion with the settlers' organizations, and they participated activelv in the
preparation of these programs. Although some objections were initially voiced
with respect to issues such as the proposed reduction in plot sizes (as
compared to previous standards), agreement and full cooperation with these
groups was eventually reached once the need for full cost recovery and re-
plicability of the project were recognized.
6.11      In addition to these actions, appropriate institutional arrangements
were established to ensure the recovery of funds. Recognition by the Fidei-
comiso of this issue's importance, and the new administrative measures it is
taking to back up its recovery mechanism, will ensure the favourable financial
situation that has been projected for the Fideicomiso (See tables in Annex 3
of this report).
6.12      The funds recovered from the beneficiaries of both the shelter-
related and the productive credits components will be available to expand
and replicate these schemes in the Lazaro Cardenas region. The present
shelter program will provide, upon its completion, about 74% of the expected
new demand during this period. 2/ The remainder corresponds to higher income
groups that would be satisfied through other schemes. It is expected that
demand for new low-cost plots after 1981 will for some years be around 800
units per annum, a demand that can be covered by the Fideicomiso with the
help of the planned Revolving Fund (see Tables 2 through 4 of Annex 3).
1/   Actually, the indicated figure does not include land nor cover all
infrastructure costs. So called low-cost housing in Mexico has in
recent years been priced above Mex$128,000, or US$5,700.
2/   See table in para. 2.09.



- 42 -
6.13      Similarly, the credit conditions and cost recovery measures intro-
duced in the production credits component have been specifically designed to
ensure the replicability of this program. 1/ These conditions and measures,
plus the technical capacity of the Fideicomiso and of the comamercial banks
that will be involved in this scheme, as well as expected funds that will be
recovered from initial beneficiaries, will be a good basis for substantial
expansions of this program.
6.14      Almost more important than the net effects of this project on the
Lazaro Cardenas area itself, is the expected impact the project will have
on future operations of this kind elsewhere in the country. The demonstra-
tion that shelter and credit programs accessible to lower income groups can
be self-financing and thus replicable, will be a powerful inducement to
extend such programs on a much wider scale to other urban centers.
D. Project Cash Flows
6.15      The financial analysis of the project has been directed to those
components whose costs will be directly recovered through payments by
beneficiaries. The analyzed components include the Urban Upgrading, Sites
and Services, Construction Material Loans, Production Credits and Industrial
Premises. 2/ The consolidated cash flow prepared for the project thus includes
only these components (see Table 2 in Annex 3). Because of its particular
importance, a second and separate cash flow was prepared for the Production
Credits and Industrial Premises (see Table 3 in Annex 3). This partial cash
flow is shown to illustrate the financial viability of these two schemes.
VII. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Project Benefits
7.01      The benefits that will be derived from the proposed project are
of two different kinds; namely, tangible benefits related to the actual works
and services that will be provided through the project, and complementary to
these, benefits derived from the planned institutional innovations that will
be introduced as an integral part of the project.
7.02      The planned institutional innovations are expected to have an im-
portant demonstration effect and impact on the design and implementation of
similar future projects in other urban centers of the country. In particular,
1/   See paras. 6.05 and 6.06 above.
2/   The cost of the other components; namely, training centers, regional
roads, river works, technical assistance and studies would be absorbed
by the Government.



- 43 -
these changes will, for the first time in Mexico, establish a coordinated
mechanism for the promotion and implementation of replicable shelter and job
creating programs directed at the urban poor.
7.03      Approximately 47,000 people could benefit through the shelter
related programs, namely, Urban Upgrading, Sites and Services and Construc-
tion Material Loans. 1/ At least the same households, but probably many more,
will benefit from the complementary programs that will be carried out in
the proposed Training Centers. An estimated 16,000 man months in temporary
jobs will be generated during the construction period of the various physical
components of the project.
7.04      Of particular importance for the region as a whole will be the
benefits derived from the planned establishment of new enterprises.  These
have been envisaged as a means to diversify the range of economic activities
in the area and thus, will help to consolidate the presently unstable
economic base of the region.  About 1,200 direct jobs will be generated
through the proposed production credits component, benefiting about 7,000
people. 2/ In turn, these new jobs are expected to generate additional
economic activity through multiplying effects.
7.05      The proposed industrial premises will facilitate the establishment
of new productive operations without having to tie up large capital amounts
in fixed assets. This will reduce the risk to each of this program's par-
ticipants and enable more flexible use of investments.
7.06      The planned regional feeder roads will significantly help to
integrate the agricultural hinterland of Lazaro Cardenas to the main urban
centers of the region. As a consequence, the rural communities of the area
will have better access to urban services, and the system as a whole will
be able to exploit more fully the agricultural resources of the region.
The projected roads will link-up a total of about 62,000 ha of cultivated
land and another 120,000 ha of grazing areas. Of these, about 30,000 ha and
44,000 ha will be completely newly opened land for cultivation and grazing,
respectively. About 25,000 people in the outlying agricultural areas are
expected to benefit from these roads (see footnote 1 below).
7.07      The river control scheme will practically eliminate the need by
SICARTSA, the steel plant, to build an expensive new water intake that was
planned to prevent the costly shut-downs and other damages the plant has
experienced in the past. In addition, proposed works will also significantly
reduce the siltation problem in the Lazaro Cardenas harbor, reduce erosion
along the river, and solve the sewerage disposal problem created by some
communities along the river.
1/   Not everybody will benefit equally from the various project components.
The actual number of persons reached by each scheme, as well as the
level of benefits to each family, will eventually be determined by
individual needs, financial possibilities, and family size of each
household.
2/   An average of 5.5 persons per household is estimated for the region.



- 44 -
7.08      The proposed technical assistance will improve the abilities of the
project participants to benefit from the shelter related and productive credit
components, and increase the capacity of the Fideicomiso to implement effec-
tively this project. The planned training programs will also increase the
skills and potentials of low income people to engage in productive activities
not necesarily linked to the construction sector.
7.09      The proposed studies will have a direct bearing on the development
effort of the Government in other urban centers of the country, and on the
possibilities of future Bank support in this sector. Additional studies will
fill an important gap in the planning and coordinated development of the
Lazaro Cardenas region.
B. Economic Rates of Return
General
7.10      An economic rate of return was only computed for those elements of
the project that include significant amounts of civil construction; namely,
the shelter related components, the feeder roads, and the river control works.
Separate rates of return were computed for each of these components and for
all the components together. The consolidated rate of return for the package
as a whole is an estimated 24%. Increases and decreases of 15% in the benefit
and cost streams resulted in fluctuations of this rate between 19% and 29%.
Urban Upgrading
7.11      The rate of return of this component was computed taking into
account all capital and labor cost of infrastructure construction. The
benefits represent the difference in rental values of upgraded plots with and
without the proposed improvements. The computed rate of return is about 22%,
and the corresponding sensitivity analysis with respect to increases and
decreases of 15% in the cost and benefit streams showed variations between 18%
and 26%.
Sites and Services, Construction Material Loans, and Training Centers
7.12      In order to simplify the analysis of these components, it was
decided to combine them and obtain a single rate of return. This seemed
appropriate because most serviced sites applicants are expected to apply for
the Material Loans and would benefit from the Training Centers. Therefore,
the costs associated with the construction, operation and maintenance of these
centers were also added to the cost streams. The cost streams thus include:
contractor cost of infrastructure, the cost of construction materials, the
opportunity cost of undeveloped land, inputed costs of mutual- and self-help
labor, and the training centers' total cost. The benefit stream is composed
of the estimated rental values of the completed dwelling units built on Sites
and Services. The residual value of land was also added as a benefit at the



- 45 -
end of the program's life. The computed rate of return, under the above
considerations is 28%. Sensitivity analysis by increasing and decreasing
benefit and cost streams by 15% led to fluctuations in this rate between 23%
and 34%.
Regional Feeder Roads
7.13      At present most of the agricultural products consumed in the urban
area are imported from outside the region. Most of these products are grown
on a subsistence basis on the relatively underexploited land surrounding the
Lazaro Cardenas area. The proposed regional feeder roads will significantly
reduce transport costs in the region and increase the accessibility of the
regions agricultural hinterland to the rapidly expanding Lazaro Carderas
market.
7.14      The calculation of the economic rates of return on this component are
based on the increased value added of agricultural output that is likely to
result from the lowering of transportation costs in the zone of influence of
the feeder roads. This increse in value added was estimated on the basis of
expected changes in land prices in the area of influence of the proposed
roads. The expected increases in land prices were estimated on the basis of
observed shifts in land prices in similar areas under similar circumstances
when transportation costs had been lowered. The computed rate of return is
approximately 22 percent. Fifteen percent changes in the cost and benefit
streams resulted in variations of this rate between 19% and 25%.
River Control
7.15      The proposed works will contribute substantially to the stabiliza-
tion of water flows in the Balsas River. As a consequence, the SICARTSA steel
mill will be ensured a regular supply of water for its operations, the port
area will be protected from excessive siltation requiring substantial dredging
efforts, erosion damages along the river will be significantly reduced, and
better environmental conditions will be obtained for the area residents.
7.16      Because of serious past disruptions in the supply of water to the
SICARTSA steel mill, the plant has been planning to build another intake three
times the size of the present one at a cost of approximately Mex$207.0 million
(at 1977 prices) to prevent future stops in the plant's production. These
production stops have usually lasted for about four hours at a time and
sometimes even 18 hours during weekends. Their frequency in recent years has
been an average of eight days per annum resulting in average yearly losses of
approximately Mex$40.0 million.
7.17      The cost streams included in the analysis correspond to construc-
tion and installation of the proposed culvert, one-time dredging operations
necessary in any event as part of the proposed component, and all contingen-
cies. The maintenance costs include an annual amount of additional dredging
necessary to maintain normal water flows. The only benefits included in the
analysis correspond to the savings by SICARTSA which will otherwise have to



- 46 -
build a new water intake at a cost of about Mex$207.0 million. 1/ Half of the
original cost of the works (Mex$62.5 million) was added to the benefit stream
at the end of the analysis period. The computed internal rate of return of
the proposed project is 28% and the variations caused by 15% changes in the
benefit and cost streams range between 16% and 41%.
C. Risks
7.18      No unusual risks are anticipated in connection with the implementa-
tion of this project. The only issues that might become a problem relate to
the management effectiveness of the restructured Fideicomiso, the time needed
for land expropriation, the timing of fund transfers by the Government to
the Fídeicomiso, and the true future demand for production credits and indus-
trial premises.
7.19      Regarding the first issue, close supervision will be given during
the initial period of project implementation to ensure that appropriate
management procedures are implemented. Although the expropriation process of
lands required for the project has already been initiated, disbursements
against areas affected by this matter will be conditional on the completion
of expropriation procedures. Finally, a proper balance between the supply and
demand for production credit is expected because of the thorough review and
analysis that was made by the mission of these two factors.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS
8.01      To ensure the success of this first project, assurances were obtained
during negotiations on the following matters:
(a) The Government will be responsible for the solution of all
outstanding financial issues between the Fideicomiso and
Government-owned or controlled institutions. Confirmation
that these issues have been resolved will be a condition
of loan effectiveness (para. 4.12).
(b) As a Government contribution to its equity for the expansion
of similar programs in the region, the Fideicomiso will be
allowed to retain in two separate Revolving Funds all re-
payments from beneficiaries of shelter related and from pro-
ductive credits plus rents for industrial premises. Banobras
will repay the total IBRD loan, including all interests, by
means of separate transfers. (paras. 2.69 and 4.13).
1/   Not included were all the other benefits mentioned in para 7.15 above.



- 47 -
(c) The Government will provide the counterpart funds necessary
to carry out the project (para. 2.67).
(d) The Government will assume the operating and maintenance
costs of the Training Centers (paras. 2.32 and 2.54).
(e) The Government will ensure that proper operation and
maintenance of all works included in the project are
carried out by each of the respective agencies respon-
sible for these actions (paras. 5.01 to 5.05).
(f)  As trustee of the Fideicomiso Lazaro Cardenas, BANOBRAS
will be responsible for supervising the trust's financial
and administrative performance, and preparing a Project
Completion Report (para. 4.01).
(g) Fideicomiso will be responsible for proper execution of
the tendering and procurement process (para. 5.07).
(h) BANOBRAS and the Fideicomiso will monitor and evaluate the
project's impact and implementation experiences (paras.
5.11 and 5.12).
(i) BANOBRAS will keep separate project accounts. The Fide-
icomiso will submit to the Bank annually (external)
audited statements no later than five months following
the close of each Government's fiscal year (para. 5.13).
(j) The Fideicomiso will prepare a four-year investment
plan. This plan will be forwarded to the Bank for
comments no later than December 31, 1978 (para. 4.13).
(k) The Fideicomiso will implement the administrative changes
agreed upon with the mission and employ new staff acording
to its ongoing improvements plan (para. 4.11).
(1) The Fideicomiso will prepare a detailed execution program
and a schedule for the regulation of land expropriations
and land transfers envisaged in the project. Actual dis-
bursements of upgrading programs will be conditional on
completion of expropriation procedures (para. 2.05).
(m) The Fideicomiso will complete detailed criteria for
selecting recipients of Construction Material Loans
not later than December 31, 1978 (para. 2.26).
(n)  In connection with the implementation of the proposed
Training Centers, the Fideicomiso will prepare detailed
terms of reference of the programs to be carried out in
these centers. These terms of reference will be presented
to the Bank for review not later than December 31, 1978
(para. 2.29).



- 48 -
(o) The Fideicomiso will ensure that Production Credits to ar-
tisans, small- and medium-scale enterprises will be granted
under conditions set out in paras. 2.36 and 6.05.
(p) Production Credits for the first five small-scale and for
the six medium-scale enterprises will be reviewed
and approved by the Bank as a condition of disburse-
ments for these enterprises (para. 2.36).
(q) The Fideicomiso would rent Industrial Premises on conditions
agreed upon with the Bank and set out in para. 6.06.
(r) All final terms of reference for the proposed studies by
SAROP and the Conurbation Commission Lazaro Cardenas, as
well as the corresponding procedure for contracting
and supervising these studies, would be approved by the
Bank as a condition of disbursements for this component
(para. 2.62).
(s) Up to US$350,000 will be made available to the project
for retroactive financing of expenditures made after
August 1, 1977 (para. 5.09).
8.02      Subject to the conditions mentioned in para. 8.01, above the
proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$16.5 million equivalent
to BANOBRAS for a term of 17 years, including a grace period of four years.



ANNEX 1
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
a/
Population in Project Areas
Expected
Population    Additional
Increase       Shelter
1971    1974      1977       1981     1977-1981       Demand   b/
Lazaro Cardenas    6,005   12,845   29,056   42,553          13,497         2,454
Guacamayas          5,109    9,561   17,215   25,201          7,986         1,452
Subtotal        11,114   22,406   46,271   67,754         21,483         3,906
Zacatula            1,263    1,838    1,039    1,364            325             59
Petalco               565       884    1,265    1,655           390             71
Naranjito             712    1,084        825    1,078           253            46
San Francisco         199       383       374      489          115             20
Subtotal         2,739    4,189    3,503    4,586          1,083           196
La Mira             2,163    3,623    2,574    3,036             797          145
Playa Azul          1,740    3,550    2,645    3,371             726           132
Buenos Aires          543       742    1,452    1,903           451             82
El Habillal         1,228    1,679    1,276    1,672            396             72
Acalpican             495       677       753      984          231             42
El Bordonal           596       815       390      511          121             22
Subtotal         6,765   11,086    9,090   11,812          2,722           495
Total        20,618   37,681   58,864   84,152         25,288         4,597
a/ Includes only population in the immediate zone of Lazaro Cardenas, and
not that in the agricultural areas of the region.
b/ Obtained by dividing the population increase by 5.5, the average house-
hold size estimated for the region.
Source: Fideicomiso Lazaro Cardenas



ANNEX 2
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Effects of Urban Upgradíng Component
Existing      Recovereda        Total          Total
Plots to be   Plots to be   Plots to be  Plots to be
Upgraded       Upgraded       Upgraded      Legalized a/ ¡
Lazaro Cardenas-   Lazaro Cardenas            -              -              -             -
Guacamayas System  Guacamayas              2,924          1,248          4,172          4,172
Petacalco-          Petacalco                230             60            290            290
Zacatula System    San Francisco b/           -                             -              68
Naranjito b/             -               -              -             150
Zacatula                189              48            237            237
La Mira-Playa Azul Buenos Aires              264             43            307            307
System              Acalpican                137             24            161            161
El Habillal             232              36            268            268
El Bordonal b/           -                              -              71
La Míra c/               -              93              93            561
Playa Azul c/           _                54             54            475
Total 3,976          1,606          5,582          6,760
a/ All upgraded plots would also be legalized.
b/ No upgrading in these communities beyond the regularization of tenure.
c/ Existíng plots that have adequate infrastructure and would only be regularized
and legalized.



MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Fideicomiso Cash Position with SICARTSA Repayments a/
1974      1975      1976        1977- /    1978      1979       1980      1981       1982
Sales                               3.5      29.1       61.4       14.1       43.0      49.4       55.8       62.2      68.6
Other Revenues                      1.2       6.8       23.7        9.0       20.3      24.3       28.3       32.4      36.4
Less Sale Costs                    (4.o)    (15.8)    (36.0)      (10.0)    (26.0)    (29.8)    (33.6)    (37.4)    (41.2)
Net Revenues                        0.7      20.1       44.1       13.1       37.3      43.9       50.5       57.2      63.8
Operations Expenses                17.4      29.2       44.2       21.7       35.1      37.9       40.7       43.5      46.3
Net Revenue from Operations       (16.7)    ( 9.1)       4.9       ( 8.6)      2.2        6.o       9.8       13.7      17.5
Interest                            7.7      16.2       21.3       15.2       21.9      23.5       26.9       28.7      28.0
(Deficit)                         (24.4)    (25.3)    (16.4)      (23.8)    (19.7)    (17.5)    (17.1)    (15.0)    (10.5)
Government Transfers for
Operations                       24.4      25.3       16.4       23.8         -         -          -          -         -
Payments by SICARTSA                 -         -          -          -        20.0       20.0      20.0       20.0      20.0
Net Surplus                          -         -          -           -        0.3        2.5       2.9        5.0        9.5
a/  Does not include effect of IBRD project
b/  Estimated December 31, 1977 on the basis of information available as of September 30, 1977;
and 1977 budget figures.
Source: Fideicomiso Lazaro Cardenas
(DLZ



Table 2:  Project Cash Flow   a/
(in iillion Mexican pesos)
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
SOURCES:
Government Contribution              37.6  133.5   79.9  44.0      -      -       -      -     -       -       -      -      -
IBRD Loan                           12.8  49.2   31.9  18.7        -      -       -      -     -       -       -      -      -
Downpayments b/                       -      1.0   11.5    2.0
Subtotal       50.4  183.7  123.3  64.7
Revenues from Beneficiaries c/'
Sites and Services                  -      0.3    3.0    1.1    6.o    6.o    6.o    6.o    6.o    6.o    6.o    6.o    6.o
-Urban Upgrading                     -      -      7.8    9.6    9^6    9.6    9.6    9.6    9.6    9.6    9.6    9.6    9.6
Construction Materials Loans        -      1.2    4.2    5.2    7.7    7.7    7.7    7.7    7.7    7.7    7.7    7.7    7.7
Production Credits b/               -      2.6   10.3  20.9   32.1   29.5   25.4   25.4   18.5    9.0        -      -      -
Industrial Premises                 -      0.2    0.8    1.6    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2
Subtotal         -     4.3   26.1   38.4   57.6   55. o   50.9   WIVO  -3     5 25.5   25.5   25.5   25.5
TOTAL SOURCES                        50.4  188.0  149.4  103.1   57.6   55.0  50.9   44.0   34.5   25.5   25.5   25.5   25.5
APPLICATIONS:
Sites and Services                   7.2   16.3   13.9  14.5       -      -       -      -                     _
Urban Upgrading                     50.9  107.8    9.5      -      -      _       _      _      _      _       _
Construction Materials Credit         -    18.4   18.4  lo.o       -      -       -      -      -      -       -      -      -
Production Credits b/                4.8  18.0   26.0  41.2        -      _              _      _      -       _      _      _
Industrial Premises                  2.0    4.8    6.2    5.0      -      -      -       -             _       _      _      _
Subtotal       64.9  165.3   74.0   70.7
Expenses                              2.1    5.0    5.0    5.0    2.0    2.3    2.6    3.0    3.4    3.8    4.4    5.0    5.7
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                  67.0  170.3   79.0   75.7    2.0    2.3    2.6    3.0    3.4    3.8    4.4           5.0    7.7
Increase (Decrease) In Cash         (16.6)  17.7   70.4   27.4   55.6   52.7  48.3   41.0   31.1   21.7   21.1   20.5   19.8
Cumulative of the period c/         (16.6)   1.1  71.5  98.9  154.5  207.2  255.5  296.5  327.6  349.3  370.4  390.9  410.7
a/  Includes only components for which there will be repayments from beneficiaries, that is, Sites and Services, Urban
Upgrading, Construction Material Loans, Production Credits and Industrial Premises.
b/  Does not include downpayments by beneficiaries of Production Credits.
c/  The indicated surpluses in the years after 1980 would go into two revolving funds for the expansion of the project
components. These surpluses are only possible because of Government agreement to allow the FIDEICOMISO to retain
repayments. Disbursements from these revolving funds after 1981 have not been included in the analysis. Additional
funds, if required, would have to be secured by FIDEICOMISO from other sources.
Source: Fideicomiso Lazaro Cardenas
_.J



Table 3: Production Credits and Industrial Premises Revolving Fund
Sources and Applications of Funds -!
(in million Mexican pesos)
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
I. Funds Provided by
1. Government                     6.8  22.8  32.2  38.2         -      -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -
2. Repayments from Beneficiaries
Production Credits             -     2.6   10.3  20.9  32.1   29.5   25.4  18.5    9.0          -      -       -      -
Industrial Premises            -     0.2    0.8    1.6    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2
Subtotal    -     2.8   11.1   22.5   34.3  31.7  27.6  20.7  11.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2
Total Funds Provided               6.8   25.6   43.3  60.7   34.3  31.7   27.6  20.7   11.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2
II. Funds Applied for:-/
Total Production Credits        6.4   23.0   33.0   50.1      -      -      -       -      -      -      -       -      -
Less: Beneficiaries
downpayments              1.6    5.0    7.0    8.9      -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -       -
Subtotal     T.    18.0   26.0   41.2       -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -       -
Industrial Premises             2.0    4.8    6.2    5.0      -      -      -       -      -      -      -       -      -
Subtotal      2.0    4.8    6.2    5.0      -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -       -
Total Funds Applied               6.8  22.8  32.2   46.2        -      -      -       -      -      -      -       -      -
Net Annual Yield                   -      2.8   11.1   14.5   34.3  31.7   27.6  20.7   11.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2
Balance in Revolving Fund
Available for New Credits          -     2.8   13.9   28.4  62.7   94.4  122.0  142.0  153.2  155.4  157.6  159.8  162.0
a/ This table shows the Source/Application and Repayment of the project's funds allocated to the Production Credits
and Industrial Premises
b/ The surpluses indicated in the years after 1980 would go into a revolving fund for the expansion of the two programs.
These surpluses are only possible because of the government agreement to allow Fideicomiso to retain repayments.
Disbursements from this revolving fund after 1981 have not been included in the analysis. Additional funds, if
required, would have to be secured by the Fideicomiso from other sources.
Source: Fideicomiso Lazaro Cardenas



Table 4: Fideicomiso Fund Flows
(in million Mexican pesos)
1974     1975      1976      1977      1978     1979      1980      1981      1982
Source of Funds
Net Revenue from Traditional Operations   (16.7)   ( 9.1)   ( 4.9)   ( 8.6)           2.2      6.o       9.8      13.7      17.5
Funds Available from IBRD project                        -                          (16.6)    17.7      70.4      27.4      55.6
Subtotal    (16.7)   ( 9.1)   ( 4.9)   (-8.6)   (14.4)    23.7          80.2      41.1      73.1
Less: Funds Required by Operations
Workinp capital requirements                 ( 8.1)   20744    (96.6)    38.3        26.0     10.6    ( 9.6)    16.0    (15.0)
Increase (Decrease) in Receivables             1.5      2.2      97.9      58.4    ( 5.1)   ( 5.0)   ( 2.1)        1.6       5.9
Increase in Fixed Assets                       2.2      5.2       0.7       0.1       2.9      1.9       2.0       2.0       3.0
Increase in Deferred and Other Assets         16.8    ( o.6)   (11.4)       0.3       1.0       2.0      2.0       2.0        -
Subtotal      -12.1    2114.2    (9T)    97 .1                   9.5    ( 7-7)  21.7        (IT)
Net Operating Surplus (Deficit)              (29.1)  (223.3)      4,5   (105.7)   (29.2)    14.2        87.9      19.5      79.2
Less: Debt Service
Existing Debt--Principal                      -        -        2.0      28.3      31.0     36.3      36.3      36.3      43.3
Interest                     7.7     16.2      21,3      15.2     21.9      23.5      26.9      28.7      28.0
Usable  Funds from Operation                 (36.8)  (239.5)   (18.8)  (149.2)   (92.1)   (45.6)    24.7    (45.5)           7.8
Plus:Government Contribution  a/              24.5    166.0      45.6    109.4    157.4        50.0 a/  4o.0      40.0      50.0
Long-Term Debt                          79.8      82.7      91.1      46.o       -       50.0 b/  30.0       20.0        -
Downpayments                             0.8      11.9       7.7       7.6      5.0        -         -         -         -
Total  Usable Funds                           68.3     21.1    125.6       13.8      70.3      54.4     94.7      14.5      57.8
Application of Funds
Projects (others than IBRD)                  68.3     21.1    125.6       13.8      70.3      54.4     94.7      14.5      57.8
Tótal Application                             68.3     21.1    125.6       13.8      70.3      54.4     94.7      14.5      57.8
a/  Because of internally generated funds, Government contributions would decrease substantially after 1978.  These
contributions are necessary to cover costs of Government programs that are not directly recoverable.
b/ It is assumed the Fideicomiso will borrow additional funds after 1978 to finance its ongoing programs.
Source: Fideicomiso Lazaro Cardenas



ANNEX 4
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Arrangements
Implementation                 Operation and
Component                  Responsibilities               Maintenance
Urban Upgrading            Fideicomiso                    Municipality, CFE and
Junta de Agua Potable
Sites and Services         Fideicomiso                    Municipality, CFE and
Junta de Agua Potable
Material Loans             Fideicomiso                    Beneficiaries
Training Centers           Fideicomiso                    Fideicomiso
Production Credits         Fideicomiso                    Beneficiaries
Industrial Premises        Fideicomiso                    Fideicomiso
Feeder Roads               SAHOP                          SAHOP
River Control              CRB/SARH                       CRB/SARH
Technical Assistance       Each Agency
Studies                    SAHOP/Fideicomiso
t



AMITEX 5
MEXICO LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1978                      1979                       1980                       1981
1     2      3     4      1      2     3      4      1      2     3      4      1     2-    3      4
URBAN UPGRADING
Survey and Engineering          B
Und Expropriation
Land Regularization
Tendering
Construction                                               8
SITES AND SERVICES
Survey and Engineering
Tendering
Construction
Lazaro Cardenas
Lucrecia Toriz
Tendering Anibal Ponce
Construction Anibal Ponce
Expropriation and Land Reguiarization
Tendering Zona Ejidal
Construction Zona Ejidal                                                                                                          _
CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL LOANS
TRAINING CENTERS
Survey and Engineering
Construction
Acquisition of Equipment
Operation
PRODUCTION CREDITS                                    _=
INDUSTRIAL PREMISES
SALSAS RIVER CONTROL
Survey and Engineering
Tendering
Construction
REGIONAL FEEDER ROADS
Survey and Engineering
Land Expropriation
Tendering
Construction                                                       7 
STUDiES                                                _            _            _      _ -                 _      _     _      _      _     _ -
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                    -      -     -      -      -     -      -      -      -
A-Upgrading in Towns
B-Upgrading in Guacamayas                                                                                                     World Bank - 1859B



ANNEX 6
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements
In millions of Mexican Pesos                   In millions US$
Semestral           Cumulative         Semestral          Cumulative
Disbursements       Disbursements      Disbursements    Disbursements
I3BRD Fiscal Year
and Semester Ending
1978-1979
December 31, 1978            27.7 a/              27.7               1.23              1.23
June 30, 1979                 44.6                72.3               1.98              3.21
1979-1980
December 31, 1979            65.3                137.6               2.90              6.11
June 30, 1980                63.8                201.4               2.84              8.95
1980-1981
December 31, 1980            53.7                255.1               2.39             11.34
June 30, 1981                41.o                296.1               1.82             13.16
1981-1982
December 31, 1981            38.7                334.8               1.72             14.88
June 30, 1982                 36.5               371.3               1.62             16.50
a/  This includes an estimated Mex$7.9 million in retroactive financing.



ANNEX 7
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Recovery Sources a/
(in US'$ million)
Project    Beneficiaries'
Costs         Charges          %     Government        %
Urban Upgrading
Land and earthworks                1.50           1.50 c/       (100)        _         ( _
On-site infrastructure b/          3.33           3.33          (100)        -         ( -
Off-site infrastructure            1.15            -            ( -  )      1.15       (100)
Subtotal  5.9c 37.F3                   ( 81)        1.15       (19)
Sites and Services
Land and earthworks                0.62           0.62 c/       (loo)        -         ( _
On-site infrastructure b/          1.19           1.19          (iOO)        -         ( -
Off-site infrastructure            0.03            -             -          0.03 d/   (lOO)
Subtotal  1.o4           1.81            98)       0.03 (-2)
Construction Materials Loans
Subtotal  2.08           2.08          (loo)         -        (-_
Production Credits
Subtotal  5.00            5.00         (loo)        -         ( -
Industrial Premises
Land                               o.o4           o.o4         (loo)         -         ( -
On-site infrastructure             o.86           0.86         (100)         -         (-_)
Subtotal  0.90           0.90          (l00)        -         ( -
Total 15.80          14.62         ( 93)        1.18       (  7)
al Only for those components where individual end beneficiaries are reached.
b/  Does not include costs of access roads for the Upgrading, and Sites and Services
components (US$1.67 and US$0.52 million, respectively).  These costs are commonly
recovered in Mexico from property taxes.
c/  This figure represents only the expropriation costs of land plus development costs.
In fact, beneficiaries pay for land at market prices, i.e. substantially more than
indicated here.
d/  These costs would eventually be recovered from beneficiaries through consumption
charges.



MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATIOM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Income Distribution in Project Areas
(Monthly incomes in Mex$)
Lazaro Cardenas          Guacamas                 Villages               Consolidated
HHar         CUM.%      HH     %   Cum.%        HH    %     Cum.%        HH1    %    Cum.%
0- 1250    3   1.3      1.3       68    2.2    2.2        131    8.4    5.4        202    3.5    3.5
1251- 2500   31   13.0   14.3       689   22.0  24.2         689   28.2   33.6       1409   24.3   27.8
2501- 3750   52   21.8    36.1      686   21.9   46.1        680   27.8   61.4       1418   24.4   52.2
3751- 5000   48   20.2    56.3      782   25.0  71.1         532   21.8   83.2       1362   23.4   75.6
5001- 7500   67   28.1    84.4       82    2.6   73.7        225   9.2    92.4        374    6.4   82.0
7501-10500   24  lo.1   94.5       205    6.6   80.3        138   5.6    98.o        367    6.3   88.3
10501& more  13    5.5  100.0        618   19.7  100.0         50   3.0  100.0         681   11.7  100.0
238                    3130                     2445                     5813
Source: Fideicomiso Lazaro Cardenas
Cx



ANNEX 9
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Costs and Affordability '6f Shéltér Related Units
Alternative Serviced Plots
(Figures in Mex. Pesos)
Monthly        % of Households
Monthly          Income          with Access to
Total Cost    Charges a/        Reguired bl    Alternative d/
In smaller towns    15,000         189              1,260               97%
In Guacamayas       18,500         233              1,553               91%
In Lazaro Cardenas  24,000         302              2,014               82%
Alternative Units Built on Upgraded Plots in Towns
(Figures in Mex. Pesos)
Monthly        % of Households
Monthly          Income          with Access to
Total Cost    Charges a/        Required c/    Alternative di
Basic Unit          21,500         285              1,425               93%
Sanitary Unit       22,700         302              1,510               91%
Dwelling Core       29,000         393              1,965               82%
Alternative Units Built on Upgraded Plots in Guacamayas
(Figures in Mex. Pesos)
Monthly        % of Households
Monthly          Income          with Access to
Total Cost    Charges al        Required c/    Alternative d/
Basic Unit          25,000         330              1,650                89%
Sanitary Unit       26,200         347              1,735                87%
Dwelling Core       32,500         438              2,190                78%
Alternative Units Built on Sites and Services
(Figures in Mex. Pesos)
Monthly        % of Households
Monthly          Income          with Access to
Total Cost    Charges a/        Required c/    Alternative d/
Basic Unit          30,400         400              2,000               82%
Sanitary Unit       31,600         417              2,085               80%
Dwelling Core       38,000         508              2,540               72%
a/ Assumes a 10% downpayment on the cost of the serviced plots and no down-
payment on the complementing construction materials (where applicable).
b/ Assumes that 15% of income is available for payment.
c/ Assumes that 20% of income is available to cover total cost.
d/ See Income Distribution Table in Annex 8.



MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF CORE UNITS
COMPLEtED UNIT                                       r,, / \ms DWELtLNG CORE                                                        /\
WQ.l .C-8   18592



ANNEX 10
Page 2
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DES CRIPTION OF CORE UNITS
2.00
A   Sanitary Unit
B   Basic Unit
A+B= Dwelling Core
iLJ   °  °l          C    Additional Rooms
built by self-help
A
6.00
3 .03.004 ,- --3.00o, -
Completed Seif-Help Dwelling indicating the Sanitary Unit, the
Basic Unit and the Dwelling Core. The additional rooms are                                       £
subsequent expansions.
Worid Bank - 18593



ANNEX 11
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE
IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.  Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
Al   -   Creation of the National Urban Development Commission, Basic legal
documents, CNDU, September 1977.
A2   -   Human Settlements Law, National Executive Committee, June 1976.
A3   -   National Urban Development Plan, four volumes, 1977-78.
A4   -   Federal Budget, Accounting and Public Expenditure Law, Diario Oficial,
December 31, 1976.
A5   -   Urbanization Tendencies in the Mexican Republic, Institute of
Engineering, UNAM, 1976.
A6   -   Organizational Manual, BAJUOBRAS, two volumes.
A7   -   Bibliographic Catalog on Housing, Urbanism, Construction and
Socioeconomic Aspects (Mexico City Libraries, two volumes,
CIDIU/INDECO, 1976.
A8   -   Territorial Ordering Plan: Central Conurbated Zone, two volumes, 1977.
A9   -   Regional Development and Interregional Equity: A Mexican Case Study,
D. Barkin.
B.  Selected Reports and Studies Relating to Project.
B1   -   Integral Urban Development Project; Balsas River Delta Conurbated Zone,
Fideicomiso Lazaro Cardenas, 32 volumes, 1977.
B2   -   A Developing Comnmunity, Ciudad Cardenas, 1975.
B3   -   Feasibility Studies for Basic Infrastructure in Guacamayas and Other
Towns of Balsas River Conurbated Zone, six volumes, Aerofotogrametria,
S.A. for Balsas River Commission, 1977.
B4   -   Master Plan for Lazaro Cardenas/La Unión, 20 volumes, INDECO, 1976.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
B5   -   First Stage of the Study of the Balsas River Delta from Hidrodynamic
and Environmental Points of View, Institute of Engineering (UNAM)
for CRB, November 1976.
B6   -   Economic Feasibility of the Balsas Port on the Pacific Ocean; The
Balsas Port's Hinterland and its Economic Activity, three volumes,
Secretary of Marine, October 1971.
B7   -   Balsas River Commission Rejport onActi'ties 19070-1974. CRB/SRF., 1974
B8   -   Lazaro Cardenas, Basic Elements for Programming, Secretariat of the
Presidency, October 1976.
B9   -   Terms of Reference for Integral Urban Development Studies, one volume,
SAHOP, 1977.
B10  -   Twentythird Meeting, Technical Com¡ittee Fideicomiso Lazaro Cardenas,
three volumes, January 19, 1977.
Bl   -   Auditor's Report, Fideicomiso Lazaro Cardenas, 1976-1977.
B12  -   1976 Annual Report, BANOBRAS.
C. Selected Working Papers
Cl   -   General Urbanization Specifications, Fideicomiso Ciudad Lazaro Cardenas,
November 1975.
C2   -   Unit Prices Catalog, Fideicomiso Ciudad Lazaro Cardenas, August 30, 1976.
C3   -   Estimate of Industrial Settlement in the Lazaro Cardenas Area, 1978-1982.
C4   -   Popular Technology Center Project, Popular Technology Schools,
September 1976.
C5   -   Planning of Education, Professional Formation and Jobs in the Lazaro
Cardenas Area; CENAPRO, 1977.
C6   -   Income Distribution, Monthly Payments and Family Income Levels for
the Lazaro Cardenas Region.
C7   -   Financial Statements of the Balsas River Commission and Audit Report,
1975 and 1976.
C8   -   Detailed Project Cost Table Drafts.
C9   -   The Organization and Capability of BANOBRAS, B. Doebele, July 15, 1976.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
C10  -   Control of Land Use and Recapture of Increments in Value (Plusvalía)
B. Doebele, July 15, 1976.
Cll  -   Implementation of Law of Human Settlements, B. Doebele, September 14, 1976.
C12  -   Report on the Hinterland Study of Michoacan-Guerrero, with paraticular
reference to Lazaro Cardenas, R. Ng, November 8, 1976.
C13  -   Aspects of Rural-Urban Linkage in Michoacan-Guerrero, R. Ng,
November 23, 1976.
C14  -   Small Enterprises Feasibility Studies, PIBSA.
C15  -   Legal Basis, Organization and Operation of Fideicomisos or Trusts,
A. Tapia, 1977.
C16  -   Report on the General Law of Human Settlements and Guidelines for a
National Spatial Policy, H. W. Richardson, 1977.
C17  -   Report on the Balsas River Control Componnet, M. A. Albertson, 1977.
C18  -   Road Projects, Preliminary Engineering, Balsas River Commission.
C19  -   Terms of Reference for a Coastal Study, Francois Bourgois, FAO






r + S MF o i % 1                                                                           =                                                                                          ,* u _____ , _ I I IBRD-13454 4
. PAMM        C_h. 7pMt                                            -    APIAE   EA PC-
ArIRP      J        AN     O              E            OF 'I       O
ME>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA51                                                                                           APCORIIOAPR    OtO
'AZARO CARDENAS CONUR-ATION DEVELOPMENT PROAMCA
PROJECT AREA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5MNZNIA AE1AEYTR
"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OAEA ,v4 a> A                                                                                                          OCL  OF MEX/CO?  
A     CA R   - E S  NU          ION DR EUV;  E           T PNTROJE ION                                                      1 g          4                                                                      ¿ PO/CATA
PROJEC   ARE                                                                ,E   Al ;'AiM           |'i                                           d FARE._li., -,                                           á  :55 
XE ) \) O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- p                                                                                                \a,     <    ÁAo \ 
KOILP OMETA
RLPNAIPALORRRP ¡UX           X BHAP                                                                                o "                  f;                                                                           E3iL  
AM.PPoNç4a  C1M. R;5íí.                    E, D -0;lg            ~h42SEd  ;;                                             I
Yor \                                                              &é 4s<-/  t  *  k  5 / / <  SttbTIAluAS   0 | i 2t  i^;}0E
50    C h (\   \\,[tX   > « k >   epeK:nes   q T Ftá X  R -- ~ W Ç X  XPIEEAiÇl                        7 0  °   Ek n   as    m M  o    LbOA    LCR1S I)EMUZIRA   i ,  
° ¡0     200     30                                                                                                                     Pw. E,M -xX a     V     AP[NCtDDAFOVALSS     
| AZARO CARDENA5 COtRB  r ON DEVELOPMINI PROJ Cl                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~TEp, 'HONURA
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M                         M .d. MILL.4D 'M.AM A. ACHLAEOAAMMM   PM.w DMAMMAMAM1EAiEA   M,P                                                                                 ApL
KItOMóTERS 11°' IGEit - MEMIPMCPMMMAMM.A                                                     1013






I B R D 13455
102030'                   To Uruapan           1   oo                                        10130'                         MARCH    1978
7-o~~~X 
LA SJ TO E
M    XI CO                                                                               or acsrac of sohbsdr
LAZARO CRt>ENAS ONURBATON DEVELPMENT   COAHAYELCATO SMO
-18°30 ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ E INFIERNILLO                                                                  ÉSEROI
FEEDAtLER    EF                            EAU. S  A .
7-0~~~~ TOLMEEJQ                                                                                         UEV  UDILLA
) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~             ~ A LAS JUNTASAS LMO
AM                     VILLITA        JUNTA DERIOO                              ANTON   SO LEDO
(    \   EL INFIERNILLOt   A         m      DEJ LOCULZANO00
2 \    /   B E  L   INFIERNlLLToEPEGUAJES @      ~~.GUACAE             R R E R O
r s I~S      ¡f MNARANCS                                         A
tu'°h ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~~A I    A                                          Woi   k  .f--i -
$TO ( /     LAS VIBOUARAS                                                                        o coCAS  ON
47ft ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~AUER CHUTLA., g O  COOT3    //  ALECTO
LILOMb--dS                                                      - hNDES-O oLEDAD, -
.    .                    %   \ z~~~~~~~OCIENEGA                             donot--ly   hP,Y °nttp. f h,ltt 
.020O0~ .                                        UNOtLAG OUNILLAS  IMdgmen ohgsa f
1020300 ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     013'--y                           -
.  m  E x Ie c o, --- 01 °30t                                                               anv ter   5tE o   byedo-s
L0M C:ARDEN CONURBATON DEVElOPME'NT P'ROJE< >
FEEDER ROADSN-         xS                                                                   usA
-           ~~~PRCPOSED Ffi-DER R                                   .       LAD\  
.               ~~~EXISTIJIGAIN ROAD'S    ;>                                              \      
MAIN *OAD UN{DfctPvSTRUCT$tYk*   _ ;GfFON
i           ~~SEC>ONPRftlY ROaAD                                                        C v       \M E X I C O          h'fEX  C O
:~~~~1                 DAMS                                                        .                            STATED
t7Qw  ~~~            -  $TATEEIJtJNDARtílS                                            1°0-CxX '^-  e  
0    5   ltO  1F  20  25t  11s '.TAT                                             - 
'                                                   fro~~~~~~~~~~~~iIlf tE'R5        INTERNA7TIf4p.L      R       R         
:102 W                                               íOCUNl>ARIES       OFMA          >      $j_






.~~~~~~~~Caail               To\tCa,Ail  Za......atecas........  Ao   Tan  jZactc5 .                T2 \  Cida 1      To         > \9 
t2V    t/»,0o5h        J       /Luis ~~~~~~~      ~     ~~Potosí   LenGuanaju a                    /t                      pñ                                203-
P   _mk Vall                   t Hf rapuat |,                                             roi            (           1(Pzic
*     AIROAr                                                                                                               ApuS                                  u          of
<          B 9 8" m ilan o                            4gua a             X     e n a st    C San uad
1~~SAE BUDUS                              LZR  CARENA  C'UBTO    EVLPMN  PRJC                                                                                            apn 0t18
REGIONAL AREA                         Pc AREA                                                           _ .  Z  C  o
oluca j MAJOFt C{TIES            »          0                  g                         4 ierra Colorada     Jmra    Teziutla
*60                                                                                                                                              *~.. s. Car] S
.         ZIlHtttAEJ0R TORS  EEO      $Et                   EEiMN                                                 z       Gad                              t ) v9
MA}N ROADS                                                                                                                               of MV  --<  f  \;   Salina Ctl
ROAjOS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ MXC                           Mexico>TUCIO  \ j=
RAlLjñOADS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aaoo  e1vEcncio
of herflsr  oftO nror  r o-riO t i .tOttf  ir  o  gualaoLastP   ñascCiudadoAlemPn
MrtRro Elof OonGio l O         RE                                                 -. á                    _
-  lo_.    ___v                                 j                                                  100a  '                     ,
ro 1u~ --aj   A1CTIE






7        '4 j Y, -',ydNV                                                              gID Vd           S                                              satjc>punogX 94ciS -  ._     
D ( -^'  \   (              ,Ju-                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~soajV dn ipog  5
¢icn    /       ¿  ODIX3W                                                                                                                   ost °°dDlaf. 9OS!ODGROI OUOD OJOZD1 1
»    5    fi   >   ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~o \> -- ~~~~~~~~~~ a(oini45s(g\|uo:n)s0 japun) pe, ui!°d 1 1y
L    u    ,--   V   lilW 1331S 11¿ \ r 5pO~~ucg:~ 0:),                                       pDo   @ADd U!ow
+  seuepursoFsvafs>*Jo   g                          /r              \                                          °~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a1V  to!jlsnput llXir
;Q»5UU+@4qUo/W»«   f>  \   1}    l Al   '    //r                  \ \                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOAasiJ    pUD sal!j
m V~ fS&p                                                                                                                                         But pAWdn  l  w 11
~~V«t1 )} d l usrlPu <4 < ~NOli 9,atnNoz> SVNgC0lait ) O8tIZVl
/    oD5!DDM j USSft  i/5/ j D  XD                                                                                                1  x -  3       w
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~op                                                                                                 loo IUopioa< 
O d 3 d d 3 n 9                                                                       NV D V O H DI W                           |  =n
otOt ó ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-!P-OIOD   °1                                                                 Dl90W DDj1 goO



