Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2286-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR THE
LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 12, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorIation.



CURRENCY UNIT - PESO (Mex$)
The fixed exchange rate of US$1 = Mex$12.50 which
had prevailed since 1954 was abandoned on September 1, 1976 and
the Mexican peso has been floating since then. In recent weeks
the rate of exchange has fluctuated in the range of Mex$22-23
to the US dollar. On March 30, 1978, the peso traded at 22.75
per US dollar.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANOBRAS        -  National Public Works and Services Bank
(Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A.)
CFE             -  Federal Electricity Commission
(Comision Federal de Electricidad)
FLC             -  Trust Fund Lazaro Cardenas (Fideicomiso Lazaro Cardenas)
LCCC            -  Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Commission
LCCD Project    -  Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project
SARH            -  Ministry of Agricultrire and Hydraulic Resources
(Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos)
SAHOP           -  Ministry of Human Settlements and Public Works
(Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras Publicas)
SICARTSA        -  Steel Mill Lazaro Cardenas - Las Truchas
(Siderurgica Lazaro Cardenas - Las Truchas)



MEXICO            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LAZARO CARDEENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A.
Beneficiary:                 Fideicomiso Lazaro Cardenas.
Amount:                      US$16.5 million.
Terms:                       The loan would be repaid over 17 years including
four years of grace and carry an interest rate
of 7.5 percent.
Project Description:         (i)  Objectives
(a) Support the development of the Lazaro
Cardenas conurbation (see Map IBRD
No. 12488R), one of the fastest growing
areas in Mexico, by: strengthening insti-
tutional arrangements for urban develop-
ment programs, providing low-cost shelter
and other urban services to the poorer
sections of the population, and creating
employment by assisting small enterprises
through credit and technical assistance
programs.
(b) Help create a replicable institutional
model and prepare additional urban projects
in Mexico.
*(ii) The major components are:
(a) Shelter and related physical elements
(urban upgrading, sites and services,
construction materials loans, training
centers, and technical assistance);
(b) A credit line and the construction of
industrial premises to promote and
diversify economic activities in the
region;
(c) Regional feeder roads and river control
works; and,
(d) Technical assistance to strengthen
the Fideicomiso (Trust Fund) Lazaro
Cardenas (FLC), and studies to prepare
additional urban development projects for
possible assistance from the Bank.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(iii)  Benefits
About 50,000 people are expected to benefit
directly from the shelter related programs
(urban upgrading, sites and services, con-
struction materials loans) and the programs
carried out in the training centers. This
corresponds to about 60 percent of the
population projected for the Lazaro Cardenas
Conurbation in 1981, when the project will be
completed.  The project is expected to demon-
strate the feasibility of providing adequate
shelter and urban services to the lowest
income groups, with provision for cost recovery
from the beneficiaries. The agencies concerned
with the execution of the project are ade-
quately experienced and qualified and FLC's
reorganization will improve coordination and
monitoring. Taking into account FLC's lack
of experience in respect of production credits,
adequate screening and evaluation procedures
have been adopted to minimize the risk of
uneconomic investments.
Estimated Cost:                                          Local   Foreign   Total
----In US$ millions----
Urban Upgrading              3.8       1.6      5.4
Sites and Services           1.1      0.4       1.5
Construction Materials
Loans                      1.5      0.5       2.1
Training Centers             0.2      0.1       0.3
Production Credits           2.8      2.2       5.0
Industrial Premises          0.5      0.1       0.6
River Control                1.7       2.0      3.7
Feeder Roads                 2.6       1.7      4.3
Studies                        -      4.5       4.5
Technical Assistance           -      0.3       0.3
Total Baseline
Cost                   14.1      13.5      27.6
Design and Supervision       1.8        /1      1.9
Contingencies                3.7      3.0       6.7
Total                     19.6     16.5      36.1
/1 less than US$50,000.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                         Local    Foreign  Total
----In US$ millions----
Bank loan                      -       16.5    16.5
Government                  18.0          -    18.0
Beneficiaries                1.6          -     1.6
Total                     19.6      16.5    36.1
Estimated Disbursements:            FY         Annual      Cumulative
-----US$ millions----
79          3.2           3.2
80          5.7           8.9
81          4.3          13.2
82          3.3          16.5
Rate of Return:              The economic rate of return on the urban upgrading,
sites and services, construction materials loans,
training centers, feeder roads, and river control
components, making up about two-thirds of the
total cost, is estimated at 24 percent. No rate
of return was calculated for the other components
(production credits, industrial premises, studies
and technical assistance) because the associated
economic benefits are difficult to quantify;
these components are well justified, however.
Appraisal Report:            No. 1904-ME, dated April 4, 1978.






INTERNAT1ONAL IBANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT ANI) RECOMMENDATION OF [HE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES FOR
THE LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A. (BANOBRAS) with the
guarantee of United Mexican States for the equivaleait of US$16.5 million to
help finance the Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project. The loan
would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at
7.5 percent per annum. Of the proceeds of the loan, US$0.8 million would
be used for construction materials loans with a term of 15 years and interest
at 15 percent per annum and US$2.2 million for production credits to artisans
and small- and medium-scale enterprises with terms of up to 12 years including
up to one year of grace, and interest at 15 percent per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        Some of the major features of the Mexican economy were analyzed in
"An Updating Report on the Economy of Mexico" (1110-ME), distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 23, 1976. An economic mission visited Mexico
in April-May 1977 and its report is now in preparation. The discussion
which follows reflects the preliminary findings of the mission.
Past Performance
3.        For most of the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico
was outstandingly successful in achieving rapid economic growth while main-
taining stability in prices and the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970,
average GDP growth exceeded 6 percent per year in real terms, inflation
averaged less than 5 percEnt per year from the mid-1960s to 1972, and the
dollar value of the peso, fixed in 1954, was maintained until the September
1976 devaluation. The Government's role in this achievement was to carry
out direct investments in infrastructure and in key industries such as power,
steel and petroleum, while creating a stable regulatory and institutional
framework, as well as goodl profit prospects, to induce private sector
growth.
4.        This strategy produced rapid growth, but led to a sharpening
of contrasts within the Mexican economy. While land redistribution under
the reform of 1915 was continued, most of the peasants who received land
could not improve their economic status in the absence of basic infra-
structure, credit and technical assistance. Rapid population growth made
social equity even more difficult to achieve. Population growth in Mexico
1/   Part I is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the
Tourism Development Project (R78-35 of February 16, 1978).



- 2 -
accelerated steadily, primarily as a result of reduced death rates, and
reached 3.5 percent per year by 1970. Despite economic growth, the high
demographic growth rate made adequate absorption of the labor force in
productive employment difficult. Some 40 percent of the labor force is
either relatively unproductive and poorly paid, or openly unemployed.
5.        During the 1970s, Mexico experienced increasing public sector
deficits, inflation, large balance of payments deficits, capital flight
and a marked slowdown in the real rate of growth of GDP, which dropped
to 2 percent in 1976-- the lowest annual growth rate experienced by Mexico
since the mid-thirties. On September 1, 1976 the authorities abandoned the
fixed exchange rate of 12.50 pesos per dollar that had remained unchanged
since 1954 and let the peso float; in recent months it has remained rather
stable at rates fluctuating between 22 and 23 pesos per dollar. Following
the devaluation, Mexico obtained major support from the IMF. In the last
quarter of 1976, Mexico was able to draw on the Fund for US$480 million.
For 1977-79, an Extended Fund Facility accompanied by a comprehensive three-
year stabilization program was negotiated, which could provide as much as
an additional US$861 million once the increase in Fund quotas becomes
effective. Thus, total IMF support for the Government's program may exceed
US$1.3 billion. The new Government ratified the agreement with the IMF
shortly after taking office on December 1, 1976, and to date has complied
with the program agreed upon with the IMF.
Current Economic Policy
6.        The present Government inherited a difficult situation upon taking
office on December 1, 1976. High inflation, large public sector deficits, in-
creasing foreign indebtedness and lack of confidence in economic management
indicated a need for economic stabilization. However, the situation also
called for more expansionary policies; economic activity had slowed down, net
private investment was virtually nil, and the gap between new job creation and
growth of the labor force was increasing. High world prices for petroleum
offered profitable investment opportunities in the petroleum sector; indeed,
increased production for export of these products seemed by far the best
way to meet a large part of Mexico's high debt service requirements in the
coming years.
7.        Faced with these conflicting needs and opportunities, the Mexican
authorities are adopting a mixed strategy aimed at reducing lower-priority
public expenditures and increasing public revenues, while proceeding with
petroleum and other high-priority investments. The objectives of the Govern-
ment's program include progressive control of inflation together with a
return to high rates of economic growth by the end of 1978. Better manage-
ment of public sector expenditures, more rational pricing and cost control
in public sector enterprises, promotion of private savings, limiting wage
increases to justifiable levels, and more effective cooperation with the
private sector are important parts of the Government's economic strategy.
8.        The measures instituted by the new Administration have already
produced good results. Inflation in the twelve months of 1977 slowed to 20.7
percent (January-December) as compared to an annual rate of 60 percent in
the last three months of 1976. The deficit in the current account of the



-3-
balance of payments has been reduced, and is estimated preliminarily at
US$2.2 billion for 1977, compared to US$3.5 billon in 1976. Total public
sector financial requirements dropped from 10.3 percent of GDP in 1976 to 7.9
percent in 1977. Mobilization of savings by the banking system is increas-
ing. Perhaps most importanatly, there is a general feeling of increased confi-
dence in the Government's economic policy.
9.        The stabilization effort during 1977 was absolutely necessary, but
its price has been the continuation of economic stagnation; for a second
year in a row GDP grew only by about 2 percent in real terms, implying a
further decline of real per capita income. While control of inflation will
remain as the overriding short-term objective--the Government's announced
target is to reduce inflation to about 12-15 percent during 1978--the 1978
economic program aims at a simultaneous recovery of economic activity,
through a recovery of private and public investment. Increased public sector
savings, further strengthening of the financial system and therefore in-
creased availability of credit to the Drivate sector, and continuation of a
carefully managed wage policy (the annual increase in minimum wages agreed
upon in January 1978 averaged about 14 percent) are the main means the
Government will rely upon to attain the above objectives.
Economic Issues and Prospects
10.       As Mexico looks ahead, the key problems that its economic policies
must address would seem to include the following:
(a) Many Mexican families have not participated in the sustained
economic growth of the last several decades. As of 1975,
about 4,600,000 Mexican families--45 percent of the total--
receive incomes equal to less than one-half the national
average. The members of most of these families work--more
than half of them in agriculture--but they produce little
and receive little. Mexico's labor force is now growing
even more rapidly than in the past--it is expected to grow
at about 3.6 percent per year over the next decade, which
implies an average annual increase by some 670,000 workers
during 1978-82; during the 1960s the growth rate was 2.7
percent per year. The challenge of providing productive jobs
for both new entrants and existing under-productive workers
is an awesome one.
(b)  Crop and livestock production in Mexico, which had grown by
6 percent per year during 1945-55 and 4.2 percent per year
during 1955-65, grew at only 2.1 percent per year during
1965-75. This near-stagnation of agricultural production
signals the end of the strategy in which growth of agricul-
tural production came from newly irrigated land, while rain-
fed agriculture was relatively neglected. The continued
expansion of large-scale irrigation, so successful from
1945 into the 1960s, has brought lower and lower returns as
the works became costlier and easily accessible export markets
for high-value crops became more nearly saturated. New
approaches are required now to assure both production growth,
and increases in income for Mexico's poor rural families.



- 4 -
(c) The size and role of the State in the economy has been a
subject of much discussion in Mexico in recent years.
During 1970-76, private investment slowed down, and virtually
stagnated since 1975. This was, in part, a consequence of
the pre-emption of credit by the public sector (during the
six-year period, the share of the public sector in the
economy grew from 15.0 to 21.5 percent), combined with infla-
tionary financing and accompanied by what some perceived as
an "anti-business" attitude. Public statements by the present
Administration indicate that it wants to reverse this trend.
(d) The present large foreign debt and sizable public finance
deficit are mainly the direct outcomes of past public sector
inability to mobilize adequate financial resources. By the
early 1980s, large increases in export revenues, mainly from
petroleum and related products, should make both the foreign
debt problem and public finances easier to manage. In
the meantime, however, larger public sector savings are
required to reduce inflationary pressures and to release
credit for the private sector.
(e) The rapid growth and heavy concentration of people and
production in Mexico City, and the scarcity of employment
opportunities and services in rural areas, are important
challenges which have to be confronted. Both equity and
efficiency considerations imply a need for diversion of
some of Mexico City's future growth to other regions, as
well as the provision of basic public services and enhanced
employment opportunities in selected villages and small
towns.
11.       In the medium term the prospects for resumption of economic growth
with relative price stability are good. Poverty will remain a problem but
the Government is taking steps to address it. The alleviation of the external
constraint on growth brought about by the expected petroleum earnings (para.
14), together with the Government's efforts to increase public sector savings
and to stimulate private investment, could produce economic growth of 7 to 8
percent per year in the remaining five years of the present Administration.
Resumption of economic growth combined with the intensification of the
Government's family planning program (on October 28, 1977 President Lopez
Portillo announced the ambitious goal of reducing the population growth to
2.5 percent per year by 1982, then progressively to 1.8 percent by 1988, 1.3
percent by 1994, and 1 percent by the year 2000), the new emphasis on rainfed
agriculture, and the implementation of specific programs aimed at increasing
productive employment should help to address the structural problems mentioned
above (para. 10).
12.       In agriculture, the Government's quick action to defuse tensions
created by land invasions and expropriations at the end of 1976, and its
decision to review the legislation concerning land and water use, should
reduce uncertainty and induce a better use of the available land and water
resources. In addition, the new emphasis on rainfed agriculture--which
had been relatively neglected in the past--should lead to an increase in the



-5-
production potential of vast areas currently under-exploited and to a reversal
of the past trend towards larger income disparities between the modern and
traditional agricultural subsectors. Development of intensive agriculture in
the tropics and of a nationwide program to construct small irrigation and
drainage works are also new features of the Government's agricultural policy.
These initiatives, together with the more realistic exchange rate and remun-
erative support prices, promise a resumption of growth of production for both
domestic and export markets and increase the possibilities of an improvement
in the living conditions of the rural poor.
13.       Industry has potential for considerable growth in many sectors,
including efficient import substitution in chemicals, petrochemicals and
capital goods as well as exports of many different manufactured products.
Increases in tourism export earnings are also expected.
14.       Among the benefits of recent public sector investments are the
new possibilities opened to the Mexican economy through the recent discover-
ies of rich petroleum fietlds. The Government has decided to use these large
hydrocarbon resources to help manage Mexico's heavy debt service burden and to
enhance the country's over-all development prospects. To meet this objective,
PEMEX (Petroleos Mexicanos, the State-owned oil monopoly) has launched an
ambitious six-year investment program amounting to US$17.0 billion in 1977
prices (about 25 percent of total public investment). This program would:
(a) almost triple the production of oil and condensates, from 292
million bbl/year in 1976 to 818 million bbl/year in 1982;
(b) more than double the country's primary distillation
capacity, from 270 million bbl/year in 1976 to 577 million
bbl/year in 1982;
(c) substantially increase production of primary petrochemicals
(ammonia, ethylene, benzene, etc.) as well as downstream
products (styrene, vinyl-chloride, polyethylene); and
(d) enable export of natural gas at a rate of 2.0 billion
cubic feet/day by 1982.
Under this program, the value of exports of oil and related products would
increase over ten times, from about US$0.9 billion in 1977 to more than
US$10.0 billion in 1982. If this program were to be carried out on schedule,
and incentives maintained for non-petroleum exports, the balance of payments
on current account would shift from a deficit of US$2.1 billion in 1977 to a
surplus of about US$3.0 billion in 1982.
15.       The prospect of rapidly rising petroleum exports, as well as
previously mentioned prospects for increases in tourism earnings, recovery
of agricultural production and exports, and resumption of growth of manu-
factured exports, have greatly strengthened the balance of payments outlook.



Even on the basis of somewhat more conservative projections of petroleum pro-
duction and exports than those mentioned above, the current account deficit can
be expected to decline steadily over the next several years and become slightly
positive by 1982, thus reducing Mexico's net external borrowing requirements
(Annex I). The debt service ratio has been increasing over the recent past,
reaching 46 percent in 1977. It is expected to peak in 1979 at slightly over
50 percent and decline sharply thereafter to levels around 30 percent in the
early 1980's. Debt service on Bank loans amounts to about 4 percent of public
debt service; this ratio is projected to decrease over the next two years and
to increase to some extent afterwards. The Bank currently holds about 8
percent of Mexico's total medium- and long-term public debt, and this ratio is
likely to increase to some extent over the next few years. Mexico remains
creditworthy for borrowing on conventional terms considering the country's
strong medium- and long-term potential and the comprehensive economic strategy
which the Government has adopted to realize it.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO I/
Bank Operations
16.       As of February 28, 1978, Mexico had received 50 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$2,624.4 million net of cancellations and terminations; of these,
33 loans totalling US$1,486.4 million were fully disbursed. As of February 28,
1978, the Bank held US$2,142.2 million of which US$787.2 million had not yet been
disbursed. Some 35 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural
development (15 loans for US$923.4 million), 27 percent for power (12 loans
for US$704.8 million) and 21 percent for transportation projects (12 loans for
US$546.7 million); the remaining 17 percent has been for industry (US$205.5
million), water supply (US$130 million) and tourism (US$114 million) projects.
Mexico is carrying out a stabilization program and because of scarcity of
counterpart funds, some projects have fallen behind schedule during 1976 and
1977. Following review with the Government, a steel loan was terminated
(Sec M77-258 of April 5, 1977), the scope of an irrigation project was reduced
and US$100 million from the original US$150 million loan were cancelled
(R77-305 of December 13, 1977) and the scope of several other projects has
been modified. Other projects under implementation and affected by the
stabilization program are being reviewed by the Government and further dis-
cussions will be held with the Bank shortly. By and large, adequate budget
support for the ongoing projects has now been secured. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans as of February 28, 1978 and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
IFC Operations
17.       As of February 28, 1978, IFC has made 13 investment commitments in
Mexico, for a total of US$69.5 million, of which US$38.3 million had been sold,
repaid or cancelled. The balance held by the Corporation, US$31.2 million,
consists of US$26.2 million in loans and US$5.0 million in equity. A summary
statement of IFC investments as of February 28, 1978 is presented in Annex II.
1/   Part II is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the
Tourism Development Project (R78-35 of February 16, 1978).



-7-
Bank Strategy
18.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to:  (i) sup-
port policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the benefits of
economic growth; (ii) strengthen policies and programs leading to continued
economic growth, by helping to finance projects that are to make directly or
indirectly significant contributions to output, exports, and employment; and
(iii) help resolve critical adjustment problems that Mexico is currently
facing. The Bank is preferentially supporting projects that make relatively
modest demands on budgetary resources and have a strong positive balance of
payments effect, projects of high social priority that help the rural or urban
poor, projects that promote higher levels of employment and those that help
to decentralize economic activity. The proposed Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation
Development Project fulfills several of these criteria (see paras 56 and 57).
19.       In view of the difficult structural problems of Mexico's agriculture
and the sector's crucial importance to the country's further development, the
Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending. Consistent with
the overall framework of country and sector objectives, a three-tier approach
has been developed. First, to strengthen infrastructure development and agri-
cultural credit programs so as to meet the demands of a rapidly growing popula-
tion more adequately and to generate the foreign exchange needed for rising
import requirements. Second, to raise the incomes of the rural poor and improve
their standards of living through a combination of directly productive, support
and social infrastructure investments. Third, to strengthen Mexico's institu-
tional capability to use scarce agricultural resources more efficiently. In
support of this strategy, the Bank has made seven loans over the past four
years, totalling US$579 million, for irrigation, rural development and agricul-
ture and livestock credit programs. In FY77, the Executive Directors approved
a US$120 million loan for an Integrated Rural Development Project--PIDER II--
under which some 46,000 poor farm families will benefit from directly produc-
tive activities. This fiscal year, an agricultural and livestock credit
project has been appraisecL and will be submitted to the Executive Directors
in the coming months and an agricultural development project focusing on the
humid tropics is being submitted for consideration on April 25.
20.       Bank lending for industry has been aimed at assisting the Government's
efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit and decentralize industrial
activities away from the major (and increasingly congested) urban areas. Thus,
the Executive Directors approved a US$50 million loan in FY75 to support a
fertilizer project which promotes new poles of development in the resource-rich
southeast region and the north central area. A third Industrial Equipment
Fund project is currently being processed for submission to the Executive
Directors in the coming months and a project to promote small- and medium-
scale enterprises is being submitted for consideration on April 25.



-8-
21.       As regards infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been focused
on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional reforms
and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms to help
generate additional resources for investment financing: the Airports Develop-
ment Project (FY74) was designed to support the Government's policy of regional
integration; the Third Railway Project (FY76) supported improvements of insti-
tutional aspects and financial management of the sector. The Mexico City
Water Supply Project (FY73) has been instrumental in the establishment of a
specialized institution for efficient supply of bulk drinking water in the
Mexico Valley, and in the pricing of water at levels more closely related to
costs.
22.       To reduce the external deficit on current account, the Government
is giving emphasis to the tourism sector to increase foreign exchange earn-
ings. Promotion of the sector, which requires only limited budget support,
will help increase employment opportunities, especially in a number of regions
where the scarcity of jobs encourages migration to the alteady over-burdened
metropolitan areas. In support of this policy, a Tourism Development Project,
approved earlier this fiscal year, will provide resources for tourism invest-
ments needed to tap more fully the country's tourism potential.
23.       The Government and the Bank have long recognized the large regional
disparities in welfare and economic development that exist in Mexico in the
context of rapid urban growth. The Government has identified high-priority
urban centers, the development of which it wants to encourage and support.
Studies are under way to prepare projects designed to provide shelter, urban
services, and new employment opportunities in these centers, with special
emphasis on the needs of the lower income groups. The proposed Lazaro
Cardenas project would be the first such project.
PART III: URBAN AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT IN MEXICO
Trends and Problems
24.       In thirty years Mexico has changed from a rural country with only
weak economic links among its diverse regions, to an urbanized and geograph-
ically integrated society. Mexico's population growth has been among the most
rapid in the world, and this growing population has migrated to cities at an
even greater pace. The percentage of the population living in places of 2,500
or more inhabitants grew from 35% in 1940 to 59% in 1970.
25.       In 1975 there were some 11 million people living in and around
Mexico City, making it the third largest metropolitan area in the world (after
Tokyo and New York). Its population has been growing annually at over 5% and
U.N. projections based on recent trends show it growing to be the largest city
in the world, with a population of over 30 million people, by the year 2000.
In 1975, the Mexico City metropolitan area had 19 percent of the nation's
population, and accounted for over 40 percent of the nation's production of
goods and services.



-9-
o.u.      lo slow down the growth of Mexico City by promoting growth in
other parts of the country would be beneficial. Mexico is now sufficiently
develuped for a strategy of selective decentralization to succeed. The nation
has many cities that are reasonably large and growing, where additional workers
could be absorbed in productive activities. The second and third largest
cities in the country, Guadalajara and Monterrey, each with population of
over one million, are major industrial and service centers, and have been
growing even faster than Mexico City. Forty-four other Mexican cities had
over 100,000 inhabitants in 1970; most of these cities have the infrastruc-
ture, transport and communications links, labor pool, and other advantages
for inducing future growth. Measures to increase such growth and to manage
it in an orderly fashion, paying due attention to the needs of low-income
residents and immigrants, hLave a double pay-off: the growth of the capital
can be reduced (at least slightly), while efficiency from the national point
of view is increased.
27.       Promoting faster growth in selected medium and smaller cities would
be far more than a means to reduce growth in the largest cities. Other impor-
tant goals are to provide more productive work in many parts of the country,
to bring markets, credit, health and other services nearer to neighboring
small towns and rural areas (the "hinterlands" of the cities), and thus to
improve the economic and personal welfare of people who now live in places
that are not close to the major cities of the nation.
28.       Mexico has large regional disparities in welfare--as do other large
semi-industrialized countries. Per capita income per month in 1969 ranged
from Mex$628 in the FederaL District to Mex$109 in Oaxaca--a range of almost
six to one. Access to heaLth care, education, potable water, and other basic
needs also varies dramatically from one region to another. Among the poorest
and least-developed regions that have a good resource base and economic develop-
ment potential are: (a) parts of the coast of the Gulf of Mexico in the states
of Veracruz and Tabasco, (b) the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, in the same states
and also in Oaxaca and Chiapas, and (c) the Lazaro Cardenas-Zihuatanejo region
of the states of Michoacan and Guerrero. 1/
29.       Promoting growth in promising medium-sized urban areas such as those
on the Gulf Coast, the Isthmus, and the Lazaro Cardenas area serves the dual
purposes of: (a) bringing employment and urban services to less developed
regions and guiding growth in these places so as to be orderly and productive,
and (b) shifting growth, albeit modestly, to places other than the largest
cities.
1/   Recent Bank studies of regional strategy options in Mexico, based
on studies conducted in early 1974, are: Economic Development of the
Isthmic Region of Mexico (IBRD 1080-ME), March 30, 1976; Spatial Develop-
ment in Mexico (IBRD 1081a-ME), January 31, 1977; and Urban Development
in Mexico (IBRD 1449-ME), January 31, 1977.



- 10 -
Spatial Policy
30.       Until very recently, Mexico, like most other nations, did not have
a well coordinated and explicit spatial policy, but a series of important
measures were adopted, including:
(i) Tax reforms established in 1972 that exempt from some levies
industries located outside the three largest metropolitan areas.
However, the objective of attracting new industries to outlying
areas has had a limited success;
(ii) The establishment, since 1971, of industrial parks and new
urban complexes;
(iii) Financial programs to assist small- and medium-sized industries
outside the three largest cities. About one third of all
eligible firms have been helped by these programs; and
(iv) The "maquila" 1/ program. Several border cities have grown
rapidly because of this program.
31.       Within -the last two years, Mexico has moved towards establishing a
stronger, more coherent and explicit spatial policy. The Law of Human Settle-
ments, adopted in June 1976, provides the legal authority for planning and
implementing programs to achieve spatial goals. The stated objectives of the
law include improved rural-urban integration, more balanced growth among
cities and regions, promotion of growth in medium-sized cities as alternatives
to the largest cities, greater citizen participation in solving urban problems,
land use control, better provision of urban services, and improvement of the
housing location-job location-commuting situation within cities. The most
important objectives that seem to be emerging are:
(i) At the national level, to reduce the growth of Mexico City,
and to concentrate resources to develop promising alternative
regions, instead of continuing the past practice of generalized
incentives mentioned in paragraph 30 above.
(ii) At the state level, to establish priorities for allocating
investment among cities or regions within each state.
(iii) At the local level, to plan for more orderly urban growth
and to implement these plans with public investments and
land use controls.
32.       At the national level, the new Ministry of Human Settlements and
Public Works (SAHOP) has already completed (January 1978) a National Urban
1/   Assembly of products for export to the United States using at least
in part inputs imported from the United States. US tariffs on such
products are levied only on the value added in assembly.



- 11 -
Development Plan; a Plan to convert a significant part of the objectives
enunciated in the Law of Human Settlements into operational goals. In order
to implement Government policies in this sector, SAHOP is also conducting
a series of background and preparatory studies and advising state and municipal
governments on their own relevant laws and plans. Perhaps the most important
part of its coordination rosle is to review investment plans of the government
and public sector agencies for consistency with the National Urban Development
Plan.
33.       The Law of Human Settlements provides for new institutions to
facilitate coordination and planning--the conurbation commissions. Any
contiguous urban area that is in more than one state, or that simply consists
of more than one municipality, can be declared a conurbation, by the national
or state governments, respectively. The commissions for interstate areas are
chaired by the Secretary (Minister) of SAHOP, and composed of relevant state
governors, mayors, and other officials as appropriate. Although the develop-
ment plans prepared by these commissions are not binding, they are a powerful
guiding instrument for all federal, state and local authorities. Conurbation
zones will be established mainly in cases of large metropolitan areas (Mexico
City was the first), and of smaller areas where either present structure or
desired future growth crosses state boundaries (Lazaro Cardenas and the other
two conurbation zones established so far, Torreon-Gomez Palacio-Lerdo, and
Tampico-Ciudad Madero).
34.       The Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development (LCCD) project is part of
Mexico's first attempt to improve urban planning and administration, to promote
growth in selected priority areas so as to provide jobs and services for low
income residents, and to reduce migration to the largest cities. The Bank can
play an important role in connection with this ambitious attempt by supporting
this first project. The experience gained in the process would be a valuable
contribution and provide aL basis for the expansion of this scheme into a
nation-wide program.
PART IV: THE LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ProAect History
35.       In the context of its new Law of Human Settlements and the National
Urban Development Plan (paras. 31 and 32), the Government of Mexico has
requested a Bank loan to help finance the LCCD Project.  The project was
appraised in December 1976, but reappraised in October 1977 to take into account
the intervening postponement of the second stage of the Las Truchas steel mill,
the largest employer in the area, and to review institutional arrangements.
Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C. from March 27 to 31. The Mexican
negotiating team was led by Mr. Garcia (BANOBRAS). A Staff Appraisal Report,
entitled "Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project," No. 1904-ME,
dated April 4, 1978 is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.



- 12 -
Objectives
36.       The main objectives of this project are to support Government
efforts to initiate a process by which shelter and urban services affordable
by the low-income groups can be provided in an efficient and replicable
manner; and to promote the development of new regional growth centers. The
institutional arrangements for the project would assist in overcoming some of
the weaknesses of past urban-related programs in Mexico in general, and in the
Lazaro Cardenas area in particular. These arrangements may provide an effi-
cient model for the implementation of additional regional development projects
in other areas of the country and the project includes provision for studies
to prepare additional projects.
The Lazaro Cardenas Region
37.       The Lazaro Cardenas region is among the fastest-growing conurbations
in Mexico, with a zone of influence of approximately 12,000 km spread over
Michoacan and Guerrero (see Map IBRD No. 12488R), two of the least developed
states in the country. Both states have traditionally been "exporters" of
unskilled emigrants to already overcrowded Mexico City. The urban population
is concentrated in the towns of Lazaro Cardenas and Guacamayas with about
29,000 and 17,000 inhabitants respectively. The most important economic
factor in the area is the Las Truchas steel mill, operated by Siderurgica
Lazaro Cardenas - Las Truchas, S.A. (SICARTSA), a Government-controlled
corporation. Construction of the plant, which the Bank helped finance under
Loan 934-ME, began in 1972 and the plant came into operation in late 1976.
Prior to the construction of the mill, the area had a population of some
10,000, largely dependent on farming. Construction attracted a large number
of workers and their families from around the country and induced the ex-
pansion of many tertiary activities, as well as a few secondary enterprises.
The population in the region, now estimated at about 59,000 people, increased
by about 85% between 1971 and 1974 (about 23 percent per year). Since 1974 it
has grown more slowly, at an average of about 18% per year. A major problem
in the area has been the lack of coordination among the few and fragmentary
urban programs that were established, particularly affecting the new low-
income immigrants that flocked to the area in search of employment and better
living conditions.
38.       The area was relatively isolated before the construction of the
steel mill began but accessibility has been substantially improved: a deep
water port was established; a link to the national railway network and a new
highway leading directly to the Mexico City region will be opened this year.
Finally, the road network in the vicinity of the SICARTSA plant is also being
improved and roadways within the area are being upgraded.
39.       The region's many natural advantages are now actively being developed.
Chief3among these are: abundant water supply (the Rio Balsas has a flow of
350 m /sec); mineral deposits including iron, lead and zinc; and potentially
rich agricultural land and forests. Power projects which would ensure



- 13 -
s;.ficient electricity supply for local industries have been completed. The
port is being expanded and aL number of important industries are beginning to
be established in the adjacent industrial area, including a fertilizer plant
and petrochemical storage facilities.
Project Description
(a' Shelter and related urban infrastructure
40.       This component includes urban upgrading, sites and services, construc-
tion material credits and training centers. The urban upgrading program
would improve about 6,800 p:Lots in Guacamayas, Playa Azul, La Mira and other
small towns, at a unit cost between about US$800 and US$1,100 equivalent. In
line with the paying capacity of the beneficiaries, the program would provide
for two levels of upgrading; namely a fully serviced level in Guacamayas and
a reduced level (e.g., simpler sewerage disposal systems) for the smaller
towns. The sites and services program will be concentrated in the two largest
urban centers, Lazaro Cardenas and Guacamayas (see IBRD Map No. 12489R), where
urbanized land available to low-income groups is scarce and squatter settle-
ments are increasing rapidly. Some 1,800 serviced plots will be provided at
an average unit cost of about US$1,100 equivalent. In designing the above
mentioned shelter related components, special attention was given to the needs
and the financial capacities of the lower income segments of the population.
About three-fourths of the proposed shelter units will be affordable by
households between the 7th and 22nd percentile in the region's income distri-
bution. Practically the whole population will be able to afford the lowest
cost units and about 70 percent the most expensive units (the corresponding
yearly household incomes are estimated at about US$670 and US$1,350 equivalent,
respectively). By contrast, the lowest priced units now available in the
Lazaro Cardenas region are accessible to only about one-fourth of the popu-
lation. In combination with the previous programs, construction materials
loans will be made available to encourage self-help construction on terms
suiting the repayment capacity of the lowest income groups (see para. 51). To
complement this lending program, four training centers will be opened to
?rovide professional training and technical assistance. The centers will also
be used to implement the proposed credit line for productive activities (see
para. 41 below). In addition, they will house community programs to provide
vocational training, and to promote improved health and nutrition, general
education and cultural programs. The centers will be located so as to be
readily accessible to low-income residents.
(b) Productive Activities
41.       This component is composed of two elements.  A line of credit will
be made available for artisans and small- and medium-scale enterprises that
are not reached by existing credit programs. The average credit for artisans
would be about US$1,400 equivalent. The project will also finance a number
of workshops and buildings for rentals to credit recipients.
(c) Regional Infrastructure
42.       About 200 km of access roads linking 40 neighboring agricultural
villages to the urban centers of the region would be constructed or upgraded.



- 14 -
Only one section of the projected roads, between Guacamayas and Lazaro Cardenas
would be paved. The roads would replace existing dirt paths which become
unpassable during the rainy season. The project also makes provision for
river control works (construction of a large culvert and dredging) on the
Rio Balsas. The river is the most important single natural factor in the
region and the proposed works are the least cost scheme that would:
(i) provide an adequate water supply for SICARTSA and other
industries;
(ii) reduce the siltation of the port;
(iii) reduce the erosion along the left branch of the river; and
(iv) provide for the safe disposal of sewerage effluents.
(d) Technical Assistance and Studies
43.       The project makes provision for the recruitment of an adequate
number of qualified and experienced staff to strengthen the Fideicomiso
(Trust Fund) Lazaro Cardenas (FLC) and to help carry out the project. This
would be in conformity with the implementation responsibility of FLC (see
para. 48 below) and with a plan of action including detailed administrative
and personnel changes, approved by the Government in January.
44.       Provision is also made for (i) studies to be carried out by LCCC to
complete the Development Plan for the area, and (ii) studies to prepare
additional urban development projects in other regions of the country under
the supervision of SAHOP's Project Unit; priority will be given to the pre-
paration of additional projects for possible consideration by the Bank. The
target urban areas selected by the Government are consistent with the National
Urban Development Plan (paras. 31 and 32), and the findings of recent Bank studies
(para. 28); they are centered around Coatzacoalcos-Villahermosa, Queretaro-
Leon, Tampico-Ciudad Madero, Guaymas-Ciudad Obregon, and Manzanillo (see IBRD
Map No. 13454). The proposed studies would result in integrated urban develop-
ment programs (including the necessary institutional framework) up to 1988.
Preliminary terms of reference have already been prepared by SAHOP, reviewed
in the Bank and found to be satisfactory. The final terms of reference will
be approved by the Bank (Section 3.03, draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
45.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$36.1 million,
including contingencies. The proposed Bank loan would finance the US$16.5
million required to cover the foreign exchange costs. The Government contri-
bution will amount to US$18 million and the beneficiaries would finance the
remaining US$1.6 million. The cost estimates of the various project components
are detailed in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this Report.



- 15 -
Execution and Administration
46.       FLC will be the major executing agency of the project.  It was
created in 1973 with Nacional Financiera, S.A., the major Mexican public bank,
as trustee. The latter's role was subsequently transferred to BANOBRAS, the
Borrower. FLC's main responsibility then was to build housing units and
related urban infrastructure needed by SICARTSA's workers. The General
Manager of FLC reports directly to the agency's Board (Comite Tecnico),
chaired by the Secretary of Human Settlements and Public Works; BANOBRAS, the
state and local governments and other national agencies concerned are also
represented in the Comite Tecnico.  FLC has now a staff of about 400; about
half of the staff is composed of workers engaged in construction activities
and the rest is made up of professionals, technicians and administrative
staff.
47.       The Government has designated FLC as responsible for execution and
coordination of the works and programs under the project as well as for admin-
istration, including cost recovery. To carry out these tasks, FLC's adminis-
trative structure has been rearranged for increased efficiency and adequate
new staff has been hired. To set up a strengthened financial base, the
Government is now taking the steps necessary to dispose of arrears of a
number of public agencies, particularly SICARTSA. As a condition of effective-
ness, the Government is to take all necessary action to ensure payment of
all debts owed to FLC by SICARTSA (Section 7.01, draft Loan Agreement). In
the event that this matter shall have been settled before the proposed loan is
signed, Section 7.01 would be deleted from the Loan Agreement. FLC has pre-
pared selection criteria for the beneficiaries of the urban upgrading, sites
and services and construction materials loan components; these criteria
will be formalized by December 31, 1978 (Section 3.09, draft Loan Agrement).
48.       FLC will execute directly all project components except for the
regional feeder roads, to be carried out by SAHOP; the river control com-
ponent, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic
Resources (SARH), and the studies, under the responsibility of SAHOP and LCCC.
SARH, SAHOP and LCCC are adequately staffed and their respective experience
well-suited to implement the project components under their responsibility.
49.       The operation and maintenance of the electric and water networks
would be under the responsibility of the Comision Federal de Electricidad (CFE)
and the local Junta de Agua Potable (Water Board), respectively, as required
by Mexican law. The Lazaro Cardenas municipality will be responsible for the
operation and maintenance of the sewerage and storm drainage networks. SAHOP
will maintain the feeder roads and SARH the river control works.
50.       Special attention would be paid to monitoring the progress of the
project and evaluating its impact. FLC will be responsible for gathering all
field data and monitoring the implementation of the various components,
analyzing the data and work progress, and evaluating the project impact.
A complementary monitoring system, which would deal primarily with management
and financial matters related to the implementation of this project, would also
be established (Section 3.07, draft Loan Agreement). A monitoring unit has
been recently established in FLC for these purposes.



- 16 -
Cost Recovery
51.       Under this project, adequate steps will be taken to ensure that
costs are recovered to the maximum extent feasible. Investments of some
US$15.8 million can be related directly to identifiable beneficiaries, and of
this, FLC will recover about US$14.6 million (93 percent); FLC will apply
these funds towards similar programs in the Lazaro Cardenas region (Section
3.02(c)(i), draft Loan Agreement). Specifically: (i) in the case of the
sites and services and urban upgrading programs, the costs of land, earthworks,
and on site infrastructure (except for access roads) would be recovered
directly from the beneficiaries. The sale of lots will be on the basis of
10 percent down payment and monthly repayments for the balance over 15 years,
with interest at 15 percent per annum (Section 3.09 (a), draft Loan Agreement);
(ii) construction material loans will be repaid over 15 years and carry an
interest rate of 15 percent (Schedule 5, draft Loan Agreement); (iii) produc-
tion credits to artisans and small- and medium-scale enterprises will carry
an interest of 15 percent and will be amortized over a period of up to 12
years, including a grace period of up to one year; interest charges on credits
to medium- and small-scale enterprises will be reviewed annually by FLC in
consultation with the Bank (Schedule 5, draft Loan Agreement); and (iv) rents
charged for the industrial premises included in the project will cover all
operational and administrative expenses, including adequate maintenance and
depreciation (Section 3.08(c), draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
52.       Civil works for the river control component will be awarded under
international competitive bidding, except for contracts not exceeding US$250,000
equivalent each, which would be let under the Mexican public sector's ordinary
procurement procedures (subject to an aggregate limit of US$1.25 million),
which are considered satisfactory. The rest of the civil works are of minor
scope, scattered over several locations and thus unlikely to attract foreign
contractors. Purchases of equipment will also be of limited scope and there-
fore contracts will also be awarded under the Government's usual procurement
procedures.
53.       With a view to accelerate the implementation of the project, engineer-
ing studies for civil works and several studies (para. 44) have already been
started. It is proposed that retroactive financing, not exceeding US$350,000,
be allowed in respect of expenditures incurred on or after August 1, 1977.
The Bank will disburse (i) 45 percent of the cost of civil works; (ii) 40 per-
cent of the amount of construction materials loans and productive credits;
(iii) 50 percent of local expenditures or 100 percent of foreign expenditures
on equipment; and (iv) 100 percent of FLC's promotional expenditures, and of
the cost of the studies carried out by SAHOP and LCCC.
54.       About one third of the 600 ha affected by the LCCD project is now
being expropriated. Almost all this land is composed of urban upgrading
areas; expenditures in respect of the urban upgrading component will become
eligible for disbursement on completion of the expropriation procedures
(Section 3.06 and paragraph 4(b), Schedule 1, draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
Risks
55.       This operation does not present unusual risks.  The agencies con-
cerned with the execution of the project are experienced and qualj.ied anld
FLC's reorganization will improve coordination. Taking into account FLC's
lack of experience in respect of production credits, adequate screening and
evaluation procedures will be followed to minimize the risk of uneconomic
investments (Section 2.03, draft Loan Agreement), and adequate steps have been
taken to strengthen FLC.
Project Benefits and Justification
56.       The project has been conceived as an integrated approach to the
needs of the urban poor in the Lazaro Cardenas area, by relieving a critical
shortage of low cost shelter and other basic urban services, by adopting design
standards that the lowest income groups can afford, and by providing increased
job opportunities. This approach and the underlying institutional arrange-
ments can be replicated in other priority areas around the country. The
project, the first of its kind in Mexico should help establish an efficient
model for future integrated urban programs designed to improve the living
conditions of the urban poor.
57.       The project would fill some 75 percent of the low cost shelter
needs of the conurbation through 1981. Based upon a survey of the potential
beneficiaries and experience with comparable credit programs in Mexico, it
is estimated that the production credit component would generate about 1,200
additional permanent jobs; the average investment cost per job would be about
US$4,200. Another 16,000 mnan/months of construction employment would be
directly generated by the execution of the LCCD project's physical components.
About 50,000 people are expected to benefit directly from the shelter related
programs (urban upgrading, sites and services, construction materials loans)
and the programs carried out in the training centers. This corresponds to
about 60 percent of the population projected for the Lazaro Cardenas
Conurbation in 1981, when the project wil be completed. The feeder roads will
significantly help to integrate the agricultural hinterland with the main
urban centers of the Lazaro Cardenas region; newly opened areas for cultivation
and grazing will total 30,000 ha and 44,000 ha respectively. An economic
analysis was carried out for the shelter and related urban infrastructure, the
feeder roads, and the river control components. The rates of return are
presented below:
Rate of Return    Cost (US$ million)
(in percent)
Urban upgrading                                22                   7.7
Sites and services, construction
material loans and training
centers                                     28                    4.9
Feeder roads                                   22                   7.2
River control works                            28                   5.7



- 18 -
The overall rate of return of these components, making up about two-thirds
($25.4 million) of the project's total cost is estimated at 24 percent. No rate
of return was calculated for the other components (production credits, indus-
trial premises, studies and technical assistance) because the associated eco-
nomic benefits are difficult to quantify; these components are well justified,
however.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and BANOBRAS, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States and the Bank, and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii), of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III. As
a condition of effectiveness, the Government will take all necessary action to
ensure payment of all debts owed to FLC by SICARTSA (para. 47). An additional
condition of disbursement in respect of the urban upgrading component would be
that expropriation procedures be suitably completed (para. 54).
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I.P.M. Cargill
Attachment
April 12, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
MEXICO               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                  ----------------------------------------------
---------------                                    MEXICO                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      (972.5                                        MD'1T RECEN'
AGRIC.     950.0                         1960       1970   ESTIMIATE           BRAZIL          CHILE          SPAIN****
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      370.0*    690.0*  1090.0*/a               550.0*       820.0*     1580.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)             36.0       50.4       62.0 /a             92.8         9.4         33.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                         18.0       26.0       31.0 /a             11,0        12.0         67.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         36.o        52.0       65.0 T1             49.0        58.0        105.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THDU, AV)           46.1       43.8       42.0                38.4        32.9         21.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)            14.0       io.2        8.6                 9.9         11.0         8.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)         74.0        68.5       52.0               110.0        79.0         27.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        56.3        62.4       64.7                59.4        60.6         70.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.2        3.1        3.0                 2.6          2.2         1.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (x)
TOTAL                                   3.1        3.5        3.5                 2.9         2.4          1.1
URBAN                                   4.9        4.6       5.1                  5.0         3.5          2.o
URBAN POPULATION (x OF TOTAL)            50.7       58.7      63.3                 55.9        76.0         59.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)                 4
0 TO 14 YEARS                        45.8        46.2       46.3                42.0        39.0         27.8
15 TO 64 YEARS                        50.9        50.1       50.3                55.0        56.3         62.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.3         3.7        3.4                 3.0         4.7          9.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     1.0         1.0        1.0                 0.8          0.8         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6         2.0        1.8 /b              1.5          1.6         1.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)             ..       55.,      3212                250.0       403.5
USERS (x OF MARRiED WOMEN)               1.         .        13.1                 1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         11300.0   13000.0   16600.0            v  29400.0       2900.0    11900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (x)           54.0       45.0       41.0                40.4        21.0         25.o
UNEMPLOYED (x OF LABOR FORCE)              ..         ..        6.6/a,c             7.5          4.1 /a      1.1 l.a
INCOME DISTR;BUTION
K OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               /7 Ia  27 9            **                35.0  /a   31.0
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            5i.8 7Ta  58.3            *X                62.0 7a   55.8
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              3.5 7a    3.4           **                 3.0 7ja    4.8
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             10.3 7-?  10.5           **                10.0 7T    13.0
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS                .       37.1                           45.0
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS             .         0.3                            1.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               1800.0    1490.0                          1910.0      2210.0 /b   740.0 /b
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         2830.0 /b 1862C.L  a       .               3220.0 /b  5830.0 7TB
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED             590.0 7   9E3.0       830.0 /d            260.0 -    270.0 -    220.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (x OF REQUIREMENTS)          107.0     105.0       117.0               109.0       101.0        107.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               65.0        65.0       66.9                64.0        71.0        81.Q
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          29.0 /d   28.0/b    27.5                   39.0        32.0        40.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              12.7        9.8        8.4 /e                ,.         3.9         0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        80.0       104.0     111.0                 87.0      107.0        123.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       11.0       22.0       30.0                   .        39.0        57.o
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)               12.0       12.1       12.0                11.0        12.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% Or SECONDARY)                       24.0       24.0         ..17.0                        33.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (x)                  62.0 /e   76.0        76.0                64.0        90.0         94.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  2.6        2.2         , ,                1.0         1.3 /c
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (x)                        76.0 /f   61.0 /c       *-                73.0 IC    40.0 /c,d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                                                                    -C        0
(x OF ALL DWELLINGS)                       .      s9.0                           48.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (x)                       ,        2B.0                            8.0           .
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           95.0      276.0      301.. 0              60.0       143.0        214.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            14.0       24.0       40.0                25.0        18.0        71.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            313.0      567.0     724.0                491.0       806.0      1634.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 2.8        3.2         36                 2 .7       .5.0
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
[lens  otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, fcr 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
*  GNP per capita data are based on the World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
** Income distribution data for 1975 currently beging revised.
*** Spain has been selected as an objective country because its per capitt incose is higher than Mexico', and boc-uno both -ounrrirs have ic counon
the importance of tourism and the influence of nearby richer countries.
MEXICO     1960    /a  1963;    /b  Includes midwifery and nursing anxilliaries;    /c  1962;    /d  1961-62;    /e  Sin years and over;    /f  Inside
only.
1970    /a  Including assistant nurses;    /b  1964-66;    /-  Itside only.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:        /a  1976;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor forco;    /c  Larger cities only;
Id  1971;    /e  1972.
BRA71L     1970     /a  Economically active populationu;          b  Hospital personnel;    /n  Inside only.
CHILE      1970    /a  Gran Sentiago;    Lb  Personnel in government services only;    /c  Data refer to households;                     /d  Innide only.
SPAIN      1970    /a  Employment office estimate;    /b  Registered, not a11 practicing in the country.
R10, February 14, 1978
DeflINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
L     -doAral  onrea                                a              e2)                        Poonlation per nursing per-n - Poplation livided by mober of pracciing
2_t.t - TctoIal,uface area    prising lmad  are.   d inlad water.                                wle and female graduate nu-brs, "trained  or "certified' entrss  and
Agric  - Moot recast eatiatae of agricultural area -ued temporarily or pares-                   anaili-ry Per-onnel with training or-  pertieno.
meetly for crops, pa-tores, nrket & kitchen Sardne. or to lie fRll.                        Poetiation per hospital bed - Population divided by otaster of hospital beds
available in public and prioste general and apeciolised hospital and
lNP oer _upita  (1S$) - GNP per capita estimates at ourrent market pri-es,                      r-hebilitation centerai; eolude- nor,itg bones and eeta-lIshe-enrs  for
calonlated by  as  conversion method as world Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                     cus todal  and preventve care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                   Per ..pita srpply of nolories (X of requirements) - CGouputed fras energy
equiv"aent of net Rood suppics available in country per capita per dy;
Population und vital stattstio                                                                  available sopplie-  -omprise dOSestic productin, imports less exports  and
Poeplation (mid-year million)   As of July first:  if not aveilable, average                    changes in Bth;k net eupplies exclude anial feed, seeds, quantities used
of two end-yearn estiattes; 1h60, 1970 and 1975 dsta.                                         in food processing and losses in distribution; requirements were estimated
by FAG based on physiological needs for sorol -ctivity and healtb con-id-
Popnlation densitv - Per sonat  ka  - Mid-ye-r population per square kil-ter                    ering environsmental temperature, body weights, uge and ass distributions of
(100 hectares) of total area.                                                                 popnlation, and allowing 10% for waste at household level.
Po.tlation density -  et asquare ka of unrie  land - Coaputed as sbove for                    Per capita auisly Rf protein (aras Per day) - Protein contet of per capita
agricultural land only.                                                                       net supply of food par day; Mt supply of food is defined as above; require-
ments for a11 csuntries established by USDA Eionomai Research Services
Vits) ocatlstics                                                                                 provBte for a mimimuna allowance of h0 gras   of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rate per thouss.nd  average - Asnual live births per tboasand of                     20 gvesa  of anirl and polse protein, of vhich 10 gras should he animal
mid-year populstion; tan-year arithatic aveageaa  nding in 1960 snd 1970,                     protein; theas standards  re lo  r than those of 75 gras  of total protein
ad five-year averase ending in 1975 for nest recant astimat.                                  snd 03 gras of animal protein  s *n average for the vorld, proposed by FAR
Crude death rate ser thousand. aversas - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year                  in ths Third Woeld Food Survy.
population; tee-year arithmuetin averages ending in 1960 snd 1970 and five-                 Per capita protein eunoly frot animal and pulse - Protein *upply of food
year avro-gs ending in 1975 for  seat recent  sniaste                                         darived Prea  animals  nd poIses in grans per day.
Isfuot sortulity rate (/thou)   Annual deaths of infants under ona yer of age                 Death rate (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual desths per thousand to age groap 1-4
per thousand live births.                                                                     years, to children in this sge group; suggested as an indicator of
Lif, eopert..cy ot birth (yrs) - Average maser of years of life reaining at                     malnutrition.
bhuth; usually fivs-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
[Og countries                                                                               mducation
Gro-t reproduction rate - Average nunber of lion daughters a woman will bear                   Adlasted enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrollment of a11 ages as per-
It her normal reproductive period if she esperiencsa present sge-specific                     castage of primary School-age  populaotim; includes children ages 6-11 years
fertility  rate-; usually fice-year  verages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                    but adjusted for different lengths of primary ed-cation; for countries with
for developing countries,                                                                     universal educetion, enrollment asy emceed 100I  uince sxew  pupils are belo.
PFpol1tion growth rate (7) - total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-year                    or above the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                Adlulcad t nnollsasI t ratlo -aeondary school - Co-npotnd as above; secondary
Population grovth rate (2) - urban - Computed like grath rate of total                           education requires at lase  four years of approved primary tnstruction;
population; different definitlona of urban coes. -uy affect nomparability of                  providea gassnerl, vocational or te-oher training instructions for pupils
data among countris.                                                                           of 12 to 17 years of .R.; norrespondance courses are g -nerally enluded.
Urbun population (% of tatnl; - Ratio of urban to total papulation: different                 Years of schoolisa provided (first and eacond levels) - Total years of
definitions of urban sreas sy affact comparability of data among countries.                    schooling  at setndory level, vocatienal instruction may be partially or
completely esoluded.f
age strurture (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 yearn),                   Vocational enrollment (%. of secondary) - Vocational intituions i-nclude
ard  -i-ted  (65 years sod over) as Par.entaggs of mid-year populatin                          technical, indutrial or other prograns which operate independentlv or as
ARe dependency ratio - Ratie of population under 15 and 65 snd oer to thoae                      deparcmnats of secondary in-tituti.nb.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                       idlt literacy rate (%) - Literate odults (able to read and write) as per-
oconlo  depeodencc  ratio  -  eRa   of population under 15 and 65 and over to                    ce-tage of total adult population aied 15 yearn and  ver.
the labor forts in aae group of 15-64 years.
Fanilv planoing - aoceptors (,nuolative. thou) - Canalative nunher of acceptors               Ho-sing
of birth-control devices under auspices of nationsi faily pla.oing progran                   Persons per roos (urban) - Average nonbhr of peruons per ma  in occupied
niece inception                                                                                conveotional dwellings in arban-a -.; dwellings enolude non-parmaneot
F _ily p          -   er     o         e           - PearentaRgs of married womeun of            structures and unoccupied perts
child-beating age (15-44 years) who use birth-oonfrol devices to a11 earried                 Occupled dwellingas without pined outer  71   - 7tpied con--crion-l dwellings
woten It Bone a- e group.                                                                      in orbon and rcral areas without inuide or o-toide piped wster facilities
so percentage of a11 occupied dwellisgs.
gaooynent                                                                                      Access to electricity  (7 of all d-ellings) - Convectional  dwellings with
Tota1 labor ftaco   (th.nsand) - Economically acive persons, including aemed                     electricity in living quarters as percent nf cotul d-ellings in urba- and
force- and une. ployed but excloding housewives, students, et; definitions                     rural areas
in various countries are not comparable.                                                     gral dCsellino  coneneted to electricity  (/) - tonputed as above far rural
Labor force in agriculture (2) - Agricultural labor force (In faming, forestry,                  dwellings only.
hu-tilg and fishing) as par-ent.eg  of total labor fort.
Uneaployed (7 of labor forte) - Ilecployed are usually defined as parsons wha                  Cossumption
ore able and willi 'o t  trke a job, out of a job on a given day, remained ant               Radio receivers (er then pop) - All types of receivers for radio broadoasra
of a job, aod seekig work for a sp-eified minimaus period not enceedine one                    to general pnblio per thouoand of -opnlution; eocludes -nlican.ed receoiers
week;   y vat ha comparable between countries due to different definitiona                     in countries and in years when cegistratio- of radio  -tas 000 in effe-t-
of onomployed and source of dte, e.g.,  mploymant office statistics, sample                    data for recant ysars may not be conparable si0ce 0Ct -ouvntries aboliuhed
urveys, cpulsory 4 nomployment insurance,                                                      licensing.
Pasaseger caro  (per that pop) - Passenger tars topota  nog-o-   ars -retiog
nocae distribution - Per-entage of private inmoe (both in  sabh and kind)                         less than eight persons; eacludes onbulooces, hearses and oilitary
received by richest 57, richest 20X, poorest 20%, and poorest 407 of house-                    vehIcles
h'lds.                                                                                       Eilectrcitv (kwh/yr per cap) - Annual consumption of Industrial, cot-srci-l,
public and private electricity in kilow-tt houts pet capita, g.e.rally
Distribution of land overahip - Percentages of land owned by Wealthiest 107                      based on produr cion dats, without allowance far losses in grids hot  llow-
and poorest 107. of land owner,                                                                 inS fur imp oem  and doporre of electricity.
Newsprint (ks/yr per cap) - Per capita aenual cons"mption in kilograms
hiolth *od N,utrition                                                                             sotinated fra  dome-tic production plus net isapurts of newsprint.
Plpulation per pnhsioian - Population divided by number of practicing
phyocoisna qoalifiad fron a medical school at university level.



Page 3 of 4
MEFICO - 000f8IlC DEVOLOP9iR  DATA SMET
Actual                  PEall.laarv Estimates         Projected                         Grqe.th Rates                As % of GDY
1945-       19A70        1975        1976         1977         1978         1982 .    1966170      1971/73      1976/82     1965      1975      t982
NATI0NAL ACCOUNTS                                                      !ometast 1972 Prices,. US Millio-t
Gous D-stic Prodsct                         26,472.0    36,952.0    48,680.0    49,683.0    50,570.6    53,938.9    72,275.7           6.9         5,7          5.8       99.6      99.1     97.2
Gatos from Te.m  of Tr-de                      904.0        104.0       424.0        482.6        328.6        418.5     2,075.3    -35.1          32.5        25.5        3.4       0.9      2.8
Gross D-eetft  Inte                         26,576.0    57,056.0    49,104.0    50,165.6    50,899.2    54.357.4    74,351.0           6.9          5.8         6.1      100.0   10000    100.0
l porte (tieladilsu 8(70)                    2,768.0     3,928.0      5,648.0      5,339.0     4,549.4      5.,69.6      7,118.3       7.3          7.5         3.4       10.4     11.5       9.6
Exports (itwrt .p..t.t)                      2,624.0      3,152.0     3,960.0      4,470.5     4,761.2      5,223.6      9,057.9       3.7         4.7         12.6        9.9       8.1     12.2
R-s-rr  Gap                                    144.0        776.0     2,688.0        86'8.5     - 211.8         45.9    -1,939.6      40.1         16.8          -         0.5       3.4    - 2.6
Comption                                    21,704.0    30,288.0    39,752.0    39,476.4    39,799.0    41,643.5    54,421.4           6.9          5.6         4.6       81.7     80.9      73.2
I-ve sr t                                    5,016.0      7,544.0    11,240.0    11,557.7    10,888.4    12,759.8    17,989.9          8.1          7.9         7.2       18.9      22.5     24.2
Cros Doestic SeviaEs                         4,872.0      6,768.0     9,352.0    10 689.2    11,100.2    12,713.8    19,929.5          6.6          6.7        11.4       18.3      19.1     26.8
Cross Mr,tiecl Savings                       4,520.0      6,312.0     8,096.0      9,585.8      9,701.7    11,258.4    18,501.0        6.9          5.6         12.1      17.0      16.9     24.9
TRADE IN G000DS AND NFS                                                     forrest Prics. 000 Oilios                                                                          As 2 of Total
IMPORTS. TOTAL                                2,073.2      3,416.9    8.636.7       8,135.1      7,512.2     9,410.9    16,214.0       10.05        7.4          9.4      10.0    100.0    100.0
Food                                             5.9         74.6       443.0        148.2        223.4        220.7       302.3      66.1         42.8         -5.3       0.3       5.1       1.9
Petroleo cod Products                           26.2         54.2       209.1        291.3        358.0       415.2         -         15.7        40.0           -          .3       3.4      -
Otl;. Coeds                                  1,527.5      2,223.4     5,879.7      5,631.7     4,855.3      6,400.0    11,586.1        7.6         20.5        10.2       73.7      68.1     71.4
N-e.Feoto- 5orvice-                            513.6      1,064.7     2,022.9      2,063.7      2,075.5      2,375.0     4,320.6      15.7         13.7         11.5      24.8      23.4     26.7
EXPORTS. TOTAL                                 1.964.6      2,745.5     6.081,7      6,811.8      7,862.1      9.328.8    20,634.6      .j7 17.2                 19.1     100.0    100.0    100.0
Selected Agricltorel Goods -/                 642.4        711.6       954.2      1,002.8      1,785.6      1,503.5     2,200.2       2.1          6.0         12.7      32.7      15.7     10.7
Petrelece cod Peodoots                          40.1         38.4       460.1        567.5        835.4      1,687.5     7,000.1      -0.9         64.3        47.5        2.0       7.6     33,9
Selected MiOsrals                              189.7        244.3       457.6        456.7        509.6       593.4      1,050.1       5.2         13.4        12.6        9.7       7.5      5.1
Menofeccur.  -                                 132.5        326.9      1,069.3     1,193.0      1,410.7      1,752,1     4,035.6      19.8         26.8         20.9       6.7      17.6     19.6
Othse Goods                                    153.9         26.6        63.3         46.5         52.4        61.2        117.9    -29.6          18.9         9.3        7.8       1.0      0.6
ONess-actor Servico.                           806.0      1,397.7     3,077.2      3,345.3      3,268.4     3,731.1      6,228.7      11.6         17.1        10.6       41:0      50.6     30.2
TRADE INDICES                                                                    Acorea.  1972 - 100
Export Price Icdec                              78.0         90.0        172.1       170.8        177.4        194.1       295.5       2.9         13.8         8.0        -         -        -
Impoct Pri-c Imdc                               75.0         57.0       153.6        152.4        165.1        178.6       227.8       3.0         12.0         5.6
Ter-, of Trode                                 104.0        103.4        102.0       112.1        107.4        108.7       129.7    - 0.1           1.6          2.1       _        __       __
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                                                   Contest 1972 Priesu. 0S0  Millie-0
Pri-ary                                      5,082.6      6,244.9     6,183.4      6,260.1      6,725.9      7,443.6     9,610.7       4.2         -0.2          6.5      19.2      12.7     13.3
Set_od.ry                                    6,988.6    10,790.0    14,849.8    15,105.6    15,322.9    16,451.3    23,923.2           9.1          6.6         7.1       26.4      30 .5    33.1
Tertiary                                    24,G40.0    19 917.1    27,654.8    28,319.3    28,521.8    30,044.0    38,739.8           6.7          6.8          4.9      54,4      56.8     33.6
Totl (GDP)                                  26.472,0    36,952.0    48,688.0    49,683.0    50,570.6    53,938.9    72,275.7           6.9          5.7          5.8     100.0    100.0    100.0
CONSOLIDATED PUBLIC SECTOR FIN3ANCES                                   Coostost 1972 Prices. 0SS Milli-oo                                                                        Ac 2 of GDY
C-root Ro-ipts                               3,042.0     4,942.6      7,346.3      9,325.2      7,833.1      9,410.3    17,315.4      10.2          8.3         11.0      11.4      15.0     23.3
C-rrect EOpePditores                         2,329.0      3,156.4     6,222.4      6,902.5      6,643.8      7,416.7    10,652.0       6.3         14.5          6.4       8.8      12.7      14.3
Poblic S.vi,eI                                 713.4      1,786.2      1,124.0     1,332.7      1,209.3      2,060.9      6,663.6     20.1         -809         25.9       2.7       2.3       9.0
Restorers for                                  776.3      1,864.0     1,193.7      1,427.5      1,259.4      2,315,2      6,736.3     19.2         -8.5         24.8        ,.9      2.4       9.1
leveroot                                     1,741.5      0,400.5     4,085,8      4-,845.7     4,425.0      5,606.0     7,880,3       6.6         13.5          7.2       6.6       9.      1.
Deficit (set)                                 -965.2       -536.5    -3,292.1    -3,416.2    .3,165.8    -3,290.8    -1,0144.0   -11.1             43.7       -13.5       -3.6      -6.7      -1.5
ALLOCATION Or CON80OLIDATED                                                                                                                                                     Au 2 of Todd
P00L1C SECTOR EXPFNDITORES                                                                                                                                                  1970      19731    1982
Agtultoltre                                    _            843.2     3,245.5         _            -            _            _         _            _            -         8.8      15.9       -
Industrp                                                  5500 3      6,8803                                                _ -  -                                        36,3       2.4 
Tratopert end CencitatitOs                     -          1,136.9      2,024.6        -            -            _            _         _                         _        11.8      10.0o
G    _eosl AdtiSistr-ti.n  asd Othert          -          1,772.3     4,202.4         -                                                                                   18 4      20.7
Total                                          -          8,637.2    20,332.6         -            -            -            -         -                                            2 -  100,0    100.0  -
Ported A--cc
SELECTED INDICATORS                                                                                                                                                 19670        1971i75    1968
S 0CEo                                          2.91       1 2.89        4.99        11.10        13.02         3.23        3.41       -.90                                     3.63        5.76
Import Elacticity                               0.75      * 1.51       - 0.52       - 2.68        -8.28         2.38        1.16       -            -               0.31        0.96       -0.64
Margi.al Savigo  Sati0                         -0.16       - 0.24         0.11        1.34         0.50         0.46         0.35      -            -               0.19         0.10       0.53
LABOR PgRCE AND OUTPUT PER WORKER                                                                        -          Value Addod ocr bor-er (1972 vricea)
ID Milliecs      As 7, of Total    1960-1970                                    2 Of Average
IS75 1963)    1970    Grotth Rotc                       1960       1970         1960         1975      Growth Rote
Agrieclt-re                                   5.4       5.1     50.5       39.2      -0.6           608.8       939,9         34.7        33.0          4.4
I'd,utry                                      2.1       3.0     19,.6     23,1        3.6         2,468.9    4,134.9        140.6        143.0          5.3
Sortloot                                      3.2      4.9      29.9      37.7        4,4         3,222.8    4 044,8         183.6       142.0          2.3
Tetol                                        10.7      13.0    000.0      100.0        2.0        1,755.6    2,847.6         100.0       100.0          5.0
...  Not opplituble or aveileble
*                    1/ nlertdes sugar



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTEBNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(US$ million at current prices)
Actual               Preliminary Estimates                              Projections
197D           1975             1976         1977                   1978           1980           1982
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (including NFS)                     2,745.4        6,081.5          6,811.8      7,862.1                9,328.8       13,879.9       20,634.6
Imports (including NFS)                     3,416.9        8,636.6          8,135.1      7,512.2                9,458.7       12,256.1       16,271.5
Resource Balais19                           - 671.5       -2,555.1         -1,323.4         349.8               - 129.9        1,623.8        4,363.1
Interest, net -'                            - 307.0       -1,266.5         -1,872.0    -2,126.5                -2,350.9       -2,746.6       -2,713.4
Direct Investment Income                    - 267.5       -  657.5         -  636.6    -  739.8                 - 856.4       -1,135.8       -1,486.2
Workers' Remittances                          122.7           174.6.          193.0         207.5                 224.1           257.7         295.1
Current Transfers, net                         55.3           123.4           146.9         157.1                 171.6          204.9          245.0
Current Account Balance                    -1,068.0       -4,181.2         -3,491.9    -2,151.7                -2,941.3       -1,795.8          703.8
Private Direct Investment                     322.8           748.8           688.0         688.0                 777.4          983.9        1,234.2
Public Med. and Long Term Debt, net           256.6         3,565.8         4,906.9       3,075.1               2,467.0       -  213.4       -1,588.5
(Disbursements)                            (821.3)      (4,418.6)       (6,123.3)   (5,551.1)               (5,996.2)       (4,748.8)    (3,355.2)
(Repay-ents)                              (-562.7)       (-852.8)       (-1,216.4)  (-2,476.0)             (-3,529.2)    (-4,962.2    (-4,943.8)
Other Capital                                 588.7            31.7        -3,043.0      - 861.4                   21.9        1,233.3        - 133.3
(Public Short Tenm)                        (139.6)        (842.8)          (839.8)        -                      -           (-200.0)      (-200.0)
(Other Capital, me..)                      (449.1)       (-811.1)        (3,882.8)    (-861.4)                 (21.9)       (1,433.3)         (66.7)
Change in Reserves (- - increase)            -102.1          -165.1           940.0    -  750.0                  -325.1         -207.5       -  373.6
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMERTS                      844.1         4,305.7         6,560.5       5,356.8
PUBLIC MED. AND L.T. LOANS
IBRD                                          146.8          310.0            725.0         187.0                  -              -               -
IDA                                             -              -               -             -                      -             -               -
Other Multilateral                            112.3           121.8           355.1         280.0                  -              -               -
Governments                                    81,0           316.8           118.6         250.0                   -             -               -
Suppliers                                      69,7           116.7           201.9         150.0                   -             -               -
Banks and Financial Institutions              434.4        3,300.1          4,454.8       3,889.8                   -             -               -
Rends                                          -              140.3           707.5         600.0                   -             -               -
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                                                                                             EXTERNAL DEBT
Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed         3,226.9       11,095.9         16,002.9    19,078.0                                 Outstanding and Disbursed
(end of period)                                                                                                                on Dec. 31, 1977
Interest on Public Debt                     - 216.9        - 810.5         -1,069.9    -1,237.0
Repayment on Public Debt                    - 474.7         - 852.8        -1,216.4    -2,476.0                                    $ Millions    Percent
Other Debt Service (net)                    - 224.3        - 193.3         -  325.7    -  367.7
Total Debt Service (net)                    - 915.9        -1,856.6        -2,612.0    -4,080.7                 Public M 6 L.T.
Burden on Export Earnings ( 2/)                                                                                     Loans
a.  Public Debt Service                      24.0           26.6             32.6         46.0
b.  Total Debt Service                       31.8           29.7             37.3         50.6               IBRD                  1,456.8        7.6
c.  Total Debt Sergice and                                                                                   IDB                     772.7        4.0
Direct Investment Income               44.8            40.2            46.4          59.7               Governments            853.5         4.5
Average Terms of Public Debt                                                                                    Suppliers              320.8         1.7
a.  Interest as % of prior                                                                                   Bonds                1,821.6         9.6
i          year's D.0. and D.                       7.4            10.8             9.6           7.7               Other Financial
b.  Amortization as 7 of prior                                                                                 Institutions       13,852.6       72.6
year's 0.0. and D.                      16.3           11.3             11.0         15.5               Total               19,078.0       100.0
IBRD Exposure
a.  IBRD D.O. & D. as % of                   18.0           10.1              7.7          7.6
Public D.0. and D.
b.  IBRD Debt Service as % of
Public Debt Service                       7.8            7.0              5.8          4.2
IDA Exposure                                    -               -               -             -
- Not applicable or available
1/ Includes interest en short-term private and public debt
2/ Itcludes worker remittances



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at February 28, 1978)
US$ Million
Loan                                                    Amount less
Number Year         Borrower         Purpose            Cancellations  Undisbursed
33 loans fully dis-                          1,486.4
bursed
793   1972  Nacional Financiera  Tourism                      22.0          0.6
S.A.
909   1973  Nacional Financiera  Water Supply                 90.0         50.6
S.A.
968   1974  Nacional Financiera  Roads                        90.0         61.1
S.A.
969   1974  Nacional Fininciera  Irrigation                   77.0         17.1
S.A.
970   1974  Nacional Financiera  Irrigation                   47.0         43.6
S.A.
1022   1974  Nacional Financiera  Airports                     25.0         14.5
S.A.
1053   1974  Nacional Financiera  Integrated Rural
S.A.                    Development            50.0          45.6
1110   1975  Nacional Fin,anciera  Integrated Rural
S.A.                    Development           110.0          60.5
1111   1975  Nacional Financiera  Irrigation                   50.0         50.0
S.A.
1112   1975  GUANOMEX & Nacional
Financiera S.A.       Industry                 50.0          23.4
1186   1975  Banco Nacional de
Obras y Servicios
Publicos S.A.         Water Supply             40.0          38.7
1205   1976  Nacional Financiera  Industry                     50.0         33.7
S.A.
1217   1976  Nacional Financiera  Agricultural and
S.A.                    Livestock Credit    125.0            48.1
1232   1976  Ferrocarriles Na-
cionales de Mexico
& Nacional Finan-
ciera S.A.            Railways                100.0          87.7



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
US$ Million
Loan                                                 Amount less
Number Year        Borrower         Purpose           Cancellations  Undisbursed
1420   1977  Nacional Financiera  Tourism                   42.0        42.0
S.A.
1462   1977  Nacional Financiera  Integrated Rural
S.A.                   Development          120.0        120.0
1524   1978  Nacional Financiera
S.A.                 Tourism                 50.0         50.0
TOTAL                                      2,624.4        787.2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank         454.7
Total now outstanding                      2,169.7
Amount sold                      92.3
of which has been repaid         64.8         27.5
Total now held by Bank 1/                  2,142.2
Total Undisbursed                                         787.2
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28, 1978)
Fiscal                                                            US$ Million
Year           Obligor                Type of Business        Loan  Equity  Total
1958/59   Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/          Industrial Equipment       0.8    --      0.8
1958      Bristol de Mexico,
S.A. 1/                 A.C. Engine Overhaul        0.5            0.5
1961      Acero Solar, S.A. 1/    Twist Drills                  0.3    --      0.3
1962/65/  Compania Fundidora
66/68     Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.          Steel                      2.3   21.4   23.7
1963      Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/          Steel                      0.9    0.1    1.0
1963      Quimica del Rey,S.A. 1/ Sodium Sulphate               0.7    --      0.7
1964/66   Industrial del Hierro,
S.A.                    Construction Equipment   --         2.0    2.0
1970      Minera del Norte, S.A.  Iron Ore Mining               1.5    --      1.5
1971      Celanese Mexicana,S.A.  Textiles                     12.0    --    12.0
1972      Promotora de Papel
Periodico,S.A. de
C.V.                     Pulp and Paper              2/      2/     2/
1973      Cemento Veracruz          Cement                     10.5    --    10.5
1974      Cancum Aristos Hotel    Tourism                       1.0    0.3    1.2
1975      Mexinox, S.A.              Steel                     12.0    3.2   15.2
Total Gross Commitments                             42.5   27.0   69.5
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                          16.3   22.0   38.3
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC 3/                26.2    5.0   31.2
Total Undisbursed                                   _              _
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000
3/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 793    Zihuatanejo Tourism Project:  $22 Million Loan of January 22,
1972; Effectiveness Date: March 30, 1973. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
All infrastructure works have been completed. The inter-
national airport at Zihuatanejo is now being served by 35
flights a week from Mexico City. A new bilateral air
agreement between Mexico and the US was signed in January
1978 that will allow Mexican and US air carriers to serve
Zihuatanejo directly from 23 US cities. Three hotels with
555 rooms will open by May 1978, and an additional 1,500
rooms are under construction. The only category of the
loan not yet fully disbursed relates to the training compo-
nent (about US$500,000). To use these funds, the Mexican
authorities are preparing a proposal for additional training
facilities at La Paz (Baja California).
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:  $90 million Loan of
June 18, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Project works are well advanced except in the Texcoco Region.
Overall, more than half of the project works as originally
defined have been completed, and the works in progress are
expected to be completed by the end of 1978. The Government
has proposed that savings in carrying out some components of
the project be applied to finance new works which would
serve the objective of increasing bulk water supply to the
Mexico City metropolitan area. The Government is carrying
out a revision of the bulk water rate, on confirmation of
which a recommendation on changes in the project description
will be submitted to the Executive Directors.
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:  $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
About 25 percent of the works have been carried out and about
US$25 million have been disbursed. Substantial delays have
been encountered in the initiation of project works because of
the shortage of budgetary allocations. Substantial cost
increases caused by price escalation were also encountered.
Taking this into account, a change in the scope of the project
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
was made in August 1977, from 16 roads (1,975 km) to ten roads
and part of an eleventh road (1,216 km) which, because of cost
increases, have the same total cost as the original project.
The roads remaining in the project continue to be justified as
benefits have kept pace with costs. Overall progress of project
works is estimated at about 31 percent and completion is now
expected for late 1980 or about two and a half years behind
schedule.
Ln. No. 969    Rio Panuco Irrigation Project;  $77 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Construction is over 60 percent completed and termination of
all works is scheduled for 1980. About 16,000 ha were irrigated
in the previous season; on full development the project will
provide irrigation to 137,000 ha. The technical assistance
program and the land settlement program are proceeding
satisfactorily. However, inflation has been greater than
estimated at the time of appraisal, and project costs have
risen to about US$371 million equivalent from the original
estimate of US$212 million. A recent analysis of the project
indicates that the rate of return remains satisfactory, although
project costs have risen, due to rapid increases in commodity
prices over the same period. A Government's request for a
supplementary loan is under consideration.
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Construction of major project works remain substantially behind
the original schedule; the pace is, however, accelerating as
works for ithe major storage dam have now begun. About 15
percent of project works are completed and water is being
supplied to 25,000 ha of the 100,000 ha to be served by the
project. Total project costs have risen from US$146 million to
US$341 million because of higher inflation than projected at
the time of appraisal and changes in the volume of physical
works. The Government's request for a supplementary loan is
under consideration.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  $25 Million Loan of
May 28, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The project originally included the construction of seven
regional airports and the expansion of an existing one at
Campeche. Of these, the Guaymas airport works have been
postponed by the Government because of interim improvements
of the existing airport carried out by the local municipality
with its own resources. At Campeche, the Government has
decided to construct a new airport with its own funds
instead of improving the existing airport. Loan proceeds
allocated to Guaymas and Campeche were reallocated in August
1977 to complete construction of the six airports retained
in the project. Works in all the six airports are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 27.
1975. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation is accelerating after delays due to
inadequate budget support. A reprogramming of the project
was begun in 1977 to adjust for these delays. The project
is being given priority attention. Budget levels have been
inadequate but are under review and are likely to be raised.
While, as a whole, the project remains behind the original
implementation schedule, some elements, most notably extension
services, are ahead of schedule. The project would likely
be completed two years after the original closing date.
Ln. No. 1110   Integrated Rural Development Project (PIPER I):  $110 Million
Loan of May 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: October 29, 1975.
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project investments are generally on schedule and management
is taking actions to further strengthen project implementation.
Special inter-agency agreements regarding the development
credit, agricultural extension, and farmer organization compo-
nents are being implemented. The new PIDER management is
giving priority to ensuring the proper operation and mainte-
nance of earlier PIDER investments. Emphasis is also being
given to improve cost recovery, investment analysis and
programming, monitoring, and rural industries.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irr:Lgation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan:  $150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; subse'.uently
reduced to $50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The Government and the Bank have agreed that, in view of
the size and complexity of the project, its high cost and
the Government's current policy of restraining fiscal expendi-
tures, it would be advisable to carry out the project in
several phases over a longer period of time than the seven
years originally visualized. As explained in Memorandum
R77-305 of December 13, 1977, the loan amount has now been
reduced from $150 million to $50 miliion which would be applied
to the first phase of the project. The first phase works would
be implemented over four years. Contracts for priority works
are being placed and studies for the remaining works under the
reduced project are in progress. A technical assistance
component of the project is under implementation.
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:  $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The devaluation of the peso affected the project cost and its
implementation schedule. Preliminary estimates indicate a
capital cost increase of 36 percent in pesos and a delay of 7
to 8 months in implementation. The Bajio Urea Plant will be
completed in June 1978, the Pajaritos Urea Plant in June 1979
and the Parathion Plant in May 1978.
Ln. No. 1186   Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  $40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Subloan agreements have been signed with three cities where
construction has begun. It is expected that agreements will
be signed by the end of the year with local authorities for
four additional subprojects which would fully commit the
loan funds.
Ln. No. 1205   Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project:  $50 Million Loan of
April 30, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976. Closing
Date: December 31, 1979.
After some delays in committing resources to new projects in
late 1976 and early 1977, demand for financing for industrial
projects has strengthened and FONEI has numerous applications
on hand. As of March 15, 1978, 80 perent of the loan had
been committed.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1217   Fifth Agricultural and Livestock Credit Project:  $125 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30. 1976.
Closing Date: January 1, 1980.
Commitments under this project are running ahead of schedule.
Funds for medium-income producers and agro-industries are
fully committed. The National Rural Credit Bank has been
declared eligible for rediscount under this project thereby
increasing the rate of commitment of funds to low-income
producers.
Ln. No. 1232   Third Railway Project:  $100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1976. Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Execution of the project has been generally satisfactory.
Orders have been placed for rails, car components, track
and workshop machinery. Following the devaluation in 1976,
the budgetary cuts in the stabilization period, and the
slackening in traffic growth, the railway has proposed
substantial rephasing of its investment plan and procurement
schedule, details of which are being worked out. The execution
period of the project will require to be extended by about two
years. Operational and technical improvements of the railway
continue, though they have not yet been reflected in the
financial performance of the railway on account of inadequate
tariff increases.
Ln No. 1420    Baja California Tourism Project:  $42 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The establishment of a land trust fund in the project area of
San Jose del Cabo, a condition of loan effectiveness, is
expected shortly. Implementation of the project has already
started and is on schedule. A project unit in Mexico City
and adequately staffed field offices have been established.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  $120 million
Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28. 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
Implementation is on schedule.
Ln. No. 1524   Tourism Development Project:  $50 million Loan of March 21, 1978;
Effectiveness Date:                            ; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The loan is not yet effective.



ANNEX III
MEXICO
LAZARO CARDENAS CONURBATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:            About 12 months
(b)  Agencies which lprepared project:         FLC and SAHOP
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:           January 1976
(d)  First mission to review project:          March 1976
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:           October 17, 1977
(f)  Completion of negotiations:               March 31, 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:            June 1978
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
I.   The final terms of reference for the studies will be approved by
the Bank (para. 44).
2.   FLC will complete preparation of detailed selection criteria
for the beneficiaries of the urban upgrading, sites and
services and construction materials loans components by
December 31, 1978 (para. 47).
3.   Adequate steps will be taken to recover the cost of components
with identifiable beneficiaries (sites and services, urban up-
grading, construction materials loans, production credits,
industrial premises). FLC will apply the recovered funds towards
similar programs in the Lazaro Cardenas area (para. 51).
4.   The expropriation procedures in respect of land affected by the
urban upgradirng component will be adequately completed (Condition
of Disbursement, para. 54).
5.   The Government. will take all necessary action to ensure payment
of all debts owed to FLC by SICARTSA (Condition of Effectiveness,
para. 47).






lOGE                              :0                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD-13454
7~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                               r
I ~~~~~~~~N                               Iffl
ji  A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~lE                                
u,l ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~       EI ~ '
r~~~~~-fl  EII IN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N                                                    S. TA.SI PIC    -BAR AI M R    0-AV!  N
el                                                              GtI~~~~~~~~~~L/F   OF~ MEEAZO
PIZOJECT AREA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.A,i
P-Z   TYROECTAEAMNE M.
TOILL ROAMU
OTHE_ARN MAIN ROADS4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L-"l
1.~~~~.NAYIQ.A~~~~~~~ $0U.PARIt5                                                                                                                                 -CIV. -T AMA,'IRA AE  I-EtS
0        100      200      300       400       00lt                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,01
OILOMREThR                                           A      AMEMNLA  SA SNANMtfR*EE0E






rC-.pa l-a      To Zacatecas            T              To Zatecas                 San LT                     d              To
:g 4-<1~~~~~~Cflj
San   1020                              t                  Victori             Tampion
LusPotos!    eo          G uanaua - NIIzo
*                                      uada a STEEL                                      \                   erra  Colorada                                          OaxacaIrapua
^.    ZtHiAea                                                  TeUR                                                                              IS Apulco                   z                   C u/             af
San Jua
del Rflo
.   .-- - FINANCED ROAW    ,                                      C                      = ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                      (/Penotepa               /   ( PaTauc     4R k~/,_c
MAIN ROADS  -                                                                   cC   ,  4~~~~~~a ra                                      Teziutlan                                  eune
ROADS UND6R tDONSTSIUCTtON                                            ./t                              ;                                  8               Salina Cnuz (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jla 
s Re RRIA AA
oluca   MAJOR CITIESCol
1Co ~ ~ ~ Sr de12                 5        0                                                                                                                                    6-t~V   .A
- Z1HUAfTAEFJS TUIS  . EV6UiOfE3 
REGIONAL AREA~~~~~~~~~~~Oizb                                                                     Aard
.  -  .      .    .                   .                            .                ,                                  .      ..                    X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M EXI|C O    Mexico >  v
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~   a .ee efnwa bh LJbsX We,Ldeb  ff 50J$;4 feO LEa  ee                                                 .               PACIFIC       RHEA OF MAX             
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~erb. ,bane .Ei deL =~ Ge LbRf -L .bSL \ne W                                                  , .nb                                             CA _
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~flss. .a.Joma ,n ;b (s0haleLbbj, ,,, ,,, L5 a,,}  ,, , ,. .I  1
Italia "Faoo
Oetra de ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~W2






To. ruopan, Morella                                          To Corodro                                                                                                 104'
1040                                  & GsadoloIoro                                              & Aporz-ngorr            )     
M I C H O A C A N                                                                                 G U E R R E R O
0           /            Bordonal                                                 a  rill                     2
Il Naranjito
-.. I4laya Azull                                            14                    1 \                    83                  < t 
MEXI- -                                                                                   CSan FranciSco /
M  E X I CR: ---                                    <                       *       \\o                      CovC]"l / 151and         SnFoClc 
LAZARO  CARDENAS CONURBATION                                                                   - S-oso                                         F,wre                             Lima btePewby tb
Area         "'h oneOieef rho re6-aer
DEVELOPMENT    PROJECT                                                                                                                                               otee,einatiees Psit ed endth
LMira  JUpgrading                                                                           --.                                          ,                               ,   /1os Seep
*  Sites and Services                                  W-.\d  X ~dits t-,y r <                                                             /          Ws rord keed
Industrial  Area                                             *riy t                  51ATA, a( wendersen,eel
LoIILOLLOL                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~                                               ~      ~~~SICARTSA  /seopeoel~hordC5
Main Poved Roads                                                                    STEEL MILL
Main Paved Road Under Construction                                                                                Fhey        -- 
-         Dirt Roads                                                                                                                                                         \    .
4-i--i-  Railroad (Under Construction)                             N -                                          /
L-     j Lazaro Cardenas Fideicomiso Area                                                                                                                              MFXICO
Bulit up Areas
tr   -  -S Stote Boundaries                     0    1    2    3    4    5                                      OC,AN                                      OrC
Rivers                                IIOETR
v  104'                                                                                              1030                                                               | -0.--i5Ole5n,ft5t0=Ctdt.1    'N    . 0



