CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1554 ME
Loan Agreement
(Lzaro Cirdenas Conurbation Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.A.
Dated September 27, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1554 ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 27, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.A.
(hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "FIDELAC" means Fideicomiso Ciudad Lizaro Cardenas,
established by the Guarantor, of which the Borrower is the trustee
pursuant to a Contrato de Fideicomiso dated January 31, 1973, as
modified on November 4, 1975; and such term includes the technical
and administrative organization, resources, staff and facilities
used or to be used by the Borrower to operate FIDELAC.
(b) "SAHOP" means Secretarla de Asentamientos Humanos ]
Obras Pfblicas, an agency of the Guarantor.
(c) "SARH" means the Secretarla de Agricultura y Recursos
Hidraulicos, an agency of the Guarantor.
(d) "Comisi6n" means the Comisi6n de Conurbaci6n de la
Desembocadura del Balsas, an autonomous entity established by
decree of the Guarantor dated October 5, 1976.
(e) "Executing Agencies" means the agencies referred to
in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section.


﻿-2-
(f) "Sub-loans" means the sub-loans to be made under Part C
and Part D of the Project, in accordance with the lending terms
and policies set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(g) "artisan" means a beneficiary under Part D of the
Project for which the sub-loan, or total of sub-loans, granted
thereunder does not exceed $5,000 equivalent.
(h) "small-scale enterprise" means a ber-,iciary under Part
D of the Project for which the sub-loan, or total of sub-loans,
granted thereunder exceeds $5,000 but does not exceed $100,000
equivalent.
(i) "medium-scale enterprise" means a beneficiary under
Part D of the Project for which the sub-loan, or total of sub-
loans, granted thereunder exceeds $100,000 but does not exceed
$400,000 equivalent.
(j) "Fiscal year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower,
which begins on January 1 and ends on December 31.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen million
five hundred thousand ($16,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made in respect of
a sub-loan under Part D of the Project unless (i) the sub-loan
shall have been approved by the Bank, or (ii) the sub-loan shall
be a free-limit sub-loan.


﻿-3-
(b) & free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan to a benefi-
ciary in an amount which shall not exceed the sum of $5,000
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed
or proposed to be financed for the same beneficiary; provided,
however, that the foregoing amount shall be increased to the sum
of $100,000 equivalent after the Bank shall have approved the
initial five sub-loans larger than $5,000 equivalent but less than
$100,000 equivalent.
(c) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit
sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower, as trustee of
FIDELAC, shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satis-
factory to the Bank, together with (i) a description and an
appraisal of the proposed beneficiary, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan; and (iii)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(d) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-
loan shall contain: (i) a summary description and appraisal of the
proposed beneficiary and a summary description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the
proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan; and (iii) such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(e) Sub-loans which shall have been submitted to the Bank
for approval in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (c) hereof
shall be deemed approved if, within 30 days of the receipt of
the information referred to in paragraph (c) hereof, the Bank
shall not have provided notice to the contrary.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿-4-
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower, as trustee of FIDELAC, shall:
(i) carry out Parts A, B, C, D, E and F of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices;
(ii) make appropriate arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, with SAHOP and SARH for the carrying out of
Parts G and I (i) and of Part H of the Project,
respectively; and
(iii) enter into contractual arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, with the Comisi6n for the carrying
out of Part I (2) of the Project, and except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, as
trustee of FIDELAC, shall not amend or fail to
enforce any provision of such arrangements.
(b) In carrying out Part C and D of the Project, the Bor-
rower, as trustee of FIDELAC, shall apply the lending terms and
policies set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower, as trustee of FIDELAC, shall
open and maintain a Project Account and shall record therein all
receipts and payments for or in connection with the Project.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower, as trustee of FIDELAC, shall credit to the
Project Account the funds provided under Section 2.02 of the
Guarantee Agreement and the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account for expenditures made in respect of the Project.
(c) The Borrower, as trustee of FIDELAC, shall:
(i) credit to separate special accounts to be estab-
lished and maintained solely for such purpose,
all payments received by the Borrower, as trustee
of FIDELAC, from beneficiaries of programs included
in Parts A, 8, C and D of the Project, and shall,
as trustee of FIDELAC, use the funds in these
accounts exclusively to finance similar programs,
under terms and conditions similar to those which
have been applied under the Project; and
(ii) furnish to the Bank, no later than December 31,
1978, a detailed investment plan of the Borrower,
as trustee of FIDELAC, for the four-year period
succeeding such date, and shall allow the Bank a
reasonable opportunity to comment thereon.
Section 3.03. The Borrower, as trustee of FIDELAC, shall
furnish to the Bank for its approval the terms of reference, terms
and conditions of employment of consultants, and contracting and
supervision procedures, for the studies included in Part I of
the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower, as trustee of FIDELAC,
undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance
of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan credited to FIDELAC, against hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower, as trustee of
FIDELAC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower,
as trustee of FIDELAC, shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower, as trustee of FIDELAC, shall
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank, promptly upon their


﻿-6-
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract docu-
ments and construction and procurement schedules for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) as trustee of FIDELAC, shall maintain
or cause to be maint:ined records and procedures adequate to
record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost
and benefits) to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Proj-
ect; (ii) as trustee of FIDELAC, shall enable the Bank's accred-
ited representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular inter-
vals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than December 31, 1982 or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the
Borrower, as trustee of FIDELAC, shall prepare, and the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank, a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably rcquest, on the execution
and operation of the Project, its cost and benefits, the perfor-
mance by the Borrower, as trustee of FIDELAC, and the Bank of
their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower, as trustee of FIDELAC, shall
take or cause to be taken all such action as shall be necessary to
acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of
land as shall be required for carrying out the Parts of the
Project to be carried out by the Borrower, as trustee of FIDELAC,
and shall promptly furnish to the Bank evidence sufficient to show
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower, as trustee of FIDELAC, shall
monitor and evaluate the carrying out of the Project, including
changes in the levels of urban services and in the social and
economic conditions of the beneficiaries of the Project.


﻿-7-
Section 3.08. The Borrower, as trustee of FIDELAC, shall:
(a) no later than December 31, 1978, furnish to the Bank for
review the terms of reference, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, of the programs to be carried out in the
training centers included in Part E of the Project;
(b) no later than March 31, 1979, make arrangements with at
least one commercial bank for the purpose of carrying out Part D
of the Project in accordance with lending terms and policies set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(c) charge such rents for the use of industrial premises
included in Part F of the Project at levels and on terms and
conditions as shall be necessary to provide the Borrower, as
trustee of FIDELAC, with revenue sufficient to cover all opera-
tional and administrative expenses related to such premises,
including adequate maintenance and depreciation, taking into
account the general objective of attracting industrial enterprises
to the Lazaro Cardenas region.
Section 3.09. The Borrower, as trustee of FIDELAC, shall,
no later than December 31, 1978, furnish to the Bank for its
approval:
(a) a statement of the lending terms and policies to be
applied to beneficiaries in financing Parts A and B of
the Project, such terms and policies to include, inter
alia, criteria for the selection of beneficiaries, a
repayment period between five and twenty years, interest
at the rate of not less than fifteen per cent (15%) per
annum on the outstanding principal, and an initial
contribution by the beneficiary, where applicable, of
not less than ten per cent (10%) of the principal
amounts, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower, as trustee of FIDELAC, shall not amend or
otherwise fail to apply such terms and policies; and
(b) the proposed system for the selection of beneficiaries
of Part C of the Project, and, except as th Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower, as trustee of FIDELAC,
shall select beneficiaries in accordance with such
plans.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower, as trustee of FIDELAC, shall
maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations
and financial condition of FIDELAC.
Section 4.02. The Borrower (i) as trustee of FIDELAC, shall
make or cause to be made an annual audit satisfactory to the Bank
of FIDELAC's accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements), for
each fiscal year, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent and qualified auditors; (ii)
shall furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
not later than five months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of such financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the reports of such audits by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank such other informa-
tion concerning the accounts and financial statements of FIDELAC,
and the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any external debt or on any assets of FIDELAC as security for
any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank or
stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any external debt, or on any
assets of FIDELAC as security for any debt, such lien will ipso
facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect, at no cost to the Bank, provided, however, that the
foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿- 9 -
ARTICLE V
Management and Operations of FIDELAC
Section 5.01. The Borrower, as trustee of FIDELAC, shall: (i)
at all times manage the affairs, maintain the financial position,
and carry on the operations of FIDELAC, all in accordance with
appropriate business, financial, administrative and engineering
practices and under the supervision of experienced and qualified
management assisted by adequate, experienced and qualified staff;
and (ii) recruit and employ, promptly as needed, an adequate
number of experienced and qualified staff for the purpose of
carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that any of the legal instru-
ments under which FIDELAC has been established shall have been
amended or waived so as to materially and adversely affect the
carrying out of the Project or the financial condition of FIDELAC.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the event specified in
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Guarantor shall have taken all necessary action
to ensure payment to FIDELAC of all debts owed to FIDELAC by
Sider6rgica Lazaro Cardenas - Las Truchas, S.A., which
are outstanding at the date of this Agreement.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be


﻿- 10 -
furnished to the Bank, namely, that all necessary acts, consents
and approvals to be performed or given by the Guarantor, its
political subdivisions or agencies or by any agency of any poli-
tical subdivision or otherwise to be performed or given in order
to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the
Borrower to perform all of the covenants, agreements and obli-
gations of the Borrower in the Loan Agreement contained, together
with all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith,
have been duly and validly performed or given and no other such
acts, consents and approvals are required to be performed or given
for said purpose.
Section 7.03. The date December 27, 1978, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Banco Nacional de Obras y
Servicios Pfblicos, S.A.
Insurgentes Norte 423
Mexico 3, D.F.
Mexico


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
BANTECARIO                         01772619
Mexico City                        Mexico City
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Cdlumb'ia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Nicolas Ardito-Barletta
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y
SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.A.
By /s/ E. Olivares Santana
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works (in-
cluding engineer-
ing and super-
vision):
(a) for Part A of          2,100,000      )
the Project                          )
(b) for Part B of            600,000      )
the Project                          )
(c) for Part E of            100,000      )
the Project                          ) 45%
(d) for Part F of            400,000      )
the Project                          )
(e) for Part G of          1,800,000      )
the Project                          )
(f) for Part H of          2,200,000      )
the Project                          )
(2) Sub-loans under               800,000         40% of amounts
Part C of the                                 disbursed un-
Project                                       der Sub-loans
(3) Sub-loans under             2,200,000         40% of amounts
Part D of the                                 disbursed un-
Project                                       der Sub-loans


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(4) Equipment and
vehicles
(a) for Part E of             50,000      )  100% of foreign
the Project                          )   expenditures or
)   50% of local
(b) for Part F of             50,000      )  expenditures
the Project                          )
(5)  (a) Consultants'           4,500,000      )
service for                          )
Part I of the                        )
Project                              )
(b) Promotional              300,000      )  100%
expenditures                         )
related to Parts                     )
A, B9 C, D, E                        )
and F of the                         )
Project                              )
(6) Unallocated                 1,400,000
TOTAL      16,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.


﻿- 14 -
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggre-
gate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $350,000 may be made
in respect of Categories (1) and (5) (a) on account of payments
made for such expenditures before that date but after August 1,
1977; and
(b) in respect of payments made for expenditures under Part
A of the Project until the Borrower has furnished to the Bank
evidence, in accordance with Section 3.06 of this Agreement, con-
cerning the availability of land for Part A of the Project.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursemenit percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category: (i) the Bank and the Borrower may agree to reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
is not agreed or cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank, after consultation with the Borrower, shall have
reasonably determined that the procurement of any item in any


﻿- 15 -
Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without
in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or
remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of a comprehensive urban development
program in the Lazaro Cardenas region, and consists of the
following Parts:
Part A:   Urban Upgrading
Provision of basic infrastructure, other urban services
and legal title for about 5,580 plots in low-income areas of
Guacamayas, Playa Azul, La Mira and other towns adjacent to
the Balsas River, and provision of legal title for about 1,180
additional plots in these towns.
Part B:   Sites and Services
Development of about 1,800 serviced plots in Lazaro Cardenas
and Guacamayas, each with water, sewerage, electrical connections,
street lighting and access roads.
Part C:   Construction Materials Loans
Sub-loans for construction materials and labor to be used in
buildings of low-income dwellings in the Lazaro Cardenas region.
Part D:   Production Credits
Sub-loans to artisans and small- and medium-scale enterprises
in the Lazaro Cardenas region, such sub-loans to be made through
commercial banks.
Part E:   Training Centers
Construction and equipping of four '.raining centers, two in
Guacamayas, one in Zacatula-Petacalco and one in La Mira-Playa
Azul, to be used for self-help construction training programs,
training programs to benefit artisans and small- and medium-scale
enterprises, and other programs to benefit low-income groups.
Part F:   Industrial Premises
Construction and equipping of: (1) three workshop halls con-
taining ten workshops of 100-200 m2 each; and (2) two larger


﻿- 17 -
industrial buildings of 800-1000 m2 each, all in the Lazaro
Cardenas region.
Part G:   Regional Feeder Roads
Construction or improvement of secondary and feeder roads,
with a total length of about 198 km, in the Lazaro Cardenas
region.
Part H:   River Control
Construction of civil works to regulate the flow of water
in the Balsas River, including construction of a large culvert
on the right branch of the Balsas River and partial dredging
of the river.
Part I:   Studies
(1) Studies for the preparation of urban development proj-
ects in high priority urban centers, including supervi-
sion thereof.
(2) Urban development studies in the Lazaro Cardenas region,
including supervision thereof.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning November 15, 1982
through   November 15, 1994                   635,000
On May 15, 1995                                    625,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.30%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             2.65%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             4.85%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen
years before maturity                       6.60%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.50%


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of civil works shall be procured in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For works to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding and in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank and the Borower shall
agree; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in
order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the vorks in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods and for civil works other than for Part H
of the Project shall be awarded in accordance with the Guarantor's
ordinary procedures.
2.   Contracts for civil works under Part H of the Project which
do not exceed the equivalent of $250,000 each may be awarded in
accordance with the Guarantor's ordinary procedures, provided that
the aggregate amount of all contracts so awarded shall not exceed
the equivalent of $1,250,000.
C.   Bid Packages
Whenever practicable, contracts for the purchase of goods or
civil works shall be grouped to form economic bid packages.


﻿- 21 -
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $250,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower, as trustee of
FIDELAC, shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text
of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising pro-
cedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Bank
shall reasonably request in consultation with the Borrower, as
trustee of FIDELAC. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued
to the prospective bidders.
(b) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Borrower, as trustee of FIDELAC, shall
furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 5
Lending Terms and Policies for Part C
and Part D of the Project
Part C:
Sub-loans under Part C of the Project, to be made directly
by the Borrower as trustee of FIDELAC, will consist of three
types:
Construction materials, to be provided in kind;
Construction equipment, to be rented; and
Labor, to be contracted.
The principal of such sub-loans will be repaid in monthly
installments over a period of up to fifteen years. An annual
interest rate of not less than fifteen per cent (15%) will be
charged on the amount of principal outstanding.
Part D:
Sub-loans under Part D of the Pioject will be made by com-
mercial banks according to the following terms and conditions:
1.   Sub-loans for artisans will not exceed 80% of the
estimated cost of the new investment proposed by the appli-
cant. Sub-loans for small- and medium-scale enterprises
will not exceed 75% of the estimated cost of the new invest-
ment proposed by the applicant.
2.   The principal of such sub-loans will be repaid as
follows:
(a) sub-loans for construction will be repaid within 7
to 12 years (including grace periods of 9 to
12 months);
(b) sub-loans for machinery and equipment will be
repaid within 4 to 7 years (including grace periods
of 6 to 9 months); and
(c) sub-loans for working capital will be repaid within
1 to 2 years.


﻿- 23 -
3.   The commercial banks will charge an annual interest rate
of fifteen per cent (15%) on the amount of principal outstand-
ing for each sub-loan. The Borrower, as trustee of FIDELAC,
will rediscount 100 per cent (100%) of such sub-loans, at the
following rates of interest to be charged to the commercial
banks: 11.5% in the case of sub-loans to artisans; and 12.5%
in the case of all other sub-loans. The interest and redis-
count rates will be reviewed annually by the Borrower, as
trustee of FIDELAC, and the Bank.
4.   The Borrower, as trustee of FIDELAC, will establish a
Guarantee Fund to cover the risk of bad debts in the case of
sub-loans to artisans and small-scale enterprises, and will
from time to time deposit in such Fund amounts equal to one
per cent (1%) of the annual interest charges to beneficiaries
under sub-loans.


