Document of                FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3265-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR THE
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
April 15, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =      Zaire (Z)  =  100 Makuta (K)
Z 1.0                  =      SDR 1
US$1.00                =      Z 5.5
z 1.00                 =      US$0.18
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                   3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)       =      0.6215 miles
1 square kilometer    =       0.39 square miles
1 hectare (ha)         =      0.01 km2 = 2,25 acre
1 liter                =      0.26 US gallon
1 m3/second           =       35.3 cubic feet/second
lcd                    =      liters per capita per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Gecamines                     Socifte Generale des Carrieres et des
Mines (Zairian copper company)
ILO                           International Labor Organization
OPEC                          Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries
Regideso                      Regie de Distribution d'Eau
(Zairian Water Company)
UNDP                          United Nations Development Program
WHO                           World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Republic of Zaire
Amount:                     SDR 16 million (US$18.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard
Co-lenders:                 OPEC Fund for International Development (US$9.3
million)
Relending Terms:            The IDA Credit would be on-lent to Regideso at an
interest rate of 11.6 percent per annum with Regideso
assuming the foreign exchange risk. The loan would
mature in 30 years with a five year grace period.
Relending terms of the OPEC Fund loan are expected to
be the same as those of the Association.
Project Description:        The project would strengthen and expand production
and distribution systems to improve water supply
service to the cities of Kisangani, Mbuji-Mayi and
Likasi. This would provide safe water to about
513,000 additional people, significantly reducing the
high incidence of mortality and disease caused by .
waterborne agents. The project would also increase
water supply to Government, industry and commerce.
Regideso would be strengthened through provision of
materials, equipment, vehicles, training and experts'
services which would improve its operating and
maintenance capability in the three cities.
The project faces-no technical risks. Financial
risks relate to cost overruns and foreign exchange
shortage. To minimize the risk of cost overruns and
delays during construction, cost estimates and
implementation schedules have been based on final
designs.   The IDA Credit would finance operating and
maintenance equipment to be purchased with foreign
exchange thereby alleviating this constraint.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:             Project costs, including US$0.8 million equivalent of
local taxes and import surcharges, are detailed in
the table below.
Local    Foreign    Total
… ---  US$ Million--
Materials and Equipment
Likasi                              1.2         3.7        4.9
Kisangani                           0.7         3.0        3.7
Mbuji-Mayi                          0.4         2.0        2.4
Civil Works
Likasi                              2.3         3.2        5.5
Kisangani                           4.5         4.2        8.7
Mbuji-Mayi                          1.7         2.0        3.7
Construction Supervision
Likasi                              0.3         0.6        0.9
Kisangani                           0.2         0.3        0.5
Mbuji-Mayi                          0.2         0.3        0.5
Strengthening of Regideso
Consultants/studies                 0.1         0.8        0.9
Training                             -          0.5        0.5
Sub-total                    11.6       20.6       32.2
Physical Contingencies                1.1         2.0        3.1
Price Contingencies                   1.7         2.9        4.6
Total                        14.4       25.5       39.9



- iii -
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total    Percent
-------------US$ Million-------------
IDA                                    1.8        16.2        18.0       45
OPEC Fund                               -          9.3         9.3       23
Government participation 1/           12.6          -         12.6       32
14.4        25.5        39.9      100
Estimated Disbursements:
FY       FY        FY        FY        FY
1983     1984      1985      1986      1987
----------------…US$ Million---------------
Annual                                 3.0       6.0        5.4       3.0       0.6
Cumulative                             3.0       9.0       14.4      17.4      18.0
Appraisal Report: Report no. 3418-ZR dated April 1, 1982
Map: IBRD 15621
1/ This includes Government equity contribution and $0.8 million in taxes, and
contributions from Regideso and beneficiaries representing the local costs
of private connections.






iNTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR THE SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.      I submit the following  report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Zaire for the equivalent of SDR 16 million
(US$18.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to finance the Second Water
Supply Project. The OPEC Fund for International Development has agreed to
provide US$9.3 million. The IDA Credit would be on-lent by Government to
Regideso for 30 years, with 5 years grace at an interest rate of 11.6 percent.
The OPEC Fund loan to Government would have a maturity of 20 years with 5 years
grace and a service charge of 0.75 percent; terms of on-lending of the OPEC Fund
loan from Government to Regideso are expected to be the same as those of the
on-lent IDA funds.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The last economic memorandum (Report No. 3287-ZR) was distributed on
June 8, 1981 and focused on developments in 1979 and 1980. The period since
then has witnessed a number of important developments regarding Zaire: on June
22, 1981, the IMF approved an extended arrangement in support of a medium-term
(1981-83) economic recovery program; the economic situation, performance and
prospects of Zaire were reviewed at a meeting of the Consultative Group later
that month; and, in early July, Zaire negotiated a new debt rescheduling
agreement with the members of the Paris Club. These develop-
ments and others are reflected below. Country data are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of area and the
fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita, estimated at about
US$260 in 1980, ranks among the lowest in the continent. Approximately
one-third of its population of about 28 million live in urban areas, and the
population density is 12 persons per sq. km. Urbanization has been proceeding
at a rate of about 7 percent per annum, or more than two and half times the rate
of population growth. Although agriculture (commercialized and subsistence)
normally accounts for 25 percent of GDP, it provides employment and income for
more than three-quarters of the population. The mining and mineral-processing
industry normally accounts for about 24 percent of GDP; it has traditionally
been the largest source of public revenue and provides more than two-thirds of
the country-s export earnings. (The shares cited are 1977-79 averages, as
detailed GDP data for 1980 are not yet available).
1/ This section is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
for the Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project (P-3231-ZR of
March 15, 1982).



-2-
4.      When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared for the
change, both technically and institutionally.  The first 6-7 years following
independence were marked by violent political strife and a severe disruption of
the economy; but after the restoration of political order and stability in 1967,
GDP grew by about 7 percent in real terms annually until 1974. Since then,
however, Zaire has been experiencing serious economic difficulties, which have
brought about a continuous decline in per capita income.
Beginning of Current Difficulties
5.      Although the downswing of the Zairian economy started in 1975, the
current difficulties of Zaire are in many respects the result of developments
which took place in earlier years. Among these are: the progressive
accentuation of the country's dependence on the mining sector, accompanied by
the relative neglect of agricultural production; heavy external borrowing during
1973-74, mostly from private banks, at average terms inconsistent with Zaire's
level of development and for projects with long gestation periods and uncertain
economic benefits; and the attempts to drastically change the ownership
structure of the economy through the zairianization and "radicalization"
(nationalization) measures of 1973-74. Though since rescinded, the
zairianization and nationalization measures had particularly adverse and lasting
effects on the economy:  they seriously damaged private sector confidence both
at home and abroad, severely disrupted the transport and marketing links between
urban centers and the interior, and resulted in the neglect of the country's
productive capacity and infrastructure.  The deterioration of Zaire's terms of
trade in 1975, owing largely to the fall in the international price of copper,
was a major contributor to both the severity and the duration of the crisis.
6.      During 1975-77, the first three years of the crisis, Zaire's
commercialized GDP declined by about 10 percent in real terms. The Government
ran large budgetary deficits, domestic prices quadrupled, the overall balance of
payments deficit averaged more than US$450 million per year, and Zaire
accumulated about US$800 million of arrears on external debt, including
commercial credits and invisibles. Zaire adopted two stabilization programs,
with IMF support, during this period (in March 1976 and April 1977), but these
could not be fully implemented and failed to improve the situation.
7.      In 1978, commercialized GDP contracted by about 6 percent in real
terms. The overall budgetary deficit attained a record level of about Z 530
million, equivalent to about 12 percent of commercialized GDP; and deficit
financing, together with the worsening shortages of basic consumer goods, fuel
and intermediate products, pushed the annual inflation rate to about 50
percent. Between November 1, 1978 and January 2, 1979, the Government devalued
the zaire in four stages by a cumulative amount of 50 percent, or from Z 1.0 =
SDR 1.0 to Z 1.0 = SDR 0.5. Although the overall balance of payments deficit
was reduced to about $330 million, the deficit was financed primarily by a
further accumulation of arrears: total arrears (on public debt, short-term debt
and private non-guaranteed debt) increased from about US$800 million at the end
of 1977 to more than US$1.3 billion at the end of 1978. Two debt rescheduling
agreements with the Paris Club during 1976-77 proved inadequate to alleviate the
debt situation.



3-
Developments in 1979-1980
8.      Although the economic and financial situation of Zaire remained
difficult in 1979, the deterioration decelerated in several respects. According
to official estimates, commercialized GDP rose marginally (by 0.2 percent) and
the budgetary deficit was smaller both in nominal terms and as a proportion of
GDP than the year before. However, the budgetary deficit was again financed
entirely by recourse to the banking system. This plus the acceleration of
credit to the rest of the economy continued to exert pressure on prices, which
rose by more than 100 percent in the capital city during the year. The balance
of payments also remained under strong pressure, as evidenced by a further
accumulation of external payment arrears. On December 31, 1979, arrears
(including those on short-term commercial debt and invisibles) amounted to about
US$1.8 billion.  The zaire was devalued by another 25 percent against the SDR on
August 27, 1979 and by another 30 percent on February 22, 1980, modifying the
rate to Z 1.00 = SDR 0.2625 = US$0.34 and bringing the cumulative devaluation
since November 1, 1978 to 74 percent.
9.      In August 1979, Zaire adopted a new stabilization program designed
essentially to contain the overall balance of payments deficit, curb the rate of
inflation (to 50-55 percent) and thereby create the conditions for a resumption
of economic growth. To these ends, the program called for, inter alia, a marked
reduction in the budgetary deficit and its monetary financing, a substantial
deceleration of domestic credit expansion, improved foreign exchange management,
and a flexible exchange rate policy. In support of this program, on August 27,
1979 the IMF approved a Stand-by Arrangement in the upper credit tranches of SDR
118 million for a period of 18 months. The implementation of the stabilization
program encountered some difficulties in 1979. However, Zaire met all the
performance criteria in 1980 and was able to purchase the full amount under the
Stand-by. The program contributed, inter alia, to reducing the inflation rate
from more than 100 percent the year before to 47 percent, or below the level
envisaged in the program.
10.     At the end of 1979, Zaire's external public debt, including undisbursed,
amounted to approximately US$4.6 billion. With the help of a banking group,
Zaire negotiated debt rescheduling agreements with the Paris Club (December
1979) and the syndicated banks (April 1980). The Paris Club agreement covered
debts totaling US$1.3 billion and comprising all arrears outstanding (including,
for the first time, arrears on insured short-term debt) as well as maturities
falling due in 1980. The syndicated banks agreed to reschedule all their
outstanding credits to Zaire (about US$400 million, of which US$290 million in
arrears) over a 10-year period, with a moratorium interest rate of LIBOR plus
1-7/8 percent during the first five years and LIBOR plus 2 percent thereafter.
During 1980, Zaire made a serious effort to respect these agreements; its actual
external public debt service totalled US$315 million, compared to US$168 million
in 1979.



4-
11.     In 1980, the external resource constraints of the Government remained
very tight. Export growth was held back by the deterioration of the world
cobalt and coffee markets. Disbursements of medium and long term aid remained
unchanged, but debt service payments nearly doubled (to 20 percent of exports of
goods and nonfactor services) and net transfers were negligible or nil.
Nevertheless, the supply situation eased somewhat. While official imports
(imports with officially acquired resources) declined in real terms, total
imports cleared through customs registered a gain. Thanks to this gain,
according to official estimates, commercialized GDP registered an increase of
2.3 percent in real terms. The economic situation was also helped by an
increase of 17 percent in Gecamines' copper output, although heavy taxation and
the bearishness of the cobalt market caused a serious delay in the company's
rehabilitation program.
12.     During the years 1979-80, Zaire took a number of important steps under
the Mobutu Plan, which the Government views as a broad-based and multipronged
effort to achieve recovery in dialogue with and with assistance from the major
donors. These steps included the installation of an expatriate deputy governor
as well as technical advisers, all proposed by the IMF, at the Bank of Zaire.
Zaire also appointed an expatriate controller general, proposed by the UNDP, to
the Ministry of Finance. In addition, as part of an effort to reform its
customs operations, Zaire transformed the Customs Division of the Ministry of
Finance into a public organization known as the Office of Customs and Duties
(OFIDA). This new undertaking has received substantial technical and
administrative support from Belgium. Also noteworthy is the creation of a
Central Pay Directorate which is functioning with the assistance of French
experts. Moreover, the Government reaffirmed through various actions its
commitment to expanding the role of and its reliance on the private sector.
Seven inefficient "commodity offices" were dissolved; some agricultural producer
prices were raised; under a scheme of "development agreements", an effort was
initiated to involve private industry in the rehabilitation of agriculture and
related infrastructure; a new investment code was promulgated; and a number of
reforms were undertaken in the management of state enterprises.
13.     In 1979, national and international attention concerning Zaire was
directed to the preparation of a medium-term public investment program (PIP),
and the Bank was asked to assist the Zairian authorities in this endeavor. In
August 1979, the Government completed such a program for the period 1979-81,
focusing largely on rehabilitation needs in priority sectors such as
transportation and agriculture. The execution of the PIP during 1979-80 was
constrained primarily by the shortage of resources and the execution of certain
on-going projects which had not been included in the PIP: only 40 percent of the
PIP could be executed in its first two years, compared to about 60 percent
foreseen under the program. Nevertheless, the experience proved valuable. The
preparation of the PIP constituted a first step toward the establishment of an
investment programming and budgeting process in Zaire. This process has been



-5-
yielding some of the desired results: technical experience has been building up;
programming and follow-up procedures are slowly being institutionalized; and the
agencies whose cooperation is crucial to the process are slowly being sensitized
to the importance of this very cooperation.  In early 1981, the Government
prepared a new PIP for the years 1981-83, drawing on the experience with the
first program (see below).
Recent Developments and Steps toward Recovery
14.     The year 1981  witnessed a number of national and international actions
to set Zaire on the path to sustained economic recovery. First, Zaire focused
its investment program for 1981-83 more firmly on the priorities for recovery,
namely, the rehabilitation of existing productive capacity (especially mining)
and related infrastructure (especially transportation). These two sectors
account for nearly two-thirds of the program. Zaire also continued the process
of institutional reforms initiated in 1978-79. For example, it established an
External Resources Coordination Committee to deal speedily with all matters
relating to external assistance and particularly with project implementation
bottlenecks as they arise.  The permanent members of the Committee include the
representatives of the UNDP, FED and the World Bank. In addition, a major
reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture, in cooperation with the Bank, is
being studied, and a review of the tax system is under way in cooperation with
the IMF.
15.     In mid-1981, the Zairian authorities drew up, with the cooperation of
the IMF, a new program of economic and financial recovery covering the period
1981-83. In conjunction with this program, the Zairian authorities took a
number of interrelated steps toward stimulating and expanding supply, keeping
the growth of demand within appropriate limits, and improving foreign exchange
management. On June 19, 1981, the zaire was devalued by a further 40 percent
vis-a-vis the SDR as part of a flexible foreign exchange rate policy involving
frequent adjustments in the rate. Interest rates were adjusted upward and will
be reviewed periodically. And the existing price controls on most goods and
services were removed in order to stimulate the private sector. In support of
the medium term program, on June 22, 1981, the IMF approved an extended
arrangement for the three year period ending June 21, 1984 in an amount
equivalent to SDR 912 million. In addition, Zaire has prepared an Agricultural
Action Plan whose specific prescriptions, some of which are still being worked
out, are designed to bring about improvements in the following key areas: (i)
strengthening of institutions; (ii) policies for pricing, marketing, credit and
foreign exchange allocation; (iii) implementation of on-going projects; (iv)
investment programming for the sector; and (v) research, extension and
training. It is the Government's intention to revitalize and develop this
important sector by relying on the private sector, limiting the Government's
role to the provision and maintenance of the necessary infrastructure.
16.     The economic situation and prospects of Zaire were the subject of
discussions at the meeting of the Consultative Group for Zaire held during June
1981. The participants expressed satisfaction with the improvements which had
taken place in the economic situation and management. They agreed with the
overall priorities of the public investment program and with the thrust of the
Government's policies, especially those designed to liberalize the economy and
stimulate the private sector. After a review of the Agricultural Action Plan,



- 6 -
it was decided to convene a meeting on agriculture in mid 1982, given the
importance of this sector and the need to assure follow-up as well as
coordination of policies and actions, both internally and externally.l/ The
Consultative Group also reviewed the priorities within and government policies
in respect of the transport sector. A number of participants indicated their
intention to increase their overall assistance to Zaire in 1982 and beyond. In
July 1981, shortly after the meeting of the Consultative Group, Zaire
successfully negotiated with the Paris Club the rescheduling of maturities
falling due in 1981 and 1982, including the postponement of some of the already
rescheduled maturities. Under the terms of the new agreement, contingent on
compliance with the EFF, the debt service due in 1981 was reduced from US$700
million to US$490 million. If the delays in the signature of the bilateral
agreements are taken into account, the debt service effectively due was about
US$370 million, equivalent to 24 percent of exports of goods and non factor
services.
17.     Although management and institutional reforms continued during 1981, the
physical progress of the economy toward recovery was slowed down due to a
combination of external and internal factors. According to preliminary
estimates, the weakness of the copper, cobalt and coffee markets caused a 17
percent decline in merchandise exports in nominal terms. Merchandise imports
fell 13 percent short of the projections under the IMF program and were about 8
percent lower in real terms than the level of 1980. As a result, Zaire will be
able to purchase the equivalent of SDR US$106.9 million under the compensatory
financing facility of the IMF. Zaire also experienced growing difficulties in
meeting its debt service obligations and began accumulating arrears in the
second semester of the year. Developments in the external sector (a major
source of government revenue) had a very negative impact on government
finances. This, coupled with a weakening of budgetary discipline, caused the
budgetary deficit and its banking-system financing to exceed the program targets
for September 30 and December 31, 1981. Consequently, Zaire was not able to
purchase the third and fourth tranches under the IMF program. However the
inflation rate was reduced somewhat during the year and, despite the above
difficulties, the Government continued to refine its Agricultural Action Plan,
began updating the public investment program once again, reaffirmed its
intention to improve the management of Gecamines and Sozacom (the state mining
and mineral marketing companies, respectively), and announced it intention to
transfer the ownership of 37 public enterprises to the private sector.
18.     Zaire retains a significant potential in mineral resources, energy and
agriculture. Its difficulties of the last few years have been aggravated
considerably by exogenous factors such as the protracted weakness of copper
prices and, more recently, those of cobalt. Economic developments in Zaire will
continue to depend on the vagaries of world commodity prices. Adjusting to the
resource constraints and other difficulties brought on by the crisis has been
seriously hampered by the overall weakness of institutions, the inadequacy of
administrative controls, and the deficiencies of economic decision-making.
While overcoming these difficulties will take time, through the cooperation of
1/ As of this writing (end-March), the meeting is tentatively scheduled for
end-June.



-7-
the Government with the major donors, including the IMF and the Bank, a set of
actions aiming at the progressive de-control of the economy has been mapped out
for setting Zaire more firmly on the path to recovery. Achieving the desired
recovery will require perseverance on the part of Zaire as well as continued
efforts by the donors to keep the external debt burden at a manageable level and
to replenish the project pipeline which has been severely depleted in the last
few years (from US$1.2 billion in 1975 to an estimated US$550 million at
present).
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
19.     Since 1969, Zaire has received 24 IDA credits totaling US$351 million
for transport, agriculture, development finance company operations, water
supply, power and education projects. The Bank has also extended grants
totaling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two planning assistance
projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan of US$100 million for the
Gecamines Mining Expansion Project, which was cofinanced by the European
Investment Bank and by the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, and which provided for
special repayment arrangements linked to the project's export earnings. The
IFC, which has a US$760,000 equity participation in the Societe Financiere de
Developpement Economique (SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million loan for an
offshore oil production project in September 1978. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1982
and notes on the status of ongoing projects.
20.     A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been institution
building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was established in 1970 with
assistance from IFC and IDA. The major transport agencies, ONATRA, Societe
Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois (SNCZ), Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF),
Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVM) and Office des Routes (OR), received technical
and financial assistance from the Association, which also helped establish the
National Livestock Development Authority. In the case of Gecamines, the Bank
loan originated a dialogue, still ongoing, intended to define ways and means to
strengthen the management, financial position and planning of the company.
21.     In general, project implementation has been difficult due to the
country's inadequate manpower and management capability and, in recent years,
because of the economic crisis.  In the last two or three years, release of the
required budgetary funds has been difficult periodIcally because of budgetary
constraints. Lack of foreign exchange to finance spare parts and fuel, and the
deterioration of the transport network and marketing system have resulted in
severe supply problems for most projects. Recruiting and retaining adequate
staff has also been difficult. In January 1980 the Bank undertook with Zairian
officials an overall review of Bank Group projects which for the first time
provided an integrated view of implementation problems. This has resulted in an
acceleration and improvement in the utilization of the Bank's assistance,
particularly in the agriculture sector.
22.     Ten credits and one loan have been totally disbursed:  Credits 152, 292
and 536-ZR (First, Second and Third Highway Projects); Credit 255-CK (River
Transport Project); Credit 272-CK (Education Project); Credit 398-ZR (Livestock
Project); Credits 190, 271 and 463-ZR (First, Second and Third SOFIDE Projects);
Credit 625-ZR (Water Supply) and Loan 1090-ZR (Gecamines).



-8-
Completion reports have been issued for all projects except Water Supply,
Education, Livestock and Gecamines, and Performance Audit Reports have been
issued for the First SOFIDE and the first Highway Projects. The conclusion of
the audit and completion reports was that the Bank Group's impact on institution
building had been mixed. SOFIDE was evolving as an effective and competent
institution, and the Office des Routes, the highway agency, had been able to
establish an effective administrative set-up.  On the other hand, ONATRA's
performance had not improved as a result of the first River Transport Project
but did improve under a follow-up project; implementation by RVF and RVM had
disappointing results, but financial results of operations had improved. All
entities had encountered operating difficulties beyond their control as the
economy deteriorated, financial resources grew scarcer and the problems
besetting the investment environment were exacerbated by Government's
zairianization/radicalization measures. Bank Group support to SOFIDE and the OR
is continuing under Fourth and Fifth SOFIDE projects (Crs. 710 and 998-ZR) and a
Fourth Highway Project (Cr. 916-ZR). RVF and RVM received assistance through a
second River Transport Project (Cr. 571-ZR); and ONATRA will benefit from a
recently approved Modernization Project.
23.     The rate of disbursement to Zaire is average for the East Africa
Region. For fiscal years 1979-81, disbursements totalled US$101 million
compared with new commitments of US$105 million. In this same period, the
average annual disbursement rate (ratio of change in disbursements to
undisbursed balance) was 24 percent; this compares favorably with an average
rate of about 20 percent for other countries of the region. While disbursement
performance in general is satisfactory, difficulties have arisen in several
projects. In the case of early credits for transport, education and livestock
(Credits 255-ZR, 272-ZR and 398-ZR), the lack of a strong project entity to
create an implementation momentum caused general delays. Economic conditions
were also a factor in slowing project programs in instances where government
counterpart funds were not available (Third Highway, Credit 660-ZR; Second
Education, Credit 624-ZR) and where the investment environment experienced slow
recovery from the aftermath of abrupt nationalization (Fourth SOFIDE, Credit
710-ZR). Future project implementation should be less affected by the above
influences given the strengthening of institutions under subsequent projects and
efforts by the Government to improve its budgetary support of IDA-financed
projects. At end 1981, the Bank Group share of Zaire's total debt disbursed and
outstanding was less than 10 percent.
24.     In the past three years, the Bank Group's main efforts have been
directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development of the
agriculture and transport sectors, in part through the design and implementation
of appropriate new policies. Investments in industry were also emphasized
through assistance to SOFIDE. Our lending will continue to support the
transport sector, in particular the Voie Nationale; to assist the development of
the agriculture sector within the framework of the new Agricultural Action Plan
(see para. 15 above) through improvement of agricultural policies the
strengthening of agricultural institutions and the financing of projects
designed to increase the production of both foodcrops and industrial crops, and
to promote the development of the industrial and mining sectors. In addition, further
support will be considered for the energy sector.



-9-
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
25.     Zaire is well endowed with water resources; rainfall is regular and
abundant and numerous rivers and streams provide ample surface water. Rivers
are the main source of water for urban centers with only a few cities relying on
groundwater sources such as natural springs or deep aquifers; water treatment
facilities are therefore required to ensure safe water for urban areas. Rural
areas generally have access to relatively unpolluted surface water making the
availability of potable water a less urgent problem. All water resources are
state owned and in principle, water rights are granted and charged for by the
Government.
Sector Organization
26.     Water supply in urban areas is the responsibility of the state
corporation, Regie des Distributions d'Eau et d'Electricite (Regideso), the
proposed project executing agency. Regideso is government owned and is
responsible to the Ministry of Energy for technical matters, and to the Ministry
of Investments (Departement du Portefeuille) for financial matters. The two
ministries approve all important decisions concerning new investments,
borrowings and Regideso's organization. Rural water supply is the
responsibility of a "hydrological brigade" which comes under the auspices of
the Secretary of State for Rural Development, Ministry of Agriculture.
Responsibility for sewerage and drainage activities lies with municipalities
through their Roads and Sanitation Divisions, which are responsible either to
the Ministry for Environment, Conservation of Nature and Tourism, or to the
Ministry of Public Works and Land Development. Initiated by the Drinking Water
and Sanitation Decade, a national Water Supply and Sanitation Committee was
created in July 1980 and is headed by the Planning Minister with the Minister
for Environment as Vice President and Regideso's Chairman as Executive
Secretary. This new committee is expected to coordinate the activities of the
different government agencies involved in the sector, to plan the development of
the sector, to mobilize financial resources and to propose arrangements for
strengthening the institutions of the sectors, especially for sanitation. Until
now, its main achievement has been to sensitize the top level of the Government
to the sector needs and constraints.
27.     Regideso is empowered to transmit, treat and distribute water in urban
centers and to construct and operate new water production and distribution
facilities. It presently operates in 56 urban centers and intends to expand its
operations gradually to include 98 smaller urban centers presently without
services. Regideso is satisfactorily organized with a central administration of
four departments comprising about ten divisions; staff total 3,600 which is a
reasonable size for the entity given the dispersion of its activities. Only
eleven expatriate staff, mainly technicians, work for Regideso. The President
Delegue General, a Zairian, has proven to be a competent and efficient manager;
departmental, divisional and regional managers have also proven to be capable,
with relatively lengthy collective experience.   A major problem for Regideso
had been the shortage of qualified Zairian technical staff. Under the first
Water Supply Project (Credit 625-ZR), a Training Division was established to
define and implement training policy. With United Nations Development Program
(UNDP) and International Labor Organization (ILO) assistance a systematic
program was developed which has trained 600 staff and an overseas training



- 10 -
program was implemented for 50 key managerial and higher level staff. Although
not entirely eliminated, the staffing constraint was alleviated by these
programs and Regideso's branches have reported that the quality of work,
particularly in operations and maintenance has improved. A second phase program
to be implemented by the present cadre of Zairian training staff with the
assistance of UNDP and ILO will emphasize management training.
Urban Water Supply
28.     The level of water supply services in Zaire is one of the lowest in the
world. Regideso supplies water to about 1.7 million urban dwellers representing
only 21 percent of the total urban population. 85 percent of those served are
supplied through 150,000 private connections, which are used not only by the
family owning the connection, but often also by friends and neighbors who do not
have connections of their own.  The remainder of the population served is
supplied through 550 public standpipes. The number of standpipes is low, but
only recently have management arrangements been made which provide an incentive
to increase them (para. 47). Distribution has not been expanded to many of the
suburbs which developed after independence, and 98 smaller urban centers with
population over 50,000 still have no piped water. Most of the urban dwellers
not supplied by Regideso rely on unprotected wells or springs, and polluted
streams.
29.     Between 1960 and 1967 there was no investment in the urban water supply
sub-sector. Since then, Regideso has made large investments (totalling about
US$160 million equivalent) mainly with the help of the European Development
Fund/European Investment Bank (EDF-EIB) ($12 million), the Association ($21.5
million), the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) ($10 million)
and the African Development Bank (AfDB) ($15 million). As a result, from 1968
to 1978 Regideso increased the number of urban centers served by 14 percent,
production capacity by 120 percent, distribution networks by 33 percent and
quantity of water sold by 84 percent, concentrating its efforts in those areas
where the need for safe water supply was more urgent. The main beneficiaries of
these investments have been the major urban centers - Kinshasa, Lubumbashi,
Kananga, Kisangani, Mbuji-Mayi, Kamina and Mbandaka.
30.     Regideso's proposed development program for 1980-1985 totals US$508
million equivalent for rehabilitation of production and distribution facilities
(US$58.0 million) and extensions (US$450 million). The program would mainly
benefit the suburbs of major towns, medium-sized towns and small towns not
presently served. In addition to construction of water production and
distribution facilities, the program includes the construction of plants for the
production of water treatment chemicals, the purchase of operating and
maintenance equipment, the implementation of a hydrogeological study on the
quantity and quality of underground water resources, and a training program.
This investment plan appears to be ambitious given Regideso's staffing
constraints and would require considerably more external aid than is likely to
be available. Aside from the proposed project, it is estimated that during the
period 1982-86 Regideso will be able to implement a program of about US$260
million. About 52 percent of the necessary funds are expected to be generated
from Regideso's own resources (see para. 56).



- 11 -
During negotiations agreement was obtained that Regideso would exchange views
with the Association during the first trimester of each year on its program for
capital investments in that year and borrow no more than US$4 million equivalent
in any year from 1982 to 1986 without the prior approval of the Association
(Section 4.03 (a) of the draft Project Agreement). This supersedes section 4.09
of Development Credit agreement 625-ZR which required consultation with the
Association before borrowing Z 2 million.
31.     The main constraints on Regideso's development and operations program
are financial and stem from the economic difficulties of the country. There is
limited foreign exchange for Regideso to import spare parts, chemicals, meters,
pipes etc., all of which are necessary for operation and maintenance. Civil
works are costly because of a national shortage of building materials, gasoline,
oil and spare parts. Transportation costs are high, and security is poor.
Qualified manpower is still in short supply although Regideso's training program
has lessened this constraint (see para. 27). The proposed project would supply
much needed foreign exchange for priority production and distribution works, and
vehicles and equipment for maintenance, and would finance the services of
engineering consultants to supervise construction works and a management expert
to improve financial computing activities. In addition, the project would
provide training materials and overseas training to support the program
established by the first Water Supply Project which is presently continuing with
ILO and UNDP assistance.
Rural Water Supply
32.     Information on rural water supply is scarce.  The WHO World Health
Statistics Report (1973) indicates that only 5 percent of the rural population
has access to permanent sources of safe water. Before independence there were
a small number of protected springs, wells and handpumps in the villages, and
only 1,500 public standpipes supplied through motor-driven systems. These
systems were inadequate to meet rural needs and since then have generally fallen
into disrepair from lack of maintenance. Virtually no new investment had taken
place until recently with the implementation of a United Nations Childrens Fund
(UNICEF) program to upgrade existing wells, build new wells and protect natural
springs, and a UNDP program to train drillers and hydrogeologists. Considerable
additional assistance is still required since the Ministry of Agriculture lacks
both staff and funds to rehabilitate existing systems and develop new ones.
Sanitation
33.     In urban areas, human excreta are usually disposed of through pit
latrines in low-income areas and septic tanks in high-income residential areas.
The only waterborne sewerage systems are found in the centers of the main
cities. Only about 100,000 people, or less than 1 percent of the urban
population, have house connections to a sewerage system, and only 7 percent use
household disposal systems. The most serious effects of the lack of adequate
sewerage have generally been limited by low population density, permeable soils
which enable the use of pit latrines and septic tanks and by the usual proximity
of large, fast-flowing streams. However, there are potential health hazards
where high density zones have developed at some distance from rivers, or where



- 12 -
streams are small or polluted, as in parts of Kinshasa and the cities in the
south-eastern region.  Excreta disposal in rural areas does not seem to be a
serious health problem, at present. Virtually no development, repairs or
maintenance are currently carried out in the sanitation subsector, which is
poorly organized and institutionally weak (para. 26). Prerequisites to the
development of the sanitation subsector are the need to study appropriate
low-cost technologies, health education, cost recovery arrangements and the
identification and strengthening of suitable institutions to implement and
maintain sanitation facilities.
Government Strategy and Objectives
34.     Because the risks to public health are greater in cities and towns with
higher population density, greater emphasis in the short run will be directed
toward increasing the level and improving the quality of service in urban
areas. Costs would be minimized by utilizing public standpipes for
distribution where feasible and use of less costly groundwater resources would
be explored. Service in general would be made more efficient and Regideso's
capabilities would be expanded through more training. The strategy for the
rural subsector is to rehabilitate existing facilities, promote self-help
schemes and train personnel.  It is also recognized that more information is
needed to develop an appropriate administrative structure for the sub-sector,
select initial activities in rural centers and formulate a long term strategy.
Bank Group Involvement and Strategy
35.     The Bank Group agrees with the Government's strategy and has supported
it through various activities. In 1976 the Executive Directors approved a Water
Supply Project (Credit 625-ZR) to rehabilitate and extend water supply systems
in six cities. Through the IBRD/WHO Cooperative Program a tariff structure
study was undertaken in 1979, and its recommendations are now being
implemented. The Bank was also administrator of a UNDP Project (ZAI/78004)
which helped prepare the master plans and feasibility studies for water supply
and sanitation in the urban centers of Likasi, Bukavu and Mbandaka. In regard
to rural water supply, the recently approved Smallholder Maize Project (Credit
1040-ZR) includes a US$1.2 million component for rehabilitation of village water
systems.
36.     The first water supply Project, for which a US$21.5 million credit
(Credit 625-ZR) was approved, included rehabilitation and extension of water
supply systems in Lubumbashi, Kisangani, Kananga, Mbuji-Mayi, Mbandaka and
Kamina; training and studies. The project was completed in December 1981 and is
fully disbursed. The African Development Bankc (AfDB), and Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) contributed US$6.1 million and US$10.0
million equivalent respectively for construction and rehabilitation works and
UNDP contributed US$1.6 million equivalent toward the training program. The
project encountered severe financial problems as a result of deteriorating
economic conditions which included very high rates of domestic inflation,
transportation and communication interruptions, and fuel and building material
shortages. The uncertainties of the general economic situation resulted in
contract prices 40 percent higher than the appraisal estimates; distribution
works were therefore substantially reduced in Kisangani, Mbuji-Mayi and Mbandaka



- 13 -
to ensure financing for the highest priority, i.e. new production works.
Despite the financial obstacles, all remaining construction works have been
satisfactorily completed and the training program has been successful in
alleviating staffing constraints (see para. 27). It is now proposed that the
distribution works in Kisangani and Mbuji-Mayi eliminated from the first project
be financed under this project. To reduce the risk of cost overruns in the
second project, cost estimates based on final design have been prepared.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.     The proposed project was identified by Regideso and Bank staff as a
result of activities initiated by the first Water Supply Project (Credit
625-ZR) and through the UNDP Project (ZAI/78004) administered by the Bank
Group. Negotiations were held from March 8 to 12, 1982; the Zairian delegation
was led by Mr. Pakabomba H. Koni, representative of the Department of Finance
and Budget. A report entitled Staff Appraisal Report Second Water Supply
Project," no. 3418-ZR dated April 1, 1982 is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Supplementary project data are contained in Annex III.
Objectives
38.     The main objective of the project is to improve water supply in the
cities of Kisangani, Mbuji-Mayi and Likasi by strengthening and expanding the
capacity of production and distribution systems. Water supply needs of these
three cities have the highest priority because of the high concentration of
population and the low levels of service. The improved systems would provide
safe water for 100 percent of the residents in the three cities where presently
only 50 to 70 percent are served. The project also aims at strengthening
Regideso's operating and maintenance capability by providing engineering
financial and management experts' service; training; and equipment, materials
and vehicles.
39.     The project would include the following components:
(a) Production and Distribution Works
-   Construction of two production boreholes and drilling of eight
test boreholes to investigate further water resources in Likasi.
-   Construction of two reservoirs each with a capacity of 2000 m3
in Likasi; two reservoirs with capacities of 1500 and 1000 m3 in
Kisangani; and one reservoir with a capacity of 1600 m3 in
Mbuji-Mayi.
-   Supply of pumping and water treatment equipment for the
rehabilitation of the old water works in Kisangani.
-   Supply and installation of three pumps with their electric
equipment (two in Likasi and one in Mbuji-Mayi).
-   Supply, transportation and laying of distribution pipelines: 52
km in Likasi, 85 km in Kisangani and 57 km in Mbuji-Mayi.
(Replacement of old pipelines, comprising 13 km in Likasi and 49
km in Kisangani, are included in the above figures).



- 14 -
-   Construction of public standpipes with kiosks including piping
and meters (about 26 in Likasi, 115 in Kisangani and 10 in
Mbuji-Mayi).
-   Construction of 13,300 private metered connections (about 2,000
in Likasi, 7,200 in Kisangani and 4,100 in Mbuji-Mayi).
(b) Operation and Maintenance
- Supply of 12 vehicles, two engine-driven electric generating
sets, and maintenance equipment for the three cities of the
project.
(c) Experts' Services
-   Provision of engineering consultants' services for detailed
design studies, to supervise construction of the project in the
three cities and for hydrogeological services in Likasi.
-   Provision of management consulting services to improve
Regideso's computer operations.
-   Provision of financial consultants' services to revalue
Regideso's assets.
(d) Training
-   Provision of training equipment and funds for overseas training.
40.     Production and Distribution Works.  Present production and distribution
capacities are insufficient to meet demand in Kisangani. While a new production
facility was constructed under Credit 625-ZR, rehabilitation of the old water
works facility (Tshopo I plant) to add a needed 15,000 m3/day was deferred. The
proposed project would supply pumping and water treatment equipment to renovate
this plant. The existing distribution network is also inadequate to supply
peripheral areas of the city. Two reservoirs of 1,500 m3 and 1,000 m3 would
therefore be constructed, 7,200 metered private connections installed, 49 km of
pipe would be replaced, 85 km of new pipe laid, and 115 standpipes installed.
41.     Mbuji-Mayi's production facilities were also expanded under Credit
625-ZR and are adequate to meet projected demand for the next 20 years.
However, because of reduction in the scope of the first project, construction of
virtually all distribution works had to be deferred.   The proposed project
would therefore finance a 1,600 m3 reservoir and supply a pump, electrical
equipment, 4,100 private connections, 57 km of pipe and 10 standpipes.
42.     In Likasi, water production facilities are owned and operated by
Gecamines, and serve its needs first. Regideso purchases the remaining water to
serve the city population not linked to mining, rail or army compounds. The
needs of this segment of Likasi's population now far exceed the residual water
available from the Gecamines facility; water shortages occur even in those
peripheral areas of the city reached by the limited distribution system.



- 15 -
To expand present production facilities and prepare for future expansion, a main
pump and electric line would be installed at Kampemba and 2 boreholes and 8 test
boreholes will be drilled. Distribution would be improved by construction of 2
reservoirs of 2,000 m3 each and installation of 2,000 private connections, 52 km
of pipe and 26 standpipes.
43.     Equipment for Operation and Maintenance.  A major constraint to
development of the water supply subsector is the scarcity of foreign exchange
for purchase of necessary maintenance and operation items such as spare parts,
chemicals, small equipment and tools. Regideso's operating and maintenance
capability in the three cities of the project would be strengthened by provision
of 12 vehicles, two engine-driven electric generating sets and miscellaneous
small tools and equipment.
44.     Experts' services.  Approximately 130 man-months of technical assistance
would be used to supervise civil works in the three cities and complete
hydrogeological studies in Likasi. In order to accelerate project
implementation and ensure reliable cost estimates, detailed design studies were
begun under the first Water Supply Project. The second part of these studies
would require about 56 man-months of engineering services which would be
financed under the proposed project (para. 53). As computer operations are not
well organized, delays have occured in billing customers, processing accounts
and inventory control operations. In addition, the equipment is old and does
not have the capacity to sustain Regideso's current level of activity, and there
are not enough qualified personnel to operate it. Under the proposed project,
the Association would finance six months of the services of a management
consultant to identify a new organization which would establish a more suitable
system and procedures. About 14 man-months of the services of financial experts
would also be included to assist with revaluation of Regideso's assets. The
average man-month cost of consultants' services (including salary, overhead,
travel and subsistence) is US$13,600. Regideso would employ (i) engineering
consultants by March 31, 1983, (ii) management consultants by March 1, 1983 and
(iii) financial consultants by October 1, 1982 in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the Bank's guidelines
for the use of consultants (Sections 2.02 and 2.03 of the draft Project
Agreement).
45.     Training.  To provide practical training in water treatment, underground
exploration methods and pipe laying, the project would finance a mini-treatment
station, mobile treatment unit, drilling equipment and an electro mechanical
workshop. Specialized training in supply and management of water resources and
project evaluation would be supported through fellowships for overseas training.
Project Organization and Implementation
46.     Regideso would have direct responsibility for execution of the project.
A full time engineer for each city would be assigned to administer and supervise
construction with the assistance of the engineering consultants.  In addition,
an engineer would be assigned to oversee the three site engineers and ensure
liaison between Regideso headquarters, and the consulting engineers (Section
2.04 of the draft Project Agreement). This new arrangement would supersede
Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement 625-ZR which provided for a
Project Unit.   Consultants financed under the first project have completed
detailed design and bid documents and detailed cost estimates. Bids would be
invited by May 1982, and major contracts could be awarded by December 1982. The
project would be completed by December 31, 1985.



- 16 -
47.     Public standpipes were previously operated by municipalities, with water
consumed paid for by the Government. This arrangement led to excessive water
use. To reduce wastage, Regideso initiated a system to collect water charges
and since January 1980 has taken over management of about half the standpipes
operated by the municipalities. Regideso sells the water to concessionaires who
in turn collect charges from consumers. The concessionaire system and
introduction of kiosks have reduced water wastage and the related excessive
expenses incurred by the Government. To ensure constant supervision of
standpipe operations, Regideso will appoint a full-time standpipe manager for
all its centers. Private connections laid in public land were in the past
financed by the consumers.  Because of the growing scarcity of foreign exchange,
Regideso can no longer purchase pipes and meters to construct private
connections without external financing. To ensure the normal replacement and
construction of private connections needed in the short term and to increase
revenues as expected, the foreign costs of about 13,000 metered private
connections would be financed under the project. To avoid subsidizing consumers
with private connections, it was agreed that Regideso shall take all steps
acceptable to the Association to recover promptly from the consumers the full
cost of constructing new private connections in the cities of the project
(Section 4.06 of the draft Project Agreement).
Cost Estimates
48.     The project cost is estimated at US$39.9 million equivalent, of which
US$25.5 million is in foreign exchange. Total project cost includes US$0.8
million in local taxes. Materials and equipment imported directly for the
project would be exempt from customs duties and import taxes but will include a
customs service charge (statistical recording fee) of 3 percent on CIF prices.
A detailed breakdown of project costs is shown in the Credit and Project
Summary. Cost estimates are based on June 1982 prices; unit costs are based on
recent experience in Zaire. Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been
added to the base costs. To compensate for domestic inflation, local costs have
been calculated in US dollars and it was assumed that the progressive
devaluation of the Zaire currency would compensate for local price increases;
local costs in US dollar equivalent and foreign exchange costs are projected to
increase at the annual rates of 8.5 percent for 1982 and 7.5 percent for 1983
and thereafter.
Financing
49.     External financing would cover 100 percent of foreign exchange and 70
percent of total project costs.  The IDA Credit of SDR 16 million (US$18.0
million equivalent) would finance 46 percent of total project costs (net of
taxes) I'ncluding 19 percent of local costs applied to civil works in Kisangani
and Mbuji-Mayi; local cost financing by the Association is justified by the
limitation on resources available to Regideso and represents only about 12
percent of total project costs.  The OPEC Fund loan of US$9.3 million would
finance all foreign exchange costs of works and services for the city of
Likasi. The Government participation would be equivalent to US$12.6 million
comprising its equity contribution, US$0.8 million of local taxes and local
costs related to private connections provided by Regideso and beneficiaries.
Execution of the OPEC Fund loan would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(Section 5.01 (b) of the draft Credit Agreement). Execution is in this instance
sufficient, since the OPEC Fund will be providing funds for an independent part



- 17 -
of the project (Likasi city); in the unlikely event these funds did not become
available, the remaining components (i.e rehabilitation and expansion in
Kisangani and Mbuji-Mayi) would form a valid project which could be justified on
its own merit.
50.     The proceeds of the IDA Credit will be on-lent to Regideso for 30 years
with five years grace at an interest rate of 11.6 percent; Regideso would bear
the exchange risk. Inflation in Zaire averaged about 50 percent in 1980 and is
expected to decline with adherence to the objectives of the IMF recovery program
(para. 15). Taking into account Zaire's pursuit of an exchange rate policy
based on progressive devaluations in line with inflation, the proposed rate of
interest is positive. Signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between Government
and Regideso is a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01 (a) of the
draft Credit Agreement). It is expected that Government will on-lend the
proceeds of the OPEC Fund loan to Regideso on the same terms as the on-lent IDA
funds.
Procurement
51.     Several construction contracts would be required for each city.
Contracts would be grouped to the extent possible to offer more attractive
packages to potential bidders. Minor construction such as small water kiosks
would be under separate contracts to promote bidding from small local
contractors. Construction and equipment contracts over US$100,000 would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines on procurement; award of contracts financed by the OPEC Fund
would follow the same procedure. Local equipment manufacturers would be allowed
a margin of preference of 15 percent or the applicable customs duty, whichever
is lower. A margin of preference of 7.5 percent would be applied to bids from
local civil works contractors. Contracts for civil works, equipment and
supplies under US$100,000 would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally, but total expenditures under such contracts would not exceed
US$500,000 in the aggregate for standpipe construction in the three cities and
rehabilitation equipment in Kisangani, and US$500,000 for vehicles, maintenance
equipment and training equipment (Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement).
Disbursements
52.     The proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed over four years as
follows: 100 percent of foreign expenditures for training equipment and overseas
training (US$0.5 million); materials, pipes and equipment for Kisangani and
Mbuji-Mayi (US$6.0 million); and consultant services including construction
supervision for Kisangani and Mbuji-Mayi (US$1.8 million), and 75 percent of
total expenditures for civil works and pipe-laying for Kisangani and Mbuji-Mayi
(US$7.0 million). Unallocated funds total US$2.7 million. All withdrawal
applications would be fully documented.
53.     Consulting contracts for detailed design studies, preparation of bid
documents and assistance in awarding contracts for construction of this project
were signed in May 1981 for a total cost of about US$1.02 million equivalent.
In order to accelerate preparation of this project, the first part of these
services was paid under the first Watr Supply Project; the second part of these
services estimated at US$0.57 million are included under the present project.
Therefore, retroactive financing of up to US$600,000 would be granted for
expenditures incurred prior to the date of Board approval, but after May 1, 1981
(Schedule 1 of the draft Credit Agreement).



- 18 -
Accounts and Audits
54.     Following recommendations of the auditors employed under Credit 625-ZR,
Regideso has made some improvement to its commercially-oriented accounting
system. Additional efforts to strengthen accounting practices would be made
under the proposed project. In particular, the services of a computer
management expert would be financed (see para. 44) to introduce new systems
which should eliminate delays in processing accounting work, and particularly
the issuance of financial statements, and permit their preparation on
bi-monthly, basis. As a result of a recent reorganization, Regideso established
a budget and forecasts section whose main function will be to collect data and
prepare five year forecasts. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
before the end of each calendar year from 1982 through 1987, five year income
statements and cash flow projections would be prepared and submitted to the
Association by December 31 of each year (Section 4.03 of the Draft Project
Agreement).
55.     Audits of Regideso's accounts have been carried out as provided by
Credit 625-ZR. The audit report for 1980 found the Regideso accounts, systems
and procedures to be satisfactory. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that Regideso's accounts would continue to be audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association and that audited accounts would be furnished to the Association no
later than six months after the end of the year (Section 4.02 of the draft
Project Agreement).
Tariffs and Rate of Return
56.     Credit 625-ZR calculated Regideso's rate of return by linking cash flow
to fixed assets, the purpose being to ensure that Regideso would have sufficient
funds to finance its planned investments. As Regideso's accounting procedures
and data were poor, net income was determined without calculating depreciation,
but including variations in works in progress and increases in receivables which
was inappropriate for tariff calculations. Regideso's accounting has improved
and it is now possible to calculate the standard rate of return based on net
operating income as related to net revalued fixed assets in operation. A rate
of return of 7 percent calculated on this basis would permit Regideso to finance
about 52 percent of its capital expenditures (see para. 30), which is a
reasonable level given the size of its investment program and the scarcity of
Government funds which could be allocated for this purpose. During
negotiations, Regideso agreed to take all steps, including but not limited to
adjustment of its tariffs, to achieve a rate of return of 7 percent based on the
ratio of net operating income to net revalued fixed assets in operation and
consult with the Association by January 1 and July 1 of each year on the tariff
adjustments required to achieve this return, (Section 4.05 of the draft Project
Agreement); calculation of the rate of return on this basis would supersede the
condition of Section 4.08 of Development Credit Agreement 625-ZR. To ensure a
realistic value for the fixed assets used in the rate of return calculation,
consultants acceptable to the Association (see para. 44) would be employed by
October 1, 1982 and a revaluation of Regideso's assets, as of January 1, 1983
would be required by June 30, 1983 with annual revaluation thereafter (Sections
2.03 (b) and 4.04 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 19 -
57.     Regideso's 1982 tariffs at an average of US$0.70/m3, are average
compared to other countries in the Eastern African region. To meet the 7
percent rate of return requirement of Credit 625-ZR, and because of sharp
declines in the value of the Zaire, Regideso has had to adjust its tariffs
substantially during the first project period. In 1976, tariffs were increased
by an average of 90 percent and in 1979 by 245 percent. In mid-1980, it
appeared that tariffs then in effect would be sufficient to attain an estimated
rate of only 5 percent, but Government did not respond to Regideso's request for
a tariff adjustment until January 1, 1981 when tariffs were raised by 70
percent. At that time the Government also agreed in principle to authorize a
second tariff increase in mid-1981. Owing to the large devaluation of the zaire
(see para. 15) and the magnitude of the tariff increase which would have
resulted (over 100 percent) the Government deferred its decision on a tariff
increase for Regideso and certain other agencies, until early 1982 to determine
how best to phase these increases economy-wide. Prior to negotiations the
Government informed the Association that tariffs were increased by an average
of 156 percent effective January 1, 1982; on this basis Regideso would be able
to attain an estimated rate of return of at least 8 percent for the year (10
percent if calculated as described in para. 56 above).
Financial Position of Regideso
58.     Regideso's capital structure is projected to improve steadily during the
1981-88 period. In the past, Regideso has received foreign investment funds
from the Government on a grant basis; this policy is likely to continue since
Regideso has not yet built retained earnings. It is forecast however that
retained earnings will increase gradually over the forecast period with
adherence to the rate of return covenant, from US$0 million in 1981 to US$180
million in 1988. Regideso's current ratio would stay at between 2.4 and 4.0
because receivables are likely to continue to remain sizeable. It is estimated
that receivables which were equivalent to six months' consumption in 1981 would
be reduced from 1982 to a level of 5-months' consumption and maintained at 4
months' consumption thereafter. During negotiations agreement was obtained that
(i) Regideso would promptly bill the Government and its municipalities for water
services and other works and exchange views with the Association on the status
of payments by the Government, and (ii) Government would pay and cause its
municipalities to pay promptly all water charges and works carried out for their
accounts by Regideso (Sections 3.03 of the draft Project Agreement and 3.02 of
the draft Credit Agreement).
59.     Water sales are projected to increase during 1981-88 at an average
annual rate of 7 percent. Based on tariff increases which would maintain the
required 7 percent rate of return, operating revenues are forecast to increase
at an average rate of 21.4 percent per year in nominal terms; operating expenses
would grow at an estimated 15.8 percent per year which, given attainment of the
required rate of return, would reduce the operating ratio from 101 percent in
1981 to 73 percent in 1988.
Benefits and Justification
60.     The project would provide safe water to about 513,000 additional people
at an average of about 20 lcd and would increase household consumption by 10,400
m3/day. Of the people served by the project, 448,000 or 87 percent have incomes
below the urban poverty level (Z 600 per capita); and of the increase in daily
water consumption, 6,500 m3/day or 62 percent would be attributed to this



- 20 -
group. The introduction of safe water to the fringe areas of the three cities
would contribute to a reduction in the high incidence of mortality and disease
associated with pathogenic and other harmful waterborne agents. Industry,
commerce and Government would also benefit from expanded service which it is
estimated would increase their consumption by about 3,100 m3/day.
61.      As noted in paragraph 56, Regideso would be required to achieve a
financial rate of return of 7 percent on the operation of all its fixed assets.
For the project, an internal rate of return has been calculated as the discount
rate at which the present value of all new capital and associated operating and
renewal costs in each of the three cities equals the present value of water
revenues attributable to the investment over its economic life. These financial
rates of return are 6.9 percent for Likasi, 4.2 percent for Kisangani and 8.7
percent for Mbuji-Mayi. The long term marginal costs of water supply in these
cities in constant 1982 prices are: Likasi, US$0.760/m3; Kisangani US$1.417/m3;
and Mbuji-Mayi, US$0.816/m3. These costs are above the average costs in the
three cities and above the average 1982 tariff level estimated at US$0.70/m3
which is applied uniformly countrywide according to the category of consumer
(standpipe, small meter, big meter) rather than to the cost of production for
each service area. Costs in the three citiees of the project are high given the
elevated cost of construction in Zaire and the absence of economies of scale in
these medium size cities. This national tariff policy results in a transfer of
income from larger population centers to smaller centers such as those included
in the project. In the case of the three cities of the project, this transfer
benefits a large proportion of the urban poverty group (para. 60 above). The
rates of return in the three cities would be higher if tariffs were set so as to
reflect costs in each city and if benefits relating to health and other
environmental factors could be quantified. Sensitivity analysis indicates that
a 10 percent increase in capital costs or a 10 percent reduction in water
revenues would reduce the rates of return for the three cities by 0.8 percent.
62.     By distributing water through public standpipes where possible, the
project employs a least cost alternative to meet water demand in the three
cities. Rehabilitation of the systems would be financed where justifiable and
groundwater would be relied upon wherever available and economical.
Alternatives for all the proposed systems were compared by analyzing the
discounted cash flow of capital, operating and maintenance costs.
Risks
63.     The main project risks relate to construction delays and cost overruns.
An additional risk is that the water supply systems might be poorly operated and
maintained because of a lack of foreign exchange to purchase spare parts,
chemicals, material and light equipment.
64.     Risks related to costs overruns and delays have been minimized by basing
project cost estimates and schedules of implementation on detail design
studies. Experience suggests that the risk of poor operation and maintenance of
the facilities because of lack of foreign exchange may be minimal since
Regideso's management has always succeeded until now in securing foreign
exchange allocations adequate to operate and maintain its facilities.  In any
case, the project has been designed so as to reduce the risk of foreign exchange
unavailability by supplying vehicles, generating sets and maintenance equipment
for the three cities.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Zaire and
the Association, the draft Project Agreement between Regideso and the
Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the
project are listed in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of credit
effectiveness would be: execution of the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement (para. 49) and
execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf of the Government and
Regideso (para. 50).
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
66.     1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
(for) A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 15, 1982                                                E. Stern
Washington, D.C.



-22-                                                    ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                    Page  1  of  5
ZAIRE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAIRE                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           2345.4                                 MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME             XIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     310.0               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  100.0       170.0     260.0                 238.3                  794.2
EN£RGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILGRAHS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       97.6        105.4     102.5                 70.5                   707.5
POPULATION AND ViTAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, IID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 17756.0      21638.0   27509.0
URLAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 15.7         21.6      32.7                  17.5                   27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       49.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        139.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        7.6          9.2      11.7                 27.7                    55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     58.0         69.0      86.3                 73.7                   130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.1         44.3      44.7                 44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                         52.9         52.9      52.6                 52.4                    51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0          2.8       2.7                  2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GRAOWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.2          2.0       2.7                  2.6                     2.8
URLAN                               ..          5.2       7.3                  6.5                     5.1
CRUDE sIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     48.1         47.1      45.9                 46.9                    46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     24.2         21.3      18.1                  19.3                   15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.0         3.0       3.0                  3.1                     3.2
FAhLILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..           ..
USERS (PEhCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         101.0        101.0      88.0                 89.5                    89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIR4EINTS)                  100.0        101.0     104.0                 90.2                    92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          36.0         37.0      36.0                 52.7                    52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       13.0         13.0      10.0                 17.8                    16.1
CHILD (AGES !-4) MORTALITY RATE     35.7         31.6      25.4                 27.3                    20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   40.0          42.9      46.8                 45.8                    50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..           ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         11.0      16.0                 23.9                    27.4
URBAN                               .          33.0      43.0                 55.0                    74.3
RURAL                               ..          4.0       5.0                 18.5                    12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          5.0      22.0                 26.2
URBAN                               ..          5.0      67.0                 63.5
RURAL                               ..          5.0       6.0                 20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         37621.6      29300.8   15529.3              31911.8                 13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3511.7       5067.3    1938.0               3674.9                  2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            230.9        320.0     339.0               1238.8                  1028.4
URBAN                             57.2        96.8      145.0                272.8                  423.0
RURAL                            770.5       1066.7    2622.5               1745.2                  3543.2
ADKISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..         6.1
RURAL                               ..          ..        6.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS I
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URbAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



ANNEX I
-23-                                                       Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
ZAIRE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAIRE                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERACES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)R-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOKE              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
ED)UCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 60.0         88.0       90.0                  56.4                    73.7
MALE                  88.0        110.0     103.0                  70.7                     96.8
FEMALE                32.0        65.0       77.0                  50.1                     79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   3.0         9.0       19.0                  10.0                    16.2
MALE                   4.0        13.0       23.0                  13.6                     25.3
FEMALE                 1.0          4.0      14.0                   6.6                     14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 27.0           10.0       13.0                   8.0                      5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            40.0         43.0         ..                  46.5                    36.2
SECONDARY                          20.0         20.0       27.0                  25.5                    23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         31.0/c      13.0       15.0                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          3.0        3.6                   2.9                    32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          2.9        4.8                  32.8                    69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         0.3        0.3                   1.9                     8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    1.0         9.2        1.8                   2.8                     20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1            0.1       0.1                   1.2                      0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LA8OR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      8215.5       9464.8   11395.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   46.4         44.5       42.8                  34.1                    36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              83.0         79.0       75.4                  80.0                    56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  9.0         11.0       12.8                   8.6                    17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 46.3        43.7       41.4                  41.7                    37.2
MALE                                  51.9        49.8       48.2                  54.3                    47.1
FEMALE                                41.2        38.0       34.8                  29.2                    27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         1.1        1.1                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
LUWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCCME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                 136.0                   381.2
RURAL                                ..           ..       80.0                  84.5                   156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       76.0                  99.1                   334.3
RURAL                                ..           ..       43.0                  61.2                   137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                  39.7
RURAL                                ..           ..       80.0                  68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
Ic   1962.
May, 1981



24 -                                             ~~~~~ANNEX I
-24-                                                  ~~~~~Page 3of 5
D1PI9IT10155 OF SOCIAL ISICATOOP
gccna' JAlicugh Ith  da.ta ore draw  trot source  gac l .1          Judged the nest autbritatica tnt reliable, it shoudas.          eacdca  te   a   o sicr
ccolycoprble    aa  ofte  ak of -s .'aderaW  Wdsfitrccucea  eat .co ptap   used by difru    oare i               t co...tig I.      tat.   hecoa
clls,usfln  descibs orders ofmgiue  idc te treat, ant cher.cterie. _aticmJor diffstn.uen ha_ent   ...tin....                                                 ..
TMc  reeec   r              Lp   r    ) the name conr  group of abs subject counTry and(2) A coatty grou.p rc soeathigher avrae  ttt  than the country gRoup.
of thesb Ijcutrly (an-.pt    ,C.; "aital Surplu  oil  ap-rtor" grou  ear  "Kiddie Incm   North AfricA and gitde  tent" is chosenbecause of are
acoutreaffinities).  Ic chs raorec  geo  dtac  the.... ar .age  Are popultion wibtrd erthoatic men  for  _eth  indicaccrd ce  shee  ocy rhac
Wajoity of ibe ucuntre in A grou.p has data for that indcator.  Siece the  -ecerag  of contie  easel1 the   i-dica.or  dpanda or th .aalailt  of y                     tac
and is et uotfom, utacot mistha snoised in ralatia4 ererage o. f on  indi_tato  noe he. Toe            .vrg. are on ly useful iccparItE the caueo
LAND ARIA (thousand sq.k.)                                                                        Pnlcc   s   optltd-ttl   re,atrrl-Pp.ttchtl
Teal-Toalerfaa  t ocepieoglndarate   eladetes                                               urban,ad rurl)tite   by oh innrepa clenme f h.eia  bod
Itun  .   et. eas  ofagiclua  tos   u          Iateocaily orpermasetly                     -ualblah   in public not pototta gonaral1 end  pacialteed b-pnylcal at 
fo -Pe., Pa--a., mankat snd kitchen garden  entoLt fallow; 1,70 dais.                         hailainncr.     HosPital   r I            sabu t.t Pormaency ecfte
GNP PtR CAITA (iSf) - GNP Per caiascmcsAt currant mrkoc prcs, l-                                     dial oars Ace cot itoludsd.  Punt) hospitals, honver. iclulde health
colated hy nam  novr     to ahad an         Id Neck Atlas (1977-79 basis); 190,                    an    ole   atr   e   emnnl   cfe   yaphyalia   (but bya
1i70, end 1979 data.                                                                              madicalaaiat,  cuse.midifa, etc.) rhich  _fn   tpat.ien  Acon
eat lienita.. perlu.   atuat gas ant hydra-  culr dn  gutherml ale-                                art rura  hospitl  local  rrune  h-sPit.i  sod nadtoal end materity
triiot y) In bllognm  of coalI aquicaen  per capite; 1960, 1970,. ad 1979                          ....e...  Spacielleed hospitls era included only udsr tota.
data.Aenaoaeceeiano-ftl  Tub-r of adelselane tc I, discharges
from heap~itaIldittodnt by   Ib uma   f bate.
yOPTt,ATiT 4   VITA   STATISTCS
Tocal Populato.  MdA-Tear h (c ..uaad) - A. of July 1; 1960. 1970, and 1979                              Si.0fH0..91180             ....
.dat.    .                                                                                     AEaatnso.cnho lnac  oa  huehl) - 1total  ur;ban. aodcart 
bIPha   ...nultcin inaroac;t ef tetal) - kalie  of  rbao no total Ppoplation;                     A household Ioc.aist  o  s  ru   fldicidul  rho ahan.           iig  ut
diffarat de finitis  of uce   'Ane   may affeta  comparability of dsta                          and thbeI mLt meals.  A boacdor or lodge  may c  map cot ho i.olutd in
amin  cuIrII; 1960, 1970, act 1979 data.                                                       tha houehld fcsa  nia   upss
PuoulationProf actiog                                                   Averos  nubro   asc s  coontotal  urban, ant rural - AceeeI                    se
Porulanioc  n rear 2000 - Cuoe.  pouaitprjaucime are basd Ic 1980                        bar of Pnr...pr. oo P       v sli  -rhac, act rural occpie  core..       ea
tota!l,y poplaionby age and as  aod cho,Ir- mraiyanfetility nate.dligsraytiny....llre  nlut.d                                                    cprmnc   at c..ura Il act
ProJeto pbArmtersllo matatiy nace  omp,iea of three le-al  _au-                                nccpe   pants
ing lifaseocoaocyanbirch tincsoi   nith cu     To'   petaiaitcsAtn   cfEocrticit  (PI.area  of drelline...    tacal. urban, Act rural
JIna,atfmlliaspttysabilina  An 77.  yeas                            ithe pac-                 Cooceaioca  toadIIIg.e rich elcticity iv, living quaters asp--ts
maceos  or ferilIty rte ala  have thns. levels asaumig decline in                      of otoal  uban, atruAldweling  res.pectively.
tech cuctoY Os then aenigoed ace of these nice  -obinetioe of mortalitY                  tOICATION
act _nctlic  trat  forpostolupss                                                          Adjuste  Ourll-n   WIcu
.tcainar  pou dt     - Ic a-scenisear  popaacio  chlon  is so grnh since                        Primar  ahed 1- incti.  male, ad feal -Iren  toa,            ,ae  n  Oseal
ths bitd  race is equal II the deth rate, ant also  the age structur I-to-                      earolmec   ofht all a5sai at .   yP  II..   pt maylea  aspecetage  orePeciv
ma.  ice o Icta.  This in achieve  d oly If ten f_ril icy rtes danlion to                        poi-y -hoo-eg. popuatl...a; norall  incldes childne  agd h-il
the  elcmttIoIof ant t ne                -ardainrte, rtte   ..h geeaicyears,ban adjusted for dilfferent leghs.o  primayduteilr; for
ofsuacrpla.e. itself a-otlp.  Th. stationery poploit  sin  r                               usuP.rias rich .uIivar .a etaaion   crlNmn   a   e d .100 perost
eaimacatd cc the hesie of the Projec,ted caatritc ftha  ouaicacasm  puil  tw  en_c  boe .b officia1lshool age
inhci  Year 2D01, act the raeo         IeLIne of fertility race no repie-n.od..scoo.   octal mal endfeal  - Computed on eboc;,sc;                                        dr
mart    . leel                                                                                  education require  an least fouraa           I f approvd pr Limayircic
Year  tteiceAry popuatioc La reahed - The Yaac when stai-eay populatioc                            PrcIda    ae ,vccicl  otahs ArscicEiarrc_ocef P 'Pupu
elan hoe h... reahed.                                                                           ualyIof 12 tc 17 y-u IoIda;rrepcecacussar   eeal
Per.    ha    M id-yea  Populatio  pe  eqat  bulInten  (1000 h-rtaroni of                       tanaciouetltoc trt II..of .scodta ) - Vcoatioe  ictiutov
total.ae;  90, 197  ad  9197  tat.                                                              icltatehnical,industrial,o  otherP pogamahich operate  indepeod-
yeP  u   m.srclcrlln   - Copue  sa: ehvafora                  1iutr    ed                          ael   re   eaten    f aecodaryictuio
coly; ~1960,! 1970and191761 daa.Puil-ceacher Iti  -T    Y'iar.an  secondary - To11tal scaant  atro1lat In
.Popultict Age Snatare(ta...       i   Childre,    il    ets,srlgae  (15-                            primaY end necootacY p lecel  divided by cumbace uf it-chen  L  the
PrlioCrnh PNt       ....eot - oo      aolgot   as   fttl             md-asspnro-ccag  of ctal. edult.pplto.as   5yascdcor
year  Populations`for 19530-60. 196070, ar  I91-
Porala-ion Growth cace PIoencant - urban - Aeua  growth retIf urban p'pl-                     CONSUMPQTION
lacl.o. for 1950-60, 1670, tn   90-79                                                         Pe...Al.,e Care lost thousan.d roculatioc) P-....eeSga  -en  -tpriea macor
Crude tiohkt  (nor thousan d) - Aoccl lice births Per choose..d of sit-peat                    tat  o ting lesca1 igtyros  enlated                  mulnce  hsaeea act
PoPulaio ;160, 1970, artJ979 toe                                                                 mitlay vhiclas.t.           htP ..
Irate leach trmI  (P.. thousand) - A-1ue  teethe pnr thou...tdo of nit--year                    tati      . tec iver  p(nor,1 thousad nol   i-All nypsa of  -ecic..s for ratio
population; 1960, 1970, atd 1979dens.                                                           bnoadcaets to aeeelpblir Per thcead of PoPulation;.. eoldoe at-
Gr... ieoP-d-cionRt Sc- A-oreg   oumbc of daughtoa  uteac              1 will euL' in              iunee      recc   in conties act Lr Y..,. the. cice Ioof radio
henomlrcouivptiad ifal  ea                              PIece   preset age epocif it fo-.as.a  in effect; dta for recen  years way cot hecoparble   ia
tOlity    e;  saly   five-year, avrge          daiog i  1960, 19760, ad1979.                    mast countries abolished ILcensin.g.
ready Plen- e -Acthtrs .Anua   inooadsi   Actual nuber of --cptore                              TO eeiea(orcosodooiaio   -T   sciesf    radatt
ofbch-ocodeie  under auspices of eatioce.l folly plantingporn                                   general pubicpe  thousand  p           tueico Icoaa   r    ct   VtIL_c
Peatly  leccic-inara  aerono  of tarie   sos) - Percatage of marrid                        it oruncie  art it Ysere obey rIitat             f TV seas van iv efet.
come  ofY.  cFhilt-1 d  !heigng I 15-l. yarsIrh bus   hic-coto  denicee cc                    SNesranep-C.1-ircltinI-     t.huceent icclatit    S-clw   the    rg  nit-
all macrus  eIsoc cv same  ag g...                                                               caP.cto   daily   aae;         reetanse  S.fttdast Iporiuc
pobli.cac-o devtdpcimaily no recodingp           vea   coe!Wi cciae
FOOD AlND NUTtITION                                                                                  cc he 'daily' if in eppeace at beat-tou  cinanenek.
lutes of Food t Pnductio  c.o Ccita (16-1-100.) - Insoo  prcait   cta                            PineAoa   tednencfct tP.   Y_r-eet  nth, cambe  o1
P,ouuu   fal  odcmodte                  Poucitscuesee   n   ee   n                               ihc  sold duciog thepa.ccuigtnaio   to dciv-_ic cic-e
iscv-Ievdrea Y    basis.         d Cat idea cove  lotar  god   eg  es        sac  mbils  nis
icetood of sae)whih or   dible end  -toia i .tIcoiycs(eg  ccfsso
toear  -oclded),  Aggregate podotuccc  of each conrL i   ae  c                            AG! FORCt
utcaangnprodue y..r pice neights; 1961-61, 1970, tnt 1979 data.                      Total LaborF.. Po te   ....uett   - B...comicallc acIve peceova. i-1,dci.e
'e aia eu yi of clce  lorco f recuccmetce)   I-Cnpted fr-amd force  and1 uveaplye  hat ...dc   ousis,eudos   t.
Peda.       ciakn upltcoptua   doetc  rdcto,Ispots lens                                       rot oeparble;'1960, 1970 end 1979 dat.
neov,atch -e nsok.  Not supplies eccIuto anima  feed, tat,Femal  -orec    -                                 1feal  labor force ea  occg   cctona  labor forts..
qunttIs  sd it foot Pcocneeitg, act lcease  cc ti-iaic   aur-Arulunbret) - Labor force i  farming, forestry, hunctog.Iv
eausvesaninntd by fAG cased on phYsio1ceice1 col Idfotvoa  eCci-                        flkn   epretg    f nuce1 Iaboc forte; 1960. 1970 and .1979 dais
vpen    alh -ceaderiogeccrvtcltmeaue  body weights, age                             (nusr   .c....oi L- lbor foc   teog   osrc i                cc,  meaftcto
ectse  Oe.i.tio       Jo.ppu       ..oc  act aloig1lecntfrar                                   n  eetiIy         !ae   and gase    p            Icwtg f itota  labor force  1960,
honbIt   ..cr; 1961-65. 1970. end 1977 dana                                                1970 act 1979 dat.
Per c_ito nuoclv uf  rt           - - ers   oartar  - Proi c -o oc-o  of Pocc-pit             Ptcta  otOt   Icuto   - total  el., act tfa1l  - Penticfipoocr
oat euply of food pardy       s  upyo  fodistfcePs  ho.   s                                  cnivic>'rstnetece-utd sa novel, wae   c   eae  ao   oc
quiro_cnefor a         .ll cucLeI tenblished  by lilA proide for      1,R   . "eu             prc "ge  of total  ael  ant..  feml p1         lai    fa    -g.rrP..ticeic
silc.a.c. of 60 green of total protei  Per day act 20gr     ofovml sd1960, 1970, and 1979 Itat.  Tlans are heed un iLl 'a ParciciPeci-nIatea,
pulse  . croLceI,of which 10 gcen  enould he a-Iai protein.  Th-e  enac-                      vf_oiog age-sac .-rutuc  of the popuatio,  actlong  vIe  t..ct.  A
anima  p.c.s. as" anaerg   fc  teo i,proposed by PAO in  h.s 7hoct                       fuonceic lertencom itcl  - Ratio of  .pouLotuuoe  1               dn h5 nod ce
uW.l  Pou .. uon-:; l961-h5, 1970 eud 1977 deo                                                 oteccI _lcrot..
P-rcola        troni .eu....  from aui_l oct de - P     ro.     unit..  su.Ppl  of fccd do-
clued Ifo   ,toI: cod pulses in gross P., tap; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 dtat,              INeCOn DIsSTRIB'1yN
Child lens0-)   turLoly   t.n (own tht.....d) - A ..usI dn-ths Per thouad  v                     Pocvnu   f  rcanIn  e   bohIc  -eb end lirt) - t-clontd by nIc
-e gop I-A Years, to chltrd-c in this eon grop; -frcs   aaopocu-                             5pren.rcnt1   arnn   0mv5 t   _rnrt  so  pour.  40 peren
cisdted tiv-d from  lifs cablee; 1960, 1970 act 1979 date,                                  of hou.ohoide.
HEALTH                                                                                           1OVcTY1 TARGET GROUPS
Life  Yuecao  at Outh iryere)  A- Aeg. tuehor of Years If lifs l regitic                        Th. fcll1cciogevma          r  cro   ..rolsnoII      auneo  p--tyi  1-01.
obit;16,170 ac  1979  tue                                                              act shoud hr' tovsPhst   d ihc..atidrbl  ceu~:tict
IIfano MtortalitY Rate (ca  Ihousactd)   Actual teethe ofIofIIInce coder ins poet               tEcimeted Ahe -us   v          Inc-   Len1.,       a  c  is   uba    o   ua 
ofaeperfchouscd  lOv   irtbe.                                                               Aeln   oet   nosl                 sca   ooabw IrlJcoIo'll   niirll
Acoet   asWit  (ern     ofIcletu  -  oal.  bchac.ac  rural - Nu-                         nurtinll   douc  dirtpc  socil.co-fcc  rd u)roco                            -tto
herl of propin  (total.  ra,otrr    nich rnnnhosos   osf                                          ffordebie
ceve  suply  cocudaecnardoufacusnna  o  cccsatd but Iouowoin                     olar  Olcc    oercIcw   nci(1   n  cotl-racatre 
cace  suhathtfo    rtcedhchle               ig,st-sntryAie  as'raRolroL-vIc iom                                             rcl    s one l-third o   -ocg  pot topics
p    hccaa  o   hcrepeiepycnlc.Ina                  dra   Areauleies-iineno   Incuty   OrIon inoni in t                                               .r ..od  pcor ch-ri,
reasonaId a..    s  ol I Jimply- cbotohs  onele  rnohr  of,bI!       thl oebl                   act ruol.-  nrr  of_pJuln Po (rbnat  rual  th  errP:,                  cu,
ucene  to  ncret  lisonal  onrnnt ofpopuaclo  t totl.areo  ndrurl 
pn-ccnn psg dspuf thirchprnie    d0lacos        Ocn   Iepf-n l sa   lhtue                     - . d  .1      -     Ifpp.t-(b.l   .r1   h -    b..t
act nac-oens  by wtrboo    ysce   o  the use of pit preise. act siti-                                                           tevo      oayciw  and Pro)r- tico         ...n ...c
in   ncislta..                                                                                                                                 ya 9lPI
Poculotioc car Phreicci,c   P-- Pp co  tuited  by nuoher of prs-tiuiug phyec-
Poplacoc  er  ucocRPerson - Populeolut divided by cube  o f practicin
ealecd feo1isg-d-ec octane,. practicalaccess,_



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                                Page 4 of 5
ZAIRE - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Amount
(million US$ at       Share of GDP at Market Prices (1)           Annual Growth Rates (%)
current prices)                (at current prices)               (at constant 1970 prices)
1980                             1980                      1978         1979       1980
Gross Domestic Product-/           5,948.0                           100.0                      -5.3         0.3        2.4
(GDP Commercialized)              (4,749.7)                           -                        (-6.3)       (0.2)      (2.3)
Agriculture                      1,760.4                            29.6                       0.0         3.1        2.3
Industry                         1,408.7                            23.7                      -8.6        -6.4        4.3
Services                         2,563.4                            43.1                      -5.1         4.7        4.5
Consumption                        4,456.5                             74.9                    -12.0        -3.2        3.9
Gross Investment                   1,241.5                             20.9                    -52.0-       43.5       37.2
Exports of GNFS                    2,154.4                             36.2                     27.0       -17.0        2.7
Imports of GNFS                    1,904.4                             32.0                    -21.8        -6.7       -5.1
Gross national savings             1,502.0                             25.3                      8.7          6.0       0
PUBLIC FINANCE!' (Central Government)                    (million Z)                           Z of GDP
A c t u a 1                     (at market prices)
1977         1978          1979             1977        1979
Current revenues                               731.0        1,930.0       3,738.6           13.3        22.4
Current expenditures                         1,145.2        2,171.0       3,456.5           20.9        20.8
Current deficit                               -414.2         -241.0         282.1           -7.6         1.7
Capital expenditures                           113.8          129.0         246.4            2.1         1.5
Overall deficit                               -528.0         -370.0         35.7            -9.6         0.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                                     1978              1979               1980
(million Z outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                                       1,854.5          2,084.9             3,367.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector                               1,578.3           2,062.2             2,329.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                 641.0            878.7             1,014.3
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money (as % of GDP - market prices)            33.8              18.8                20.2
Consumer Price Index (1975 = 100)41                           453.4             912.7            1,339.0
Annual percentage changes in
Consumer Price Index                                         48.5            101.3                46.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector                                   49.6              30.7               13.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                  20.1              37.1                15.4
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average
exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
I/     At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will
not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
2/     Figures for 1977/78 are inconsistent with other trends in the
economy and should be used and interpreted with caution.
3/     Cash operations only; excludes foreign grants and expenditures
financed by foreign sources.
4/     Consumer price index for the city of Kinshasa.
February 22, 1982



ANNEX I
26 -                             Page5of 5
ZAIRE - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                 1978         1979        1980
(million US$ at current prices)
Exports of goods and services                     1,665.0       1,914.6    2,087.1
of which:  Merchandise F.O.B.                   1,575.4       1,834.0    1,953.6
Imports of goods and services                     1,786.6       1,967.3    2,219.9
of which:  Merchandise F.O.B.                   1,024.6       1,106.9    1,201.3
Net transfers                                        38.8           67.6      133.3
Current Account Balance                             -82.8           14.9        0.5
Public Capital (net)                                122.7         -49.6        23.8
Private Capital and
errors and omissions                             -369.4        -220.4      -278.5
S1R Allocation                                         -            20.4       20.6
Other Financingl/                                   405.0         297.2       265.5
Net international reserves (- = increase)           -75.5         -62.5       -31.9
EXCHANGE RATES:
January 2, 1979-August 27, 1979                           Z 1.00 . SDR 0.5
August 27, 1979-February 22, 1980                         ; 1.00   SDR 0.375
February 22, 1980-June 19, 1981                           3 1.00 = SDR 0.263
Since June 19, 1981                                       Z 1.00   SDR 0.158
Average exchange rates
1978                                                   US$ 1.00 = ; 0.836
1979                                                   US$ 1.00 = X 1.729
1980                                                   US$ 1.00   Z 2.800
1981                                                   uS$ 1.00=    5.407
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1980)           million US$       %
Minerals and Petroleum                  1,536.6      78.7
Others                                    417.0     21.3
Total                                1,953.6    100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT, June 30, 1981-                       (million US$)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                          4,175.1
Non-Guaranteed                                           350.0
Total outstanding & Disbursed                          4,525.1
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980-                                %
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                             16.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                                3.3
IBRD/IDA LENDING                       US$ million
(As of March 31, 1982)                 IBRD    IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                80.63   174.90
Vndisbursed                             r       149.93
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed         80.63   324.83
1! Includes payments arrears, debt rescheduling, emergency
assistance, and profit on gold sales.
2/  These figures show the position as at June 30, 1981 after
account is taken of the estimated effect of the Paris Club
Agreement of July 1981.
3/  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor
services. Represents actual payments.
February 22, 1982



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1982)
Loan or
Credit      Fiscal                                      Amount in US$ million
Number       Year      Borrower                    Bank         IDA 1/   Undisbursed
Prior
to June   Congo &    Transport       91.58 2/
1960      Otraco      Infrastructure
One Loan Fully Disbursed                          100.00
Ten Credits Fully Disbursed                                  104.00       0.79 3/
571       1975       ZAIRE       Rail-River II               26.00       1.80
624       1976       ZAIRE       Education II                21.00       9.24
660       1977       ZAIRE       Cotton Reha-
bilitation                  8.00       3.61
697       1978       ZAIRE       Ituri Livestock
Development                 8.00       3.05
710       1978       ZAIRE       Fourth DFC                  10.00         .38
796       1978       ZAIRE       Oil Palm                     9.00       8.37
902       1979       ZAIRE       Railways                    20.00      19.23
916       1979       ZAIRE       Highway IV                  26.00      14.31
998       1980       ZAIRE       Fifth Dev. Finance          18.50      16.01
1040       1981       ZAIRE       Smallholder Maize           11.00       9.94
1089       1981       ZAIRE       Kwilu Ngongo Sugar          26.40      24.30
1152 4/    1982       ZAIRE       Kwango-Kwilu                 2.90       2.90
Technical Assistance
1180 5/    1982       ZAIRE       ONATRA Modernization        26.00      26.00
Total (less cancellations):                       191.58       325.30    149.93
- of which has been repaid                     110.95         0.47
Total now outstanding:                          80.63       324.83    149.93
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium.
3/ Credit 255-CK, originally US$7.0 million, and Credit 272-CK, originally
US$6.5 million, have closed with undisbursed balances of US$80,000 and
about US$480,000 respectively which will be cancelled; Credit 398-ZR has
several withdrawal applications pending which, when paid, will leave a
balance of about US$60,000 to be cancelled.
4/ This credit was signed July 23, 1981, but is not yet effective.
/ This credit was signed March 10, 1982, but is not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
Amount sold:                      54.47
- of which has been repaid       54.47
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                 80.63      324.83
Total Undisbursed:                                 0.0                  149.93
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT 1/ (As of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                             Type of         Amount in US$ Millions
Year        Obligor               Business        Loan  Equity   Total
1970         Societe Financiere de
Developpement(SOFIDE)   DFC             -     0.76    0.76
1979        Zaire Gulf Oil Company  Oil Company  2.50   -           2.50
1979        Zaire Petroleum Company Oil Company  1.61   -           1.61
Total gross commitments                 4.11  0.76    4.87
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                               0.83   -       0.83
Held by IFC                             3.28  0.76    4.04
C.    PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/ (As of March 31, 1982)
Credit 571-ZR           Railway and River Transport Project; US$26 Million
Credit of July 11, 1975; Effective Date: November 18,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project included: (a) technical assistance to ONATRA including a
comprehensive training program; (b) financing of a major part of ONATRA's
1975-77 investment requirements for river transport equipment, railway
improvements and track renewal; (c) additional river markings on the
Kinshasa-Ilebo waterway; (d) port studies; and (e) a preliminary engineering
study for the Ilebo-Kinshasa rail link. Project implementation was initially
slow due to a combination of management shortcomings and financial constraints
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weakness in
project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
which improved during execution.   All procurement is now completed or underway;
and credit funds are fully committed. ONATRA's financial performance has
improved significantly as a result of tight controls. Operations have improved
in the ports, in river transport, in the shipyards and in the railway. Overall
project execution is proceeding satisfactorily and the credit is expected to
close as scheduled.
Credit 624-ZR           Second Education Project; US$21 million Credit
of December 28, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project consists of construction and equipment for five new
rural primary teacher training schools, the rehabilitation and re-equipment of
six agricultural technician training schools and one higher agricultural
institute, technical assistance and fellowships for these institutions, and
evaluation of the new programs promoted in the project and the carrying out of
preinvestment studies in preparation for further education projects. Because of
implementation delays and exceedingly high inflation, the total cost of the
project substantially exceeds available funds. Fellowships training of teachers
and several preinvestment studies have been successfully carried out. The
ability of the Project Unit to implement the remaining components or a revised
project is, being assessed and a decision on utilization of the remaining credit
balance will be made before the closing date.
Credit 660-ZR           Cotton Rehabilitation Project - US$8 million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982, Cofinanced by Belgium
Project implementation has been very slow from the beginning due to
various administrative obstacles and the dissolution of ONAFITEX, the National
Cotton and Project Implementing Agency, in May 1978. Coton-Zaire, a public
enterprise, was created in December 1979 to replace the former ONAFITEX regional
Office. An Amendment Agreement reflecting these changes was signed on October
10, 1980; Government counterpart funds for investments were, transferred to
Coton-Zaire and the technical assistance team was integrated in the company with
clear responsibilities. The cotton campaigns since 1979 have been carried out
on a regular schedule and production, although still very low, is increasing.
Producer prices were doubled for the purchases of the campaign which began in
December 1981. The sale of textile stocks has stagnated, however, owing to a
dramatic increase in the import of used clothing. The Government is exploring
appropriate measures to reduce the impact of the sales decline which has created
a severe liquidity problem for the cotton companies. These measures will form
part of a program of a proposed Second Cotton Rehabilitation Project.



- 30 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Credit 697-ZR           Ituri Livestock Development; US$8 Million Credit of
August 2, 1977: Effective Date: December 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by the
French Ministry of Cooperation, the Federal Republic
of Germany and Canadian International Development Agency
The project aims at improving livestock production in the Ituri
subregion through the provision of improved animal health and production
services, the training of staff and pastoralists, development of three ranches
to finish range cattle and rehabilitation of marketing and slaughter facilities
including two abattoirs. Project start up suffered from delays in the provision
of counterpart funds, supply shortages due to deterioration of the
Kisangani-Bunia road and lack of foreign exchange to import the necessary
commodities, insufficient support from central services in Kinshasa, and delays
in setting up of the training program financed by German aid.  Constraints
remain the very high costs in the project area, high rates of inflation, the low
prices for beef, late receipt of government counterpart funds, and the so far
unresolved problem of incomplete exchange of bank notes in December 1979. The
ranch component has not yet started and it is envisaged to delete it.  Despite
the constraints and the delayed start up remarkable results have been achieved.
They include;(i) the establishment and operation of a veterinary and livestock
extension serice; (ii) the implementation of a training program for extension
officers and livestock producers; (iii) the establishment of a livestock
producer cooperative which arranges the supply of veterinary products; (iv)
vaccination and drenching of about 200,000 cattle annually (two thirds of the
project's objective); (v) initiation of pasture development; and (vi)
establishment of regular livestock markets.  Future emphasis in the subsector
should be placed on expansion of marketing.
Credit 710-ZR          Fourth DFC; US$10 Million Credit of August 2, 1977;
Effective Date: December 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
SOFIDE was established in January 1970 and the Bank Group provided a
substantial share of its initial resources through an IFC equity investment of
US$750,000 and a First IDA Credit of US$5 million. Three other credits of US$10
million each were granted in 1971, 1973 and 1977.  SOFIDE started operating on
July 1st, 1970, with a General Manager seconded by the Bank. In May 1973, a
Zairian General Manager, assisted by an expatriate Senior Advisor, replaced the
Bank-seconded General Manager. The institution has developed into a well run
and capable development bank, despite the policies of zairianization
retrocession which have disrupted the industrial and financial sectors. SOFIDE
has recently diversified its activities by increasing its operations in key



ANNEX II
- 31 -                         Page 5 of 7
economic sectors, especially agriculture and transportation. SOFIDE has also
decentralized its operation and has recently opened three regional offices. In
1976, the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department conducted a project performance
audit of the First Credit to SOFIDE and found that SOFIDE had been generally
successful in fulfilling its objectives and had developed into a competent
organization. The original closing date (December 31, 1981) was extended by one
year to permit disbursement of the remaining credit funds which were fully
committed to subprojects. The credit will close at end 1982 as scheduled.
Credit 796-ZR          Oil Palm Project - US$9 Million Credit of June 8, 1978:
Effective Date: January 30, 1981; Closing Date: December
31, 1985; Cofinanced by African Development Fund (ADF)
Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique
(BADEA) and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE)
The project consists of a five-year program to support the
rehabilitation of existing oil palm plantations through investments for
replanting and new plantings, renewal of oil mills and transport equipment,
improvement and expansion of social infrastructure; the employment of additional
staff, and training of staff. Effectiveness was delayed by the difficulties
which arose between the companies and the Government over the role of the
companies in the Project; by administrative bottlenecks, particularly in the
Ministry of Agriculture; and by the complex cofinancing arrangements. One of the
three companies which was to participate in the project has withdrawn and the
investment and financing plans were revised. Of the remaining companies, one
has begun a planting program out of its own resources but has delayed a major
decision on rehabilitation of its oil mills. The second company has placed
equipment orders for vehicles and oil mill parts to start its planting and oil
mill rehabilitation program.
Credit 902-ZR          Railway Project: US$20.0 million Credit of June 14, 1979;
Effective Date: January 27, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983; Cofinanced by the Saudi Fund for
Development; Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau; the
OPEC Special Fund; and the African Development Bank
The Project supports the 1979-1982 investment program of the Societe
Nationale des Chemins de fer Zairois (SNCZ) and includes trach rehabilitation,
equipment and operational investments to increase SNCZ's effective capacity.
The project finances: (a) renewing and upgrading 210 km of track and ballasting
another 285 km; (b) 100 ore wagons, 9 shunting locomotives and 12 passenger
coaches; (c) spare parts for locomotives and wagons; (e) extension of Ilebo port
facilities; (f) social infrastructure; and (g) middle/senior technical and
management staff training and consultant services. Effectiveness of this credit
was delayed in particular by slow progress in completing cofinancing
arrangements. Disbursements have also been slow owing to the weakness of
purchase and storage controls which prevented placing purchase orders in a
timely manner. Technical progress of project implementation has been
satisfactory.



- 32 -                          ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Credit 916-ZR           Fourth Highway Project: US$26 million Credit of
June 14, 1979; Effective Date: July 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by
the EEC Special Action Fund and the Saudi Fund
for Development.
The project was designed to help finance the 1979-81 road
maintenance and rehabilitation program of the Office des Routes (OR). It
comprises the maintenance and rehabilitation of about 40,000 km of roads,
including 800 km of paved road; strengthening and replacement of bridges;
construction of workshops and warehouses; procurement of motor and cable ferries
and replacement motors, and of highway maintenance equipment, spare parts and
fuel; improvement of the National Public Works Laboratory, and technical
assistance and training. Implementation of the project had to be postponed
owing to a one year delay in credit effectiveness. Procurement of equipment and
spare parts is now substantially completed, and the maintenance/
rehabilitation program which has been extended to include 1982, has become fully
operational. Decentralized maintenance operations are being carried out
effectively in Bas Zaire and Bandundu and are serving as models for other
areas. A fifth project designed to consolidate maintenance/rehabilitation
activities and operations during 1983-85 has been appraised.
Credit 998-ZR           Fifth DFC; US$18.5 Million Credit of June 16, 1980
Effective Date: January 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
As of March 31, 1982 US$15.5 million of this Credit had been
committed under the investment component. SOFIDE has also committed funds in
excess of US$1.5 million for the working capital component and these are being
reviewed. Disbursement of credit funds is expected to accelerate rapidly in the
latter half of 1982 following the normal IDA and SOFIDE approval of sub-projects
and the placement of orders.
Credit 1040-ZR          Smallholder Maize Project: US$11 million Credit of
October 9, 1980; Effective Date: May 11, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987; Cofinanced by the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and African
Development Bank (ADB)
The project aims to improve existing farming systems in an area
covering about 26,000 km2 around Mbuji Mayi, increase maize production from
about 80,000 tons to about 120,000 tons per annum and increase the incomes of
about 53,000 farmers. The Project includes (a) provision of inputs including
fertilizer and improved maize seeds, transport, distribution and sales services
and storage facilities for inputs; (b) development of the private marketing
sector; (c) development of improved extension, training and research facilities;
(d) development of road and drinking water infrastructure; and (e) technical
assistance in support of the above activities.  Project implementation is
proceeding well after initial financial and personnel recruitment problems.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Credit 1089-ZR         Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar Project: US$26.4 million Credit of
January 7, 1981; Effective Date May 28, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986; Cofinanced by the French
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
The Project include (i) rehabilitation and extension of an existing
plantation, including provision of equipment for land preparation, cultivation
and harvesting; (ii) rehabilitation of transport infrastructure, and provision
of equipment for sugar cane transport and track maintenance; (iii) civil works
for the rehabilitation and expansion of processing facilities and construction
of offices and staff housing; (iv) design and implementation of an applied
research program on sugarcane; (v) purchase and installation of a data
processing and management information system; (vi) staff training; (vii) pilot
projects to promote food crop production. Project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily, and procurement is well advanced. Foreign exchange allocations
to the Compa nie Sucriere (implementing agency) for operation and maintenance
have been below the agreed level; Government has been informed and has indicated
that remedial action will be taken promptly.
Credit 1152-ZR         Kwango-Kwilu Technical Assistance Project: US$2.9 million
Credit of July 23, 1981; Effective Date
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Credit is not yet effective.
Credit 1180-ZR         ONATRA Modernization Project: US$26.0 million
Credit of March 10, 1982; Effective Date:
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The Credit is not yet effective.



- 34 -                         ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I : Timetable of Key Events
(a) Identification: 1979/80
(b) Project Preparation Agency: Regideso/Consultants
(c) Appraisal Mission: November/December 1980
(d) Negotiations: March 8-12, 1982
(e) Target Effectiveness: September 1982
Section II : Special Project Implementation Procedures
None
Section III: Special Conditions
A. The Borrower would:
(i) pay and cause its municipalities to pay Regideso promptly when due, all
charges for water services rendered to them or for works carried out for
their accounts by Regideso (para. 58).
B. Regideso would
(i) exchange views with the Association during the first trimester of each
year on its program of capital investments and borrow no more than the
equivalent of US$4,000,000 in any calendar year from 1982 through 1986
without the prior approval of the Association (para. 30);
(ii) assign, on a full time basis, three engineers to Likasi, Kisangani and
Mbuji-Mayi to carry out project activities, and make one engineer
stationed in Kinshasa, available on a full time basis, to oversee and
liaise with headquarters and engineering cunsultants (para. 46);
(iii) take all steps acceptable to the Association to recover promptly from
consumers the full cost of constructing new private connections
(para. 47);
(iv) take all steps (including but not limited to adjustment of its water
tariffs) to assure a minimum rate of return of 7 percent, and consult with
the Association by January 1 and July 1 of each year on the adjustment of
tariffs required to achieve that return (para. 56); and



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(v) promptly bill the Government and its municipalities for the water services
rendered to them and for works carried out for their accounts by Regideso
and exchange views, as and when needed, with the Association on the status
of Government's payments (para. 58).
C. Special conditions of Credit Effectiveness are:
(i) execution of the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement (para. 49) and
(ii) execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf of Government and
Regideso (para. 50).






=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ =                                              go                           w                                 fB4S~ UELE l1'> 
, X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eE ,i,                                                                                                                                          _ HAUT- UELE  
d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SHtP                                                                                                                          v   0/'A- 
V                                                                                                                  WNMS                     S3>>x)~~~~~AEU
A/a¢trc ' '" fJ r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s ngaDnio^    
R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ f



