Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
RePort No. 5033-PO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF PORTUXAL
MANPOWER TRAI I I  AND DEVELOPMENr PROJECT
May 25, 1984
E;durXation and Manpower Development Divi sion
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restrietd distribuion  d my be used by recipiets mly oi the perfemmnce of
their official duties Its coatets may not odrise be disdoed without World Ib   at -.



REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
Currency Equivalents
US Dollar = Escudo 135
Escudo 100 = US$0.74
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Schoool Year
October - June
GLOSSARY
CE   :Council of Europe
EEC ; European Economic Community
GCEE :Office for External Economic Cooperation
IEFP : Institute of Employment and Skill Training
INFT : National Institute of Tourism Training
INA  :National Institute of Administration
LNETI: National Laboratory for Engineering and Industrial
Technology
MOCT : Ministry of Commerce and Tourism
MOE  :Ministry of Education
MOIE : Ministry of Industry and Energy
MOFP : Ministry of Finance and Planning
MOL : Ministry of Labor
PCM  : Presidency of the Council of iinisters
PEDC : Professional Engineering Development Center
STC : Skill Training Center



FOR OmCIIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
MANPOWER TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Basic Data
(1980)
Country Data (1980)
Total population                                          9.9 million
Total labor force                                         4.8 million
Unemployment rate                                         8.8%
Female % of population                                    53Z
Population growth rate                                    0.8% p.a.
GNP per capita                                            US$2,390
Literacy rate (estimated)                                 70%
Education Enrollment Data (1980)
School             Grade            Total         As X of       Female Z of
Grouping            Level        Enrollments      Age Group      Enrollment
Primary              1-4            937,000        103.00              51
Preparatory          5-6            305,000         69.00              48
Lower Secondary      7-9            281,000         56.00              52
Upper Secondary    10-12            131,000         15.00              5i
Vocational Sec.     7-12             44,000          2.00               -
Higher Education       -             81,000         10.00              44
Public Expenditure on Education and Training (1980)
Central government expenditure on education as
a percentage of total government expenditures                    11.6%
Central government capital expenditure on education
as a percentage of all capital expenditures                       7.8%
Central government recurrent expenditure on education
as a percentage of all recurrent expenditures                    18.2%
Central government expenditure on education as a
percentage of GNP                                                 3.6%
This document has a resticted distbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offrcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
MANPOWER TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.    THE MANPOWER TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT SECTOR .............    1
Economic and Sector Background .........................   1
Manpower Issues .............................. 0 ......******  2
Recent Developments in Manpower Training ...............   5
Government's Training Strategy and Objectives ..........   6
Budgetary Support of Education and Training ............   6
The Bank's Role in Education and Manpower Training .....   7
_I.    THE PROJECT ................*.  **.*.... *..* *...........o....   8
Introduction ............................. .......... ...    8
Project Objectives and Scope .......... .-...............   9
Project Composition . .. ....................... o..... ..   10
Skill Training Centers ... .... .......................  10
Professional Engineering Development Center .........  13
National Institute of Administration ....... .........  15
Hotel and Tourism Training Center ..............  .....  17
Technical Assistance ... o ...... *e.... * *.........*.... **   19
III.    PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND DHPTEMENTAIIOLN ...   19
Investment Cost Estimates ...  ............... ...... ......   19
Recurrent Expenditures and Cost Recovery ...............  22
Project Financing .... o..****.......... ...............  23
Management and Implementation ............. .o............  25
Status of Preparation .........   .............. .. ..... .  26
Procurement ... .. ...... 0..  ........ .   .... . .....  26
Implementation Schedule ....... ............ .......   28
Disbursements ......... . ........ ..-.0 ...... . .....  28
Accounts and Audits ...........   **...ea.................  29
Project Evaluation ................... . ....*..... **..*  29



Table of contents (continued)
IV.     BENEFITS & RISKS ................... *.........               29
Benefits ...................            .....               29
Risks ... ....... ...........................**.......      29
V.     AGREEMENTS REACHED & RECOMMENDATIONS .....................  30
ANNEXES
1. Training Capacity and Estimated Output of Skilled Workers by Center and
Training CltLster
2. Technical Assistance Requirements
3. Summary Account by Project Component
4. Unit Capital Costs and Areas Per Trainee
5.  Comparison of Benefits vs. Costs of Proposed Training Institutions and
Centers
6. Implementation Schedule;
Wi) Ministry of Labor (Skill Training Centers)
(ii) Ministry of Industry and Energy (Professional Engineering Dvelopment
center)
(iii) Presidency of the Council of Ministers (National Institute of
Administration)
(iv) Ministry of Commerce & Tourism (Hotel & Tourirm Training Center)
7. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8.  Developing Structure of the Formal School System, 1983-1984.
9. Comparative Education Indicators
10. Related Documents and Data available in the Project File
MAP Location of Project Insitutions
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Portugal in
February, 1984. The appraisal team comprised: Messrs. L.D. Briggs (technical
educator, mission leader), J. Socknat (manpower economist), and S. Sigurdason
(architect).



REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
MANPOWER TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Republic of Portugal
Anount;                  $30.5 million equivalent.
Terms:                  15 years including 3 years' grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project Description;    The project's objective would be to help the Govern-
ment strengthen its capability for meeting trained
manpower requirements in support of its industrial
restructuring and medium-term economic development
programs. It would focus on the needs for skilled
personnel in industry and tourism, and on the improve-
ment of public administration. It would expand the
training facilities for skilled workers, engineering
and scientific personnel, tourism-related workers and
public administrators, upgrade the quality of their
training and promote institutional development. The
project would include: the construction and equipping
of five skills training centers under the Ministry of
Labor; the renovation and equipping of a profes-
sional engineering development center under the
Ministry of Industry; the expansion and equipping of
facilities of the National Institute of Administra-
tion under the office of the Presidency of the Council
of Ministers, and the construction and equipping of a
hotel/tourism training center. When fully operational
in 1989, the project would help to increase the annual
supply of industrial skilled workers by 1700, train
annually an additional 900 of the nation's public
administrators and civil service technical staff,
upgrade the technical and professional skills of about
1200 engineering and scientific personnel in industry,
and train 1100 skilled personnel for the tourism
sector. There is the possible risk of delays in
project implementation due to budgetary constraints
but special measures have been incorporated to
minimize this risk.



- ii -
US$ million
Estimated Costs:                               Local        Foreign        Total
Skill Training Centers                      11.27         11.74         23.01
Professional Engineering Development        0.99           4.10          5.09
Center
National Institute of Administration         1.13          2.00          3.13
Hotel and Tourism Training Center            3.84          3.48          7.32
Sub-total                            17.23          21.32        38.55
Physical Contingencies                       1.72          2.13          3.85
Price Contingencies                          5.49          7.03         12.52
Total Project Costs                        24.44          30.48         54.92
USt million
Financing Plan:                                Local        Foreign        Total
Bank Loan                                  -             30.5           30.5
Government                                24.4            -             24.4
General Budget         (2.7)
Unemployment Fund    (16.3)
Tourism Training Fund (5.4)
Total                                24.4           30.5           54.9
Estimated Disbursements                              US$ million
Bank FY   1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991
Annual                                     1.2  2.1  3.7  4.4  6.5  6.5  6.1
Cumulative                                 1.2  3.3  7.0 11.4 17.9 24.4 30.5
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5033-Po, dated May 25, 1984.



THE MANPOWER TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
Economic and Sector Background
1.01     Industrial Restructuring. The imperative for economic restructuring
of the Portuguese economy became obvious in the early 1980s after a relatively
unstable previous decade. The country had been faced in the mid-1970s with
absorbing into the domestic economy approximately one-half million individuals
returning from former colonies which placed a tremendous burden on most
sectors of the country, especially in regard to the labor market. However,
the crude population growth rate was declining during the 1970s and, by 1979,
had dropped to under 0.9% per year, thus offering the potential for additional
economic relief and subsequent growth in the decades immediately ahead. There
were relatively high CDP growth rates in the late 1970s, resulting partially
from the country's expansionary fiscal policies but influenced to a large
degree by the high level of migrant worker remittances. In addition, there
was particularly strong growth in the manufacturing and productive services
sectors during this period which had a stimulating effect on employment and
the economy in general. Although the necessity for structural changes had
been accepted for several years, the urgency was disguised by the favorable
GDP growth performance during the late 1970s.
1.02     In the early 1980s, accelerated inflation rates, declining levels of
migrant worker remittances, and a slower growth rate in manufacturing and
productive services all contributed to markedly lower GDP growth (1.8% in 1981
and 3.0% in 1982). Additionally, the unfavorable trade balance remained
persistently high and the unemployment rate, which had declined in the late
1970s to a low of 7.6% in 1980, rose again to 8.8% in 1981 and continues to
hover at about that level. These circumstances have reinforced the
realization that for virtually every sector of the economy, structural change
and reform are prerequisites to sustainable growth. The industrial
restructuring is particularly critical as Portugal prepares for entry to the
European Economic Community (EEC), and is consistent with the Government's
agreement with the INF in late 1983 to decrease the national spending deficit.
1.03     A major objective of the economic restructuring and development
program is to increase the competitiveness of Portuguese industry in the world
marketplace. Thus, the program will concentrate on strengthening the
country's export-oriented industry and exploiting its comparative market
advantages of lower salary scales than its northern neighbors, its coastal
location for ease of shipping and access to European and North American
markets, its relatively fertile farmland, and its moderate climate which
contributes to growth of tourism. The country's development strategy includes
supporting expansion of private investment in light industry, agriculture,
tourism and housing construction. The first three have a high foreign
exchange earning potential (increased agricultural output will result also in
foreign exchange savings by reducing food imports) and housing construction
has a potential for expanding without drawing heavily upon foreign exchange
resources. All of these areas include labor-intensive activities which, if
developed, should also help to reduce the current high level of unemployment.



- 2 -
1.04     Achievement of a competitive, export-oriented industrial base is
feasible only with a more highly qualified workforce than is presently
available. This implies need for improving the skills of public and private
enterprise managers, updating the technical skills of industrial scientific
and engineering personnel, and a vastly expanded effort to prepare and upgrade
workers for skilled manual and office occupations. The industrial restructu-
ing program will necessitate extensive redeployment of staff in firms of some
sub-sectors (such as textiles and shipbuilding) as plants are re-tooled to a
more advanced technological level. This implies need for retraining a portion
of the staff who will be retained to operate the re-tooled plants as well as
the redundant workers who will have to be redeployed to other sub-sectors,
possibly in other locations of the country.
1.05     A carefully designed manpower projection study conducted in 1980 by
an interministerial team, with Bank assistance, shows the labor force to be
growing at only about 0.4% per year during the 1980s and early 1990s. As a
consequence, employment growth need expand only at about 0.45% per year during
this period to provide a sufficient number of jobs for the working population.
By 1995, average annual GDP growth of 4.3% and labor productivity growth of
3.9% would produce this result. As a part of the industrial restructuring
program, the 1980 manpower needs study is currently being updated by the
Ministry of Labor (MOL) which has agreed to share the results with the Bank
for further policy dialogue.
Manpower Issues
1.06     The manpower study cited previously (para. 1.05) projects a minimal
expansion of skilled worker jobs in the industrial sector during the period
1986-1995 from a projected 700,000 to about 735,000. However, because of
worker attrition and new jobs created due to economic growth, the actual total
need for additional workers during this period is projected to be in the order
of 274,000 (Table 1.01). At the same time, there would be approximately
235,000 out-of-school youth and adults below 25 years of age and of grade nine
level or less without adequate skills to fill the jobs. An expanded training
capability for the preparation of skilled workers is crucial to the medium-
and long-term development of Portugal's industrial sector. Current training
capacity for skilled workers can meet only about 15% of the projected long-
term need. Thus, the need for both inservice and preservice training of
skilled workers is critical.
1.07     Equally important in the medium- and long-term development of the
industrial sector is a modern, well-trained force of professional engineers
and scientists. The Government's 1980 manpower study projected a 1986
combined employment of 38,000 engineers, scientists, and technicians in the
industrial sector, of which 27,000 would be in manufacturing. The
manufacturing group which has the majority of engineering and scientific
personnel, is projected to increase by about 37% to over 52,000 individuals by
1995. The country's universities have the capacity for producing a majority
of this need, though most are not well equipped for the task. Consequently,
the current engineering and science graduates entering industry are not as
technologically advanced as might be desired. Also, many of the country's
existing engineering and scientific personnel received their formal profes-
sional training as much as 10-20 years ago and, consequently, are not now



Table 1.01 DEMAND AND SUPPLY DURING 1986-95 OF MANPOWER IN OCCUPATIONAL
CATEGORIES TO WHICH THIS PROJECT IS DIRECTED
I                            1 1986-1995    1           lAnnual   I        Anticipated Annual Out    (
I                lEstimated  I Additional |Projected  lTraining ICente-r        Centers   Other     All           I
lOccupational    IEm?loyment I Demand Due   lEmployment |Output   lInsts. Pro- lproposed ITraining ICenters I Annual   I
I Category       I (1986)   | to Growth &  I in 1995   1(1983)   lposed for   Ifor EEC  ICenters/ I& Insts.1 Demand  I
I                |_______    | __________ I Attrition a/ I  I     Ithis ProjectIFinancingIPrograms |I                  I
Skill Training8
I(Pre-Service)   I
lIndustry b/     I   700    |      274      1   735    I 4.2 c/ 1    1.7    I  3.5   | 15.3 e/ | 20.5  1  75            I
ITourism         I   110    1       63      |    135    I 2.0    I    1.1    I   -    | 1.8 f/ |  2.9  1  46            1
lProfessional    I           I                                    I            I         I         I        I           I
I  Training      I           I              I           I         I            I         I         I         I          I
I(In-service)    I           I              I           I         I            I         I         I        I           jw
Ilndustry d/    1    27    1         a/    1    52    1        _1    1.2    1   -    I  -          1 1.2   1   3 h/ I
IPublic Admin/   1    39    1         a/    |    39    1   1.3  |    0.9    1   -    | 1.5    1 2.4   1   6             I
I  istration     I           I       _                  I         I            I         I         I        I      _
II
Source of Information:  Government's 1980 Manpower Study and subsequent feasjibility studies for project components.
8/ Projections cover 10-year period beginning with 1986, as some training will begin in that year.  Includes total demands
due to attrition replacement and new job creation; shown only for occupational categories where proposed project
includes preservice training component.
b/ Includes manufacturing, construction, and utilities personnel.
c/ Includes annual output from existing centers (1,200) plus in-plant training (estimated at 3,000).
d/ Includes only manufacturing sector personnel.
e/ Includes skilled worker output of existing STC's (1,200/yr), comprehensive secondary schools--all to be producing
graduates by 1990 (8,000/yr), in-plant training programs (3,000/yr), and proposed government financed centers (3,100).
f/ Includes output from non-project training programs (1,200/yr) and private sector on-job training (estimated at about
600/yr).
/ Year in which all project institutions would be fully operational.
h/ This is percentage to be trained of the total workforce in these occupations.



- 4 -
adequately prepared to deal with the current state of technology. Others
include relatively young persons whose university education occurred in the
1970s when turmoil surrounding the Revolution had an adverse effect upon
admission and graduation standards. The lack of technical proficiency in
working with current technological developments among a large portion of
industry's professional employees is a serious constraint to necessary develop-
ment in the sector. The need for inservice training of the nation's
engineers, scientists, and technicians, therefore, is paramount to the
country's continuing industrial development. At the present time, there is no
provision in the country for this important training function.
1.08     The national goals to be achieved by the industrial restructuring
program have implications as well for government reform. Streamlining the
Government's administrative procedures is a necessary requisite to improving
government efficiency and ultimate entry to the EEC. Inservice training of
public administrators is seen as the most effective means to achieving the
desired administrative reforms. Portugal currently has approximately 3,600
public administrators with managerial responsibilities, many of whom have had
no formal preparation for administrative responsibility. Many need special
training in modern management techniques and all, to varying degrees, will be
faced with a changed administrative and economic environment when Portugal
enters the EEC. In addition, approximately 33,000 other high level
professional and technical staff of the civil service are in need of inservice
training and upgrading programs to enable them to contribute more effectively
and efficiently to the delivery of public administration and other government
services. A mechanism for this function was established in 1979 at Oeiras, a
suburb of Lisbon, with the creation of the National Institute of
Administration under the auspices of the Presidency of the Council of
Ministers (PCM). This facility, while structurally sound and well located,
must be expanded if it is to achieve the training objectives envisioned for it.
1.09     Tourism continues to play an extremely important role in the
Portuguese economy. It accounts for about 5% of GDP compared with an average
of less than 1% for member countries of the EEC. The sector's contribution as
an earner of foreign exchange is particularly significant. It continues to
earn receipts equivalent to 25% of exported goods, and has offset a
significant share of the merchandise trade deficit: 36% in 1979, 27% in 1980
and 20% in 1981. Special actions are needed to expand and improve tourism in
Portugal in order to increase the country's share of tourism receipts in
Western Europe. Portuguese tourism authorities realize that favorable
climatic conditions of the country are shared by virtually all the
Mediterranean basin countries. Thus, to be successful in this very
competitive field, Portugal must emphasize quality, especially in the delivery
of tourism services. To achieve the planned and realistic 6% per annum growth
rate in tourism between 1986 and 1995, total employment in the sector is
projected to expand from the current 110,000 to about 135,000. The trend
toward modernisation in the sector is causing a decrease in the number of
unskilled jobs while creating a projected increase of almost 24,000 new jobs
at the technical, skilled and semi-skilled level over the period. Worker
attrition is expected to account for nearly 39,000 additional job opportun-
ities in these technical and various skilled level occupations. Thus, it is
anticipated that during the period 1986-1995, there will be a need for
approximately 63,000 new workers in the tourism sector. Current capacity for
training in this sector is only about 32% of the projected need.



-5-
Recent Developments in Manpower Training
1.10     General Developments.  Since 1978, the Government has been making a
serious effort to upgrade and modernize its capabilities for manpower training
and development. Actions have been initiated to establish skill training
centers for early school leavers (para. 1.16) and to develop vocational
training programs in secondary schools (para. 1.17). Technician training is
being introduced at the post secondary level (paras. 1.16 and 1.17) and an
inservice training capability is being implemented for upgrading industrial
management personnel (para. 1.16). An equally important sizeable program has
been mounted to provide the teaching manpower needed for expanding and
upgrading the nation's primary school system (paras. 1.16 and 1.17). In
addition to government efforts to expand and improve manpower training
capability, a substantial contribution is being made by the private sector,
especially in the in-plant training of skilled manual workers for job-specific
requirements. The private sector also contributes to training by providing
employees to serve as instructors for special or unique areas of need and to
serve on curriculum advisory committees. Though efforts to date in
establishing a capability for manpower training and development are
impressive, they fall far short of meeting the overall basic and long-range
manpower training needs of a developing industrial, technologically-oriented
society.
1.11     Training Responsibility.  Most, though not all, preservice training
is conducted under auspices of the Ministry of Education (MOE) in its
comprehensive secondary schools, technical institutes, and universities. Some
operational ministries also conduct preservice training--but only of a limited
and usually very specialized nature. The Ministry of Labor (MOL), for
example, provides preservice training to prepare skilled manpower for the
industrial sector while the National Institute of Tourism Training (INFT)
conducts preservice training for hotel and tourism-related occupations.
1.12     The majority of inservice training is provided by several ministries
for their respective occupational areas. The Ministry of Industry, through
its National Laboratory for Engineering and Industrial Technology (LNETI),
conducts training programs at its centers in Lisbon and Porto for upgrading
industrial managers (para. 1.16). However, it does not currently provide
comparable training facilities and programs for upgrading the technical skills
of industry's professional engineers and scientists. Inservice training to
upgrade industry's skilled manpower is conducted through the MOL existing
network of 11 skill training centers in various locations throughout the
country. These programs have been established in close cooperation with the
local industries, industrial associations, and community leaders who have
participated in studies of manpower requirements and in helping to plan
training programs and activities to meet the identified needs. For the
tourism sector, INFT has placed great emphasis upon upgrading hotel and
restaurant employees and the language skills of tourism guides. Such courses
are offered at the Lisbon, Estoril and Algarve training centers. In addition,
approximately one-third of the INFT trainees in the hotel and restaurant
occupation courses are in upgrading! as opposed to preservice programs. The
National Institute of Administration (INA) is responsible for inservice
training of public administrators and is a critical element in helping to
implement the Government's administrative reform program. The Institute is
located administratively under the Office of the Presidency of the Council of
Ministers to give it required prestige for attracting the individuals it must



serve if the reform program is to be successful. Since its establishment in
1979, IRA has broadened the scope and increased significantly the number of
participants in its seminar offerings, computer classes and policy-oriented
applied research program.
1.13     While the Government is justifiably increasing its efforts to expand
training facilities for improving labor productivity, these efforts must be
accompanied by measures to promote greater labor mobility, especially in view
of the excess labor force in several industries. The elaborate labor laws
governing che collective bargaining process, the emphasis on academic
qualification over on-the-job experience, and collective labor conventions
tend to inhibit the mobility of labor so vital to the ultimate success of the
industrial restructuring program. In practice, these problems have been
mitigated through the Government's use of available legal procedures by
providing for short-term labor contracts and by the recent legislation
permitting "lay-offs" in enterprises suffering economic distress. However,
with a view to ensuring that its labor policy is attuned to the needs of
restructuring the economy, the Government is: (a) introducing a new
apprenticeship law to support practical training in enterprises; (b)
reorganizing the Institute of Employment and Training (IEFP) to be more
responsive to industry needs; (c) preparing legislation for new guidelines on
cooperative arrangements between IEFP and other entities for vocational
trainig; and (d) revising existing laws relating to collective dismissals,
individual contracts, and collective bargaining. To promote a social
consensus on responses to these issues, the Government has established a
Permanent Council on Social Concertation, comprising representatives from
Government, labor unions, and employers' organizations.
Government's Training Strategy and Objectives
1.14     The Government's manpower training and development strategy is
directed toward achieving, within each operational ministry, a strong
capability for meeting manpower training and development needs of their
respective sectors. An interministerial Manpower Coordinating Council
provides regular reviews of manpower needs and proposes strategies for their
accommodation. Government objectives for economic and industrial development
give high priority to:
(a)  increasing the productive output of export-oriented industries and
import- substitution segments of agriculture, as well as other
foreign exchange earning activities and services, by expanding and
improving the country's capabilities for manpower training and
development; and
(b) improving the operational efficiency and capabilities of government
agencies by organizing units in a more functional manner and
establishing a permanent inservice training capability for currently
employed public administrators and civil service technical staff in
the higher echelons of government administration.
Budgetary Support of Education and Training
1.15     Government expenditures on education over the past five years
(1978-83) have remained relatively stable in real terms. While expenditures on
education as a percentage of total government expenditures actually decreased



during the period from 15.OZ to 11.6Z (3.6Z of GNP), this still is a
reasonable percentage and compares favorably with other countries in the
region. Manpower development expenditures during this period were devoted
almost entirely to recurrent costs for inservice training. Due to the key
role of manpower development in the country's industrial restructuring
program, training has become a high priority for the Government. During the
current decade, therefore, budget allocations for manpower training are
expected to be higher than in previous years though projected budget figures
are not yet available. In addition, it is expected that increased
contributions will be made by the private sector through training fees,
equipment donations, and assignmeat of employees for part-time instruction in
various manpower development programs.
The Bank's Role in Education and Manpower Training
1.16     Previous Experience.  Since 1978, the Bank's manpower development
strategy has been directed primarily toward helping initiate training
activities in the several sectors where manpower needs were greatest. The
first Bank-assisted project (Loan 1559-PO approved in 1978 for USt 21 million)
included a management training component under the Ministry of Industry and
Energy (MOIE) to develop an inservice training capability for upgrading
industrial management personnel. This component is supporting the development
of two industrial management training centers, one in Lisbon and one in Porto,
with a combined capacity of 400 training places. These two centers, during
the next 10 years, will provide inservice training for a substantial portion
of the country's 20,000 industrial managers, ranging from foremenlsupervisors
through middle- to top-management levels. Additional manpower training and
development components under the project provide for partially equipping,
under the Ministry of Labor (MOL), five vocational skill training centers for
early school leavers, which now are fully operational. Another component of
the project provides for establishing and upgrading seven technician training
institutes under the Ministry of Education (MOE), five of which are now
operating with limited enrollments pending completion of final building
construction/renovation and equipment installation. Additionally, the project
introduced primary teacher training at the post-secondary level by providing
construction, equipment, and tech-nical assistance for six new regional primary
teacher training institutions and equipment and technical assistance only for
one existing institution. The project experienced considerable delay
initially, due to managerial and legislative problems and, as it was given an
unusually short implementation period (3 1/2 years), the Closing Date was
extended by 3 years. However, the Government has strengthened its
implementation capability and all project components are now expected to be
completed by December 31, 1984.
1.17     The lending strategy of the first project was continued into the
second project (Loan 1793-PO approved in 1980 for US$40 million), in which
manpower training components support the development of five additional
technician training institutes, 43 vocational education and science blocks for
comprehensive secondary schools, and eight farmer training centers. Each of
these is a critical element in assisting the country to initiate training and
development programs in the areas of greatest manpower need. This project
experienced delays similar to those in the First Project and for the same



- 8 -
reasons. As these problems have been resolved and the project management
system improved, the only implementation problems now are due to financial
constraints resulting partially from Government agreements with the
International Monetary Fund to decrease deficit spending. In response to this
constraint, MOE (the major beneficiary of this project) has extended its
current investment program over an additional two years while postponing
implementation of all new items until after that period. This action will
enable all project items to be completed. Though the current Closing Date for
this project is December 31, 1984, actual project completion is estimated,
therefore, to require an additional two years.
1.18     Both the first and second education projects, when fully operational,
will make a substantial impact on the country's manpower training and
development capabilities and consequent industrial development. The projects
have introduced industrial management training, the concept of post-secondary
technician training, skill training centers for early school leavers,
comprehensive secondary schools, and primary teacher training at the post
secondary level. All of the ministries involved in implementing these
projects experienced frustrating implementation problems initially and
consequent delays; however, they learned how to overcome many barriers and how
to anticipate and prevent others. As a result, the proiects, in addition to
increasing the scope and quality of education and manpower training, are -
expected to make a notable contribution to the country's developing
capability for manpower planning as well as for project design, implementation
and management.
1.19     Future Strategy. The objective of Bank involvement in the education
and training sector is to support government policy to improve the education
system and to alleviate labor shortages through cost-effective development of
the country's human resources. The currently proposed project (a Bank loan of
US$30.5 million) would continue the strategy of the first and second education
projects with emphasis upon establishing a permanent capacity for the
preparation and on-going development of the country's manpower resources.
II. THE PROJECT
Introduction
2.01     This project was prepared by the Government subsequent to a Bank
identification mission in June 1982 and a preparation assistance mission in
November 1983. The project was appraised in January/February 1984.
2.02     The proposed project would focus on strengthening Portugal's
capability for meeting trained manpower requirements in support of its
industrial restructuring and economic development program. The project would
impact indirectly on the expansion of export-oriented industry and tourism and
would help enhance the skills of public service personnel responsible for
planning, implementing, and managing development projects and other
governmental activities. The project also would serve as a catalyst to elicit
private sector support for the planning and partial financing of manpower
training. Additionally, it would help establish a training base for the



continuing long-term development of Portugal's human resources. All project
items proposed are consistent with Government priorities for economic recovery
and development and with Bank strategy for lending in Portugal.
Project Objectives and Scope
2.03     Specifically, the proposed project objective is to develop a training
capability within the implementing ministries which would enable them to:
(a) train annually about 1,700 additional skilled workers for the
industrial sector;
(b) upgrade each year the technical skills of about 1,200 of industry's
professional engineers and scientists;
(c) upgrade each year the professional skills of an additional 900 of the
nation's public administrators; and
(d) train annually about 1,100 additional skilled workers for the
country's tourism-related occupations.
2.04     Achievement of the project objectives (para. 2.03) would be
accomplished through manpower development programs of the training
centers/institutes listed in Table 2.01 for which the proposed project would
provide construction/renovation, equipment, and technical assistance.
Table 2.01 PROPOSED TRAINING FACILITIES, CAPACITY, AND ESTIKATED OUTPUT
Training                            Training       Training            Estimated
Center/Institute                  Level/Grades      Places           Annual Output a/
New     Total      New       Total
M4inistry of Labor
Skill Training Centers (5)       10-11      2,100    4,400 b/  1,700       2,900 b/
Ministry of Industry/LNETI
Professional Engineering         Adult
Development Center        Professionals    400       400      1,200      1,200
Office of the Prime Minister
National Institute for           Adult
Administration             Professionals    300       700       900      2,400
Ministry of Commerce and Tourism
Hotel and Tourism Training       10-11        500    1,300      1,100      2,300
Center
a/  The training courses to be provided would vary in length; therefore, the
estimated annual output is not in all cases a multiple or sub-multiple of the
training capacity.
b/ Based on existing STC capacity (2,300 places) and annual output (1,200).



- 10 -
Project Composition
Skill Training Centers
2.05     This proposed project component would concentrate on increasing the
supply of industrial manpower at the skilled worker level and on retraining
workers displaced by the industrial restructuring program and the changing
agriculture sector. It would provide construction and equipment to establish
in the MOL1s Institute of Employment and Skill Training (Instituto do Emprego
e Formacao Profisional-IEFP), five new skill training centers (STCs) in the
more highly industrialized regions of the country, each of which would focus
on training for the employment needs of its local region. The STC's would
include fully-equipped classrooms, workshops, and administrative offices plus
student and staff housing and recreational facilities. The proposed STC's
would enable the Ministry to increase from the current 1,200 to about 2,900
the annual supply of skilled workers for the developing industrial sector.
The training centers would complement an existing network of 11 such centers,
five of which received financing under Education I (1559-PO) for limited
amounts of instructional equipment. The proposed new STCs would be
incorporated into the existing system to become a part of this ministry's
program to help support the diversification and development of industry
through manpower training. An additional 10 centers are expected to be
financed by the European Economic Community (EEC) and another nine centers are
proposed for eventual financing by the Government, or other sources,
ultimately expanding the network to a total of 35 skill training centers.
2.06     When the additional 24 centers proposed for financing by the Bank, by
the EEC, and by the Government become fully operational in 1989, the estimated
annual STC total training output capacity would increase to about 9,000
individuals annually (Table 2.02). Additionally, local enterprises are
providing, with their own resources, short-term in-plant training for
approximately 3,000 skilled workers per year. The combined output of skilled
workers from all STCs, in-plant training, and the expected annual output of
8,000 from vocational programs of the comprehensive secondary schools (paras.
1.10 and 1.17) would result in a total country training output of about 20,000
skilled workers per year. This output capacity would enable the country to
meet about 75% of its projected need for training an additional 27,400 skilled
workers per year during the period 1986-95. With the current in-plant
training provided directly by industry, and the potential for expanding this
effort if necessary, it is expected that the network of centers to be
established will continue to meet the more pressing manpower needs for the
foreseeable future.
2.07     Planned training capacity and estimated annual output of skilled
workers from the proposed new Bank financed centers, as well as from existing
centers and those proposed for financing by EEC and, ultimately, by the local
Government are recorded in Table 2.02.
2.08     Priority for training programs to be implemented in the STC's would
be given to those occupational specialties which are in greatest demand by
industry during its restructuring period and which are crucial for medium-term
industrial development. Training content and methodology would reflect the
growing concern for incorporating new technology and higher quality in



- 11 -
Table 2.02 TRAINING CAPACITY AND ESTIKVA'D OUTPUT OF SKILLED WORKERS
I Training                 I                       I          Annual           l
I Centers                  I  Training Capacity            a Maupower Output   l
1 11 Existing Centers      I         2,300         I            1,200
5 Bank Financed Centers |                        l                          l
(proposed)          I         2,100         I            1,700          l
| 10 EEC Financed Centers  |         4,300         I            3,500          l
I     (proposed)           l                       l                           l
1 9 Locally  Financed      l                       l                           l
I     Centers (proposed)  |          3,900         1            3,100
I Totals (35 Centers)      I        12,600         1            9,500          l
I  _ _ _  _   _   _   _  _ I                 .     l 
manufactured products and technical services and for increasing significantly
the level of productivity.  Particular attention would be given to maintaining
a type and level of training which would enable Portugal's skilled workers to
be competitive in the broader labor market of the EEC.
2.09    The proposed STCs would serve a relatively broad range of clientele
with a variety of program formats including formal, non-formal, and apprentice-
ship training with varying program lengths. Training for early school
leavers, and other unemployed youth, would prepare them with entry-level
skills for employment as artisans, tradesmen, or operators. Training would be
provided for unemployed adults and for those facing job displacement due to
changing technology and to the planned industrial restructuring. Training
would be provided also for those currently employed who need additional skill
development to keep abreast of technological change and/or to advance to
higher job levels within their current occupations. Due to the higher
salaries paid for jobs requiring progressively higher skills, there is a
strong incentive for worker participation in the inservice training
opportunities provided through the STCs. The number of individuals served
through inservice training depends on the sending organizations; however, it
is anticipated that this could eventually amount to as much as 30% of the
number in preservice training.
2.10     Each of the proposed training centers has a local advisory committee
with representation from several enterprises in private industry, the district
employment office, public enterprise, and the community at large. The local
employment office conducts a detailed needs analysis and feasibility study
within the district to determine manpower needs (by industry and occupation),
the level of training required, local employer support for training, worker
availability, and potential trainee availability, including displaced workers
who need new job skills. The advisory committee reviews the results of these
periodic studies and makes recommendations to the IEFP for appropriate
training responses to the determined needs. Studies of this nature have been
completed for all centers for which financing is requested in this proposed
project.



- 12 -
2.11     The new STC training programs of this proposed project component
would be distributed among 20 occupational clusters (Annex 1), requiring about
145 new instructors and five new center directors. Programs of the centers
expected to be financed by the EEC will include similar occupational clusters
requiring another 350 instructors and an additional 13 center directors.
Thus, the total number of instructors to be recruited and trained during the
four-year period 1988-1991 for the proposed new STC's will be in the order of
500. This includes the replacement of 20 instructors in existing centers who
are likely to be promoted to directors of the new centers.
2.12     To meet its current instructor needs, the IEFP recruits experienced
workers from industry and places them, on full salary, in a nine-month special
training program conducted by its instructor training division. Though
salaries for instructors are about 5% lower than for private industry, this
has not been a problem with existing centers due to additional benefits
received by government employees; i.e., vacations, holidays, retirements. The
IEFP expects this situation to continue with the proposed new centers.
Generally, two, or at most three, instructors will be required for each
training program in an STC. Because each center will offer training mainly in
occupational specialities with heavy local employment, it is anticipated that
recruitment of two to three instructors fr:um the relatively large pool of
local workers will not present a major problem. In cases where difficulty is
experienced in recruiting suitable instructors, arrangements are made with the
industrial associations or with an individual enterprise to supply appropriate
individuals. The instructor training division currently operates training
programs in the larger skill training centers of Porto and Lisbon utilizing
the existing facilities of those centers. To meet the increased needs which
will arise with beginning operation of the new centers, the IEFP plans to
expand the instructor training program to include the STCs of Coimbra and
Evora, thus covering the four regions with greater populations and the
heaviest concentrations of industry. IEFP administrators are already planning
for meeting the increased needs for STC instructors and will begin the planned
program expansion in 1986-87.
2.13     Most instructional programs for the proposed STCs extend over a
two-year period consisting of two 11-month terms and place heavy emphasis on
the practical aspects of training--about 60% practical during the first year
and 80-85% during the second year. The programs are organized into four
curricular phases and, though there is some slight variation among the various
occupational cluster groups, the curricula adhere generally to the following
pattern. Phase 1 is 3-5 months in duration, depending on the occupational
cluster, and includes basic development in the common knowledge and skills of
the respective total cluster group. Phase 2 also is 3-5 months long, such
that the combination of both phases totals 8 months, and includes intensive
training in one's selected areas of specialization. Phase 3 is 3 months in
duration and completes the first year of training. During phase 3, the
trainee is introduced to the industry (in-plant) portion of the training
program by spending 50% time on the job in a supervised work experience and
the remaining 50% in the training center. Phase 4, the final segment, covers
the entire 11 months of the second year with the trainee alternating between 3
weeks in industry and 1 week in the training center for advanced skill
development. Second year students, in general, are divided into three groups
each of which returns to the center on a different week to allow for more
individualized instruction.



2.14     All training specializations planned for the new STCs are currently
being offered (with curricula satisfactory to the Bank) in one or more of the
existing network of centers, so no new curricula will be required. However,
the IEFP curriculum division, with assistance from its industrial advisory
committees, is continually updating all skill training curricula to reflect
changes in technology and in local needs of industry.  The IEFP is moving
gradually to incorporate a modular system of training, based partially on the
International Labor Organization (ILO) model, into all of its programs.  The
(ILO) was contracted in 1981 to help introduce the modular system concept for
some of the training specializations. Though the curriculum division with its
industrial committees comprise capable program development groups, some
additional assistance will be required to help revise and update curricula for
4-5 of the occupational cluster areas to be offered. The project, therefore,
would include two consultants (a total of 6 man-months) to assist with
curriculum update and 10 fellowships (a total of 21 man-months) for summer
training of selected staff (an average of 2 instructors per center) to improve
their technical and professional skills and update their knowledge of changing
technology.
Professional Engineering Development Center
2.15     This project componment would help establish, within the Ministry of
Industry and Energy (M)IE), a national inservice training system for upgrading
and maintaining technical proficiency among the country's employed engineering
and other scientific professionals (chemists, progr&i analysts, etc.).  The
proposed training system, expected to focus primarily on employees of medium-
to large-sized industry, would comprise a central training facility in Lisbon
(an existing building requiring renovation) linked administratively to 11
existing regional technology centers in which the majority of training would
be conducted. The regional centers currently provide product development
services for local industries and have been operating successfully for several
years. In addition to providing instructional equipment and technical
assistance for institutional development, the project would provide renovation
of the central building which, until now, has been headquarters for MOIE's
National Laboratory of Engineering and Industrial Technology (Laboratorio
Nacional de Engenharia e Technologia -LNETI). The Lisbon facility would
include administrative offices and seminar rooms plus additional space for the
development of a production capability for preparing training curricula and
instructional materials. Responsibility for implementing and managing the
proposed training system would be assigned to LNETI. This training system
would be an integral part of this organization's industrial development and
support program and would complement the two management training centers
currently being constructed under the First Education Project (Loan 1559-PO).
2.16     The proposed training system would introduce an extension-type
continuing education program designed to keep technical professionals abreast
of new developments and techniques in their specialized fields of endeavor.
Though some training would be offered in the Lisbon center, most would take
place in the 11 regional technology centers for greater 'accessibility by
prospective trainees and to allow for realistic demonstrations and examples of
local problems and conditions. The training program would employ generally
two specific instructional formats: (a) traditional lecture/ demonstration/
seminars conducted both in the Lisbon Center and the regional technology
centers; and (b) video presentations prepared in the production facility as a



- 14 -
series of course units to be viewed in the technology centers and supplemented
by a local center instructor. Each of the regional centers have allocated
appropriate classrooms, to be equipped by the project, for the instructional
program.
2.17     Initial program offerings would include the development of about four
to five courses in each of the following categories; (a) engineering
specializations; (b) engineering sciences; (c) developing technology; and (d)
training and education technology. Each year about 8 courses (2 from each of
the 4 categories) would be offered twice (in different centers) using the
traditional format (Para. 2.16). As indicated in Table 2.03, these courses (a
total of 16 offerings) would each serve approximately 25 participants for a
total traditional program training output of 400 individuals per year. The
courses offered under this format would average 2 weeks duration using a
five-hour instructional day (a total of 50 contact hours per course). As also
shown in Table 2.03, an additional 8 courses per year, generally 2 from each
category, would be offered via the video/local instructor presentation format
(para 2.16). These courses would be offered on a 16-week, 3-hour session per
week, basis (48 contact hours per course) -- some by direct transmission via
the educational television channel and others by video cassette. Each would
be viewed on a television receiver/monitor in the technology center classroom
and supplemented by a trained and experienced instructor. These courses would
each serve approximately 100 participants for a total video/instructor
training output of 800 individuals per year.
TABLE 2.03. ESTIMATED TRAINING OUTPUT OF THE PROFESSIONAL
ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT CENTER
Course              Course       Courses   Participants  Times    Participants a/
Type              Duration      per year  per Course    offered  Served per year
(Contact Hours)                           per year
Traditional
Format           50            8          25           2            400
Video Format       48            8         100            1           800
Total               -           16           -           -          1,200
a/ This count may have some duplication as some individuals may participate in
more than one course per year.
The proposed system would concentrate on training activities directed primarily
toward improving industrial procedures and increasing productivity--especially
in the major growth and export-oriented industries and would be a critical
element in the Government's planned industrial restructuring program.
2.18     Upon achieving full operational status in 1989, training services of
the professional engineering development center would be extended to the
maximum intended level of about 1,200 persons per year-approximately 3X of the
target population. This training goal is reasonable in light of the high
degree of selectivity to be used in accepting prospective trainees. It is
expected that industry's on-going needs for inservice training will continue
throughout the foreseeable future to utilize the full capacity of the proposed
professional engineering development center.



- 15 -
2.19     Instructional personnel for the proposed training program would come
from several sources. In most cases, instructors would be selectively chosen
from LNETI's regular staff of engineers and scientists in the Lisbon
laboratory and regional technology centers and given basic training in
instructional methodology. Training would be provided in the main center for
some while others would be sent elsewhere when deemed more appropriate. This
procedure already is being utilized for some training currently being provided
on an ad hoc basis. In other situations, arrangements would be made with
local industry to supply appropriate individuals to serve as instructors on a
"per course" basis. Additionally, for courses of a special or unique nature,
contracts would be made with local universities or technical institutes for
the required instructional services. Because industry is required to pay a
fee for employee participation in the proposed training program, it would be
partially self-supporting (eventually earning about 75% of recurrent costs),
thus allowing a degree of flexibility in obtaining and remunerating required
non-center staff. The training fee also helps to ensure high quality training
programs relevant to industry needs as only satisfied enterprises will
continue to pay the cost of training. LNETI's past training efforts have
proved to be very effective and well-received by industry and have kept the
current program operating at full capacity.
2.20     As indicated previously, it is envisioned that sufficient
instructional staff will be available for the program (most already are
employed by LNETI). It is recognized though that several key staff will need
training abroad to stengthen and update their technical knowledge and skills
in order to be effective instructors. Also, some consultants (mostly from
nearby European countries) will be required to help develop courses for the
program. For this purpose, the project would include, over a 4-year period,
12 consultants for one month each (a total of 12 man-months)to develop and
present along with counterpart staff a series of technical seminars; 14
fellowships abroad, two for three months each and 12 for 12 months each (a
total of 150 man-months); and 11 European fellowships averaging about two
weeks each (a total of six man-months) for teaching staff to visit similar
training programs in nearby European countries and observe their methods of
operation.
National Institute of Administration
2.21     This project component would focus on strengthening the inservice
training capability of the National Institute of Administration (Instituto
Nacional de Administracao--INA) administered under the Office of the
Presidency of the Council of Ministers (PCK). It would expand significantly
the scope of INA's inservice training for public administrators and would
provide for substantial improvement in the quality of public administration.
Additionally, it would be a key element in the Government's planned
administrative reform program. The project would provide construction and
equipment to extend the institute's existing instructional and library
facilities in the Lisbon suburb of Oeiras and would provide technical
assistance for program development.
2.22     The National Institute of Administration was established in 1979 as a
formal mechanism for developing and enhancing the professional skills of
public administrators who, for the most part, are not trained for adminis-
trative roles. The Institute focuses on improving government operation and
efficiency and provides, in addition to traditional courses on government
policy, planning, budgeting, auditing, and other administrative procedures, a
series of training programs on the applications of technology in administra-



- 16 -
tion; i.e., computer applications, word processing, etc. Training to be
provided by INA is seen also as a means for implementing administrative reform
and facilitating the government decentralization process. INA is expected,
additionally, to play a major role in preparing public administrators for
Portugal's anticipated acceptance into the EEC. A commission with representa-
tion from Portugal (under INA coordination) and the EEC (Maastricht Institute
of Public Administration in the Netherlands) has been established to define
medium-term training needs in this regard.
2.23     The demand for INA training has been high and is approaching maximum
capacity of the Institute. The number of training participants, drawn
primarily from the ranks of senior public administrators, increased from 387
in 1981 (the first year of operation) to 1,300 in 1983, with the maximum
current capacity of 1,500 expected to be served in 1984. The proposed project
extension would add 300 new training places enabling the institute to train an
additional 900 persons per year for a total of 2,300 annually. This is about
7% of the country's combined total of approximately 39,000 government
administrators and civil service technical staff. Considering the frequent
changes which occur in government administrative posts plus normal employee
attrition, it is expected that the training capacity of 2,400 administrators
and civil servants annually will continue to serve the general inservice needs
of the Government public administration and that the facility will continue to
be fully utilized.
2.24     Training Courses offered by INA serve two groups: (a) higher echelons
of government administrators (department heads and higher); and (b) technical
staff of the civil service system. Course offerings for the public
administrator group generally consist of two one-week sessions spaced about 6
weeks apart and using five-hour instructional days (50 contact hours per
course). As depicted in Table 2.04, approximately 8 courses per year would be
offered for this group with each course serving about 30 participants (240
administrators per year). Course offerings for the civil service technical
staff typically are of one-week duration for 6 hours per day (30 contact hours
per course). As also indicated in Table 2.04, approximately 18 different
courses, each serving 30 participants, would be offered four times per year
for this group (2160 technical staff per year). The combined total training
output for INA would be about 2400 individuals per year.
Table 2.04 ESTIMATED TRAINING OUTPUT OF THE INSTITUTE OF
ADMINISTRATION
Training           Course       Courses  Participants  Times    Participants a/
Participant        Duration     per Year  per Course   offered  Served per year
Grouping       (Contact Hours)                          per year
Senior Public
Administrators    50           8          30          1            240 (90) b/
C. S. Technical    30          18          30          4          2,160 (810)
Staff
Totals         -          26          -           -          2,400 (900)
a/  This count may have some duplication as some individuals may participate in
more than one course per year.
b/ The figures in parentheses are the approximate numbers of trainees to be
supported by the project.



- 17 -
2.25     INA is authorized to charge government agencies a training fee for
seminar and course participation. This charge not only helps to defray
operational costs of the program but acts as a quality control measure to
ensure that the sending agencies continue to be satisfied with the relevance
and quality of training their employees receive and for which they pay. Such
income in 1984 is expected to account for about 22% of the institute's
recurrent costs. This percentage will increase as the number of trainees
continues to grow and as experience enables the institute to better assess the
value of training to its client organizations and adjust its fees
accordingly. Fees, initially, were relatively low to enable the Institute to
establish a clientele base, with the idea that they would be gradually
increased.
2.26     Instruction and research are conducted by a relatively small,
permanent cadre of staff (14 professionals) supplemented on a project- or
course-specific basis by personnel drawn from the academic, governmental, and
business communities of Portugal, as well as from abroad. Some consultative
assistance would be required to help develop curricula and instructional
materials and to carry out needs assessments. In addition, fellowships would
be required for some of the permanent staff to assist in INA's institutional
development. For this purpose, the project would provide for 13 consultants
(a total of 70 man-months) to develop and present along with counterpart staff
a series of seminars which the counterpart staff would continue in the future,
and 8 fellowships (a total of 76 man-months).
Hotel and Tourism Training Center
2.27     This project component would improve substantially the country's
training program for tourism-related occupations. It would expand current
training efforts and enable the Government to train annually about 1,100
additional skilled workers for the sector while increasing significantly the
quality of current training. The proposed project would provide construction
and equipment for a Aiotel and tourism training center in the Estoril resort
area, near Lisbon, plus TA for institutional development. The center would be
administered under the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism (MOCT) through its
National Institute of Tourism Training (Instituto Nacional de Formacao
Turistica--INFT).
2.28     The proposed hotel and tourism training center would be a working
institution providing formal intensive classroom instruction and hands-on
training during the six-month tourist "off-season" (October through March).
During the normal tourist season, the training center would operate as a
commercial establishment under the management of a professional hotelier to
provide relevant practical training for the trainees. Individuals who have
completed the first formal 6-month period of training would participate during
this period in a supervised practicum working as regular employees in the
center. At the end of the first full year of training, the students will be
placed in other commercial establishments for a second practicum and
experience outside the training organization. During the formal training
phase of the program, trainees living outside the region would reside in the
training center. During the practicum portion, those working in the center
would receive residential priviledges in partial payment for their services.
In addition to the pre-service training described above, the center would
offer inservice training for upgrading the skills of already employed workers.



- 18 -
2.29     A high degree of cooperation exists between the INFT and the
country's national hotel and restaurant associations. The existing training
programs maintain highly supportive advisory committees with representation
from both of these associations plus employee groups and several local
organizations. A similar advisory committee has already been formed for the
proposed new center and was instrumental in helping to conduct a feasibility
study to determine justification for the project imvestment.
2.30     Applicants accepted for INFT pre-service courses in hotel and
restaurant occupations are required to have completed at least lower secondary
(9th grade) or upper secondary (12th grade) school, depending upon the
specific training specialization. In recent years, the number of applicants
for admission to existing pre-service courses has been several times greater
than the number of training places available. Competition among employers is
similarly strong for graduates. In many cases, the graduates accept
employment with the hotel in which they were placed for the practicum phase of
their training. These employment/training arrangements are made cooperatively
by the hotels/restaurants and INFT. Arrangements between these establishments
and the existing training centers to allow employee released time for upgrade
training also reflect the close working relationships which have evolved among
the hotel and restaurant management, workers' unions, and INFT.
2.31     Upon achieving full operational status in 1989, the hotel/tourism
training center would produce annually about 1,100 trained workers (at the
skilled manpower level) for the sector which, when combined with INFT's other
training (1,200 per year), will meet about 46% of the projected need.
Considering that an estimated 600 per year receive direct on-job training in
the sector, available training of all types would, therefore, meet almost
one-half of the currently projected need. Due to the importance of the
tourism sector as a foreign exchange earning industry, the INFT would continue
to maintain close surveillance on manpower demand and supply in the sector
and, if necessary, expand the scope of its training effort through other
facilities. It is expected that future training needs beyond 1995 will
continue to utilize the full capacity of the proposed training center.
2.32     Instructional staff for the hotel and tourism training center
comprises a core of permanent staff suppplemented by experienced specialists
drawn on a part-time basis from the hotel and tourism industry. The latter
instructors are contracted on an hourly basis for specific courses.
Immediately prior to commencement of each academic year, the INFT provides a
two-week course on teaching methodology which is required for all INFT
instructional staff. The course is prepared by the INFT Director of Pedagogy
in cooperation with the directors of each of the substantive subject matter
areas. This arrangement has worked especially well for preparation of
contracted instructional staff from the industry because hoteliers have
perceived the mutual benefits of this arrangement. It is planned that
part-time contracted personnel will continue to account for part of the
teacher requirements of the proposed new center in order to maintain linkages
with operational staff in the sector and to provide program credibility.



- 19 -
2.33     To support institutional building for the proposed training center,
the project would provide a number of consultancies in hotel management
training and instructor development plus short-term fellowships in selected
EEC countries for center management, instructional, and instructor training
staffs. For this purpose, the proposed project would finance four consultants
for two-months each (a total of eight man-months) and 23 short-term fellow-
ships for about two-months each (a total of 60 man-months). In addition, the
INFT anticipates establishing a linkage with other similar hotel/tourism
schools in the EEC countries which would require bringing three consultants
from those schools for about five-months each (a total of 15 man-months).
Technical Assistance
2.34     Provision is made in the proposed project for financing
expert/consultant services (111 man-months) and fellowship training abroad
(313 man-months) to assist in implementing the proposed project items
(paras. 2.14, 2.20, 2.26 and 2.33). Technical assistance schedules and terms
of reference for consultants were reviewed and agreed during negotiations.
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEENTATION
Investment Cost Estimates
3.01     Cost Summary.  The total cost of the project is estimated to be
ESC 7.4 billion or US$54.9 million equivalent, of which US$30.5 million is
foreign exchange.  The distribution by groups of project items is summarized
in Table 3.01.
3.02     The distribution of estimated project costs among categories of
expenditure and according to local and foreign cost elements is sumnarized in
Table 3.02. The cost estimate excludes the front-end fee which would I1
pre-paid by Government.
3.03     Basis of Cost Estimates.  Construction costs for the skill training
centers were estimated on the basis of: (a) schedules of accommodation for
items to be provided under the proposed project; (b) sketch plans for
comparable institutions to be financed by the EEC; and (c) actual unit costs
of comparable, recently constructed buildings. Construction cost estimates
for the tourism training center are based on detailed engineering designs and
those for the institute of administration on preliminary designs.
Rehabilitation costs of LNETI's professional engineering development center
are based on mission estimates of the work required to bring the structure to
an acceptable standard. Site development cost estimates are derived where
available, from detailed engineering designs, but otherwise as a proportion
(10%) of construction costs. Furniture and equipment costs have been
estimated on the basis of preliminary equipment lists and costs of similar
items in previous Bank financed projects. Costs of architectural and
engineering services have been estimated on the basis of recent contracts for
such services (6% - 8% of construction costs). Unit costs for construction
range from US$150/m2 for training workshops (STCs) to USt260/m2 for higher
standards of construction at the public administration institute and the
tourism training center. These costs compare well with unit costs for similar
institutions in the region (Annex 4).



- 20 -
Table 3.01 PROJECT COST BY ITEM
Z of
ESC MILLIONS              US$ MILLION          Base
Item                    Local Foreign  Total    Local Foreign  Total    Cost
Ministry of Labor
Skill Training              1,519   1,571   3,090        11.25   11.64   22.89   60
centers (5)
Related Technical               3      13       16        0.02    0.10    0.12    0
Assistance
Sub-total                1,522   1,584   3,106        11.27   11.74   23.01   60
Ministry of Industry(LIETI)
National Management
Training Center (1)          117     475     592         0.87    3.51    4.38   11
Related Technical
Assistance                    16      80       96        0.12    0.59    0.71    2
Sub-total                   133     555     688         0.99    4.10    5.09   13
Presidency of the Council of
2'-nLsters
National Institute of        111     128      239        0.82    0.95    1.77    5
Administration (1)
Related Technical             42     142      184        0.31    1.05    1.36    3
Assistance
Sub-total                   153     270     423         1.13    2.00    3.13    8
Ministry of Commerce and
Tourism
Estoril Tourism Training
Center                      507     425      932        3.75    3.14    6.89   18
Related Technical
Assistance                    11      45       56        0.09    0.34    0.43    1
Sub-total                   518     470     988         3.84    3.48    7.32   19
Total Base Cost              2,326   2,879   5,205        17.23   21.32   38.55  100
Contingencies
Physical                   233     288     521         1.72    2.13    3.85   10
Price                      741     948   1,689         5.49    7.03   12.52   32
Total Project Costs          3,300   4,115   7,415        24.44   30.48   54.92  142
Note: Identifiable taxes and duties are about ESC 411 million (US$3.0 million
equivalent) and the total project cost net of taxes is ESC 7.00 billion
(US$51.9 million equivalent).



- 21 -
Table 3.02 PROJECT COST BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Z of
ESC MILLIONS                       US$ HILLIOW         Base
Item                      Local      Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign       Total Costs
Construction
Training Facilities          1,185         726      1,911          8.77       5.38      14.15   37
Hostel facilities              276         169       445           2.05       1.25       3.30    8
Staff Housing                   54          34        88           0.41       0.26       0.67    2
Site Development               178         109       287           1.31       0.81       2.12    5
Sub-total                    1,693       1,038     2,731          12.54       7.70     20.24   52
Professional Services           158          14        172          1.17       0.10       1.27    3
Furniture & Equipment
Furniture                      188         115        303          1.40       0.85       2.25    6
Equipment                      214       1,431      1.645          1.58      10.60      12.18   32
Sub-total                     402        1,546     1,948           2.98      11.45      14.43   37
Technical Assistance
Fellovships                     16         110        126          0.12       0.81       0.93    3
Specialists                     57         171       228           0.42       1.26       1.68    4
Sub-total                       73         281       354           0.54       2.07      2.61    7
Total Base Costs              2,326       2,879     5,205          17.23      21.32      38.55  100
Contingencies
Physical                       233         288       521           1.72       2.13       3.85   10
Price                          741         948      1,689          5.49       7.03      12.52   32
Total Financing Required      3,300       4,115     7.415          24.44      30.48      54.92  142
_ ~ ~~                                       -   __



- 22 -
3.04     Contingency Allowances.  A physical contingency allowance of 102 of
base cost (USS3.85 million) was added to the cost of all project items except
Technical Assistance to allow for unforeseen events. A price contingency
allowance of 29.5% (UStl2.5 million) was added to the base cost plus physical
contingencies. This figure is based on the implementation schedule shown in
Annex 6, and the annual price escalation rates, assumed for all categories of
expenditures, starting from negotiations (May, 1984), as follows: 1984 - 3.5%;
1985 - 8.0%; 1986/88 - 9%; 1989 - 7.5%; and 1990 - 6%. Both the foreign and
local price contingencies have been expressed in US dollar equivalencies based
on the assumption that the present policy of adjusting the Escudo exchange
rate to reflect the inflation differential between Portugal and its major
trading partners will continue. The Escudo has devalued in accordance with
this pattern since 1978 and is now adjusted monthly on a crawling-peg system.
Total contingencies represent 42% of the base cost.
3.05     Foreign Exchange Component. The foreign exchange component of
USM30.5 million, representing 56% of total project cost, was estimated on the
basis of the experience gained under earlier Bank-financed education projects
in Portugal where all construction contracts have been awarded to local
contractors. Calculations of the indirect foreign exchange component of the
project take into account that Portugal is now a net importer of major
construction items, in particular cement, steel and oil. The calculations
further take into account that a large proportion of project furniture (that
for the hotel training institute, INA and LNETI) is made of hardwood, which is
uot indigenous to Portugal and thus is imported for local manufacture of
furniture due to the low cost of local labor. Earlier education projects
treated cement as a local material (as it was at that time) so the foreign
cost proportion for construction and furniture in this project is consequently
higher than in the earlier projects. Based on earlier experience, it is
assumed that all equipment would be imported, as that required for the project
is not manufactured locally, and that project specialists would be mostly
expatriates. The resulting foreign exchange proportions for individual
categories of expenditure including contingencies are as follows: (a) site
development and construction - 38%; (b) furniture - 38Z; (c) equipment - 87%;
(d) consultant architects' fees - 8%; (e) specialist services - 75Z; and
(f) fellowships - 87%.
3.06     Customs Duties and Taxes.  Estimated project costs do not include
direct taxes and customs duties, from which the project is exempt, but they do
include about Escudos 411 million (US03.0 million equivalent) in expenditure
of local funds for indirect taxes on construction and locally procured project
items.
Recurrent Expenditures and Cost Recovery
3.07     It is anticipated that when fully operational in 1989, the recurrent
costs for each project item would range from 1S for INA to 2% for the STC's of
their respective ministry's total recurrent budgets for salaries, utilities,
supplies and maintenance. The Government has recognized the incremental
recurrent cost implications of the proposed project items and appropriate
budgetary provision is being made in all project ministries to provide
adequate funds to meet recurrent costs. In addition, trainees in the tourism
training programs pay a modest tuition (3,500 Escudos for preservice courses)



- 23 -
and are charged the cost of meals (which themselves are products of the
training process). However, anticipated cost recovery through other sources
in the INA, LNETI, and INFT components when fully operational, plus
expectedcontributions to the latter from the Estoril Hoteliers Consortium,
would offset incremental increases in recurrent costs by about 50%, 75%, and
100%, respectively (para. 3.08). Also, the MOL derives some operational
support from private industry inservice training fees and private industry and
employee contributions (3% and 3.5%, respectively, of wages) to the national
unemployment fund. In view of the high priority of the proposed training
components, the Government can be expected to meet the recurrent expenditures.
3.08     All project items have cost recovery provision for partially or fully
offsetting recurrent costs through the assessment of training fees and/or
contributions from employer groups and services. Training fees received by
LNETI for its already established programs cover more than half of their 1983
recurrent costs and that figure is expected to increase to about 75% of
recurrent costs when the proposed program becomes fully operational. Fees
paid for INA training covered about 22% of its 1983 recurrent budget, though
this too is expected to increase significantly (to about 50-60 percent) with
the projected growth in training activities. Substantial income for the
hotel/tourism training center is expected to be derived from its commercial
operation as a three-star hotel, at an approximately 80% occupancy rate during
the summer tourist season. Income from commercial operation of the Estoril
center and from the Hoteliers Consortium, the latter amount of which is still
being negotiated, is expected, during its first year of full operation, to
more than offset recurrent costs. The Ministry of Labor STCs provide
preservice training free of cost; however, inservice training fees paid by
employing organizations generate some income which, while negligible at
present, is expected to increase to about 30% of project recurrent costs. In
addition, IEFP receives significant support from private industry
contributions through the national unemployment fund. There is reasonable
evidence, therefore, that as the proposed training facilities become fully
operational, normal budgetary allocations combined with other identified
sources of income will be adequate to meet recurrent project costs.
Project Financing
3.09     The proposed Bank loan of US$30.5 million would finance the foreign
exchange component of the project (excluding the front end fee of US$o.1
million, which would be prepaid by the Government) or about 56% of total
project costs. The balance of project costs (US$24.4 million) would be
financed by the Government (up to 9OZ of these funds would come from the MOL
unemployment fund and the Tourism training fund). Project financing would be
in accordance with Table 3.03. To ensure the adequacy of local funds, annual
reviews of required local budgets would be conducted. During negotiations,
the Government provided assurance that adequate annual budgetary provision for
project funds would be made throughout the life of the project.



- 24 -
Table 3.03 FINANCIAL PLAN
Estimated
Implementing Ministry         Government      Bank    Total   Share of Bank
and Category of Exp.             Funds                         Financing (X)
- US$ Million-
Ministry of Labor
Construction                      9.8         6.5      16.3        40
Professional Services              1.4         -        1.4         -
Furniture                         0.8         0.5       1.3        40
Equipment                         0.9         7.6       8.5        90
Technical Assistance                -         0.3       0.3        90
Sub-Total                     12.9        14.9     27.8         54
Ministry of Industry (LNETI)
Construction                       0.3        0.2       0.5        40
Professional Services             0.1          -        0.1         -
Furniture                         0.1         0.1       0.2        40
Equipment                         0.4         3.3       3.7        90
Technical Assistance              0.1         0.6       0.7        90
Sub-Total                      1.0         4.2      5.2         81
Presidency of the Council of
Ministers (INA)
Construction                      0.6         0.4       1.0        40
Professional Services             0.1         -         0.1         -
Furniture                          0.1        0.1       0.2        40
Equipment                         0.1         0.6       0.7        90
Technical Assistance               0.1        1.4       1.5        90
Sub-Total                      1.0         2.5      3.5         71
Ministry of Commerce
and Tourism
Construction                      3.4         2.2       5.6        40
Professional Services             0.1         -         0.1         -
Furniture                          0.8        0.5       1.3        40
Equipment                         0.1         1.1       1.2        90
Technical Assistance              0.1         0.6       0.7        90
Sub-Total                      4.5         4.4      8.9         49
Special Account                   -           1.0       1.0 )
)      47 a/
Unallocated                         5.0        3.5       8.5 )
TOTAL                         24.4 b/    30.5       54.9        56
a/ Funds from the Special Account will revert to the unallocated
category near the end of the project implementation period.
b/  The source of Government funds would be approximately as follows:
General Budget (US$2.7 million), Unemployment Fund (US$16.3 million),
and Tourism Training Fund (US$5.4 million).



- 25 -
Management and Implementation
3.10     The proposed project would be implemented by the four Government
ministries involved: The Ministries of Labor, Industry, Commerce and Tourism
and the Office of the Presidency of the Council of Ministries. The Office for
External Economic Cooperation (GCEE) in the Ministry of Finance and Planning
would provide coordination and advice as required to facilitate
implementation. Two of the implementing ministries--Ministry of Labor and
Ministry of Industry-have had prior Bank experience and have been good
implementors. The National Institute of Tourism Training and the National
Institute of Administration (under the PCM) have not had Bank experience but
both have had project management experience and both have the required
expertise for successful project implementation.
3.11     Management Responsibilities.  The Office for External Economic
Cooperation would: (a) ensure that the four line ministries implement the
project in accordance with agreed overall objectives; (b) provide necessary
assistance to ensure adherence to Bank/Government procedures; (c) ensure
submission of agreed reports from the line ministries to the Bank; and (d) act
as a contact agency/coordinator between the Government and the Bank.
3.12     The four line ministries would be responsible for the following
aspects of their respective project items. This would include specifically:
(a)  Civil Works.  Selection of consultants and preparation of architects'
briefs; review of designs and bid documents and calling of tenders;
general supervision of construction; and monitoring of implementation
schedules.
(b) Equipment. Preparation of bidding documents, organization and
management of bidding, coordination of deliveries and installation,
and monitoring of implementation schedules.
Cc)  Technical Assistance.  Organization of programs for effective
utilization of experts and recruitment of fellows.
(d) Accounts. Keeping of project accounts; dealing with the World Bank,
the Ministry of Finance and commercial banks in respect of project
finances; arrangement of payments to suppliers and contractors and
preparation of quarterly financial statements.
3.13     Organization and Staffing.  All four implementing ministries have
designated key staff to direct implementation of the proposed project. The
MOL has created an implementation unit within the Secretariat of Employment to
implement the five proposed Bank financed training centers (STCs). A project
director and implementation team composed of experienced instructors,
architects, and engineers, with assistance from industrial advisory
committees, will prepare: (a) training programs for staff and trainees; (b)
equipment bidding documents; (c) technical assistance programs; and Cd)
construction programs. In addition, a committee has been established within
the Institute of Employment and Skill Training to ensure coordination of
efforts and elimination of unnecessary duplication among the various training
centers.



- 26 -
3.14     The President of the National Institute of Administration assisted by
his two vice-presidents and director of program development has assumed over-
all implementation responsibility for the public administration training
component.
3.15     An existing Board of five members, headed by the director of the
Institute for Tourism Training (MOCT) would oversee implementation of the
Tourism Training Center. Two board members are appointed from within the
Tourism Training Center while the other two members are technical specialists,
selected by the Director of INFT. The Board meets periodically and is
responsible directly to the Secretary of State for Tourism for its decisions.
The Board has already appointed a full-time, highly qualified director of the
Estoril Center to manage its implementation and to ensure the development of a
high quality training institution with a financially viable hotel/restaurant
organization.
3.16     A project implementation team exists within LNETI, composed of
educators, architects, engineers and accountants. This team is currently
implementing Bank and bilaterally financed projects and would be fully capable
of implementing the proposed LNETI component.
Status of Preparation
3.17     Civil Works.  Complete tender documents have been prepared for the
hotel/tourism training center in Estoril and preliminary designs satisfactory
ta the Bank have been prepared for the National Institute of Administration
(INA). LNETI has in-house capability to prepare plans for conversion of its
existing building and expects to use consultant architects to prepare the
final tender documents. Schedules of accommodation for the skill training
centers were agreed during negotiations.
3.18     Sites.  There are no site issues as adequate sites for all project
items have been acquired.
3.19     Furniture and equipment lists for all project components including
preliminary ones for the MOL skill training centers have been prepared and
agreed upon by the Bank. Equipment and furniture bidding will be timed so
that delivery of goods will coincide with the completion of civil works.
Procurement
3.20     Civil Works and Goods bid invitations for individual project items
would be grouped to the extett feasible and contracts awarded according to
Bank guidelines. In respect of equipment and furniture, bid packaging would
be reviewed by the Bank prior to bid invitation. In comparison of bids for
equipment and furniture to be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB), domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin
of 15%, or the existing customs duty, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f.
prices of competing imports. Under ICB procedures, invitations to bid and
proposed awards of contracts would be reviewed by the Bank prior to final
award decisions. It is estimated that this review would cover about 72Z of
the value of all equipment and furniture contracts (US$14.9 million
equivalent). The remaining 28% of the equipment and furniture contracts would



- 27 -
be awarded following LCB and other local procedures and would be subject to
selective post-award reviews. Overall, procurement would be conducted in
accordance with Table 3.04.
Table 3.04 PROCUREMENT ABRANGEMENT a/
Project                       Procurement Method
Element                       ICB    LCB    Other   TOTAL Costs
----    US$ MILLION---
Construction                 26.8    2.1        -       28.9
(10.2)  (0.8)     (-)     (11.0)
Building Designs               -      -        1.6       1.6
(-)    (-)      (-)       (-)
Equipment                     14.9    2.0      0.5      17.4
(12.9)  (1.8)    (0.4)    (15.1)
Furniture                      -      3.3       -        3.3
(-)   (1.2)     (-)      (1.2)
Technical Assistance           -      -        3.7       3.7
and Studies                  (-)    (-)      (3.2)     (3.2)
TOTAL                    41.7    7.4       5.8     54.9
(23.1)  (3.8)    (3.6)   (30.5)
a    Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be
financed by the proposed Bank Loan.
Exceptions to ICB procurement would be as follows:
(a) Construction of INA and renovations to LNETI's building, totalling
about US$2.1 million would be awarded as three or four local
contracts following local competitive bidding;
(b) contracts for equipment estimated to cost less than US$100,000 each,
which in the aggregate would not exceed US$2.0 million and which
would not be expected to interest foreign suppliers because of the
variety of the contents of each contract, would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank;
(c)  contracts for furnitire, estimated to cost less than US$500,000 each
and about US$3.3 million in the aggregate, are not expected to
interest foreign bidders because of the competitiveness of local
industry. These wou'ld, therefore, be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with Government
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank;
(d) contracts for books and training materials (such as films, slides and
charts) estimated to cost less than US$50,000 each, not to exceed
US$500,000 in the aggregate, would be procured in accordance with
normal Government procedures acceptable to the Bank for local
shopping; and



- 28 -
(e) hiring of local architectural consultants is being carried out in
accordance with satisfactory local procedures which take into account
competence, price and geographical distribution of the works. All
architectural consultant fees (estimated at US$1.6 million
equivalent) would be financed by the Government.
3.21     Technical Assistance.  Because of the diverse nature of the required
specialist services, over 50Z of these services would be obtained through
contracts with individuals. It is expected that the balance would be obtained
through contracts with TA organizations. All consultants would be selected
and employed on the basis of the Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants."  Technical assistance schedules and consultant terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank were agreed during negotiations. Placement
of fellowships would be on an individual basis.
Implementation Schedule
3.22     The project would be completed in about six years (1985-1990) in
accordance with the Implementation Schedule in Annex 6. The project is in a
state of preparation that would permit prompt initiation of implementation
because: (a) all sites have been acquired; (b) consultant architects have been
appointed for all INA, MOCT, and MOIE items; and (c) preliminary plans for
one project item and tender documents for another major item have been
completed. Project Completion would be December 31, 1990 and the Closing Date
would be June 30, 1991.
Disbursements
3.23     The proposed project would be disbursed over a period of seven years
(Annex 6). Disbursements would be made against:
(a)  40% of total expenditures on civil works and furniture contracts;
(b) 100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment and
educational materials;
(c) 100% of the ex-factory expenditures for locally manufactured items of
equipment and educational materials;
(d) 85% of the cost of locally procured items of equipment; and
(e) 90% of the total cost of technical assistance (excluding
architectural design consultants).
Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 1991, Disbursements
against contracts for goods and services exceeding US$10,000 equivalent for
foreign contracts and US$20,000 equivalent for local contracts would be made
against normal documentation. Disbursements against contracts below that
level would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures. To facilitate
timely project implementation, the Government would establish, maintain, and
operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to IBRD, a special account, the
opening of which would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The initial
deposit, to be equivalent to about US$1.0 million, would be financed by the
Bank. Withdrawal applications would be submitted on an approximately three-
month basis to maintain the account with an adequate level of working capital.



- 29 -
Accounts and Project Audit
3.24     The four implementing ministries would each maintain separate
accounts for their respective project components. During negotiation the
Government provided assurances that, at the end of each quarter, a detailed
statement of project expenditures by each Ministry during the period would be
prepared and submitted to the Bank within 45 days after the end of each
quarter. Such statements would, inter alia, be used as a basis for monitoring
the progress of procurement. During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that an audit of project accounts including the special account,
would be conducted annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank
and the audit report would be submitted to the Bank not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year. Financial reporting and auditing would be
in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank.
Project Evaluation
3.25     To assist in determining the success of project training programs and
to provide a basis for continued improvement, each of the training components
would be evaluated by duly appointed committees in their respective
ministries. During negotiations, the Government provided assurance that the
professional engineering development center program and the National Institute
of Administration would each be evaluated by their respective ministries no
later than September 30, 1990 and that a copy of the evaluation report would
be submitted to the Bank by December 31. 1990. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurance that no later than September 30, 1991, the
Ministry of Labor would complete an evaluation of its project STC training
programs, including a follow-up study of the first and second class graduates,
as would the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism for its project hotel and
tourism training center and its first-and second class graduates, and that an
evaluation and follow-up study report would be submitted to the Bank by
December 31, 1991.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.01     Benefits.  This proposed project would make a major contribution to
Portugal's manpower training efforts in support of its industrial
restructuring, increased productivity, and economic development program. It
would contribute indirectly to the expansion of export-oriented industry and
tourism and to increasing the effectiveness and efficiency of public
administration. It would enable the implementing ministries to train each
year about 1,700 skilled workers for industry and 1,100 hotel and tourism
workers. Additionally, it would enable the country to upgrade each year the
technical and professional skills of about 900 of industry's engineering and
other scientific personnel and 2,400 of the nation's public administrators and
civil service technical personnel. And finally, it would help establish a
training base for the continuing long-term development of Portugal's human
resources.
4.02     Risks.  The proposed project items are consistent with Govermenc
priorities for economic recovery and development and have a strong potential
for success. There is the possible risk of delays in project implementation
due to national budgetary constraints but special measures have been
incorporated to minimize this possibility (para. 3.09). The risk, therefore,
is considered minimal.



- 30 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on:
(a) technical assistance schedules and consultant terms of reference
(paras. 2.34 and 3.21).
(b)  equipment lists for the STC programs (para. 3.19);
(c) schedules of accommodations for the skill training centers
(para. 3.17);
5.02     During negotiations the Government provided assurances that:
(a) adequate annual budgetary provision for project funds would be made
throughout the life of the project (para. 3.09);
(b) at the end of each quarter, a detailed statement of project
expenditures by the implementing Ministries during the period would
be prepared and submitted to the Bank within 45 days after the end of
each quarter (para. 3.24)
Cc) an audit of project accounts, including the special account, would be
conducted annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank
and the audit report would be submitted to the Bank not later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 3.24);
ud) the professional engineering development center program and the
national institute of administration training program would each be
evaluated by their respective ministries no later than September 30,
1990 and that a copy of the evaluation report would be submitted to
the Bank by December 31, 1990 (para. 3.25); and
(e) No later than September 30, 1991, the Ministry of Labor would
complete an evaluation of its project STC training programs,
including a follow-up study of the first and second class graduates,
as would the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism for its project
hotel/tourism training center and its first and second class
graduates, and that an evaluation and follow-up study report would be
submitted to the Bank by December 31, 1991 (para 3.25).
5.03     A condition of Loar Effectiveness would be that the Government would
establish, maintain, and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to
IBRD, a special account. (para. 3.23).
5.04     The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$30.5
million equivalent to the Republic of Portugal.



REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
MANPOWER TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TRAINING CAPACITY AND ESTIMATED OUTPUT OF SKILLED WORKERS
BY CENTER AND TRAINING CLUSTER
GUIMARAES        LEIRIA       PAREDES       PORTIMAO        SINES        T 0 T A L S
Training Cluster       Cap   Out      Cap   Out      Cap   Out      Cap   Out    Cap   Out       Cap     Out
Building Constr.       252   168       36    24                     144    96      48    32      612     408
Steel Construction                                                   36    24      48    32       96      60
Machine Trades                        156   108                                    96    64      324     216
lkechanical Maint.                     36    24       48    30                     48    32      108       72
Welding                                                              36    24      48    32      108       72
Hydraulics/Pneu.                                                                   36    16       24       12
Refrig./A.C.                                                                                      24       12
Indust./Elect.                                                                     36    16       84      48
Furniture Manuf.                                     390   237                                   300     180
Cork Processing                                                                                   48      24
Drafting                                                                                          48      24
Auto-Mechanics                         48    36                                                  192      120
Textiles               180   120                                                                 180      120
Ship Building                                                        36    24                     60      36
Boat/Harbor Oper.                                                                                 24      12
Earth Moving Mach.                                                                 55    32       84      48
Office Occupations                                                                                36      24
Foods Industry                                                       72    48                     72      48
Hand Tool Manufct.      72    48                                                                  72      48
Supervision                            48    36       92    60                                   168     108 
TOTAL                504   336      324   228      530   327      324   216    415   256   2,097   1,363
GRAND TOTAL CAPACITY        -    2,097 (2,100)
mm---
TOTAL ANNUAL OUTPUT         -    1,363 (1,400) (full-time, 2-year trainees).
Short-Term Trainees                   300
GRAND TOTAL ANNUAL OUTPUT         1 663 (1,700)



- 32 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance Requirements
Beginning
Category                                  Man-Months    Total       Date
& Purpose                       Number       Each     Man-Months   (Estimated)
Fellowships
a. Skill Training Centers
1. Administration of         7            2          14       June 1988
Training
2. Application of            2            2           4       January 1989
Educational
Technology
3. Evaluation of              1           3           3       June 1989
Training
Sub-Total                    10           -          21
b. Professional Engineering
Development Center
1. Engineering Special-      4           12          48       September 1985
izations
2. Engineering Sciences      2           12          24        September 1986
3. Developing Technology     4           12          48       Septeziber 1985
4.Training & Education       2           12          24        September 1985
Technology
5. Planning & Implemen-
tation of Continuing
Education                2            3           6       June 1985
6. Study Tours               10           0.5         5       June 1988
7. Study Tours                1           1           1       June 1988
Sub-Total                   25            -         156
c. National Institute of
Administration
1. Institutional Develop-    2           12          24       September 1985
ment
2. Curriculum Development    2           10          20       September 1986
3. Research in Prblic
Policy                   2           10          20       September 1985
4. Applicatin of Techno-
logy in Public
Administration            1           6           6       June 1985
5. Management Information
Systems                  1            6           6       June 1986
Sub-Total                    8            -          79



_ 33 _                   Annex 2
Page 2-of 2
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance Requirements
Beginning
Category                                  Man-Months    Total        Date
& Purpose                        Number       Each     Man-Months   (Estimated)
d. Hotel/Tourism Training Center
1. Hotel Management           2           3            6       October 1988
2. Hotel Services             2           3            6       October 1988
3. Hotel Marketing and
Public Relations          2           3            6       January 1989
4. Hotel Training
Operations                2           3            6       January 1989
5. Restaurant Management      2            3           6       October 1988
6. Restaurant Services        2           3            6       October 1988
7. Restaurant Training
Operations                '           2           10       January 1989
8. Restaurant Marketing
and Public Relations      5           2           10       January 1989
9. Applications of Educa-
tional Technology         1           4            4       September 1988
Sub-Total                                 -
Consultants
a. Skill Training Centers
Curriculum Specialists      2           3            6       January 1988
b. Professional Engineering
Development Center
Consultants for Course
Development and First
Teaching                   12            1          12       October 1989
c. National Institute of
Administration
I.Consultants
for Instructional
Development                 4           10          40       June 1985
2.Consultants for
Curriculum Development      1           6            6       June 1985
3.Consultants for
developing instructional
and policy research         8           3           24       June 1985
Sub-Total                    13           -           7u
d. Hotel/Tourism Training
Center
1.Instructional Develop-
ment                        4            2           8       June 1988
2.Developing Research
Capability                  3           5           15       June 1988
Sub-Total                     7           -           fl



PORTUGAL
rAHPOIER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Susmary Account bw Project Coaaonent
(ESCUDOS million)
MINISTRY OF LABOR    MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY                                MINISTRY OF TOURISM
-------------------  ---------------------  PRESID. OF THE COUNCIL OF  ----------------------
STC    NATIONAL                        MINISTERS           ESTORIL
FIVE SKILL PRGM   MNEMNT                 -.............--.........  TOURISH
TRAINING, NMOT AND TRAINING ENGINEERING      NATIONAL       I N A      TRAININO                          Phusical
CENTRS   DEUHTY   CENTER    MANATEll    INSTITUTE OF   TECHNICAL    CENTER  TOURISM TRO.              Contingencies
(TABLES  (TABLES  (TABLES  OPERATIONS  ADMINISTRATION  OPERATIONS  (TABLES DEVELOPMENT                 .............
100)     150)      400)  (TABLES 450)  (TABLES 200)  (TAILES 250)   300)   TABLES 350 )  Total         Z   Aaount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
...........
At CIVIL IORKS
TRAINING FACILITIES                    1l291.0        -      67.5            -           93.2            -     459.0             - 1,910,6  10.0  19101
HOSTEL FACILITIES                        263.2        -         -            -               -           -     182.3             -    445.5  10.0   44.5
STAFF HOUSING                             88,2        -         -            -               -           -         -             -    98.2  10.0    899
SITENGPKS                                246.4        -         -            -            40,5           -         -             -   286.9  10.0   28.7
Sub-Total CIVIL VORKS       ,1,99.7                      -      67,5                        133.7           -    641.3              - 2073141  10.0  273.1        w
Do PROFESSIONAL SERVICES                    151.1        -       6.1            -            81             -       64              -    171.7  10.0   17.2
C. FURNIlURE AND EQUIPHENT
FURNITURE                                147,3        -       5.0                         16.2           -     135.0             -    303.5  10.0   30.3
EQUIPMENT                                902.9        -    513.0             -            81.0           -     14895       ,     -  11645.4   10.0  164.5
... .. ..   . .. ..  . .. ..   .. .. .. ..  - -- -- -- --   - --- -- --  . .. ..   . .. .. ...,. . .. ...... . _..  _
Sub-Total FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT         1,050,1        -    519.0             -           97,2            -    283.5              -  1,949.8  10.0  194.9
Do TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
FELLOVSHIPS                                  -      81          -         63,2               -        30,8         -          24,3   126.4  10.0   12,6
SPECIALISTS                                  -      8.5         -         32,6              -        153.2         -          32,6   226.9  10.0   22.7
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                  -     16.6         -         95.9              -        184,0         -          56.9   353.3  10.0   35.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                       34090,0    16.6    591.6          95,9           239,0        184.0    931.2           56,9 5M205.0   10.0  520.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                          3,090.0    16.6    591,6          95.8           239.0    '  184.0    931,2            56.9 5M205.0  10,0   520.5
Physical Contingencies                       309.0      1.7      59.2         9.6            23,9         19.4      93.1           5.7   520,5   0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies                        1,065,4      3.4    130.9          27,6           75.0         51,2    309,6           26,4  1689,4   9.1  153.6    w
Total PROJECT COSTS                           4,4644      21,6    781.6         132.9          337,9        253,6  14333,            89,0  7,414,8    9.1  674,1
Taxes                                        290.6        -       9,6           -            20.0            -      913              -   411,3    91    37.4
Foreiun Exchange                           2,2998.    17.5    627,6          109,6          11oS        195,4    613,0           71.3  4,114,7    9.1   374,1
MaY 25, 1994  12119



- 35 -
Annex 4
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
MANPOWER TRAINING AND DEVELOPENT PROJECT
lUNIT CAPITAL COSTS AND AREAS PER TRAINEE
Source    Gross    Cost in US$ per Place (19
Type of              of      Areas in      Construc-  Equipment/
Facilities          Numbers   Sq.=/Place   tioc         Furniture    Total
Skill Trng.
Centers
- Training Areas        This      17.6       4,553        3,703     8,256
project
Non-Formal TrMg.      Bankvide
Facilities 78-80)
- Training Areas   First decile  20.0        4,102        3,769     7,871
Second decile  15.0       3,865       2,096      5,961
Tourism Trng.
Facilities
- Hotel School 1/       This      17.6 m2    3,918        1,174     5,092
project
l/ Excludes public restaurant areas.



- 36 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
MANPOWER TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COMParison of Benefits vs. Costs of Proposed
Training Institutions and Centers
1.       This proposed project would establish manpower training and
development institutions and centers to provide training of skilled manpower
for the industrial and tourism sectors plus upgrading of engineers and
scientists for industry and public administrators for the civil service.
Financial investment in the project would provide: civil works for new
construction and building renovation; instructional equipment for workshops
and classrooms; furniture; technical assistance for consultative services to
assist in the planning and organization of training programs and the
preparation of training materials and for fellowships training of
instructional staff.
2.       Benefits expected to accrue from this project are more indirect than
direct and are examined, therefore, as "benefits and costs" without attempting
to derive a benefit/cost ratio since it is not feasible to accurately quantify
all of the variables. The expected benefits of the proposed project are
itemized according to project component though some apply to more than one
component.
3.       The capital investment costs per trained worker are derived from the
base-cost estimates (1984 prices) and make the following assumptions.
(a) The project institutions and equipment would have an effective life
of about 15 years.
(b)  Figures used for total costs of the foreign exchange component
(principal plus loan costs over entire 15-year period at current Bank
rate) are greater than will be actual as interest will be paid only
on withdrawn amounts the values and times of which cannot be known at
this time. Additionally, the total 15-year cost of the local
expenditure component does not take into consideration added costs
for local funds (or foregone interest earnings). It is assumed that
these two factors will approximately offset themselves.
4. Specifically, the expected benefits and capital costs are:
Skill Training Centers
Benefits:
(a)  Industrial growth and expansion dr.e to increased availability of
trained manpower. (1,700 additional skilled workers per year would
be added to the labor force). The industrial growth and expansion
would result in an increase in manufactured goods and a subsequent
exDansion of export markets;



- 37 -                    Annex 5
Page 2 of 3
(b) increased foreign exchange receipts due to expanded production of
export goods;
(c) increased productivity and product quality due to a more highly
trained workforce. This should result in lower unit costs of
products;
(d) increased individual earnings as a result of their job training.
Earnings of trained workers would average about Esc. 260,000 per year
as compared with the legal minimum wage of Esc. 104,000 per year for
unskilled workers; and
(e) increased employment as a result of training previously unemployed
persons and those who would have been unemployed otherwise. This
would help reduce social welfare costs and increase consumer spending.
Capital Costs per Worker Trained.
The total capital investment for the STC component, based on the
assumptions discussed previously (para. 3), would be US*36.3 million. Thus,
the capital investment cost per worker trained over the 15-year period would
be US$1,423.
Professional Engineering Development Center
Benefits:
(a) upgraded engineers and scientists (about 1,200 per year) in greater
emphasis on export-oriented manufacturing with expected increase in
exports and foreign exchange receipts;
Cb) increased productivity and product quality due to more highly trained
professional staffs with resulting lower unit cost of products; and
(c) increased individual earnings of engineers and scientists receiving
training.
Capital Costs per Worker Trained.
The total capital investment for the professional engineering
development center component, based on assumptions discussed previously, would
be US$9.96 million. The capital inwestment cost per worker trained over the
15-year period would be US$553.
National Institute of Administration
Benefits:
(a) public administrators trained in key aspects of their administrative
responsibilities (about 90 per year);
(b) civil service technical personnel upgraded in their respective areas
of specialization (about 810 per year); and
(c) increased efficiency of government operation.



- 38 -                            Annex 5
Page 3 of 3
Capital Costs per Worker Trained.
The total capital investment for the National Institute of
Administration, based on assumptions discussed previously, would be US$5.39
million. The capital investment cost per worker trained over the 15-year
period would be US$399.
Hotel and Tourism Training Center
Benefits:
(a) expanded tourism sector due to increased availability of trained man-
power (1,100 additional trained workers per year) with resulting
increase in tourism and foreign exchange receipts;
(b) increased individual earning as a result of job training; and
'c)  increased employment as a result of training previously unemployed
persons and those who would have been unemployed otherwise, thus
helping to reduce social welfare costs and increase consumer spending.
Capital Costs per Worker Trained.
The total capital investment for the hotel/tourism training
component, based on assumptions discussed previously would be US$11.26
million. The capital investment cost per worker trained over the 15-year
period would be USS682.
Total Project
In considering the capital investment per worker trained for all
similar types of project training over an assumed 15-year life for project
institutions and equipment, the costs would be as follows:
Preservice Training. The estimated base-cost capital investment for
preservice training (STC's and hotel/tourism training center) would be US$47.6
million equivalent for an annual output capacity of 2,800 trained workers.
Over the 15-year period, this would be a capital investment of about US$1,132
per person trained and placed into the labor force.
Inservice Training. The estimated base cost capital investment for inservice
training (professional engineering development center and the national
institute of administration) would be US$15.4 million equivalent for an annual
output capacity of 2,100 trained individuals. Over the 15-year period, this
would be a capital investment of about US$489 per person trained.



- 39 - 
Annex 6 (i)
i:l
:  *I6            
'c!____ X --X_ X_ 71
Bint; X - 111- [11 .9
oE,     d     d            ll 
e      e_ I-1 
           11          sT           '   _~~~.
F)              |r 
I-g{. e1 ''



PORTUGAL
MANPOWER TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementatlon Schedule
MINISIUY    INCJY & ENERGY (P1o4 n  EnkmI  Ow4pmt CeN.)
(Naoll   tboxdorl  d Engheeg & indualio TeelnologY - LNE11)
CALENDARYEAR      193          1914              1115 1 966                          1967              196   1           1969             1 99               1991
FY64             nu                FM                FYI               fad                FY1              FY90              FY91         FY92
.1     AYEAR&QIOWR             2    3   4    1   2    3    4   1   2   3   4    1   2   3    4  11   2    3   4 -1   2   3    4   1   2 l3            41 2  3    4 
DO" a1 CONSEWuctIOI
(AketW4one d on ExMio Euldin)
Design Documients 
Organbztion d Loca Con                                                                                                                    =   s
Consthicti on                                                                                 -    m m.                                                           I
Defects                                                                                                                                                             Daet              I
EQUMM5N? & R36UftH
specitlcotions & Codi Estirmates
Old Docuffnts
A'dmdus. Anolyze OM Awds                                                                                                                                                         j
Mon'Actue, D.#V & ki                                                                                         miil
Gucaontee Pooldin                                                                                                               
TECHNICALASSWNE: 
Terms di Referece
*gBankRwAsw ,& Agxod                     Nogcllflcro.C.J  -   -        -Dte
So~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d ~~~~~~~~~~CliWng Dote
Wald Sonk-26134



- 41 -
Annex 6 (iii)
_                                                                        Th
- _      _ _  __,_       _   _  _ _   _   _ _  _   _ _ __ .- 
ggf ---0
3 E           X          J            _ .9
U' U1               _  _  _  _  _       _  _  _     _  _          _  _



- 42 -
Annex 6 (iv)
i   __   __     __     _      ___ _     
E I   -  3  _I_I_              I
0   d .     ,,                   1-C4
*0                        ,! ,



- 43 -
Annex 7
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
NMAPOWER TRAINING AND DEVELIPMENT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursement Profile a/
Regional
IBIlD fiscal                    Disbursements            This   average in
year and                    Semester   Cumulative      project education b/
semester                   -- USg Million---                  ()
1985
1st                       1.0          1.0            2.3       1.9
2nd                       0.2          1.2            3.9       3.8
1986
1st                       0.9          2.1            7.0       6.8
2nd                       1.2          3.3           10.8      10.8
1987
lst                       1.6          4.9           16.1      16.0
2nd                       2.1          7.0           23.0      22.3
1988
lst                       2.2          9.2           30.0      29.5
2nd                       2.2         11.4           37.4      37.3
1989
lit                       2.9         14.3           46.9      45.4
2nd                       3.6         17.9           58.7      53.6
1990
1st                       3.4         21.3           70.0      61.5
2nd                       3.1         24.4           80.0      69.2.
1991
1st                       3.1         27.5           90.2      76.4
2nd                       3.0         30.5          100.0      83.0
a/  The profile shows cumulative disbursements in percentages.
b/  The profile was constructed using historical data from 34 education projects
during the period FY71-81, accelerated by 5Z to eliminate "long tails". The
disbursement profile of this project is slightly shorter than the regional
average because the project is in a generally more advanced stage of
preparation than projects from the FY71-81 period.



- 44 -
Annex 8
PORTUGAL
Developing Structure d the Formal School System. 1983-84
Baic                                Secondoky                                  Higher
I  I  I   I        I    I        I    I    I        I      I       I      j I
1   2   3   4          5   6         7   8   9         10     11      12
Compuhaly
Genurd
Compkrnentar
PreSchool       Pdnula         I Repoatory         Unified          Colentcaiy           Ul
I l 
Jobs
Pdmcr; Teacher Trainnhg
Vocaticnal      Voc- C4      V     |en)f
Terminal Examinations
Inntm s                                                _
Ages 5    6   7   8   9           10   11       12   13   14       15     16      17         18  19    20       21   22
I   I  I  I   I        I    I        I   I    1        I       I      I           I    I    I       i    kI
WoWd Bankc-2bO71



-45 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
COHrAUIAVE EfhlCATI'  NICAYORB
CENTRAL                                                I~"y t.39
IXPENDITruRE 100T itr                            COSCLETIoN            RECIRRNT
ON EDUCATION  33RR31N1        ADUL.T             RATEM 9C              UUIT COS   PUOcuERiuW
GNP PER               AS PECENTW   EXPENDITURS  LITERACY PRIMIARY PRIMARY    PR113ART  PRIMA?    RATEC FROM   SECrNASY" SP.mNDAR?i HGHER
BASE  POP.  CAPITA  PERCENr CUP TOTAL CENTRAL. ALLOCATIED TOs RATE         ERrLL. SCHWOL.       BUNCOS EIHr.ATION  pmiMv To  g1MOU.,   UTuPIerTs  gnROL..
TEa PIILLS. CUSS)   DEVOMED TO  covumuWnR    PRI  SEC  Nt    (I)    ctATI    CYCLE!             PER       AN PERCET 51009948?   RATIn         PER        RATIO
139  RIS)97   121634710   ExZPUDITIRZ         (U)        (1976)   (E)         (E)      TEACHER  CNPICA'1T4        2          2      TEACHER       (2)
()  (2.9       (3)           (4             3            1)        11       ()         ()         (II           3)         (i          l)      3&
CANADA  :n.                     ~~~~71A0     18j54?      3? 34"'. zim    991         1061      100         23        3 9.9"'     3I 61         902       JR      232.40e3
cgJItum, P.R.      79    63.2  12.2'-1       4.6          9.9"       --   ---          91b       age      1008        -         -            3008s        94A         -         .In
NUEMRLMIO)S        79    34.0  30 4qg"    7.9             5.3       20   33   2s       g,b.~   96          93         In        13.3          99          A7        a)       32.40
.m  ZEAAmse        an      it21  e*nn:"    5.3"          13.4       37   It   23       99b      arm       Inn0        24        1 1.1b      1311          32        as       21. A0".
SWEDEN             79      4.2  12.25'1    9.0           34.2       33I   an 30        9$b       99"    3In0          3n"       14.9         afl          7q         na 30"  31.90w
EASTERN ArRYCA
OSUmAN            [to     09St    72.16    6i3"         39.1        44   zm   is       331.      9         74        32        22.0          Ii-         20         14       3.10n
WEMUIDI            a3 I    4.2      23'     2~3.R       19.n        41   25   2 7      21        29"       31         37        212.2         3 2           1"      37        3 .0%
commwAs            Ito     0.41.    2-1    4. IV         25.4       An   2Rb  34A    ---         9"x       41         4 3       14.0          Sol         fl3       3"        3.40
OJIUUtI            43I     0.1      &eO'    3.4          30.3       1.0  40   ...    20n         32                   43a       -             of.          P         9       049'
EMInP1A            at    12qb    ur.0    2.9"            38.11      41   23   20l    13          42        308        43        19.1          931         14        a&4      I'.t.
1137              79    11.3       390     3.9         1605  s 3'                      1         2        7          4                       41          3"        24        1.09t
LESOTIW   32      341.  ~~~~~~~41    .5         34.9       33   32   26       53 ~  33"           43         44         9.4          41          23        23        1.1n
1MADMY1ASCAR       77      3.1      330     4.0W        24.0        13   2*   19       so        gab.      33         -lb        6.0         333          34        73        I.101.'
MEALAWI            el      611.    2333)1    3.1         11.4        34   34   23      ZS        42        21         63         3.3          12           4        231       n.4fl
HAURITIUS          so      09h  30401.    1.0            33.5        39   An    7      so        67        YR         221       17.1          79          43o       2i        1.640
RWANDA             so       .01.    zoo1.    3.2        23.3        42   IF   I        23b,      37"       62         40        14.0           a            2       11       0.40
SEYOIEL3AES        79      0.4   3,770      3.9         22.4"a      34'  338  In"    -                -               25         --
SOPALI        aI      4.       3331     1.1         10.1        So1.  '41b  fib    301.     221.      Mob        Ab         gonb        Fab          itb       ;;        3.n
*  a9.3~~~~   38f1.    3.0       --          66   39   ..      32        338       0          34         1.4          644I                  1
SUAZILANS   40     ~~~~~0.4  740t    7.9          34.        I4  34653                    79        50         34        332Y4                      7                  ;:
TANZANIA           an1   19.3       210      3.9         37.7       47   30   1I       7gb       931.      87         43        33.0          1$b          1        20s      n.311
VGAIIDA       an    1.*6h    3001.    -             34.3"       2,1.  ay.  201.    48       34        1.3        34        --17                       3        23       n.^fl
Z41R.              78    27.1       230"    6.0"        22.0        49   26   23       Is        44?       44         A2"       -             43          33"       27        IIb
211431             an      3:7b    ns1      4.1'         13.3       'La   21  212       b.       95        80         &3        32.9          19          34        22       3*%O
zLHRA3E           Al      71.7    7oob    1.31          19.5       42   32.   1       *Ab       90        33         39        20.0          As          II        23       n.mn
ELTERN Arnica
lENIN              79      3.41.    320     6.          33.0        Li   23    3       i         4 336A4                       14.0          N0          13        43        3.00,
ccAMEou            741     4.2      SR0     2.197        34.7       238  43"  2e    -            743'     '.8         leW       im.r          20"         t47      126       g.tnI
C.A.3.             79      2.2      230     3.8"y       2o.6"7       -           -     -          -         -         *Soy     ---            -           ---       -        t0m
rAn                74      4.4      12      2.4bv       231.7        -     -           z,                  -          71                     -             3"'     23        0.20'
CONGO              is      i.s      ala     *08k7       27.7"'       -         -                 -          -          4                      30          -         A?"      &.00"'
caam               77      0.16  3,420I    3*7.7b        94Y4                          -                   -          4v        -                         -           b.     I.Iso8'
GVMBIA             17      n.h      220     3.3""       461b        46   23"   to   lob          401.      9 11       27ty     46.1"         40           31.16'   37        -.
GROI               14    11.3    '.00    &4AY             5:s         -      -    -              7j1.EW    --                  __v            --          )4,b3y    23       -
GUINEA              .9     1.3      29OP    A.&         -           23"  238  23&   20           34        38         38       20.08P         41          34        29       7..00*
IVORY CaLAS?       At      3.2.  I.n0b0  30.0           43.0        33   44   13    30b          40        91        43        34.0          47           381V    206        3,93W
LINERIA            s0      1.9      120     4.4          39.6       43   23   24    30           12        32         31       20.0          74           22       20        2.90
%sLI               Al      7.o1.   190      4.26        22.18       38   23   31    i0           20        40         44        13.7         94I                    Is       0.900'
M4UEITANZA         76      31.6    3201.    1.3          14.9       32   43   2%    371.         32        40         44       32.0           30           A       23        0.3
NICER              73      3.2      300     4*3"7       16.Goy      33"  436   5*                I?        36"        Al"       34.7"        40            2        241      0.20
HI[CERIA           77    82.4      930      4*jY         9.6                                                                                              lazy- - -   -   - -   -t"  23  0.11'
RENECAL            77      1.5      450     5.          23.0        44   34   I0n     3          3'.b.w               43by                   20           30       21        2.2 now
SIERam  WNE        7?      3.4      250     401.        a.o1b       --  -    -        351."      373       -          33       201.b         BAG           IN      22        0.G(Iby
lOGO)              78      2.4,    400      6.34"       264.1       30"  21"v  23"   I           74        40        346h?     33.0          32          32k"?,  '.g1        :.eo4'
UPPR  VOLTA        73      5.6      1SO     3.0""       39.38Y      31   14   22      -          331.      23         331.7    52.32          39           31.37    23       0.02?
LATIN AmERICA AND IW. CSIR3EAIB
AMGENTIRA          731   27.3   2.230       2.7          10.9       433  311a  la    931.        AS        52         37       -                   3       1 3       P      23.00
BAN*iEA.E          79      0.2   2.770      5.7         19.3        36   36   11    931.         99        97         24       -             9           71        39 
BRBIADOS           78t    0.2   2,680       R.30W"      22.38       43"  3i   I    9$           10ny      99"        277       19.0"         9'm         7g1y      209      -
IOLIVILA           6n      1.4      330     4.1"?y      10.3'       -        - -6     63         741v      ---        207      -             --          1$        -        12.640'
BRAIL              79   334.5   1,770       3. lb        4.12       33    -    14    76          73"?     --         zi"        4,5.         433           SA      tag,    12.4.2*
CHILE              74    10.9   1.90        3.17         no.        -                  -        39.l        -         311-319                                               12h 3,0k
COLOE3IA           s0    21.71.  I*le        1.3         21.0       33   20)  20    331.         79        36         32        6.4                      47        20       30.02"?7
COSTA RICA         so      2.21.   .RIl1    8.4          31.3       40   27   33    90           93        77         33        3.1          77          40        27       14.00
conA               73      9.6      -       8.0        .11.0        -    --  -        94        tat"x'    94          lb       -                         ) Ilb"     I3      1t,001.
DOUFlCAj RUP.    s0        5.3   1.03fl     2.9         13.0        39   23   22       1b       PA         31         39        3.2          94           N0       33       36.0
3098803            so      141.0  1.3ac     *.0P        347.7       45   33   14   :II          103        -          34       32.41         PK          67        34       29.o
EL SA3.VAII4       7       .        40       34.        23b         44- 64     21     4          *2b       32         39       -             41          21.b?    271.       7.9*
COATEILMA          783      . 4.6 3030.    3.7"'        121.11.     --         --     -          9.bx      -         jg1by      -             9           g1 .w    191.      3."
CUAmA              74      0.8      430     83.         l3N' -A-                       -         9,r       -          it2                    -           391.7 
HaITI              8o      s.1       30     34           79?        4      9    4    231         In       20         43        39.           43           4a       27        0.310
NONUCRAS           73      3.6      320     3,51b?       14.3k!'    42"  IS-  19-   60           89x.9     3by42.              32A.3         448         2337      ai        4.s
JANAICAL           so      2.1   3131.0     6.5         13.7        37   43   20    90           96       96         40         2.3          93          A1        22        3.00
mateo  tio    65 5            *.I        ~~~13.08     46.39    Is    92           94a       53         44         9.1          94          34        17       10.30
NICARAGUA          I       2t>     'I-      3:81mr      ;,::O       _j   ___;   gob              "I       24         371.      23.                       26b       :%       ;:b
PAPINAM                    131.   2*130O    5*3b'        2151.7  e              3    82            b 
PARAGUALY          79      3.0   3,j6n      1.4"        34.2        '2   37   20    6'          83        12         26         3.a          74          22        32        0.10
PP.3 mg*0    14.6   1.O0O                   3.6         14.3        33   33   39    an          *3        36         30         9.3          49a         39        22       i4.'0y
73130840D A To6.   77      1.3   3,930      Ag1bv        a.RWbl     48   32   20    93          193       93         30h        0.1          4to         42        24       -
3IRIIGLAT          78      2.9   2,300      2.           a*1        --  --   -        94         Saol1.               341.                               441.3&b   --       37.0fl8l
VENEZU'ELA         73    a'.'   3,440       3.17        36t.91.                - _    _  3:   laDeI      ---        2K        ---           -           3533      17       2340'y



-46-                                  ~~~~~Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
GODIPARATIVE ffiUr.ATI3N INDICATORS
GOVR DTRNfNT      CAtt                         COMPLET ION           RCINqRENiT
Oni EDCATION  REClRRENT      ApIILT            PAWF FOR              LIIT COST  PRRDGREION
GOP PER              As PERCENT    ERPJENDTIRES  LITERACy PRIMIAtY PUtNlAM       PRIMARY  PR L4A*Y    RT  33           .OD*  PCMAYNCE
BASE  POP. CAPITA  PPRNCENT CiP TOTAl. CPENTRAL ALLOICATED TO. RATE      ENROL. SCHOOL       STUDENTS ErIICATIONi  PRIMARY TO  EXnRLl..  STUDENTS  ENROLL.
TPAR MILLS. (U155)   DEVOTED T0  C3'VRSIENT    Pit  SEC  fit   CI    RATIO   CYCLE           PER       AS PERCENT SECONDARY   RATIO       PER        PATIO
rlisl) (1197)   FU.Wr.aYIN  EXPP.NDIIIIRE       CE)        (1976)   C2)        (xi    lEACHER  COMP/CAP ITA      (2)         rt)   T.AOIRR       (I)
(II     12)        0)            (4)           15)         (6)       (7)      (A)        193        (101        fill        (32)       (131    (343
EAT ASIA ANM THE PACIFIC
CHINA              Mt   pee.n6    3006    I.A           El3        34   It   27      oh       no        63         23        7.0          72          34        Ii       3.7
INONESIA           at   j5g.Sb    520      2.1          9.3       731  24    6      326       99        63        37        31.0          74         27        la        1.70
.C(NUA            *2    3ij631.636b    7*yw            211*        34   14   33     94        99        so        43        19.0          9o         RS        3*       23.60
N-ALAYSIA          Mt    14.2b  mJ7R*h    5.2          32.0        32w  17w  Is'    o6b       9g85      97        22        32.2w         *7         orM       II        1.70
pAPUA M.G.         *3     3.06    *20      5.4         39.0        40   37   22      -        60        758.       31I      15.0          IS         I33S      37'       3.00
PHILIPPINES        79    4N.3b    se06    2.*w         34.0       64   3jo5m-        715-     3*        65        33         7.1         In           Is       is       23.00
l5Ir.CAPnRE        no     2.4   4.420      2.7          6.1        39   40   3 6     *5       93        Az         31        6.1          lb          35       22        3.00
SOLOI5IMISL.       no0    fln      AGO4    4.3PW       101.08      43   34   20      -        60l       90        24        -             Is          is       -        -
THAILANFD         PA    4736    72,b    1.4            20.9        SO   15   33      R46      96        -          I7        9.3          59          at       22        4.00
SCIUTlI ASIA 
IMIGLAIDESH        79    923.t      90     3.I1        10.18?     53   II   20      226       41        -         13         11.6         -14                  23        3.41
INDIA              77   439 .6     230     2.9w         e.9"      -    -     --      34       795       -         43        -             -           2R       --        41
IMPAL92    13.06    1306    3.4                  -            --   -             9       70        -          In              -                  23       23        3.In5
PAKISTAN           79    19.7      27D     2*if?        5.37       39   26   27      24       srn       8011      4s         e5           St          la,      II         .noo
EUROP. MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AfPRICA
APONARISTAN        77    11.5      -       1.7          3.1        67   39   I5      33       331b      69         3761    . -            63           9       2261      3.00w
ALCERIA            79    19.1   3.770       .1.3,      12.3        346  2bm  218    35        ai7       438        3?        7.0?         558         29'      24        1.70'
ECYPT              N:    43.06    5906    3MJw          4.5        338  358  IG      44       84*       Ro0n       14        9.44         au          43       39       15I.00s
GREEC              74     9.3   4ji4n      2.4'        a0eb        37   26   21      -        91by       -        296        4.2?                     19b'     3761'   1?7jlbY
IRAN               79    34.9     -        5.7w'       ,4.31'Y    -     -     -     so       1nO3z                328       --      -                4488      26a       4.90?
IRA               79    12.6   2.710       4.381'       9.981'    -     -     -     -        3001'                2R         -     -                 45.7      298       9.3081
IRELAIFD          81      3461  4 48fl    *.1av        33.4*7                       9 - -     93       94         29        -                        ARl*      34       33.00t
JORDAN             RI     2:2   3.6206    4.9'         10.2        19-  "-   1*      716    Ioam        as         32        7.3          91          *2'      35       9Q.00
LV.BAIRI           79     2.1      -       -           1R.68ev      -    -           -        9VR       -          39       --            -           "Rx      -        2F.WWlv
0ROCCO             so    I19.5     740     6.9W        37.8       n6  44   20       2*        may'    is         it        39.1          40          Ism      U         4.50
WASn               RZ     Q0b  5.920h    2*38          12.70       -    --   -       3lo6?    73a       45         25       -             Rh          laa       34a      .
PWRTUGAL.          79     9.R:' 2.060      3.6         22.2,       50   26   It      78       97        20         395      33*           aN          45       3$        6.30'
RO(AIITA           7*    23.1   2.100      3 961        6.2'       -     -     -     910     104"'      -         23t       -             .16t0   122b                  io.wbvr
SPUR1              74    37.0   4.920      2.11'       16.0t       --  -    -        -        %pbv      -            b      -             -           6761     --       24.106!
SYRIA              7R     4.6   3.170      4.4P        10.1        35   25   26      5*       *16w      pio       3gl       -             Go436Y               216      12.40
TUNISIA            79    4,.4   3.I30      7.0P        19.0        43   39   i6      626,    IOe        so         3941     2.5          30          30'      30        9.1100
A.R.         476  1.46b    1.3            26.2        -                          lie )  36  90        2         7.9          St          la        20       47
TEIO               9 A.R.  o 4.    620     5.03'       12.0       94        7        Zi6      j7        1j8       jql       67.0          as           3       20        3.10
yewfN P.D.R.       R2     z.n6    436b   l.a            9.7        49348I    rm    s          61        34        35        22.0a         46          37       20        2.sa
SIROGAT POR DEVELOPING COUNRlEts
RnbeMr ofCountries:                     64              94       70 69067         76        U         64        94        43            72         93        66      gg
R8nsR5                                  (1.4-           3.7-  (39-  (7-  (5-    CR-       (15-     (32-        (17-      (3.3-         (6-        (2-       (U-     (0.03-
10.03         45.0)  94)   46)  363    99)        1390  9)             77)      47.0)         993         44)      46)      29.0)
Quartile.: Upper.                        5.6           30.8      52   35   21      so       94        79        42        20            *5          as       as       ao.e
midlant                      4.0           15.5      43   21   Is      52       *3        AO         35       33            43          25       23        3.1
Lmowr:                       3.0           30.5      37   is813        24       4        35         37        7            40          33        3n       1.0
Quartile Dwevition:                      3.1            5.3    7.5  91.0  4.0   23.0      20.5      32.1        7.5      9.4          22.5        5.5      9.5        4.3
Hems:                                    4.5           34.3      442*1*n           53       71        40        3G        34            40          II       21        4.9
Standaed Deviation:                      3.9            7.4      13   10    7      30       26        21        II        33            27         23         7        7.4
Median:                                  4.0           15.5      43   28   19      53       *3        61        i5        32            61          25       22        3.1
SSNROS:FOTOTS
- DATUM IINAVAILARI.E                                        A - DARIM PRIOR TO UASE YEAR                         S - MINISTRY OP UtWATION (MMS) ONLY
MAGNITUDE NlL 03 NEGICILSL                               A - DATUM NODE RECENT THAI RARE YEAR                 T * NOE MIM STATE CODEMONEN  ONfLY
7  DATING OIISTIOPABLE                                       N - cunRRN  PRtICES                                  U - PURLIC EIIPDITURR ONLY
a  INCLUDE  PART-TIME STUD1EN1TS                             P - CDP                                              X - INCLuma amgi-ACI nMns
T - UNESCO SOURCE
SOURCES:                                                                                                                        Z   L WUE  *RUNART ONrLY
Calmea 1 ad 2 MenId Raok Atlas or IMS atoisemn.
Colomn. 3 to 34: IM* eAsel.... Goversment emercee amdlor Iseec Stactlacice Yearbosk.
Coqiracive Eduead.o Data arm usafuL is the evlatlesi of varieus. euathiton syetem  ad onlalper of relative satae of educational dewselapmest heteies vaneso
coentnima. Reewer, an the hernia qf the present data, tree-neational cDoqirisen ehoeld be approached with great castle,. Deta presentad In the abeve table have
bees collected largely hy Ranik nlsslone fron gewewment eewcae; the reeminder are staff medatesc er data free Unesco. If fence hewe been mades aotandardize
defisitions and, within Iieta*ts to check the accoercy of the date. Neerthelsee, such data ace still lagerfect Is saweral repecta end the Beak In wofklsg to
Lqpmare then pnognsslwely -n the occasion of Ltes operational sort.  In the ue ae o  these daRa. the following eeslftcsaeem shesld he Iapt IN sled:
(1)  'Ztductio' a  datlead la the tahl. Includes all  dofcatien and training. both forest and nom-forea.
(3) -Pnndry- edUCation rfafrs to education At the first levsIea andmcondan' education raform to all education at the eecondarw level regfandlsea of type
Cs.g.. generel. technical, agricultural).
(3) Litaracy reteC- Cool. 4) are of ton obteined free country ceneuses. In nosy eoncrlese the, are only appmoulntlsno ed tt Is doubtful thet mny salfors
dffefinItion of -llterace- bee been folloedI conelstently.
(4) Pu6iIc expaodliture In edecetlon- (coaL. A end 5) refers to all capital and recurrent empandaituree dev o-ted to education by publ lend esaml-pebIc
CS) Entrolimnt racloa' (cole. 7. 32 ad 143 refer to school wer asd are the percentage of eligible children onrelled fsll-tina Ie the anpreeniata acheol,
public and Private by lewl. They are ofte n eblact to a wide marRtn of error in the deweloolna nusncrtem ovinet to warietlone In the accuraicy of boasic
dats (i.e., age-specific pooslation ad anroileente). Porolleest I iqure frenuently are hIher than the ocher of stedentP actuall I isC eoal. Ower-nged
studenta who"e inclualon In todicated by frAtnocee flee can Inflate th raetise.



- 47 -
Annex 10
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
Manpower Training and Development Project
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. Reports and Studies Relating to Manpower Training and Development
The World Bank, "Republic of Portugal Education Sector Memorandum,"
June 1981.
The World Bank, "The Portuguese Economy, 1980-1982: An Updating
Report," March 1983.
The World Bank, "Portugal Policies for Industrial Restructuring,"
AugsLt 1982.
The World Bank, "Portugal: The Prospects for External Trade in Light
of EEC Entry - with Special Reference to Agriculture.
The World Bank, "Portugal Priorities for Public Sector Investment,"
July 1980.
B. Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
The Government of Portugal, "Portugal Manpower Study", June 1981.
The Government of Portugal, "Synthesis Report on the Establishment of
a Network of Skill Training Centers under the Ministry of Labor" (a
feasibility study), June 1983.
The Government of Portugal, Preparation Documents for Manpower
Training and Development Project, November/December 1983.
Preparation Mission, December 1983, Working Notes.
C. Selected Working Papers of the Project
Preliminary Working Papers, April 1984
Draft Working Papers, May 1984
Final Working Papers, June 1984



IBRD 1811R
1" 19QR
-~~~~                               ~         ~~ - ,  rM9 AY1f84
Ar~~~~~~~
PORTUGAL
MANPOWER TRAINING  V  ;
AND                                                                i        BRAGANCA
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  D7EL0
-        --SBRAGA    - :
I                   VItA ~~~~~~~REALr/
Iamo   L,    - m g                                                     -C.  AV
-                                         L     
oSLd T. D..ng C ntws                r                                                   IE
fasceism Trainingl Cntr           AWOR,<\                f     
*  P.aI.sianal Danao'. C nn./!   ,                w       t~e
*National InsD.Ysi o1 Admh-,st.ahao
_  Red-ors     C      '        --r7 SRDA/;j_     
.  Pores   o'_    -~~~~~~~~~~~~ CAr          \  -    F 'z ,J~~~~~C. ir
Arporrs                   Fgawg  ,  _    X;                          
4,..-. '
a* Dmsm cqagita                 s"'                                      {^_  
_ - D.uscv bauda..                 -/    .                 -R             -'1            
-Rqaonal baanda..                    _
taenctf . C  c    '--             
-r    .                                   -: -- *l -;io-%,                                  re
A-awlst            ' a1    .            -
gAIsew  --                   St<      
4*          8    _os ws                                     i,a
D.~~~~~~~~~Si    C;olco               X         ;EWA
bm.FRANCERAN
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\ c9/ 'c ac-Rt                            *1 A,
.'~~~*                                      ,c. -a. |V
e~~.-as   ~   9 _
Cagait..  a-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s's'ft.a
--                             --~a   -t  I,
p-rn' Il- panDa. --                                                       7
p-.SnC..9- SpSfl ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~fliVI
:v -   :"" '  rtZ - ALGE 3\ FRANCE
- - seLOssIIEtle15 ,E..1                                                    O I At 
r 20    40  _0    so  (  rAI 
__;n , Xi -. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PORpt;o
c_    s  . C\'. < .- \ ; *-  tns( eL
~~___-j7' eo_ 






