Docmwent of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13137
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PORTUGAL
MANPOWER TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2456-PO)
JUNE 13, 1994
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATES
Appraisal Year Average  (1984)           US$1 = 135 Escudo
Intervening Year Average (1985-91)       US$1 = 146 Escudo
Completion Year Average (1992)           US$1 = 144 Escudo
ABBREVIATIONS
EC           European Community
FEDER        European Regional Development Fund
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GOP           Government of Portugal
IEFP          Institute of Employment and Professional Formation
INA           National Institute for Administration
INFT          National Institute for Tourism Training
LNETI         National Laboratory for Industrial Engineering and Technology
MOE          Ministry of Education
MOP           Ministry of Planning
MOT          Ministry of Commerce and Tourism
NIHT         National Institute for Hotel Training
PIDDAC       Government Local Currency Development Budget
STC          Skill Training Center
TA           Technical Assistance
PORTUGAL -FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Dlrector-Goneral
Operations Evaluaton
June 13, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Portugal
Manpower Training and Development Project (Loan 2456-PO)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Portugal-Manpower Training and
Development Project (Loan 2456-PO) prepared by the Europe and Central Asia Regional Office.
Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The project aimed to expand capacity to train manpower needed to reorient the economy
towards tourism and other export industries. For this purpose, a number of training centers were to
be constructed/renovated and equipped. Technical assistance for fellowships and consulting services
were also to be provided.
Because of inadequate management capacity and delays related to the possibility of grant
funding for some components, only one-third of the loan was utilized. The project outcome was
unsatisfactory (although some components were eventually funded by the EC). However, for those
components that were completed, the outcome appears likely to be sustainable and some modest
institutional development took place. The Bank was remiss in not heeding concerns about likely
implementation problems voiced by the Ministry of Planning before signing.
The PCR is of good quality.
No audit is planned at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distrlbution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their officlal duties. Its contents may not otherwlse be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PORTUGAL
MANPOWER TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2456-PO)
Table of Contents
Preface .............. i
Evaluation Summary .............  ii
PART E    Project Review from the Bank's Perspective    ..
1. Project Identity.                                                       1
2. Background.                                                             1
3.  Project Objectives and Description.                                    2
4.  Project Design and Organization.                                       3
5.  Project Implementation.                                                4
6. Project Results.                                                        6
7. Sustainability.                                                         7
8. Bank Performance.                                                       8
9.  Borrower Performance.                                                  9
10. Project Relationship .9
11. Consulting Services.                                                   9
12.  Project Documentation and Data.                                       9
PART I:    Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective .11
PART m:    Statistical Information           .......................... 12
Table 1:  Related Bank Loans .13
Table 2:  Project Timetable .14
Table 3:      Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements .15
Table 4:      Disbursement by Category of Expenditure .16
Table 5:      Financial Plan in SAR and Actual Expenditure
by Implementing Agency .17
Table 6:  Project Costs .18
Table 7:  Project Indicators .19
Table 8:  Use of Bank Resources .20
Table 8B:  Supervision Missions .21
Table 9:     Compliance with Loan Conditions .22
Table 10:  Exchange Rates .29
The Task Manager for this report was Mr. R. Ellis (EC1/2HR). The report was prepared
by Mr. B. Herbert (Sr. Operations Officer, EC1/2HR) and Ms. S. Huffman (Program
Assistant, EC1/2HR). It has been reviewed by Mr. M. Wiehen (Country Director, EC1),
Mr. G. Zaidan (Project Advisor, ECI), Mr. R. Harbison (Division Chief), Mr. J. Pavluk
(LEGEC), and Mr. J. Thestrup (LOAEL).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PORTUGAL
MANPOWER TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2456 -PO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This Project Completion Report (PCR) describes the identification, preparation
and implementation of the Manpower and Training Project in Portugal, for which Loan 2456-PO
in the amount of US$30.5 million was signed on November 29, 1984. The loan was originally
scheduled to be closed on June 30, 1991, but this date was extended to December 31, 1992, to
allow more time for the completion of project-financed technical assistance and procurement of
equipment for training centers. Ultimately, only US$10.4 million were disbursed and the
remaining US$20.1 million cancelled.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared
by the Human Resources Sector Operations Division of the Central and Southern Europe
Departments, Europe and Central Asia Region. The Bank's contribution to the report was
prepared on the basis of, inter alia, the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, supervision
reports, quarterly progress reports, correspondence between the Bank and Portuguese authorities,
internal Bank memoranda, consultation with former project officers, and a fact-finding mission in
March 1993.






ii
PORTUGAL
MANPOWER TRAINING AND DEVELOPMET PROJECT
(Loan 2456-PO)
Evaluation Summary
Background and Objectives
1.          The need for economic restructuring of the Portuguese economy became obvious
in the early 1980s after a relatively unstable preceding decade when the country was faced with
absorbing into the domestic economy some half million individuals returning from former colonies,
placing a tremendous burden on most sectors of the economy. Portugal experienced accelerated
inflation rates, and slow growth in manufacturing and productive services, contributing to low
GDP growth (1.8% in 1981). Unemployment, which had declined in the late 1970s to a low of
7.6% in 1980, rose to 8.8% in 1981, and an unfavorable trade balance persisted.
2.          Given these circumstances, the Government (GOP) focussed its efforts on an
economic restructuring and development program aiming to increase the competitiveness of
Portuguese industry in the world market place, particularly critical to Portugal's entrance into the
European Community (EC). In human resources, the GOP's objectives were to strengthen the
country's capability for meeting trained manpower requirements to support the industrial
restructuring and economic development activities. Skills of public and private enterprise
managers, as well as industrial, scientific and engineering personnel, needed to be updated and
improved. Significant retraining efforts were essential for successful redeployment of a large
portion of the work force to export-oriented industry and tourism.
3.          The project was designed to support the Government in achieving these objectives
and, in particular, to support the expansion of export-oriented industry and tourism, and help to
enhance the skills of public service personnel responsible for planning and managing project and
other government activities. It also aimed to serve as a catalyst to elicit private sector support in
planning and financing manpower training, while helping to establish a long-term training base in
the country. The project provided support for:
(i)   the construction/renovation and equipping of:
(a)   five new skill training centers (STCs) of the Institute for Employment and
Professional Formation (IEFP) of the Ministry of Labor;
(b)   one new professional engineering development center at the National Laboratory
for Industrial Engineering Technology (LNETI) of the Ministry of Industry and
Energy;
(c)   the National Institute for Administration (INA) of the Office of the Prime
Minister; and
(d)   one new Hotel and Tourism training center for the Ministry of Commerce and
Tourism.
(ii)   and technical assistance for:
(a)   fellowships in: administration of training; management information systems;
application of educational technology; curriculum development; evaluation of
training; engineering specializations; and hotel management and services; and



iii
(b)    consulting services in: curriculum and course development; instructional methodology;
policy research; and development of research capabilities.
Implementation Experience
4.            The project became effective in March 1985 (four months after loan signature), after
having been through a number of iterations, i.e., changes in focus and scope, over a period of some
three years preparation. Initial assumptions with regard to project implementation proved overly
optimistic from the outset -- this, despite concerns voiced early on by the GOP, specifically in the
Ministry of Planning (MOP), that implementation could be difficult due to: (i) the present
coordination and management capacity given somewhat broad project scope and inherent complexity;
and (ii) issues related to the possibility of EC involvement in the construction of training centers and
what could the implementation capacity of the Borrower feasibly support if indeed the EC were to
participate. These concerns, however, were not heeded. Furthermore, numerous changes in project
coordination responsibility also hampered implementation progress, as decisions were slow to be
taken and information regarding project status was often difficult to obtain, and counterpart funds
(PIDDAC) were neither adequate nor forthcoming in a timely manner.
5.            With respect to physical facilities, execution of a number of activities encountered
substantial delays due to counterpart funding problems mentioned earlier, indecision on the part of
implementing agencies regarding the project sites and designs, and reluctance of the GOP to proceed
with engaging Bank loan funds when EC grant financing was expected to be forthcoming shortly.
Nevertheless, Bank financing supported the construction of a new center for Tourism Training at
Estoril; conversion of outbuildings at INA; and construction of a distance learning and production
center for LNETI. EC financing supported the construction of nine IEFP training centers. With
regard to technical assistance (TA), since only about 56% of the loan proceeds earmarked for TA
(US$2.6 million base cost) was used, and only a few fellowships were completed -- due to eventual
cancellation of components as well as the use of bilateral grant financing instead of Bank loan funds -
these particular objectives were not satisfactorily met. In the end, some 66% of the loan was
cancelled: US$15 million for the Ministry of Labor's five skills training centers'/; US$5 million for
the Ministry of Industry's Professional Engineering Development Center and most of the related
technical assistance; and US$0.6 million for the National Institute of Administration.
Results
6.           It is certain that the standard of hotel and tourism training has risen as a result of the
loan. The new hotel and tourism training school in Estoril which was constructed and equipped under
the project is currently providing high quality training for about 800 students (most of which are full-
time trainees with the remainder enrolled in two-week or two-month upgrading courses). It is
expected that the number of trainees will increase to about 1,100 by 1995. The Training School has
provided employment for 80 persons, and this is expected to increase to about 100 by 1995. The
school is benefitting from cost recovery by leasing some facilities (particularly the auditorium) to the
local community. In addition, the increased capacity for training civil servants at INA has made
available some 300 additional training places as a result of the project. The availability of additional,
more modern facilities at INA has allowed for computer training and language courses to be provided
with increased standards of output. Some 473 students benefitted from training during 1992, of
1/    Three of the centers originally slated for Bank financing have, in the end, been constructed.



iv
whom 354 were Public Administrators; comparative figures for 1991 were 322 students with 236
Public Administrators.
7.            Even for those components where, in the end, alternative funds were utilized rather
than loan proceeds, the project objectives as outlined in the SAR have been, at least in part, achieved.
At the LNETI distance learning center and production center, six distance learning teaching packages
and 24 training videos have been produced. As a result of EC financing, IEFP has increased its
training capacity by building nine training centers, and increasing the number of training places by
about 4,000. IEFP has had an output of about some 3,000 trained workers. Moreover, other STCs
are under construction which should provide about another 5,000 training places, including centers
which had been initially included among the training centers to be developed under the Bank loan at
Leira and Portimao. The center at Guimmareas is now functioning, this one also having initially been
among those destined for Bank loan support.
Project Sustainability
8.            Previous education projects in Portugal have been reasonably well sustained after
project completion, and it is expected that this will be the case for the activities supported under this
loan. In the case of the Estoril Center, there is already substantial cost recovery through leasing of
facilities and provision of courses at full-cost. With respect to INFT and INA, provisions have been
made to maintain and expand the current course provision and facilities. Nevertheless, a problem
which will undoubtedly arise in the future is the need for replacement and maintenance of equipment
in these training institutions. As concerns technical assistance, due to the limited use of TA provided
for under the loan and delays in other activities, this is little indication that these objectives will have
had a sustainable impact.
Lessons Learned
9.            Principal lessons to be learned from this project experience include, in particular, the
following:
(i)    Great care must be taken to ensure that the Government's capacity to implement a
project is adequate, taking realistically into account all other commitments of concerned
implementing agencies and evaluating thoroughly any risk of conflicting priorities. Should
concerns be expressed by borrower representatives, those concerns must be heeded and,
perhaps difficult decisions taken to modify, delay or even cancel further processing of the
operation in question. In this instance, the Bank did not heed the MOP's concerns expressed
during preparation regarding the likelihood of alternative financing and implementation
complexity of the proposed project. To some extent, this is explained by Bank internal
lending pressures.
(ii)    The issue of timely provision of local counterpart financing must be assessed in depth,
taking into account actual experience under previous loans. Lessons drawn from earlier
experiences must not be dismissed too quickly solely on the basis of verbal commitments, but
rather must be supported by substantiated evidence of improved performance. Furthermore,
steps to be taken should satisfactory performance not be forthcoming must be made explicit
from the outset so as to impress upon borrowers the Bank's priority of their active
participation in investment operations, including - inter alia - required financing support.






PORTUGAL
MANPOWER TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2456&PO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: Project Review from the Bank's Perspective
1.    Project Identiy
Project Name: Manpower Training and Development Project
Loan Number: 2456-PO
Loan Amount: US$30.5 million
RVP Unit:    Europe and Central Asia
Country:     Portugal
Sector:      Education
Subsector:    Vocational Training
2.    Background
2.01         The need for economic restructuring of the Portuguese economy became obvious in
the early 1980s after a relatively unstable previous decade when the country had been faced with
absorbing into the domestic economy some 500,000 individuals returning from former colonies,
placing a tremendous burden on most sectors of the economy. At that time, Portugal experienced
accelerated inflation rates, declining levels of migrant worker remittances, and slowed growth in
manufacturing and productive services. These factors contributed to a low GDP growth (1.8% in
1981). An unfavorable trade balance was persistently high, and unemployment, which had declined
in the late 1970s to a low of 7.6%, rose to 8.8% in 1981. These circumstances reinforced the
realization that for virtually every sector of the economy, structural change and reform were
necessary for sustainable growth. Moreover, the reform was particularly critical as Portugal prepared
for admission to the European Community (EC). 2/ A major objective, therefore, of the restructuring
program was to increase the competitiveness of Portuguese industry in the world market place.
2.02         Sector Develo2ment Objectives.  The human resource development program in
Portugal aimed to strengthen the country's capability for meeting trained manpower requirements
which, in turn, would support the industrial restructuring and economic development program, and
contribute to the expansion of export-oriented industry and tourism. The Government's strategy for
meeting its objectives in manpower training and development was directed toward achieving, within
each operational ministry, a strong capability for meeting manpower training needs in its respective
sectors. The need to improve the skills of public and private enterprise managers, update the
technical skills of industrial, scientific and engineering personnel, and upgrade workers for skilled
manual and office occupations was emphasized. The Government (GOP) also aimed to improve the
operational efficiency of government agencies by establishing a permanent in-service training
capability for public administrators and civil service technical staff. Furthermore, since the industrial
2/    Portugal became a member of the EC in 1986; on January 1, 1994, under the provisions of the
Mastrich Treaty, the EC became the European Union.



2
restructuring program would necessitate an extensive redeployment of workers to other sub-sectors, a
large portion of the work force would require retraining.
2.03          A 1980 manpower study projected a minimal expansion of some 275,000 skilled
worker jobs in the industrial sector between 1986 and 1995. However, in the early 1980s the training
capacity for skilled workers could only meet about 15% of the projected long-term need. The same
report also showed a strong need to develop modern, technologically advanced centers to train
engineers, scientists, and technicians in the industrial sector, the largest increase being expected in
engineering and scientific personnel working in manufacturing -- projected to reach some 52,000 by
1995 (compared with 27,000 in 1986). Provision of in-service training for public administrators was
considered the most effective means to achieve the desired and requisite administrative reforms for
achieving national goals in industrial restructuring. In the early 1980s, the 3,600 public
administrators with managerial responsibilities had little or no formal training in modern management
techniques. In addition, about 33,000 other high-level professional and technical staff of the civil
service were in need of in-service training and upgrading programs to enable them to more effectively
contribute to the delivery of public administrative and other government services.
2.04          Given the extremely important role tourism played in the Portuguese economy in the
early 1980s (about 5% of GDP compared with an average of less than 1% for other EC countries),
the Government recognized that in order to sustain the growth of tourism, a well trained work force
was essential, as was a particular emphasis on quality in the delivery of tourism services. To achieve
the planned 6% annual growth rate in tourism (1986-1995), it was projected that total employment in
the sector would have to expand from 110,000 to 135,000. Taking into account sector trends (i.e.,
decreased demand for unskilled workers, increased demand for technical, skilled and semi-skilled
workers, worker attrition), it was anticipated that during the period 1986-1995 some 63,000 new
workers would be required in the tourism sector. However, the capacity for training workers in the
sector represented only about 32% of these projected needs.
2.05          Administrative Organizations.  Although the administrative structure for the
manpower training sub-sector has undergone a number of changes, at the time of project appraisal the
Ministries of Labor, Industry, Commerce and Tourism, Education, Social Affairs, and the Office of
the Presidency of the Council of Ministries were responsible in one form or another for the planning,
execution, and monitoring of sector developments. Within these ministries a number of national
institutes were active in organizing and prioritizing education and training needs - the National
Laboratory for Industrial Engineering and Technology (LNETI), the National Institute for
Administration (INA), the Institute for Hotel Training (NIHT), and the National Institute of
Agricultural Research.
3.     Project Objectives and Description
3.01          In keeping with the Government's sectoral objectives3/, the project focussed on
strengthening Portugal's capability for meeting manpower requirements in support of its industrial
restructuring and economic development program. The project was designed to support the expansion
of export-oriented industry and tourism, and help to enhance the skills of public service personnel
I/     An interministerial Manpower Coordinating Council had been established to provide regular reviews of
manpower needs across sectors and propose strategies for accommodating these needs.



3
responsible for planning and managing development projects and other government activities. The
project was designed to serve as a catalyst to elicit private sector support in planning and financing
manpower training, while helping to establish a training base for the long-term development of
Portugal's human resources. Specifically, the project was designed to support the selected
implementing ministries with a view annually to: (i) train about 1,700 additional skilled workers for
the industrial sector; (ii) upgrade the technical skills of about 1,200 of industry's professional
engineers and scientists; (iii) upgrade the professional skills of an additional 900 public
administrators; and (iv) train about 1,100 additional skilled workers for the country's tourism-related
occupations.
3.02         To achieve these objectives, the project would provide support for:
(i)   the construction/renovation and equipping of:
(a)   five new skill training centers (STCs) of the Institute for Employment and
Professional Formation (IEFP) of the Ministry of Labor;
(b)   one new professional engineering development center at the National
Laboratory for Industrial Engineering Technology (LNETI) of the Ministry of
Industry and Energy;
(c)   the National Institute for Administration (INA) of the Office of the Prime
Minister; and
(d)   one new Hotel and Tourism training center for the Ministry of Commerce and
Tourism.
(ii)   and technical assistance for:
(a)   fellowships in: administration of training; management information systems;
application of educational technology; curriculum development; evaluation of
training; engineering specializations; and hotel management and services; and
(b)   consulting services in: curriculum and course development; instructional
methodology; policy research; and development of research capabilities.
4.    Project Design and  anization
4.01         The project was conceived in December 1979 when discussions were held with the
Ministry of Education (MOE) and Ministry of Social Affairs about the possibility of a Third
Education Loan. Initially, the project was to focus on the training of nurses and other related
technical staff working in the health sector. However, in November 1980, an identification mission
was sent to Portugal to identify industrial, technical, agricultural and paramedical training needs.
Following this mission and based on the results of the 1980 manpower projection study (para. 2.03),
an initiating project brief for a proposed Third Education Project was prepared in March 1981.
4.02         Project definition and preparation was a lengthy and intermittent process which
spanned over three years. This was, in part, due to the poor performance, particularly as regards
civil works activities, under the then ongoing Education I (Loan 1559-POR) and Education II (Loan
1793-POR) Projects, and the reluctance of the Bank to continue with another new loan until the
existing ones showed signs of reasonable progress. Eventually, discussions of the new loan were
deferred for one year to allow for a thorough review of the ongoing projects. Given subsequent
improvements in portfolio performance, preparation of the Third Project began in February 1982,
after which the project brief was updated. Further modifications and concerns regarding the proposed



4
project's scope continued to be discussed over the intervening months: e.g., certain components were
dropped; the Ministry of Planning (MOP) requested that the project be dropped from the pipeline
altogether given its complexity and anticipated difficulties in implementation (an issue of particular
relevance to the assessment of lessons to be learned - see section 8); the MOP then agreed to
establish a Tourism Training School at Estoril with Bank financing provided it was not part of the
proposed Education III project; the MOP indicated that some project components could possibly be
financed from other sources like the European Community (EC).
4.05          Agreement was eventually reached among all parties by March 1981 as to the final
scope of the project, the project brief was revised to reflect these agreements, and the operation was
renamed the Manpower Training and Development Project. It should be noted that a number of
important issues which had been previously raised (as noted in the preceding paragraph) continued to
be of concern throughout project processing -- namely: (i) issues relating to the coordination and
management capacity (which were dismissed in the end as the argument was made that the agencies
concerned had satisfactory records as "implementors"; and additionally, the well advanced stage of
preparation of the components would further mitigate this risk); and (ii) issues related to the possible
availability of EC financing and the implications of the availability of this assistance: how many
training centers should be financed under the loan and how many by the EC; and the implementation
capacity of the Borrower. These concerns, however, were not heeded, and the project was appraised
in January 1984, negotiated in May, and presented to the Board in June. The loan was signed on
November 29, 1984, and became effective on March 7, 1985.
5.     Project ImDlementation
5.01.         Assumptions with regard to project implementation were overly optimistic from the
outset - this, despite earlier concerns on the part of the MOP that implementation could be difficult
(see paras. 4.04-4.05). Project documents suggested that the preparation process to be followed
would help to mitigate implementation risks since it appeared that: (i) issues over site selection had
been settled (ii) consultant architects had been appointed by implementing agencies; and
(iii) preliminary plans for one project item and tender documents for another major item had been
completed. Consequently, it was assumed that all project funds would be disbursed within six years,
with project activities completed by December 30, 1990, and the loan closed by June 30, 1991.
5.02          In reality, however, the project encountered serious delays as predictions failed to
hold true. In particular: (i) plans and bidding documents were not prepared as quickly as expected;
(ii) counterpart funds (PIDDAC) were neither adequate nor forthcoming in a timely manner (see
below); and (iii) difficulties on the part of some implementing agencies which were more inclined,
and understandably so, to give priority to grant-funded projects as they lacked the capacity to execute
those activities in addition to Bank-financed activities. By May 1986, the disbursement lag had
reached 50%, increasing to 81 % by September 1987 (2.5 years after effectiveness). (Table 3 in the
Part III, Statistical Information, presents actual versus estimated disbursements of loan proceeds.)
5.03          The lack of sufrcient and timely counterpart financing was a serious constraint to
timely implementation. Construction of the Engineering Development Center is a case in point. In
this instance, procurement had been completed and contracts were ready for execution yet there had
been no local budget allocation made for that particular fiscal year. Moreover, even when budget
provisions had been made, the release of funds often did not take place until late in the fiscal year. If
these last minute allocations remained unspent at the end of a given fiscal year, the funds reverted



5
back to the Treasury. This fiscal situation was further complicated by the fact that the need for
additional budget allocations for implementing agencies to carry out project-related activities was not
taken into account in the local resource allocation process. Consequently, implementing agencies saw
little advantage in the Bank loan as the onus of execution was placed on them without their having
received additional financial support over their regular budgets necessary to carry out project
activities.
5.04          With respect to the implementation of specific project activities, the project was
successful in establishing a new center for Tourism Training at Estoril (with Bank financining), albeit
with some delays due to the decision to construct a national highway through the planned site. This
unforeseen decision required obvious revisions in construction plans and consequent delays of two
years in the execution of planned works. In order to allow completion of remaining items for this
component, the loan closing date was extended by one year to June 30, 1992, and then by a further
six months to December 31, 1992. The Center is currently operational with about 800 students, and
this number is expected to increase to 1,100 by 1995 (see para. 6.01).
5.04          Execution of the other project activities encountered substantial delays in start-up and
ultimately the cancellation of about 66% of the loan. The delays were due to a great extent to
counterpart funding problems mentioned earlier; however, delays were also due to indecision on the
part of implementing agencies regarding the final project site and designs, and reluctance of the GOP
to proceed with using Bank funds as it became increasingly evident that grant EC financing was likely
to materialize. The result was the cancellation of: US$15 million for the Ministry of Labor's five
skills training centers (although nine centers were later constructed using EC grant financing) (see
Section 6, Project Results); US$5 million for the Ministry of Industry's Professional Engineering
Development Center and most of the related technical assistance; and US$0.6 million for the National
Institute of Administration.
5.05          Similarly, the construction and equipment of an Engineering Development Center for
LNETI encountered serious implementation problems. In August 1985, the site for the center was
changed from central Lisbon to the main LNETI complex at Lumiar with the Bank's agreement,
causing delays in submission of plans and technical details. Then, expected counterpart financing
allocations did not materialize in the PIDDAC for both 1986 and again in 1987. After discussions
between Bank staff and the Vice President of LNETI and MOP in October 1987, the Bank was
assured that priority would be given to the construction of the center the following year. However,
the subsequent availability of EC grant funds led LNETI to reconsider the desirability of using Bank
financing. The issue remained unresolved for quite some time as the question of whether or not to
cancel remained in limbo and parties failed to take action to bring the issue to closure. Finally in
1991, the GOP requested the cancellation of the LNETI component.
5.06          Finally, the INA component also faced many implementation problems. The site
chosen for construction of the study center was subsequently found to be in a flood-prone area, and
the owners of the site (Gulbenkian Foundation) would not give their consent for construction to
proceed. After much discussion, it was decided, only in January 1988, that the site for the new
building would be transferred to the National Agricultural Institute adjacent to INA. Moreover, in
subsequent years, PIDDAC allocations (i.e., counterpart financing) were not made for new
construction work. As an interim measure, the Bank agreed to fund the conversion of existing



6
outbuildings of the INA complex to facilities for accommodating educational activities. In the end,
this was the only construction work undertaken for INA using project funds (see Section 6, Project
Results).
5.07          With regard to technical assistance (TA), only about 56% of the loan proceeds
earmarked for TA (US$2.6 million base cost) was used, due to two factors: (i) cancellation of the
IEFP and LNETI components, which represented about 30% of the TA; and (ii) use of bilateral
financing (from Switzerland) to provide TA to the Ministry of Tourism (MOT) component (about
17%) instead of Bank funds. LNETI did utilize overseas fellowships for two staff members and
organized some training seminars. Similarly, some TA was used for a study tour of US Tourism
Schools by senior MOT officers. Most of the TA (47%) financed under the loan was for upgrading
the teaching courses offered by INA, focussing on introducing more relevant content into programs,
which was particularly important for INA in connection with Portugal's entry into the EC. As was
anticipated in the SAR (para.3.21), nearly all specialist services were provided through contracts with
individuals from EC countries, and placement of fellows was on an individual basis.
5.08          Project Management. The project was implemented by the four Government
Ministries involved: Labor (which later became the Ministry of Employment), Industry, Commerce
and Tourism, and the Office of the Council of Ministries. Initially, the project as a whole was
coordinated by the Office for External Economic Cooperation in the Ministry of Finance and
Planning. Later when this Ministry was divided into two separate identities, the coordination
responsibility was taken on by the Department of Project Monitoring and Evaluation in the Ministry
of Planning. In May 1992, when the Department of Evaluation was disbanded, the project was
coordinated by Treasury Department in the Ministry of Finance. In April 1993, the Treasury
Department was restructured and temporary responsibility for Bank projects given to another Deputy
General. Needless to say, these changes in project coordination responsibility did not bode well for
timely implementation of activities. Indeed, such changes made it very difficult to reach decisions or
even obtain information with regard to the precise status of project activities. One of the most serious
examples is that of audit reports of financial statements which were consistently difficult to obtain
throughout project implementation; indeed, these statements were one year overdue for Bank review
during the entire project period. 4/
6.    Project Results
6.01          Physical Facilities. As a result of the project, a new hotel and tourism training
school was constructed and equipped in Estoril. The school is currently providing high quality
training for about 800 students (most of which are full-time trainees with the remainder enrolled in
two-week or two-month upgrading courses). It is expected that the number of trainees will increase
to about 1,100 by 1995. The school is benefitting from cost recovery by leasing some facilities
(particularly the auditorium) to the local community. In addition, there is now an increased capacity
for training civil servants at INA, as about 300 additional training places have been made available.
The conversion of the outbuildings has enabled a computer section to be established and equipped
with up-to-date computers. Similarly, language training facilities have been modernized. In sum,
4/    It has been suggested by the Treasury that the problems encountered in submission of timely audits lay
in the insufficient auditing capacity in the tTribunal de Contas' which is responsible for all Government
departmental auditing.



7
these training developments are very important for Portugal in order to provide a better standard of
hotel service for the tourist industry and produce more highly qualified civil servants for service in
the EC environment.
6.02          Even in the case of the IEFP component where, in the end, alternative funds were
utilized rather than loan proceeds, the overall project objectives as outlined in the SAR have been, at
least in part, achieved. In LNETI, a distance learning center and production center have been
constructed. Six distance learning teaching packages and 24 training videos have been produced. As
a result of EC financing, IEFP has increased its training capacity by building nine training centers;
and new centers which had been initially included among the training centers to be developed under
the Bank loan are now under construction at Leira and Portimao. In addition, the center at
Guimmareas is now functioning , this one also having initially been among those destined for Bank
loan support. Nevertheless, there has not yet been any systematic follow up on the employment status
of training center graduates, and an objective evaluation of the quality of training being provided has
not been carried out.
6.03          Oualitative Results. It is certain that the standard of hotel and tourism training has
risen as a result of the loan. The Government is pleased with this result, and has decided to construct
(with GOP financing) a center similar to that at Estoril in the Algarve. At INA, the additional
facilities have allowed for computer training and language courses to be provided with increased
standards of output. The INA Study Center, which will further increase training capacity, is to be
constructed with financing from the European Regional Development Fund (FEDER).
6.04          Ouantitative Results. The training capacity of the Center at Estoril has increased to
800 and is expected to reach 1,100 by 1995. Three types of courses are offered: (i) higher-level
courses in hotel management; (ii) technical courses (e.g., reception, kitchen etc.); and (iii) refresher
courses for workers in the tourism industry to upgrade their skills. The Training School has
provided employment for 80 persons, and this is expected to increase to about 100 by 1995. With
respect to INA, 473 students benefitted from training during 1992, of whom 354 were Public
Administrators; comparative figures for 1991 were 322 students with 236 Public Administrators.
During the project implementation period, a total of 4,993 participants were trained at INA. The
SAR envisaged the addition of about 900 training places to give a training capacity of 2,400 annually.
However, this included the capacity of the Study Center which has not yet been built. The two
components which were cancelled from the loan have also contributed to additional training capacity
although funded by the EC. The LNETI component has produced training materials (see above) and
has been involved in developing and implementing industrial training courses. Finally, the IEFP
component has increased training capacity by about 4,000 training places and has had an output of
about 3,000 trained workers. Other STCs are under construction which should provide about another
5,000 training places. In total, the IEFP system trained the following number of people during the
life of the project:
1987                 15,800
1988                21,726
1989                27,857
1990                 38,250
1991                55,426
Over half of this training has been in various types of office skills and includes short courses as well



8
as modular, full-time courses. The SAR had envisaged a training capacity of about 20,000 annually
from all sources.
7.    Sustainability
7.01         Previous education projects in Portugal have been reasonably well sustained after
project completion, and it is expected that this will be the case for the activities supported under this
loan. In the case of the Estoril Center, there is already substantial cost recovery through leasing of
facilities and provision of courses at full-cost. The funds collected are used to meet recurrent
expenditure obligations, including additional staff remuneration. With respect to INFT and INA,
provisions have been made to maintain and expand the current course provision and facilities.
Nevertheless, a problem which will undoubtedly arise in the future is the need for replacement and
maintenance of equipment in these training institutions. It is essential that the Government begin to
consider now its options for additional cost recovery to ensure that adequate funds will be available
for this purpose when needed. As concerns technical assistance, due to the limited use of TA
provided for under the loan and delays in other activities, this is little indication that these objectives
will have had a sustainable impact.
8.    Bank Performance
8.01         The Bank's assessment of the potential for success of this project proved to be overly
optimistic, failing to focus adequate attention on the real risks -- particularly those concerns expressed
early on during project preparation (see section 4, above). The only risk explicitly identified in the
project documentation concerned the possibility of implementation delays due to budget constraints;
but the likelihood of this risk hampering project execution was considered minimal given GOP
assurances that adequate annual budgetary provisions would be made available throughout the life of
the project. On that basis, the Bank proceeded. As local financial constraints were already being
encountered under the two ongoing education projects, it is surprising and, indeed, worrisome that
this problem was not accorded greater risk potential. It is also surprising that more attention was not
paid to the concerns voiced by the MOP regarding the issue of alternative financing from the EC and
the possible implications on the limited local implementation capacity (para. 4.02).
8.02         Throughout project implementation, the Bank's performance can be characterized as
accommodating to modifications to the project as these became necessary. For instance, when
considerable delays in site selection for the Study Center at INA became evident, the Bank agreed to
use proceeds earmarked for construction for the conversion of the existing outbuildings into
educational facilities. Similarly, the Bank assisted INFT in the redesign of civil works plans when the
original site for the hotel training school was bisected by a major highway. Technical advice was
provided to the implementing agencies throughout the implementation period. Supervision missions
were of a level and frequency appropriate to project requirements. The composition of the
supervision missions was chosen so as to maintain continuity of personnel from 1986 to project
closing. This, coupled with the flexible approach by the Bank to problems identified by the
implementing agencies during project execution, helped to forge good relationships between the Bank
team and the various agencies. However, the approach followed by the Bank -- flexible and
accommodating - although obviously key to successful project implementation, in fact came to
hamper efficient and direct project management.
8.03         Lessons to be learned from this experience include, in particular, the following:



9
(i)    Great care must be taken to ensure that the Government's capacity to
implement a project is adequate, taking realistically into account all other
commitments of concerned implementing agencies and evaluating thoroughly any risk
of conflicting priorities. Should concerns be expressed by borrower representatives,
those concerns must be heeded and, perhaps difficult decisions taken to modify, delay
or even cancel further processing of the operation in question. In this instance, the
Bank did not heed the MOP's concerns expressed during preparation regarding the
likelihood of alternative financing and implementation complexity of the proposed
project. To some extent, this is explained by Bank internal lending pressures.
(ii)    The issue of timely provision of local counterpart financing must be assessed in depth,
taking into account actual experience under previous loans. Lessons drawn from earlier
experiences must not be dismissed too quickly solely on the basis of verbal commitments, but
rather must be supported by substantiated evidence of improved performance. Furthermore,
steps to be taken should satisfactory performance not be forthcoming must be made explicit
from the outset so as to impress upon borrowers the Bank's priority of their active
participation in investment operations, including - inter alia - required financing support.
9.     Borrower Performance
9.01          The Borrower's performance was cooperative at all stages of preparation and
implementation - most notably satisfactory in their pursuit of agreed project objectives and consistent
efforts throughout the project period to attempt to overcome problems as best they could. Even the
managers of components which received alternative funding from the EC were overall willing to
provide information to and collaborate with the Bank, to the extent possible given their often
conflicting priorities. Indeed, the effectiveness of local management capacity was often impaired by
these conflicting priorities, as well as insufficient and/or delayed release of counterpart funds
necessary for satisfactory implementation of project activities.
9.02          As discussed earlier, the counterpart financing problem was significant, and efforts
should have been made early on to take steps to prevent this problem from becoming a major
impediment to implementation progress. In addition, the numerous changes in responsibility for
project management and coordination (para. 5.08) also represented a performance weakness on the
Borrower's part and caused, inevitably, delays and difficulties in implementation that would have
otherwise been avoided.
10.   Project Relationship
10.1         During project implementation, good working relationships continued to be forged
between Borrower and Bank staff concerned. Regular supervision helped to provide a sound
framework for consultation, evaluation and planning with respect to project activities, and cooperative
interaction on the part of all concerned was beneficial.
11.   Consulting Services
11.01        The SAR envisaged 111 months for consultants for an estimated total cost of US$2.6
million or Esc 354,000,000 equivalent. Seventy months were programmed for INA and 23 for INFT.
LNETI was allocated 12 TA months, and IEFP six. Of the 70 months allocated to the INA, about



10
30,000 hours were utilized at a cost of Esc 282,087,316 compared with the estimated Esc
278,915,000. This TA, provided mainly by Portuguese consultants, as well as some foreign
consultants from EC countries, was used effectively to introduce new topics to the programs
particularly in areas associated with membership of the EC. INFT did not utilize the earmarked TA
resources, but instead developed, from its own resources, a training program incorporating two
mutually complementary levels of initial training which was to be used in all of its training
establishments in Portugal. Similarly, the planned fellowship program was not used except to provide
a study tour in the U.S. for senior staff of the INFT. All other fellowship training was carried out
using bilateral funds from Switzerland. These fellowships involved the training of instructional staff
for six months in a Swiss hotel school, which proved to be highly successful. In sum, only about half
of the project funds earmarked for TA were actually disbursed.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.01        The Staff Appraisal Report and major working papers were well prepared and of
adequate content. Data on the project was obtained from the project files in the ECA Information
Center. Project implementation reports provided by INFT and INA provided useful information on
project progress and problems and were used as a prime source of data for this report. The other
implementing agencies -- IEFP and LNETI - were also very cooperative in supplying data and
information needed for the PCR.



11
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.           In the 1980s, at the time of identification and preparation of the Manpower and
Development project there was in progress a strategy of job creation through increased investment in
industries and an accompanying effort in expanding vocational and technical training to meet the
country's skilled manpower needs, in a context of a an economic development.
2.           Despite the Government's commitment to project objectives, the economy suffered a
significant change with Portugal's accession to the EC in 1986.
3.           Alternative funding sources available from different programs under EC grants to
Portugal, caused significant delays in the implementation of the activities financed by the Bank and
resulted in cancellations of Bank funds allocated to some components of the Manpower Training
Project.
4.           Both Institute for Employment and Professional Development (IEFP) and Laboratorio
Nacional de Engenharia e Tecnologia Industrial (LNETI) were affected as described above.
5.           Both institutions lacked adequate implementation capacity at the time to execute EC
and World Bank financed activities at the same time.
6.           However, despite the substantial delays in project implementation, changes in the
initial project designs, and some difficulties on timely availability of local counterpart funds, the
project objectives were partially achieved. The project was mainly successful in the tourism
component. A new hotel and tourism training school in Estoril has been built and equipped and is
operational, providing training for 800 students.
7.           Support and availability of the Bank were always timely and effective.



12
PART m: Statistical Information
Table 1:     Related Bank Loans
Table 2:     Project Timetable
Table 3:      Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
Table 4:      Disbursement by Category of Expenditure
Table 5:      Financial Plan in SAR and Actual Expenditure
by Implementing Agency
Table 6:     Project Costs
Table 7:      Project Indicators
Table 8:      Use of Bank Resources
Table 8B:     Supervision Missions
Table 9:      Compliance with Loan Conditions
Table 10:    Exchange Rates



PORTUGAL
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2456-PO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
LOAN TITLE         LOAN NUMBER                   PURPOSE                  YEAR APP.          STATUS                   COMMENTS
First Education       1559-PO            To create a technician training         1978       Closed             The PCR refers to problems with
Project                                  system and to improve teacher and                  12/31/84           PIDDAC funds aud availablilty.
management education.
Second Education      1793-PO            To increase the traiing capacity of     1980       Closed              This PCR refers to same
Project                                  the Ministries of Education and of                 08/22J88           problems. TA Pot implemented
Agriculture by expanding                                              as planoed and slow
vocational training at secondary and                                  disbursement. Closing date
higher education levels.                                              extended by 3.7 years.
Technology            2867-PO            To develop research centers in          1987       Ongoing             Government cancelled US$23.7
Education Project                        biotechnology, water technology                                        million. Remaining component-
and material science. To improve                                      agricultural technicaian training.
agricultural technician education                                     Project has same problems as
and to introduce computers into                                       earlier.
secondary schools.



14
PORTUGAL
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2456-PO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 2: Proiect Timetable
Processina SteW          Planned      Actual
Identification                                10/80
Project Brief                               03/6/81
Preparation                                  06/82
Appraisal Mission                09/82        06/84
Board Approval                   06/84     06/27/84
Signature                                  11/29/84
Effectiveness                    10/84     03/07/85
Loan Closing                  06/30/91     12/31/92
Final Disbursement               09/91     04/30/93



PORTUGAL
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2456-PO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 3: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
US$ million
FY                          1986       1987      1988      1989       1990      1991      1992       1993
Appraisal Estimate            1.2       3.3         7       11.4      17.9       24.4      30.5      30.5       30.5
Actual                       0.98      1.05       1.38      2.16      3.77       4.94      5.15      6.62       9.05
Actual as % of Estimate        82        32        20         19        21        20         17        22        30
Actual as % of Final,                                                                                               |n
Revised Loan Amount            10        11        14         22        38        40         52        66        91
Original Loan US$30.5 million
Revised Loan US$10.0 million
The loan amount was reduced in January 1987 (US$10.5 million cancelled) and
again in July 1991 (US$10.0 million cancelled). Final revised loan amount US$10.0 million).
US$0.95 eventually cancelled.



PORTUGAL
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2456-PO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 4: Disbursement by Categorv of Expenditure
(US$)
Category         Original Amount   Revised Amount I   Revised Amount 2   Disbursement   Initial (%)    Revised (%) 2
Actual
Civil Works             9,300,000          4,700,000          3,500,000         4,453,277       48           127
Furniture               1,200,000           900,000              10,000              477        0             5
Equipment               12,600,000         7,200,000          2,700,000         2,994,388       24           III
Technical Assistance    2,900,000          2,700,000          2,200,000          1,623,129      56            74
Unallocated             3,500,000          4,500,000          1,590,000           0             0            0
Deposit Special Account   1,000,000                                               -20,889      -2
Total                   30,500,000        20,000,000         10,000,000         9,050,382       30            91
Cancellation January 1987                     US$10.5 million
Cancellation July 1991                        US$10.0 million
Cancellation Undisbursed Balance June 30, 1993  US$0.949 million



17
TABLE  5
FINANCIAL PLAN AS IN SAR AND ACTUAL EXPENDITURE BY IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
SAR                                  ACTUAL
IMPLEMENTING                     GOVT.    BANK       TOTAL              GOVT.    BANK       TOTAL
AGENCY        cONPONENT       FUNDS                                   FUNDS                                PERCENTAGE
IEFP                             IN US DOLLARS MILLION                  IN US DOLLARS MILLION            ACTUAL/SAR
CONSTRUCTION            9.8      6.5      16.3
PROF.SERV               1.4         0      1.4
FURNITURE         |    0.8       0.5       1.3                     CANCELLED
EQWUIPMENT              0.9       7.6      8.5
TA                0       0.3       0.3
--+--                                                                         .
SUB-TOTAL         |   12.9      14.9      27.8
------.. -      --                                        ---------------------------
LNETI    CONSTRUCTION            0.3       0.2       0.5
PROF.SERV               0.1         0      0.1
FURNITURE              0.1       0.1       0.2                     CANCELLED
EQUIPMENT               0.4      3.3       3.7
TA              0.1       0.6       0.7
SUB-TOTAL         I       1      4.2       5.2
I
INA     CONSTRUCTION            0.6       0.4         1               0.43      0.28      0.71                71.00
PROF.SERV         |    0.1          0      0.1                   0                                    0.00
FURNITURE              0.1       0.1       0.2                   0                                    0.00
EQUIPMENT               0.1      0.6       0.7                0.23      0.94      1.17              167.14
TA         |    0.1       1.4       1.5               0.28      1.62      1.93               128.67
-- - . - . . .. - -- - . . . -- - . -- -.. - -- -        ...........................             ----------............. ................ .....
SUB-TOTAL         I       1      2.5       3.5                0.94      2.84      3.81              108.86
-- -- - --  - . . . . ... - --. - - --  - -- -           ............    ..    ............. . ...........................  ................................. ....
I
MOT     CONSTRUCTION            3.4       2.2       5.6               7.84      4.17    12.01                214.46
PROF.SERV               0.1        0       0.1                0.49                0.49              490.00
FURNITURE         |    0.8       0.5       1.3                                                        0.00
EQUIPMENT               0.1      1.1       1.2                1.88      2.06      3.93              327.50
TA              0.1       0.6       0.7                                   0.00                 0.00
SUB-TOTAL         |    4.5       4.4       8.9               10.20      6.23    16.43               184.61
.........- --       - -- - -- -- - -- - -- -             ................  +......   .......     ----------
I
TOTAL                       |XAGE OF LOAN         GOVT.    BANK      TOTAL   ACTUAL  X OF EXP.X OF LOAN
I
CONSTRUCTION          30.5                14.1       9.3      23.4    4.453       49.2     30.5
PROF.SERV         |    0.0                 1.7         0       1.7         0       0.0      0.0
FURNITURE              3.9                 1.8       1.2              0.0004       0.0      3.9
EQUIPMENT             41.3                 1.5      12.6      14.1    2.995       33.1     41.3
TA              9.5                 0.3      2.9       3.2    1.623       17.9       9.5
SPECIAL A/C       |    3.3                             1         1         0       0.0      3.3
UNALLOCATED            11.5                  5       3.5       8.5         0       0.0      11.5
TOTAL       |                       24.4     30.5      54.9      9.05
* .... ...... ............. ........................... ... .... ...... .......... 



PORTUGAL
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2456-PO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 6: Proiect Costs
(US$ million)
Aporaisal Estimate           Revised Estimate 1/              Actual Costs
Cateao-rv          Local    Foreign     Total    Local    Foreian    Total     Local    Foreian    Total
Civil Works                    12.54       7.7    20.24    N/A           3.5       3.5      7.25      4.45      11.7
Furniture                        1.4     0.85       2.25    N/A        0.01      0.01         0         0         0
Equipment                       1.58      10.6    12.18    N/A          2.7       2.7      4.87      2.99      7.86
Technical Assistance           0.54       2.07      2.61    N/A          2.2       2.2      2.64      1.62     4.26
Total Base Costs               17.23     21.32     38.55    N/A         8.41      8.41     14.76      9.06     23.82
Contingencies
Physical                       1.72      2.13      3.85    N/A
Price                         5.49       7.03     12.52   N/A          1.59      1.59
Total Financing Required       24.44     30.48     54.92    N/A           10        10
1 / The only costs subject to revision were foreign exchange costs financed under the loan.



19
PORTUGAL
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
ILOAN 2456-PO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 7: Proiect Indicators
Aporaisal Taraet at Proiect
Comoonent                   Comrletion            Achievement March 1993
A. IEFP
Skill Training Centers       5 Centers                  Now being financed by EC.
Training Capacity            2,100 Trainees             Nine new centers constructed.
Three centers originally slated for
Annual Output                1,700 Graduates            Bank support also constructed.
B. LNETI
Professional Engineering and                            Construction completed; funded
Science Development Center    1 Center                  by EC.
Production Capacity for
Preparing Training Curricula and                        Construction completed; funded
Instructional Materials      1 Center                   by EC.
Participants per year:
Traditional Format        400 participants
Video Format              800 participants
C. INA
In-Service Training Capacity  Additional 900 trainees   Approx. 300 additional trainees.
D. INFT
Hotel and Tourism Training
Center                       1 Center                   Completed.
Total 800 students; 1,100
Training Output per year     1,100 students             expected by 1995.



PORTUGAL
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2456-PO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 8A: Use of Bank Resources
Istaffweeks)
Stage of Project Cycle  FY83   FY84  FY85  FY86   FY87  FY88  FY89   FY90  FY91   FY92  FY93  TOTAL
Up to appraisal            37   15.3                                                                     52.3
Appraisal to Board        3.6   24.9                                                                     28.5
Board to Effectiveness            6.1                                                                     6.1
Sub-total             40.6   46.3                                                                     86.9              0
Supervision                       1.9    6.6   15.4    9.5    3.9    3.2    2.7    9.7    4.4    2.2   59.5
Total                 40.6   48.2    6.6   15.4    9.5    3.9    3.2    2.7    9.7    4.4    2.2  146.4



21
PORTUGAL
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2456-PO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 8 B: Supervision Missions
TYPE         DATE       NO. DAYS    NO. STAFF   SPECIALTY          RATING    PROBLEM
Partial         10/29/84            3             2        TE, TE         N/A
Full            01/23/85            5             2        AR, AG           1/2         Free
Full            04/01/85            7              1           TE          1/2          Free
Full            03/24/86            5             3   TE, TE, AR           2/2        Delays
Full            10/21/86            5             3   TE, AR, AG             2
FuU             05/01/87            6             3   TE, AR, AG             2         Funds
Full            09/22/87            6              1           TE            2
Full            05/08/88            6             2      AR, COM             2         Audits
FuU             11/21/88            6              1           TE            2         Funds
Full            07/14/89            7              1           TE            2         Funds
FuU             10/22/90            6             2        TE, PO            3         Proc.
Full            04/15/91            5             2        TE, PO            3         Funds
PCR             04/27/92            5              1           TE            3         Audits
03/17/93           6              1            TE           3         Audits
TOTAL             DAYS             78    AVERAGE          RATING             2
TE     Technical Educator
AR     Architect
AG     Agricultural Specialist
PO     Project Officer
COM   Computer Specialist



22
Page1 of 7
PORTUGAL
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2456-PO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 9: Compliance with Loan/Credit Conditions
I              I |   Status of Crupliance                                                i
I              I.1---------
I~~                                ~       ~~~~~~~ I Cortditior~ss  I   
Not
I  Source of    Cmrptied I Action  iconditionsj
Description of Covenant          Covenant 1/      Wit h   I Pending I   met    I            Discussion 2/
-        --.--------,-_-,.--------------------------------------------.,,_----.I------------------------------------
|In order to assist the Borrower in (Section 3.02 |                             X       ConSsuLtancy assistance has been  '
|carrying out the Project, the        lof L.A.       I                        |provided to INA on a reguLar basis.
lBorrower thall eaploy consultants  |                                      j |The Hotel and Tourism Training
lwhose qualifications, experience                    j                                 ISchool has a rechnical assisrance
land termi and conditions of eZploy-l                I                     I           |contract with Switzerland. Phase 1
lffment shall be satisfactory to the  |                                                land Phase 11 have been cwiLeted.
lBank, such consu(tants to be
|selected in accordance with the                                 I         I
|Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of  |                            I                     i
kConsultants".                        I              I                                 |
I              1          I          I                     
,The Borrower shaLl: (a) ensure       |Section 3.03 |                      I    X       ilrpLementation units have been
Ithat an imotementation unit with   [(a) of L.A.  |                           |established and are functioning as
|organization and terms of            I                                                 p I  I  (planned.
|reference satisfactory to the Bank                                   I                         I
ishall be maintained within each of                  1 I                   I
Ithe Project Agencies to supervise, I
|onitor and evaluate the
loperations of the facilitier and
jprograms included in the Project;
j(b) cause these units to prepare   |Section 3.03                i              X      lInformation has been provided on a
land furnish to the Bank all such   i(b) of L.A.  |                        1           |regu(ar basis and when avaitable.
linformation as the Bank shaLl
Ireasonably request on the
1/ Undertakings of both the Borrower and guarantor are to be covered whether given in the form of covenants in the
Loan/Credit. Guarantee or Project Agreements or in other written form (e.g., supplemental Letters; agreed minutes
of negotiations). However, only the conditions most inportant to the success of the project need to be reviewed; all
or most of the "speciat conditions" of the Loan/Credit listed in Section III of Annex IV of the President's
Report will generally fall in this category.
2/ List causes of non-cocpliance and the remedies being pursued or cross reference should be made where this is
adequately discussed in the form 590 or in another annex.
In the case of dated covenants or other conditions upon which action is still pending, an indication should be
given of the progress being made towerd fulfillment of each of the conditions.



23
Page 2 of 7
PORTUGAL
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2456-PO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 9: Compliance with Loan/Credit Conditions
Status of Corpliance          I
I  I           1-------------I------------------
|Iconditiwal
IINot       I
I  Source of  ICeoplied I Action  Iconditions|
I      Description of Covenant          ICovenant I/ I   With    I Pending    I met         I            Discussion 2/
loperations of the aforementioned   |
|fccilities and prograsm, including: 
|i) the training program   of the  |                                           I
Iskilt training centers wuder the   |                               I          I            ftem  0i) and (Ii) have been
IMinistry of Labor, inctuding a         j              I                        I |cancelled from the Loan and are
IfoLLow-up of the first and second  |                                          f            jnow being funded by the EEC.
jgroups of gradruates of said                          I            I           I           I
jcenters, to be furnished to the                        i           I          I            |
|Bank by December 31, 1991; (ii)        I              I            I          I            I
|the training programS of the                           I           I           I           I
lcentral training facility and the
iregional technoLogy centers of
ILNETI and of the National L                            I           I           I           I
lInstitute of Administration to
fbe furnished to the Bank  by                          I            I          I            |
IDecemlber 31, 190; and (iii) the                                  |    X      I            It is unLikely that foLLow up of
Itraining programs of INFT's hotel ml                                                       I I |the first group of graduates will
Itourism training centers               I              I            I          I            loccur before December 31, 1993 due
lincLuding a folLow-up of the first |I                                                      Ito delays in component start up.
eand and second groups of graduates I                               I                       I
of said centers to be furnished to                                                          I I  I  I
ithe Bank by Decerber 31, 1991; and                                                         I
I                                                                                           I I  I  I  I
l(c) thereafter, on the basis of    Isection 3.03                        X     I            IToo soon.
Ithe above reports, take aLl            l(c) of L.A.
|appropriate measures to naximize   |
lproject benefits.
1/ Undertakings of both the Borrower and guarantor are to be ccvered whether given in the form of covenants in the
Loan/Credit. Cuarantee or Project Agrements or in other written form (e.g., suppLementaL letters; agreed minutes
of negotiations).  However, only the conditions rost important to the success of the project need to be reviewed; all
or most of the "special conditionsm of the Loan/Credit Listed-in Section III of Annex IV of the President's
Report will generally fall in this category.
2/ List causes of non-cwpLiance and the remedies being purtued or cross reference shouLd be made where this is
adequateLy discussed in the Form 590 or in another annex.
In the case of dated covenants or other conditions upon which action is stiLtL pending, an irdication thould be
given of the progress being made toward fuLfiLLment of each of the conditions.



24
Page 3 of 7
PORTUGAL
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2456-PO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 9: ComplinCe with Lonn/Credit Condiions
Status of CaMLiance
I                         1               1 ~~~~~~~~~~------------------ -----1
IConditionsl
I lNot    I
Source of  I Copiled I Action  |Conditios|
Description of Covenant           Covenant 1/ I  with   IPending I   met    I                    Discussiorr 2J
l-- ---- ------- --- - ------------ ---- -------- -- - -------- l-------------------------............1 -----------l
|The Borrower urdertakeg to insure, (section 3.04 I                            I    X  | These requirements were carried out
lor make adequate provision for the I
I insurance of, the imported goodg tol )                            |          I           I
(be financed out of the proceeds of I
|the Loan against hazards incident  I
[to the acquisition, transportation I
Iand delivery thereof to the place  I                  I            I          I
of use or installation,  nd for        (               (           I          I           I
such insurance any indernity shall l                  I           I          I           1
(be payable ina currency freely
(usable by the Borrower to replace  |
(or repair such voods.
(The Borrower: (i) shall maintain   (section 3.05                   I -        |    X      IRepOrts were provided on a
(records and procedures adeauate        I                                      I (  |      (regular basis and Bank missions
Ito record and nmnitor the proceeds I                                          I (  |      (have been provided with all
(of the Loan, and to disclose their I                               (                      ( pertinent information.
(use in the Project; (ii) shall
|enable the Bank's representatives  |
[visit the facilities and cons-
Itruction sites incLuded in the
(Project and to examine the goods   |
Ifinanced out of the proceeds of
)the Loan and any relevant records  |                              I
iand docuents; and (iII) shall
(furnish to the Bank at regular
lintervais all such information as
1/ Undertakings of both the Borrower and guarantor are to be covered whether given in the form of covenants In the
Loan/Credit. Guarantee or Project Agreements or In other written form (e.g., supplemental letters; agreed minutes
of negotiations). However, only the conditions most iportant to the success of the project need to be reviewed; alt
or cst of the "speciat conditlons" of the Loan/Credit Listed in Section III of Annex IV of the President's
Report wili generaLly fall in this category.
2/ List causes of non-ccrpLiance and the reomedies being pursued or cross reference should be made where this is
adequately discussed in the Form 590 or in another annex.
In the case of dated covenants or other condition upon which action is still pending, an indication should be
given of the progress being made toward fulfillment of each of the conditions.



25
Page 4 of 7
PORTUGAL
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2456-PO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 9: Compliance with Loan/Credit Condiions
Status of Conptience
I  11---------------                     - -
I l            IConditlorml
I    ot I    a  I
Sourcs of    Coplied   Action  IConditconal
Description of Covenant          Covenant 1/ I  with         Pending      m Met    I           Discussion 2/
1---------------------- ------- ----------------------------------------- - ----------------------------- --- --- ----1
|the Bank shall reasonable request                                                       1
lconcerning the Project.  Such                       I                                   1
linformation to be furnished          I              I            I          I           I
iprorntty upon its preparation but  |                             I          I                                                   i
lin eny event not later than
forty-five C45) days  after the
lend of each calendar  quarter.
!                                      I              I           I          I           II
IPrrptly after copletion of the   ISection 3.05 |                                 X
IProject, but in eny avent not laterl(d)             I            I          I           I
[than six enths after the Closing
|Date or such later date as  ay be   |
lagreed for this purpose between thel
I Borrower ard the lank, the Borrower1
Ishall reasonably request, on the   |
[execution *nd initiaL operation                                  I
lof the Project and the cost, the   |
lbenefits derived and to be derived |
ifrom it, the performance by the
asorrower and the lank of their
Irespective obligations under the
ILoan Agre  nt and the aecortLish- 
Iment ot the purposes of . .Loan. 
1/ Undertakings of both the Borrower and guarantor are to be covered whether given in the form of covenants in the
Loan/Credit. Guarante, or Project Agreements or in other written form (e.g., suppLeentaul letters; agreed mirnutes
of negotiations). However, only the conditions nost ipportant to the success of the project need to be reviewed; aLl
or uvst of the mspecial conditionsm of the Loan/Credit Listed.in Section 111 of Avnex IV of the president's
Report wiLl generally fall in this category.
2/ List causes of non-eovpliance and the rewedies being pursued or cross reference should be made where this Ic
aoequately discussed in the Form 590 or in another armex.
In the :ase of dated covenants or other conditions upon which action is stilL pending, an indication should be
given of the progress being made toward fulfillment of each of the conditions.



26
Page 5 of 7
PORTUGAL
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2456-PO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 9: Compliance with Loan/Credit Conditions
l             |     Stats of Cwptllnee 
1                        1              1~~~~~~~~~~----------------- -------------- 
I                            l      ~      ~~~~~~ ICOiditlons~ 
lNot
Source of  | Co iiLed   Action  IcorlditimlI
Descrfption of Covenant        ICovenant 1        Wi th     Pending I   Met    I               Discussion 2/
----------------- -----------        --- - -------- -------- ---------------- ------------ --- 1------- ------- -------- --------1 
i                                     I              I            I          I                                                   I
iThe Borrower thalL teke or cause toiSection 3.06                 |               X      |Earlier reported probteEm  with
|be taken all such action ax  sheaL   lof the Loan                                       irespect to land at IRA have now
|be necesrary to acquire as and whenlAgreemnt    I                                        been resolved, and the designs for
Ineeded siL such tand and rights in                                                      [ I  1 |the new trsining facflities were
|respect of Lni as thaLl be re-                      I                                   Imodified accordingly.  Howver,
|quired to corry out the Project.   |                             I          j |construction work is now being
II                     Ifufded by the EEC.
tlhe  orrower aLl  maintain or        isection 4.02 |             I          I           I
Icoueeto be maintained records and 1(a) of the    I               I          I           IAccounts have been establIshed and
eccounts adequate to reflect in    ILon L o                                             l are being maintained.
|accordance with consistency main   lAgreemnt
Itained souri acco.xting practices
Ithe operatios, resources and ex- 
|penditures, in respect of the
|Project, of the departments or
|agencies of the Borrower, includingl                I            I          I           I
Ithe Project Agencies, responsibLe  I                             I          I                                                   t
for carrying out the Project or                                                         I s I  Separate accounts have been
|any part thereotf.                                  1maintsined refLecting all
I                                     I              I            I          I           jexpenditures.
|lithout limitation on the forutoingr Section 4.02 |              |    X    I            |Audited finenciaL statewnts up to
|the Borrower shalL: (i) maintein   |(b) of the   |                                      jDaCemer 1990 have been sent to
or cause to be vaintained serate )Loan                            I          I |the Bank. The FY 1991 report was
accrunts reflecting all expendi-   |Agrement    I                 I          |            due on June 30, 1992  nd for FY92
tures on accout of which with-                       I            I          I           |in 1993. To date not recelved.
1/ Undertakings of both the Borrower and guarantor sre to be covered wbether given in the form of covenants in the
Loan/Credit.  Guatantee or Project Agrewnts or in other written form  (e.g., suppteoentaL Letters, agreed  ienutee
of negotiations). however, only the conditions emst iportant to the success of the project need to be reviewed; alt
or ncst of the "special conditions" of the Loan/Credit lissed in Section III of Amex IV of the President's
Report wilL generally fatl in this category.
2/ List cauLes of non-cmptiance and the remedies being pursued or cross reference should be made where this is
adequately discussed in the Form 590 or in another anex.
In the case of dated covenants or other conditions upon which action is still pending, an indication should be
given of the progress being made toward fuLfillment of each of the conditions.



27
Page 6 of 7
PORTUGAL
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2456-PO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 9: Compliance with Loan/Credit Conditions
Status of Copliance           I
I              l-------------------------------i
I               ICci'litiorast         I            II
I  I            I   Not           I           I
Source of    Cilied I Action  lconditlris
Description of Covenant           Covennt 1/         WIth    IPending I   Ket    I                Discu:ssion 2/
1------ ------------------ --------------------- ------- -------- --- ----I-------------- ------------ --- ------------
orawaLs are reqtested from the Loani
Acco.nt on the basis of statemnts I
lof expenditures; 0ii) retain          I
IuntiL one year after the CLosing    I                  |           |
|Date, ALl records (contracts,         I                I           I          I
|orders, invoices, bills, receipts, I                                                X      I|as boen done on a regular basis.
land other documants) evidencing thel
xpenditures; and (ii) enable the I
Bank's representatives to examine  I
Isurc  records.
l                           ~        ~ ~ ~~~~I  I         I          I            I 
|The Borrower shall  (1) have the    ISection 4.02 |                           I            IAccounts prepared by the
Ieccor.nts referred to in Section      Ic) of the    I                         I            iiwplenenting agencies have been
14.02 (a) for each fiscal year         ILoan                  I                I            |audited by central goverriunt
|audited, in accordance with           |Agreehnt.             I                I            lauditors.  The certified audited
|appropriste auditing principles;   |I                                                      Iaccounts for FY 85 to 90 have been
10il) furmish to the Bank not later |                                          I            |presented to the Bank. There have 
Ithen six months after the end of                                                           l I  I |been consistent delays with audits. 
leach fiscal year, a certified copy |                                          I             At the present time audited accounts|
lof the audit report including a                                                            I I  I  I  Ifot FY 91 and 92 are overdue. Due   I
Iseparate opinion  by said auditors                                            |dates were June 30, 1992 and 93.
lin respect of the expenditures nn  I                                                        Tresufry claim that the backlog of
Irecords referred to in section        I                            I                       Isudits to be performed for all
14.02 (b) comeerning statements of  I                               I          I            IGovernient depts. is the cause of
experditures.                          I               I           I          I             the delay.
IIII                                                       I                                I
1/ Undertakings of both the Borrower and guarantor are to be covered whether given in the form of covenants in the
Loan/Credit.  Guarantee or Project Agreanents or in other written formr (e.g., suppliemental letters; agreed minutes
of negotiations). However, onLy the conditions most iuportant to the success of the project need to b. reviewed; aLL
or most of the "special conditions.' of the Loan/Credit Listed in Section III of Annex IV of the President's
Report will generally fall in this category.
2/ List causes of non-cwPliince and the rinedies being pursued or cross reference should be made where this is
adequately discussed in the Form 590 or in another amex.
In the case of dated covenants or other conditions upon which action is still pending, an indication should be
given of the progress being mde toward fulfillment of each of the conditions.



28
Page 7 d 7
PORTUGAL
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2456-PO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 9: Comrliance with Loan/Credit Conditions
I l            |      Status of Cmrli.nce
I                       1               1~~~~~~~~~~------------ --------------- -- 
I~          Crii  II 
I  I           I   londiti l          I t
Source of    Cmpiled I Action  |Conditiot                 
Oeacripticn of Covenant          coveant 1/  i1 1th   IPending I   Het    IOisclsion 2f
t------------------ --------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------
IThe Borrower shaLl at all times    |SecTion 4.03 |                               X      lExisting facilities are being
Icause: (a) the faciLities provided lot the Loan                             I            appropriately operated, and
tunder the project to be (1)          IAgruhent.    |             I          t           |goverrnt policies in this
loperated in conformity  ith          I               J                                   respect are expected to continue.
appropriate sdrinistrative, tech-  I                              I          I                                                   i
Inical and eadotional policies end I                              I                      1
lpractices  nd with due regard to   |                             I          I           J
IscancaW, ar  (it) staffed with       j               I           I          I           I
Japropriateiy raiffied and                                        I          I           I
iexperienced teaching and adminias   |
Itrative staff in adecuste nuXers; i                  J
|and (b) tho buiLding, equippnt and|
Ifurniture of the faciltites pro-   |
ivided urder the Project to-be main-I 
|tained and n ecesery repairs and   I                             I          I
reonewals thereof to be made, all   I                                       I                         I
lin accordance with appropriate       I
itechnical practices.                 I                    I
I/LmraigofbtthBorwrs                           rto  areI    o b             Ivre   whte     Ivmi    h    omo    o~si  
Reor  wiL   wraL f&L  fn thi  es              y
1/ UrLertakiuss of both  the  Sorrover and pa ntor are tr be                                           d eed uehetir gven in the form of Con s in the
Loan/Credit.  Cuarantee or Project Agreeats or in other written form (e.g., atpplental letterc: agreed eirutes
ot negotiationst    Hoeer, only the conditions mast fiaprtant to the aseses ot the proJect need to be revieved7 all
or mast of the Mapeciel conditionaa of the Loan/Credit listed in Section III of Ane  IV ot the Preaiderit'a
Reoort will enerally fall ln this categ ory.
2/ List causes ot nort-cugpiance and the rumwiea being parsued or crusa reference should be nodo where thi1 ic
adequately discussed in the Form 590 or in another arrex.
In the case of dated covenants or other cornditions ipon which action is still pending, an indication should be
given of the progress being made toward fulfiLlment of each of the conditions.



29
PORTUGAL
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2456-PO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 10: Exchance Rates Portuauese Escudos to USS
DATE                I ESC.|
.......,............ +...
|APPRAISAL YEARI          |    |
C 1984)    1           135 1
IJUNE 1985      1          1174 1
+- -- - -- -- - -- -- -  + .....+ 
IDECEMBER 1985 1          1157 1
. .             -.        . *.-
|JUNE 1986      1          1143 |
|DECEMBER 1986 |          1131 1
+ - - - - - - -   -  -  - - .................... . +
IJUNE 1987      1          1143 |
e----------4---  ........ +- +
IDECEMBER 1987 1          1131 I
*-..................... ....+
IJUNE 1988      |         1148 |
.. . .. . .. .   +........F----..
IDECEMBER 1988 I           j146 I
.. - --  - -- -   -------------.
IJUNE 1989      1          1163 1
4--___---------____----
IDECEMBER 1989 |           1149 1
*.....+.............-..         +
IJUNE 1990      |          1146 |
4       --4..........    ..  ... +
IDECEMUER 1990 I           1140 |
.iF..-.._..___... ........ +_...+
IJUNE 1991                 1148 I
4-4-----------  .-- -4
IDECEMBER 1991             1 1135 |
+-----------------.--------
IJUNE 1992      |          1143 I
+ .......-.. .             ..
IDECEMBER 1992 |           I1"  I
4-  ..--.. - .-4.......  -  .....-
IlI                        I l
- - -------
|AV. OF  PERIt|I           1146 |
*-4_ ____----------''+''- ''



