Document or
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
jgW. '2 s- 'o
flmtN.L P-38f2-PO
iPORT ARD RcWEEOMT105
PRESI3ETr w TE
INfElkT1O5AL BANK FCR UIECONSr=CIEOC  ANID DEVELOPEK
TO  E
]ECUTIVE DIRTORS
L A
PROPOSED LAli
IN AN AUMC   EQUALENT TO US$30.5 MlLL
TO TEEE
RERIBLIC OF PORUlGAL
FOR A
*                        NANMWE TRAINER AND DEVELOPENr PROtJT
Nay 31, 1984
IT&inm  bw a resdgidu  mdht.uS =mayo be Wui by tepk  euijoony In the peurumeme of
ther si   duma co m      W so e& gobe be d_imj ished WediU   a    d.



EBLIC OF PORTUGAL
aUIEG E       T5VA
CGrency lunit                                Portguese Escido
Calendar 1983                                April 1984
(Average)
Esc. 110.78 - USS1.00                             ESC. 135 - US51.00
Esc. 1.00  - 1JSUw.0"90                           Ese. 1.00 - USS0.0074
Fi8cal Year
January 1 - December 31
AIBREVIATIS
CE        Council of Europe
EEC       European Economic Conity
CCEE      Office for External Economic Cooperation
IEF      Institate of Employment and Skill Traing
lEFT      National Institute of Tourism Training
IRA      National Institute of Administration
LNEfl    National Laboratory ror Engimeering and Industrial Technology
EPE       Non-Financial Public Enterprises
STC       Skill Training Center
it         The exchange rate of the escudo is being adjusted nonthly on
the basis of a "crawling peg" syst



FOR OFFICIAL USE ON4LY
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
MANPOWER TRAINILSG AND DEVEL'PMEJT PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Sinary
c
Borrower;               Republic of Portugal
A:0unt:                 $30.5 million equivalent.
Terms;                  15 years including 3 years' grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project Description:   The project2s objective would be to help the Govern-
ment strengthen its capability for meeting trained
manpower requirements in support of its industrial
restructuring and medium-term economic development
programs. It would focus on the needs for skilled
personnel in industry and tourism, and on the improve-
ment of public administration. It would expand the
training facilities for skilled workers, engineering
and scientific personnel, tourism-related workers and
public administrators, upgrade the quality of their
training and promote institutional development. The
project vould include; the cor-struction and equipping
of five skill training centers under the Ministry of
Labor; the renovation and equipping of a profes-
sional engineering development center under the
Ministry of Industry; the expansion and equipping of
facilities of the National Institute of Administra-
tion under the office of the Presidency of the
Council of Ministers, the construction and equipping
of a hotel/tourism training center and technical
assistance. When fully operational in 1989, the
project would help to increase the annual supply of
industrial skilled workers by 1,700, train annually
2400 of the nation's public administrators and civil
service technical staff, upgrade the technical and
professional skills of about 1200 engineering and
scientific personnel in industry, and train 1,100
skilled personnel for the tourism sector. There is
the possible risk of delays in project implementation
due to budgetary constraints but special measures
have been incorporated to minimize this risk.
This documt h a resricd dibutio and may be used by recipients onb in the performunce
of their  cial dut Ies cotens my oat otherw  be disclod without World Bank authoon.



Us$ million
Estimated Costs;                              Local        Foreign       Total
Skill Training Centers                 11.27         11.74        23.01
Professional Engineering Development   0.99           4.10         5.09
Center
National Institute of Administration   1.13           2.00         3.13
Hotel and Tourism Training Centers      3.84          3.48         7.32
Sub-total            17.23         21.32         38.55
Physical Contingencies                  1.72          2.13         3.85
Price Contingencies                     5.49          7.03        12.52
Total Project Costs             24.44         30.48        54.92
Front-end fee                            -            0.08         0.08
Total Financing Required        24.44         30.56        55.0
iZit million
Financing Plan:                               Local        Forei_n       Total
Bank Loan                                   -            30.5           30.5
Government                                 24.4           0.1          24.5
Total                              24.4          30.6          55.0
Estimated Disbursenents                             USt million
Bank FY   1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991
Annual                                     1.2  2.1  3.7 4.4  6.5  6.5  6.1
Cumulative                                 1.2  3.3  7.0 11.4 17.9 24.4 30.5
Rate of Return; Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report; No. 5033-P0, dated Nay 25, 1984.



IlTERNATIONAL BANK FOR                AND DEVOPHEIT
REE?ORT AND RECOtIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE  D
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIECTORS ON A PROPOSED WAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL FOR A NAMOR       E        AM TRAININ  PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and rec    ation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Portugal for the equivalent of 1USS30.5 million, to help
finance a Manpower Training and Development project. The loan ould have a
term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at the standard
*          variable rate.
PART I - THE ECOKUIY if
2.        The latest economic report, entitled "The Portuguese Economy, 1980-
82, An Updating Report" (No. 4004-PO, dated March 1, 1983) was distributed to
the Executive Directors in March 1983. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.  An updatimg economic report is being prepared and will be discussed
with the Governent in the next fiscal year.
Background
3.        The revolution of April 1974 radically transformed Portugal's
economy. Major sectors of the economy were nationalized, and a comprehensive
land reform was carried out in the central and southern parts of the country.
Trade union activity was legalized and workers' rights safeguarded. The
Government increased its intervention in the economy through wage and price
controls, as well as by a significant increase in public expendfitres. The
disruptions from these structural changes, together with a combination of
adverse external factors, resulted in a sharp deterioration in the balance of
payments by 1977. In 1978, the Government adopted a comprehensive adjustment
program, including a Standby Agreement with the DIF. which reduced the carrent
account deficit to virtually zero. The period since 1979 has seen the pro-
gressive deterioration of economic performance in most major aspects and
again in relation to the balance of payments.
Recent Developments
4.        The combination of high accumulated current account deficits since
1980, the political uncertainty which followed the fall in December 1982 of
the AD coalition, which had been in power for about two years, and lack of
economic leadership during the first semester of 1983 (pending general
elections), led to a serious deterioration in Portugal's credit rating in
1/   Identical to Part I of the President's Report No. P-3798-PO dated
April 27, 1984, for the Textile Restructuring Project, approved by the
Executive Directors on May 21, 1984.



- 2 -
international capital markets. Difficulties were encountered in renewing
part of the short-term external debt of public enterprises and payments on
external short-term capital, mainly by public enterprises, exceeded receipts
by about $600 million during 1983. A large part of the current account
deficit in 1983 was financed through reductions in net foreign assets (about
$1.1 billion).
5.      The new Government, which took office in June 1983 arranged
immediately a number of measures (including devaluation of the escudo and
reduction of subsidies) to start addressing the country's deteriorated
economic situation; it has developed a comprehensive adjustment program aimed
at reducing the balance of payments deficit and at maintaining indebtedness
at a sustainable level. A Standby Agreement with the IMF was signed on
October 9, 1983, which includes ceilings on domestic credit and on external
borroving. It appears that the economy has already started to respond to the
Government's economic policy measures. For 1983 as a whole, imports are
estimated to have declined by at least 10 percent and exports have increased
by at least 15 percent in volume, compared with 1982 levels. The current
account deficit for the first semester of 1983 declined to $1.4 billion from
$2.2 billion during the first semester of 1982, and for the whole year 1983
the current account deficit is estimated at about $1.7 billion, compared to
$3.2 billion for 1982. However, GDP growth in 1983 is estimated at close to
zero; consumption has declined and investment has deelined even more.
6.       Inflation accelerated during 1983, exceeding 33 percent in December
1983 on an annual basis. It seems that expectations have not changed and
that capital flight continued in 1983 despite a competitive exchange rate,
largely positive real interest rates, and the agreement with the DFf.
Because inventories have been run down, a continuation of the growth of
exports will require increased imports, which in turn, depend largely on the
availability of foreign exchange. The principal source of weakness in
economic management remains in the area of public sector finances. The
deficit of the general government on a cash basis reached 11.7 percent of GDP
in 1982. In addition, arrears equivalent to about 6 percent of GDP remained
outstanding from the Supply Fund towards public enterprises. The Government
has taken some measures to pave the way to financial rationalization, but
much remains to be done.
Ihe Need for Structural Change
7.       Stabilization must once again dominate the formulation of economic
policy in Portugal. Growth rates of the order of 4 to 5 percent per annum,
which were earlier thought to be possible, now seem to be inconsistent with
the maintenance of reasonable equilibrium in the balance of payments over the
next three to four years.  The dilemma which the Government is now grappling
with is to address the serious deterioration in the economic situation, while
at the same time undertaking structural changes. Efforts to restructure
industry, to encourage investment attuned to energy-saving and to improve the
generally weak productivity performance of Portuguese agriculture will need



- 3 -
to be pursued in a framework which is consistent with stabilization
policies. If reasonable domestic growth is to be achieved in spite of oil,
food and other structural dependencies on the import side, Portugal will
require continued growth of visible exports at rates significantly higher
than the growth of world trade. Portugal will also need to follow policies
which can maintain migrants' remittances at a high level.
8.       Industry is the leading sector for exports, and particularly in 'line
with the prospective EEC accession, require restructuring to fully exploit
its comparative advantage.  This vill mean emphasis on labor-inrtenSive
industries, both light industries (textiles and footwear) and heavier items
(including electrical machinery and transport equipment). Although
Portugal's industrial strategy must give priority to exports, the development
of basic industry to supply the domestic market should also be pursued
whenever adequate returns can be demonstrated. It will also be important to
simplify (and in some cases dismantle) many of the complex Government
interventions to which Portuguese industries have become accustomed. These
include the system of investment incentives, the price control apparatus, the
arrangements for export incentives, and extensive non-tariff bar-iers to
trade.
9.       The need for structural change is particularly acute for
non-financial public enterprises (NFPE). This is true for several reasons.
First, there has been little direct pressure on these enterprises to adjust
to changed circumstances, resulting in low profits, if not losses, for many
of them. Administered prices, rigid labor laws, inadequate managerial
incentives/accountabilizy, and insufficient self-financing requirements for
investment have retarded rationalization at the enterprise level. Second,
exogenous circumstances have aggravated the adjustment problem; these include
the concentration in the public sector of industries which are economically
depressed worldwide (e.g., shipbuilding, steel, cement, and international
transport); the delays and uncertainties in budgetary transfers and
investment approvals due to changing governments; and the strong position of
labor unions in the large public sector enterprises. Social service
obligations, such as maintaining strategic reserves or uneconomic services,
might also fall into this category. And third, the NFPEs have been required,
to some extent, to bear the burden of adjustment of the rest of the economy
through accumulated net budgetary arrears. It seems essential, therefore,
that some financial restructuring at the enterprise level should take place
to relieve liquidity pressures.  It must also be closely tied to
institutional changes and physical restructuring to increase long-run
profitability. The Bank is closely associated with work under way at the
Government level to formulate a restructuring program for NFPEs.
10.      The private sector is likely to be the major contributor to economic
growth foreseen for the 1980s and is expected to account for about 60 percent
of the investment in the period. The large increases in exports in 1979 and
in 1983 are evidence of the gains that the private sector can make in major
markets. However, private investment is still hindered by several factors.



- 4 -
Profitability, though rising in recent years, is still relatively low by
historical standards and is likely to be squeezed in the near future. Credit
availability to the private sector may be restricted by the continuing large
public sector borrowing requirement. Potential investors have considered
current interest rates too high and the investment incentive schemes are
essentially designed to mitigate the perceived high cost of capital. Given
the relatively poor response to its incentives programs, the Government is
considering ways to revise them, through better targeting and reducing their
overall cost.
.
11.      Measures to improve the conditions in the agricultural sector are
also underway, but are slow in producing results. Credit needs to be
expanded further and focussed on production-oriented investments.  The
mechanism and structure of agricultural lending rates needs to be
rationalized to provide appropriate incentives for long-term investments.
While increased on-farm investments are necessary, little will be achieved
without substantial advances on the technical side as well. The extension
services of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry need to be
upgraded, and their links to research and to the farmers need to be
strengthened. Recent efforts to train agricultural extension manpower and
the farmers themselves need to be intensified. The Bank has carried out a
joint review with the Government of the prospects for improving the
performance of the agricultural sector, and its report is expected to provide
a basis for further collaboration.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
12.      The total external debt of Portugal increased from $7.3 billion at
the end of 1979 to $14.5 billion by August 1983; at the end of 1982, total
external debt amounted to about 57 percent of GDP. Almost 80 percent of the
total outstanding debt has been contracted by the public sector, with public
enterprises accounting for 60 percent. Public and publicly guaranteed debt
accounts for 96 percent of all medium- and long-term debt. Short-term debt,
which is estimated at the end of 1983 at $3.5 billion, has been the fastest
growing component of Portugal's external debt. More than 91 percent of the
short-term debt has been contracted by NFPEs, essentially four of them.
During the first semester of 1983, the short-term borrowings of the Treasury
and NFPEs were contracted at rates one-half to five-eighths above LIBOR.
13.      Portugal is a regular borrower on international capital markets,
either directly by the state or through public enterprises. About two-thirds
of total borrowings, and virtually all of the short-term borrowing, has been
contracted from financial institutions. Multilateral lending constitutes
only about 13 percent of Portugal's medium- and long-term debt outstanding,
and is slightly less than bilateral lending.
14.      The steady increase in Portugal's external debt, coupled with a
weakening in the rate of growth of foreign exchange earnings, has resulted in
a considerable deterioration in the various debt service indicators. The



broadly defined debt service ratio (including interest payments but not
amortization on short-term debt) rose from 14.5 percent in 1980 to 27.5
percent in 1982. For 1983, it is estimated that debt service payments,
excluding the rollover of the outstanding in short-term debt, exceeded $2.2
billion (or about 28 percent of foreign exchange earnings). In addition to
the rapid build-up in Portugal's external debt, the recent deterioration in
the debt service ratio has also been the result of large amortization
payments falling due on the medium-term. debt contracted in the late 1970s.
Keeping the external debt situation manageable in the next few years will
require a reduction in the current account deficit as a proportion of GDP,
attended by relatively slow GDP growth (not exceeding 3 percent), and a
greater effort to expand exports (by at least 7 percent per year).
15.      The IMF agreement mentioned in preceeding paragraphs established a
ceiling on the increase of total external debt outstanding by the end of 1984
of t1.2 billion, of which t200 million can be short-term. Despite Portugal's
gold reserves (20.44 million troy ounces in June 1983), which are still
perceived as Portugal's main guarantee by most lenders, some difficulties way
be encountered over the next 12 months to roll over the existing debt and to
extend the needed additional loans. The necessity of carefully managing its
foreign exchange position and external financial arrangements will remain an
issue for Portugal until the end of the decade.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL 1/
16.      The first phase of Bank lending to Portugal, during the period
1963-66, was concentrated in the power sector; this reflected the
Government's development priorities to meet the power needs of a rapidly
developing industrial sector. The events of the more recent past have
created special problems; the transition to an open political system has
revealed social and economic weaknesses which are unusual for a relatively
high-income developing country. The Bank has responded to Portugal's needs
by identifying, preparing and financing projects, and through economic and
sector work in a number of areas.
17.      The proposed loan would be the twenty-sixth to Portugal,V' the
twenty-first since the resumption of lending in 1976. Bank operations since
1976 amount to about $851.7 million (net of cancellations), and have been
concentrated in the industry (7 projects for 357.9 million) and energy (4
projects for t212.4 million) sectors. About 39 percent of the total lending
has been channelled to public enterprises, about 39 percent via lines of
credit for onlending to individual enterprises, with the remaining 22 percent
in support of activities undertaken by the Government administration.
1/ Substantially the same as in the President's Report No. P-3798-PO dated
April 27, 1984, for the Textile Restructuring Project, approved by the
Executive Directors on May 24, 1984.
2/ Including the Agricultural Services Project Loan (¢7.4 million).



- 6 -
18.      As of March 31, 1984, total disbursements from loans made after 1976
amounted to over $343 million. The first three loans (Sixth Power, First
Banco de Fomento and First Highways) are fully disbursLd. Given the profile
of commitments and some recent improvexents in the implementation of the
projects under Government administration, overall disbursement performance
has been improving; disbursements in FY1983 amounted to $97.5 million
equivalent. A full review of the performance of the portfolio was held in
Lisbon recently, to seek further improvements. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of March 31, 1984.
19.      Ongoing projects with public enterprises are all progressing well in
physical project terms, with all but the most recent loan to the electricity
corporation (FY1983) nearly fully disbursed; as noted above, many public
enterprises (including some public enterprises which are Bank borrowers) are
experiencing serious financial difficulties. This situation is under close
scrutiny by the Bank and the Government, and special efforts to address the
underlying and institutional causes are being designed. The loans for
onlending via lines of credit have recently slowed in disbursements. With
the devaluation of the escudo over the course of project execution, the first
Small and Medium Industry (SMI) line of credit required about twice as many
sub-loans denominated in local currency to be fully committed than was
expected at appraisal. Commitments under the second National Development
Bank loan have been adversely affected by the slowdown in investment in
Portugal, which appears to have particularly affected its larger-scale
enterprise clients. The agricultural and fisheries credit project
experienced severe institutional difficulties and was never able to reach the
target population, and consequently most of the line has been cancelled.
20.      The Bank is also assisting the Government in an intense parallel
effort at macroeconomic and sectoral levels to review policy and management
issues. The report "Policies for Industrial Restructuring", dated August 4,
1982, laid the basis for a number of policy improvements and identification
of projects for possible Bank assistance, including the recently approved
Textile Industry Restructuring Project. This report was followed-up by an
updated economic memorandum and a special report on "Prospects for External
Trade in Light of EEC Entry - with Special Reference to Agriculture," both of
which were distributed to the Executive Directors in March 1983. At the
sectoral level, we are nearing completion of an Agricultural Sector Survey,
which will be discussed with the Government by mid-1984, and an Energy
Assessment Report, which has already been discussed with the Government and
will be distributed to the Executive Directors shortly. The major ongoing
effort is the preparation, at the request of the Government, of a report on
the public enterprise sector.  We also expect to launch additional work on
the overall financial sector, in close association with the IFC, in the near
future.
21.      The industry, energy, and agriculture sectors have been identified
as the most appropriate areas of concentration for Bank work. The importance
of the industrial sector cannot be overemphasized, as it is expected to be
the major growth point for the Portuguese economy and exports. The main



- 7 -
objectives of Bank assistance to the industrial sector are structural reform,
export promotion and efficient import-substitution, employment creation and
preservation and promotion of energy-saving. Restructuring projects for a
number of industrial subsectors are being prepared, as well as a project to
promote technological improvements. Bank activities in support of the
development of the energy sector in Portugal are also important, given the
continuing high dependence of Portugal on imported petroleum products, the
attractive potential benefits from energy conservation, and the very large
share of energy investments in the overall public investment program.
Follow-up projects for the electricity corporation and energy savings
projects are planned, and a project for coal handling port facilities is
being prepared. In the agricultural sector, Bank assistance will be focused
on institution-building programs and technical assistance.  A program of
technical assistance has been defined and has been formulated into a project
proposal for consideration this fiscal year. Other project proposals
identified in the draft Agriculture Sector Survey include programs for
livestock and dairy development, wheat, and regional agricultural development
services.
22.      In the context of the stabilization program, the overall investment
program of the Government and the public enterprises has been severely
constrained; in 1984, public investment is expected to decline in real
terms. The slowdnwn of growth for the general economy will also dampen
private sector investment levels as well. The Bank program of assistance is
therefore designed to address policy level issues which will facilitate the
progressive return to robust growth, and targetted at those specific
investment areas which should receive priority, especially in the constrained
circumstances.
PART III - MANPOWER TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
Background
23.      Building on its economic stabilization program, the Government is
currently designing a policy for restructuring the economy and making it
competitive so as to ensure growth over the medium-term consistent with
equilibrium in its external payments. While the restructuring program would
embrace all sectors of the economy, its thrust will concentrate on industry,
tourism and other sectors which generate foreign exchange earnings. The
Government's industrial policy is evolving, and is guided by the need (i) to
rehabilitate existing enterprises in traditional export industries (textile,
manufacturing, pulp and paper, and food are of high priority); and (ii) to
*           promote new investments in technologically advanced areas.  The global
objectives are to increase exports and to create new, viable employment.
24.      The scope of the restructuring program for existing subsectors
involves industrial reorganization (phasing out of non-viable units or
merging them into plants of more efficient size), changes in outputs (better
design and quality of products), and improvement in plant efficiency,
particularly in worker productivicy.



-8-
Population and Manpower Development
25.      Due to an increase in population in the mid-1970s caused by the
return of Portuguese people from its former colonies, Portugal's population
grew at an annual average rate of 0.9 percent per annum during the 1970s.
This would imply an annual growth of 0.4 percent in its labor force. A
sustained modest economic growth would permit expansion of employment
opportunities sufficient to absorb this growth in the labor force. To
facilitate the long-term adjustment of its education and training systems to
absorb the increases in the labor force, the Government completed in 1980 a
study to determine Portugal's needs for trained manpower in all major
occupational categori:s up to 1990.  This study, for which the Bank provided
assistance, indicated that there would be a substantial deficit in the
availability of skilled workers and technicians unless measures are taken to
expand training capacity. The Government is updating the 1980 manpower study
to determine what impact its industrial restructuring program would have on
the labor force and manpower requirements. The Bank is assisting the
Government in this endeavour. The results of this study will provide useful
data for further sectoral policy dialogue.
Training
26.      The Government has initiated programs to provide both pre-service
and in-service training to meet the country's long-term manpower needs. Most
of the pre-service training is organized under the auspices of the Ministry
of Education (MOE), in its comprehensive secondary schools with vocational
training programs, and in technical institutes and universities.   The main
function of the higher education institutions as regards the industrial
sector is to provide engineering, technician and skilled worker manpower.
The Ministry of Labor (MOL) also provides pre-service training in its skill
training centers to prepare skilled manpower for the industrial sector. The
National Institute of Tourism conducts pre-service training for hotel and
tourism-related occupations, and some operational ministries conduct
pre-service training of a limited and specialized nature.
27.      In-service training programs have also been established for various
occupational areas. The Ministry of Industry, through its National
Laboratory for Engineering and Industrial Technology (LNETI), conducts
programs for upgrading industrial managers. It has also established, in
cooperation with the various industries, a network of 11 technology centers
located throughout the country which presently conduct research and product
development and will be expanded to provide training services for engineers
and scientists. Most in-service training to upgrade industry's skilled
manpower is conducted by MOL in its network of skill training centers
(STCs). These efforts have been supported by the Bank under the first
education project. The National Institute of Administration (IRA) provides
in-service training for public administrators. However, these efforts fall
short of meeting the overall basic and long-range manpower training needs of
a developing industrial, technologically-oriented society. There is a need



to weave the training programs of the various ministries into a more coherent
longer-term strategy at the departmental, ministerial or national levels, and
an interministerial manpower coordinating council has been established for
this purpose.
28.      To overcome difficulties faced in the past regarding the integration
of engineering graduates into suitable industrial employment, the Government
introduced in 1975 a scheme for placing graduates with industrial units for a
six-month apprenticeship period during which their salary is paid by the
Government. This scheme has proved successful and is being extended to train
senior managers in areas such as financial management and production control
and, in some circumstances, to send them on overseas plant visits-
29.      In expanding its training programs, the Government works closely
with tne private sector.  It decides the location, capacity, and the training
programs to be offered in the training centers in close consultation with the
private sector, so as to ensure that they are relevant to the needs of indus-
try in the selected areas. The private sector provides some in-plant train-
ing programs, which are generally oriented towards training skilled manual
workers for job-specific requirements. The private sector also contributes
to training, when necessary, by allowing its employees to serve, free of
cost, as instructors in the centers run by the Government. While pre-service
training programs are provided at no cost to the trainees, the Government
charges fees for its in-service training programs, most of which are utilized
by the private sector. These fees help to cover a part (about 30 percent) of
the operating costs of these programs. To promote industrial training in-
cluding retraining, the Government (i) has introduced an apprenticesnip law
to provide practical training in enterprises, following academic training in
the skill training centers or in any other institution; (ii) is preparing a
reorganization of the Institute of EE?loyment and Training; (iii) is prepar-
ing twc legal tools, one about the main guidelines of the vocational training
system and the other about the vocational training in cooperation between
IEFP and other entities and through several specific training programs de-
fined in the Institute of Employment.
30.      While the Government is justifiably increasing its efforts to expand
training facilities to improve labor productivity, these efforts also have to
be accompanied by measures to promote greater labor mobility, especially in
view of the large excess labor force in several industries. The elaborate
labor laws governing the collective bargaining process and the collective
labor conventions inhibit the mobility of labor so vital to the ultimate
success of the industrial restructuring program. In practice, these problems
have been mitigated through the Government's use of available legal
procedures by providing for short-term labor contracts, and by the recent
legislation permitting "lay-offs" in enterprises in economic distress. With
a view to ensuring that its labor policy is attuned to the needs of
restructuring the economy, the Government has initiated a review of the
existing legal framework and practices with a view to formulating needed



- 10 -
changes in the system.  Governmt is working on measures to revise the laws
relating to collective dismissals, individual contracts and collective
bargaining. Tn view. of the sensitive nature of these issues, and to promote
a social consensus, the Government has established a Permanent Council on
Social Concertation, comprising representativese of Government, labor unions
and employers' organizations. The proposed revisions to the existing laws,
following discussions in the Permanent Council, are expected to be presented
to the Parliament by October 1984. These measures are expected to overcome
the constraints affecting labor nobility.
Bank Involvement in Manpower Training
31.      The Bank has assisted Portugal in its efforts to initiate training
activities in key sectors, where manpower needs were identified to be
substantial, through two Education projects (Loan 1559-PO, approved in 1978),
and (Loan 1793-PO, approved in 1980). The objectives of the projects were
to; (i) improve and expand mwangement training; (ii) introduce vocational
training in skill training centers for early school leavers; (iii) upgrade
teacher training and curricula; (iv) expand agricultural, industrial, and
commercial technician training; Cv) expand vocational training in secondarv
school; and (vi) upgrade university engineering, agricultural and science
teaching. Five vocational skill training centers, six technician training
institutes, and four teacher training institutions have become operational;
other institutions are expected to be completed by the end of 1984. The
first project is expected to be completed in 1984, and the second in 1986.
These projects have encountered considerable delays initially, due to legal
constraints and the lack of familiarity of the agencies with Bank
procedures. 'hen these initial problems were resolved and the Government
strengthened its project implementation and management capabilities, the
projects were affected by funding difficulties in the Ministry of Education.
The Portuguese Government coutinues to require substantial technical and
financial assistance in modernizing its educational and training system. The
Bank's involvement in the proposed project would help towards such
institutional development and improvement of sectoral planning and policies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background
32.      This project has its origin in the continuing dialogue with the
Government on the development of the education and manpower training sector
during the course of implementation of the Bank-assisted education projects.
It was identified in June 1982, and prepared by the Government with Bank
assistance. It was appraised in January/February 1984. Negotiations were
held in Washington from May 14 to 18, 1984. Portugal's delegation was led by
Dr. Carneiro of the office of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and
included representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Planning, the
Ministry of Labor and the Institute of Tourism Training, . A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Manpower Training and Development Project" dated May 25,



- 11 -
1984, is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.  The main
features of the loan and the project are shown in the Loan and Project
Sumaary and in Annex III.  A map (IBRD__) showing the location of project
institutions is attached_
Project Objectives
33_      The project's main objective is to strengthen Portugal's capabilitv
for meeting trained manpower requirements in support of its industrial
restructuring and economic development programs.  It would focus on upgrading
the skills of scientific and engineering personnel in industrv, increasing
the supply of skilled workers for the industrial and tourism sectors,
strengthening public administration so as to improve the quality of policy
planning, and of the implementation and management of development projects
and to improve public administration in general. Besides the qualitative
contribution, it would increase the annual supply of skilled workers for the
industrial sector from 1,200 to 2,900, upgrade the technical skills of about
1,200 of industry's engineering and scientific personnel, upgrade the skills
of about 2,400 public administrators annually, and provide annually about
1100 trained workers for the country's tourism-related occupations. It would
help to increase the productive output of export-oriented industries and
foreign exchange earning activities and services.
34.      In support of the above objectives, the proposed project would
include (a) the construction and equipping of- (i) five skill training
centers (STCs); (ii) a Professional Engineering Development Center; (iii) a
hotel and tourism training center; and (iv) the expansion of facilities at
the National Institute of Administration (IRA); (b) technical assistance in
curricula and institutional development; and (c) fellowship training.
Skill Training Centers (STCs)
35.      To help overcome the serious shortage of skilled workers in the
industrial sector, the project would include five new skill training centers
as part of a larger program to establish 2& such new centers. These would be
located in the highly industrialized regions of the country and would focus
on training for the employment needs of the region. Eleven such centers
already exist, five of them supported by the Bank. The locations and
training programs to be provided are based on local employment office studies
of the manpower needs by industry and occupation, level of training required,
local employer support for training and availability of trainees. Such
studies have been completed for all the centers proposed under the project.
These studies are reviewed by a local advisory comittee with participation
from industry and the local community. The STCs would serve early school
leavers, as well as unemployed and displaced workers, and prepare them with
entry level skills as artisans, tradesman, or operators. The new training
programs would span 20 occupational groups. When these 24 centers are
operational, it would increase the training capacity to about 9,000
individuals annually. To meet the needs for increased instructors, estimated



- 12 -
at about 500, the Institute of Employment and Skill Training (IEFP) would
expand the instructor training program under which it recruits experienced
workers from industry and provides a nine-month formal training. As they will
be supplemented by instructors from the relatively large pool of local
workers, it is expected that the recruitment of needed instructors will not
present a problem. The project would include technical assistance to help
improve and lpdate the training curricula and to expand a modular system of
training based partially on the International Labor Organization model.
36.      Professional EngineerinZ Development Center;  To help upgrade the
quality of employed engineering and other scientific professionals and to
keep them abreast of new developments and techniques in their specialised
fields, the proposed project would establish a central training facility in
Lisbon lnder LDETI.  It would introduce an extension-type program with
courses offered in each of the categories of (a) engineering specializations;
(b) engineering sciences; (c) technology development, and (d) training and
education technology. The program would concentrate on improving industrial
procedures and increasing productivity, especially in major growth and
export-oriented industries, a critical element in the Government s planned
industrial restructuring program. Uhen fully operational in 1989, the
proposed Center would cater to about 1200 persons annually. LRET1 engineers
and scientists. trained in instructional methodology, would serve as
instructors, supplemented by others recruited as needed from private
industry, local universities and technical institutions.  Tbe project
includes, besides renovation of IXETI's building and provision of equipment
and materials to meet the needs of additional traiuing programs, 12
m-aimouths of consultant services to help develop the courses for the program
and abolt 156 man-months of fellowship abroad.
37.      Rational Institute of Administration (INk); To help improve the
quality of public administration and promote rmch needed administrative
reforms, the Proposed project would assist IfA, established in 1979 under the
office of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, to expand and upgrade
its in -service training for public administrators and civil service technical
personnel. The project would include the financing of construction and
equipment to extend the institute's instructional facilities, and technical
assistance for program development, especially in the applications of
technology in administration and improved administrative procedures. IRA's
existing capacity of 1500 is fully utilized, and the proposed project would
add 300 new training places with an additional capacity of 900 persons per
year. INA charges the government agencies sponsoring the trainees a fee for
participation in its courses, to ensure that its training programs are
relevant to the needs of the agencies, and to defray a part of its recurrent
operating costs. The project also includes fellowships for a total of 76
man-months to assist in IRA's institutional development, besides consultants'
services for a total 46 man-onths.
38.      hotel and Tourism Training Centers;  To help Portugal realize its
tourism Potential, taking advantage of its climate, location and historic as



- 13 -
well as modern attractions, the project would assist the National Institute
of Tourism (IIFT) under the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism in expanding its
training facilities and upgrading the quality of training for skilled
workers. It would include the construction and provision of equipment for a
hotel/restaurant training center in the Estoril resort area near Lisbon, 23
man-months of consultants' services, and 60 man-months of fellovships for
institutional development. When fully operational in 1989, this center would
provide full-time pre-service training for about 1100 and in-service training
for about 600 persons from the private sector. The program envisages that
besides formal intensive classroom instruction in the off-season, some of the
trainees would be given relevant practical training at the centers during the
tourist season when the centers would be ran as coumercial establishments,
*         managed by professional hoteliers.  Other INFT trainees would be provided
with practical training in private hotels. Iurr works closely -:ith the
country's rnational hotel and restaurant association through advisory
comittees, with representation from these associations, vorkcers and local
organizations in developing its training programs and facilities. The demand
for its training programs is high, and there is strong competition from
employers for its graduates. Trainees pay a modest tuitior fee for the
pre-service and in-service training. Tuition fees, and iucome realized from
using the centers during the tourist season *s commerrial hotels and tourist
facilities, are expected to exceed their r curr-nt costs.
Project Costs
39.      The total cost of the project exclrding the front-end fee is
estimated at t54-9 million of which t30.5 million (about 56 percent) is in
foreign exchange. The cost estimates include t16.4 million for physical and
price contingencies. Physical contingencies are estimated at 10 percent of
the base cost. Price contingencies for the fore4-n component have been
calculated at 3.5 percent for 1984, 8.0 percent for 1985, 9.0 percent for
1986-1988, 7.5 percent for 1989, and 6 percent for 1990. Local price
contingencies have been calculated at the same rates, assuming maintenance of
purchasing power parity exchange rates. The cost estimates include Ill
man-mnths of consultant services, and 313 man-months fellowships for
overseas training. The cost estimate does not include direct taxes and
import duties, as the project is exempt from such taxes, but includes an
estimated USt3.0 million for indirect taxes on construction materials and
other locally procured items. The recurrent costs for each project component
are expected to range from I percent for the National Institute of
Administration to about- 2 percent for the skill training centers, of their
respective Ministry's total1-recurrent budgets. The cost recovery provisions
*w         for components other than the skill training centers Would partly offset
incremental recurrent costs. The fees charged for training are expected to
cover 75 percent of LNETI's, 50 percent of IRA's recurrent costs, and
together with income from the tourism training center, 100 percent of the
operating costs of the tourism training center. The Ministry of Labor skill
training centers derive some operational support through private industry
contributions to the national unemployment fund.



- 14 -
Financing Plan
40.      The proposed Bank loan of $30.5 million would fir1arice 100 percent of
the foreign exchange costs, or about 56 percent of the total project cost.
The Government would finance the remaining S24.4 million representing the
local costs, and the front-end fee. As a large part (about 90 percent) of
the local costs are expected to be met by the Institute of Employment and
training, and the Institute of Tourism Training from their own sources,
through earmarked taxes, the burden on the Government budget is expected to
be significantly reduced.
Project Implementation
41.      The project would be implemented over six years, in accordance with
an agreed schedule (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01). The Ministries of Labor,
Industry and Energy, Commerce and Tourism, and the office of the Presidency
of the Council of Ministers would be responsible for implementing their
respective project components. The Office for External Economic Cooperation
in the Ministry of Finance (GCEE) would provide coordination as needed. To
ensure that project implementation is not constrained by inadequate funding,
understandings were reached that implementing agencies would review with the
Bank, not later than July of each year, their annual budgetary requirements
for the following year and the amounts provided in their proposed budgets and
wuld make necessary adjustments within the total ceilings to cover required
project costs. To facilitate smooth project implementation, the Government
wuld establish and maintain a special account, with an initial deposit of
$t.0 million. The establishment of this special account would be a condition
of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement Section 2.02 (b) and Section 5.01).
The deposit in the Special Account could be progressively increased to meet
project disbursement needs (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 4). To ensure
that the training programs are successful in meeting their objectives, and to
facilitate their continued improvement, it was agreed that each implementing
agency would evaluate the training programs under the proposed project one
year after they become fully operational and would make its evaluation
available to the Bank for review by December 31, 1990. In addition, the
Ministries of Labor and Commerce and Tourism would carry out a follow-up
study of the first and second class of trainees to t-race their placement and
performance and provide the results of the study to the Bank by December 31,
1991 (Loan Agreement 3.03 (b)). Thereafter, the Government would, taking
into account the conclusions of the evaluation programs, adopt necessary
measures to derive the maximum benefit for the project facilities and
programs.
42.      All the implementing agencies have designated kev staff to work on
the proposed project. Adequate sites for all project institutions have been
acquired. Preliminary civil works designs have been prepared for the
National Institute of Administration and complete tender documents for the
Tourism Training Center of Estoril. LNETI would employ local consultant
architects for reviewing its preliminary designs and preparing final tender
4b



- 15 -
documents.  Schedules of accommodations for the STCs are already completed
for each individual center. Furniture and equipment lists for all project
components, including preliminary ones for the M0L skill training centers,
have been prepared and were reviewed by the Bank during negotiations.
Procurement and Disbursement
43.      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table;
(US$millions)
Procurement Method a/          Total
Project Element                   ICB         LCB         Other       Cost
Construction                       26.8        2.1            -         28.9
(10.2)     (O.8)          (-)       (11.0)
Building Designs                    -          -             (1.6)      (1.6)
-   -             C-~~()     (-)
Equipment                          14.9        2.0            0.5       17.4
(12.9)     (1.8)          (0.4)     (15.1)
Furniture                           -          3.3            -          3.3
C-)       (1.2)          (-)        (1.2)
Technical Assistance                -          -              3.7        3.7
and Studies                       [-)        (-)            (3.2)      (3.2)
Total                              41.7        7.4            5.8       54.9
(23.1)     (3.9)          (3.6)     (30.5)
(Figures in parantheses represent the amount of Bank financing.)
Contracts for civil works, other than estimated to cost more than the
equivalent of S1.5 million would be awarded and procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB). Contracts for works estimated to
cost S1.5 million equivalent or less would be awarded through local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank.
Contracts for equipment estimated to cost not more than $100,000 each, and
not exceeding $2.0 million in the aggregate, would be procured on the basis
of local competitive bidding. Individual contracts for furniture estimated
to cost not more than *500,000 and $3.3 million in the aggregate, and for
books and training materials not exceeding $50,000, and $500,000 in the
aggregate would be procured in accordance with Government's normal
procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank. Specialist services for
technical assistance would be procured in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants'.
Disbursement
44.       The Bank loan would finance 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
directly imported equipment, and educational materials or 100 percent of the
ex-factory price of items procured locally following ICB, 90 percent of the
foreign expenditures for consultant services and overseas fellowships, 85
percent of locally procured items of equipment, and 40 percent of the



- 16 -
expenditure on civil works and furniture. Disbursement for foreign
expenditures up to t10,000, and for local expenditures up to t20,000 would be
made on the basis of statements of expenditures. The loan is expected to be
fullv disbursed in seven years, and the closing date would be June 30, 1991.
Project Justification, Benefits and Risks
45.       The proposed project would make a contribution to Portugal's
efforts to expand manpower training in support of its industrial
restructuring, increased labor productivity and medium-term growth. It would
contribute to the expansion of export-oriented industry and tourism, and to
improving the effectiveness and improving the efficiency of public
administration. It would help to increase the annual supply of industrial
skilled workers and trained hotel and restaurant workers, and contribute to
foreign exchange earnings. It would enable the country to uDgrade each year
the technical and professional skills of about 1,200 of industry's
engineering and scientific personnel, and 2,400 of the nation's public
administrators. Finally, it would help establish a training base for the
continuing long-term development of Portugal's human resources in line with
its needs.
46.       The project faces no special risks, except possible delays in
project implementation due to inadequate funding. The measures incorporated
in the project to ensure that the project's annual financial requirements are
reviewed with the Bank, and the budgetary allocations correspondingly
adjusted would minimize this risk.
PART V   LEGAL INSTRUMENITS A1D AUTHORITY
47.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Portugal and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
48.       Features of the Loan Agreement of special interest are listed in
Section III of Annex III. The establishment of a special account with an
initial deposit of kl.0 million to finance project expenditures would be a
condition of effectiveness.
49.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
50.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
May 31, 1984



ANMi  I
- 17-                                                     Page 1 of 5
TABI!  36
IORMCT.                  SOCZN ME-scoi. 2n   DAT
PORTUGAL              -NDE                      ..._15 CW1n Az1UI ) ra
INS=                      OeST MMr 22TUDATS) lb   -
1960!      P97         T _K  1970m OCSG mIADL
isT1NEAThE                             WABDT 1ER11un-
wA  tnm st. eo
TOTAL                              92.1        82.1        92.1
AGRICULTURPL                       48-4        43.1       40.8
GOP PM  CApr COSS)                   35G00       390.0     2S20.0             24S.6                  11112_7
iNEr aco_wzu  PER: CA
CORS  OF CAL  VIJVAMEr)           534.0      1077.0      iLO               1sms.                   7500.6
LAT10W AM VITAL  S     _TSr9CS
POPULATIO.MD-TEAR CIIROAuSn,)   3826.0       904.0      9W26.0
mum POPLATIOS z OF TOML            22.5        26_2       31_2               47.8                    78.2
POPULATIOR PROIeCTIONS
POPULATIOS  I lEAR 2000 (KUL)                            11.4
STATIOAR PDPULATION (MIL)                               14.0
YEAR SMnTAO.RT POP. REEACH                              2070
POPULATION DFI6UY
PER sq. w.!                      95_9        98.2      105.9               82.0                   139.0
PER SQ. KM.  .R1. LAUW          182.4       210.1      239.0              157.2                   514.2
POPIATION zCE STRUCTRE CZ)
0-14 WRS                        29.2        28.4       26_5               31.9                    22.4
15-64 IRS                        62_9        61.9       63.3               60.9                    64.0
65 AND ABOVE                      8.0         9_7       10.1                7.2                    11.6
POPULATION GlWr RATE CZ)
TOTL                              0.5kC       0.21c      08/k               1.4                     0.8
UR;AN                             2.          1.8        2.3                3.4                     1.4
CRUDE DIRTH RATE (PER TW)          24.2        19.1       16.3               25.0                    13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PM t139S)        10.8        10.3        9.9                9.1                     8.9
RO5 REPROtMO RATE                   1.5         1.5        1.1                1.7                     0.9
VA-MUlY PLL5IN
ACCEPrOSS. ANUWL (TWL
UERS C OF RAE  IN)                 ..           .
FOO D A rXrITMl
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CApITA
(t969-7t-1o0)                      92.0       105.0       63.0              106.4                   112.4
PM CAPIT SUPPLY Of
CALORIES (2 OF RD)UIRRNS)       119.0       1230        129.0             129-6                   135.4
PROaEMIS (CRAMS PER DAV)          W0.0       89.0       85.0               92.3                    99.0
OF ICII AHISML AND PULSE        33.0        39.0       39.018             34.6                    61.4
CtfD (ACES 1-4) DE^Al RATE          9.2         5.0        1.4               10.4                     0.4
LIFE EXPECT. AT 8R1ST CyEARS)      63.3        67.1        721               67.Z                    74.9
INFANT  DRT. RATE (PER TOS)         2.0        580        26.0               71.4                    10.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (IPDP)
TOTA-                            23L9        34.5        65.0/w
URBAN                            82t1          __       9007_
IWRI.U                           14.4          ..        56_;__
A;CESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSIIL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TJOTAL                             _.                                                                 _
RU.RA_L                            ..          . ..  
POPULATOR. E     SItcIA          1250.0      1110.0      350.0            19.8                     553.6
POP. PER NURSIrC PERSON          1420.OIf   10.0         650.0k             7Q_5                    IQ.9
POP. U HOSPITAL BED
roTAL                           180.0       170.0      190.0/d            334.0                   119.8
URBAI                            70.0/f      70.0       800oo             216.0                   143.2
RURAL                              ..          __
ADPISSIONS PER ROSPTML NWEO           .         9.6       13.51d             20.0                    17.7
AVERCE SIZE OF ouUsEOL.D
TOVTl.                             3.9        3.7
URBAN                             4.0          ._
RRAL                              3.9          __                   ..                               __
LVERAGE NO. OF PERSDNS/ROGN
TOTAL                             t.1         0.8
UlRJAN                            1.0          _______
RURAL                             1_1          _     
ACCESS TO ELECTr ( OF orlwULLIs)
TOTAL                            40.5        64.2
RAN                               8J.5 .2_.
RUA                              27.4          ----*-.



- 18 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
T A 6L E 3.
PO0TU1GM               - soctL 1IDICAR DS SDAT
PORDOCAL                            REFEZEE! COFPS (CMIGED              la3MCS) /
!105T                    tMloS? RECST ESLDIAU) /b
RECENT           IIDDLE INCOM             INDSThZhL
190199b    i. EUROPE                                M       IS IT ECD Ncrl s
ADMUSTED E3ROLLMETS RATIOS
PRLWARY:  TCTAL                     .        98.0       118.0Jg           102.2                    101.5
MALE                     _01 99.0            10.0g              107.2                   103.3
FE ALE                   ..       96.0       116.49             9 7.9                   103.3
SECOSNART: TOTAL                    .        57.0        55.01d            56.5                    89.2
63.0      5.0 d              63.4                    84.5
FEJLE                    ..        51.0       56.0/d            68.9                     86.0
VWCATIOVL CZ OF SEC03103)          46.4        33.6        t6.51id           22.4                    18.3
WPUP.-TEAWE RATIO
PrI24W                            3. 0       3ae0        19 0J             24.7                    20.2
SECflSDArn                       19.0        17.0        23.0/d            22.1                    14.4
AoLT LrrERACY RAME (3)             62.9        71.0        78.0              69.7                    98.9
PAsS - =eaCARS/THOUSASD POP        17.9        60.9       12O.9/1L           52.9                   356.5
RADWO RECEIV!RS/TBUSD POP          96.1       151.3       161.6             165.5                  1085.6
T:V LECEIiEsTHO05UAD POP             5.2       43.0       141.7             124.2                   449.5
SEgS?Am  (DAILY  E3L
11)EZr) ClRCaQATrOl
PER THOUSAND POPCLATIOS            63.2       82.2        50.8              96.3                   331.3
CISEZA ASUL ATTIENDACEICAPnTA        2.9        3.1         3.4               2.9                     3.5
TOrAL LABOR FORMC CtTOCS)        3397.0      3550.0      3797.0
FE!LE CPERcES7)                  17.9        24.8        25.9              34.5                    36.1
AIRICCLTCL tPERCEN)              44.1        33.3        28.2              40.7                     6.2
INDUsTXY (PECE5r)                29.0        33.Z        35.1              23.4                    37.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCES?)
iLvff.                           38.5        39.3        38.6              42.0                     45.5
KALE                             66.0        62.3        60.4              55.2                    59.0
FEQUILE                          13.2        18.5        19.0              29.1                    32.5
ECED05IC DEPENDE= RATIO             1.0         1.0         0.9               0.9                     0.8
I1ON Drssxumr
PERCEST CF PRIVATE INCOME
RECIED By
it03EST 5 OF ROGSEDOLDS             ..
fI02ES. 202 OF OUSEIIOS             ..       56.1bh     56.3th.              ..                    *3.1
jnE52 202 OF C  ENSM S              ..        6.  7T  7        .                                     5.5
LOUEST 40S OF HUSERLDS              ..       2    Q.     21:4 i                                    16.5
ESL FA7ED amOLUT- POVERTY rnESS
LEm  CUSS PER CAPITA)
1133d                      ..         ..          .                  ..
RURAL
ESTD(AZED RELATIVE POVERM nESc
LEVE. CUSS PER CAPITA)
URIUA                              ..          ..       480.014              ..                       .
RMAL                                ..         ..       4so.o7d           409.0
ESiNATED   POP. 30.0  ASLUSE
POVER  IBCS  LEVI.EL t )
URiA!W                             ..          .....
RuRiL                              ..          ..
.rT AVAILABLE
MrO APPLICABLE
SO T E S
/a The group *ver-as for each indicator are population-uighted arSthetie  ans. Cer~aeof countrtie mt the
indicators depends on ailabSiity of dta and Is not nIetfora.
lb Unlerc atberiai. noted. D-at for 1960- refer to any year batvan 1959 and 1961; Data for 1970 between 1969 and
1971; and data for   ouet Recant Easiee between 1979 and 1931.
/c De to emigration population growth rate to lower then rote of natural Increase; Id 1977; Ia 19161 If 1962;
/L 1978: lh llbgheat 25?. loumat 253 and 50: of households; It 1968; Li 1973-74.
Hay 1983



Mr   -Vs  Ii eriar (tRW      m e salnn  ----d R .  a-. a
._-,e               u-dae   ci   leatase-g - sneelce  5. .5i5s Ia      et  eas)  i 
j-- -nem-    -seaT  set - eahlee  a   6.eee i, -Aep a:
eatia.n   s-ti   s - nije  teiejse   fe ceesrn  - jean                              DOeC-aj-ee   -tl   a   PA35e  -ds -m ltin-5aS 31tWA .  - atet
e.s   le3     e   esa  aeellqSea a-ntp ste  ..                              B1e01ej   J   e   as~am                     - rle. ett  Case  mat
WeB   t-fl   etS. "I" (eSe can-lae   at eer   te.Lneee  -sa'~ etn    tt                                                           sesees-cet   l
*sea fs-ele   -ans qr-a --  pq-% -tesel) Clda B-a
tatele    ain  ~   f3  cet *1 iee? nea  Alaeed ai,-wa                                    *se, ta   me 0*61 lmst tent. at  wenena .65W 3. asS
-  ae    eea   .(atsa   ea               rn   een4rnre                                                       J.nsn  Be eies  1m.  (jeen-q  Mfl-n1 auitea  se.
ame  eeln L-a-ae.e  Beja        ealanuefe -e    -efl-d6.A-esteaaix                          Meinare esill se  -aS a* se.   eere           eaelfissetaaa.
M  R                            P-3 J-~~~Ut   pet5 *ds-it tTs-A   -    rna  s i--etese aB-
--nrnrss~I.. -A                          .a £164-5.  etenB     1- t      me tea. -as .e -T--ea  macBas.
esirn-ameSe mel 51 sem  s-eirneerd "3 . elsa.             -ii Z0    -nsei                               -  1--te  inst me aimsJ.. -ims(asse  seSi -r.pmlc
eiatds.1-i -es      *  eea n -taLte ...P   eaei nicireegausi   sea Sq-%                         pa-Seas Jpi    elt  a  -A6.  at 'l- ejeiad pe "T
an    rneteit.sn  .j3 -me e  er  rnt-sa a   meT-        rn,g  rm                             nai-L        cI-A *Srs e-1 a -- Ple . -es   J.  -IP  VI a.snd   t
ssleaeaenaeSe ie B eesesed  late  "a   s- rne   BeeeeeAM."-a  ee..j  anas4                       see. Sao -l  eteteid jen  s as  0  B 
-  aftasej ejBet*a lrtn                     ea    -  -an  hiatt.                          atates   sea    i eaan   eat  Pm mesda-e   eam    r   e   insa
at  elllesaa- lee   meal. *555 -1inaae eeeN,anaia                                 -q.-lia   n mes.2"        r  MeAlc  ma   Aepaa  p    Be AfR---n
*etspI sutw-          as                   earns-. aS-         at en  esenes -~P_  -T nea   tier J.  e hierneo eees asS
rotIasa   srkqfl st BeU 1hreaSnecm                  rstl.e -,-                                                    rn5-rnp  -P  6*61 rnss.-le  "T-%. Plrnta  55s
P. je anjes   - t.eet.aje    ae.a   t~ate       ieSl    em                               ernan l_   -P- 5e555  fntealied  me - amsetra  Be na-itaeP 
-ee  ta  Tms  At. .1163-5aelseim.B   eresnetriBinss   p -neari.drnes --neen   an--Mieaapse  eatee me ASsein-1
me Uittem aanernamine  e--Pa "at  -  U                                                                        -Id-~1~ffelW  aeBaap.iesrtqdamt es Ae  etescM  flee- eseebe
-ese   , eattem -a a$i- eas s eiae -aI.meats --f it. DUTJ.-eeaqailpelaae                                                  -mered-eas  -1e1s .3 pialaftiste
aeaaenl`1-"em                                                            %W-na A P -
'21  -2 I:).~ ~ ~   ~     ~ ~ ~~ ~ea  me ~   2       rn., . t-lis  tcc5etc  eels aenpef JMd  ePe -eals. v- s-eq
mScaa3c P-an   eaa.rnlsiea- esea   p-maps.saratjaeasa..a- -.A 5   - T.-.mm-eea . ean.) as  asssas._a~ns  eAp.a
"eteaS a        mess  taaaea AL    aae    -..,'le.    -t  ssa.                                                                                       mas   p 
rn6.eas  tiiteel -  ern.stVa sea-J --Vj aaai.-laa.s ae                                    ~2-ee                 nn -r a..       WW   perna ate
-tnjeet  n  np  a~Berneaea.arn   e  eane esperasae                         g4- taees tOtaianla en M -    tesee  w-tlj ACe lnaes-lraa Ase te
.aeeti   a     .at -nsea   eeeyn  tt.rig lnaeed-eae.,a    as 5ee   .,aea ,                             X--rn  5  nr   -gases msa   ie taeaa  ca-       aal   ia
at irnatoaBi as eaestena at   f.aesarnteerna arneui a-~ raer.aarn 5±
p- --ASi "f  -vM~"I         1nM  at-  atasc                        ta-ls-Ia-CLaIqeAP,ess  arse                         iiswofiS    Mqtee
ai  el   ean,Seearae  -les itaa prnsei Ba)rne3  rnncae5snwl  ar ana   asC111 ap- lJe -a-                                       aS -   asatr  r
-se  m   eae'it  aS  eeasfW  .js  la   anareea    e                                                   -11-6*51 e    pp.geq  *ja,      eat e-11are
-  fetse  ee  eea 1 ei.)  ars  eanata  - CseeaintescaLasash   it ~   ease55  ain  in-     st      -n-ss- ceeOm     &s  cc snS   atascce
-PMSMMf  wnw                             mceeweaaen-s-antm    raea   e-et  s as                                                             -adsa-
-mes-    aeannpe.easps        .aeatnB   feses  Is  m    eSiImla                                                                             erfn 
-.saptnes   ownsbdaee                 -ea-et  tB**d    ae-s-s a..tfan-fasscae    aj   -  aeaaIeesai   m  e                                                   uese
ealacaI..." tetnl-fnm                eB P....  J Bal4t    *aetas   enstss,a   ane   ass   -tas  A1
-ws- aItae                           e   enrl6   .5aeaaprS      a.....                    slaeM   eq  n a3 j
an -aesen  easedaae t.."  -tsr5            tft P Slise  *ttdad-ste  e-ns mea-6  ma-                                                                eaese
Las-e   isee-pnl-eteapaai a-  ,.eazc asemeass                                                                         Si-1. -man    e-Md th--Tt.tji
elena m  epe; *jie   1.) -A eAl  me  -,,-J 5c    etLntasepa 3- eP- SiaBfldt  aS stPa-a. Iee?  rtSa5ls as                                                  -sInpp
d  -.W 3-                           isselt     rt esar   -Iset  Banases   e  - flIljWStU
-Slesasdee  etilli  tsSS   e  airn-4ls   B                  -eacesse   seicIdRe   Be eea1  aisa  me -lspteaae pI         l en aanrn
sUsaans  a  esnAm  laes  el Scasst  en.Cse.   e.eeesel  ea    e                                                  r   er  3.i           an    eaaasm
- seaw    eae- eeneeslaPasse-)astsslea   eae5t-  rndm  janjees  3SsprereAttae  e   tan   utaa
V ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~-as   aSash.                                            efsa  u    aeeaaLteelaP  eial eselin e-m: rnca,
me rssecaseenaes-e   epaan  eatseq   Sat esas-rnalil.c                 -Pg pacsstei  Lte   e515j4atlas meM   l-fo4   SP   -Seid
"'assme ase-a   -  Isaid nen  1-"a-Bees31 *lana a. -n  etI-fffi                                                            ClW  s-fas me   gansi  5s"I5  ea-FINO
rnqerePetenelsa                   Slrn    eiaans  a   etea                                 s mess  eai  ~    Wle   Pmag-  p            5-  a           A   w
wjj~~~          *lenn a     Sp  ps-tndt  1aBe rnlsstieet                                                  -Tentlst tanM  "
-name=Aiese a.  el- pee Ia-- a5earde  tPe-   teat  eieatdMemean
tenm    eess  teaniarn .        ma  mea  erss Z          aeree    etsecg 
eaa    tsetelueie a   eette   wteB  aa-elsteales                                          eler   i   eltsei   B   aau   et feleasale  crnaar  me
~t5a   ae5nid-t ate 5.. f-n rnjsese  eaee  enseernr          snie -            ipas me et-taca -nlTSa
Ime, sema~t    i               epstia d      '_   -WIn MUM     ese nsa-W 5
tese .A1ees   paaei.a  s  ele_aderA . sse   a.lesltan                                 faec  is-ast) eel  u Pm   M"   mel  ed5-s-M
me1lsti.  sectleleAn metnesw  asr-i  me asqde   twls                                        eld  ee   reas  eafs   ctaad                      -155       a
-ttl) Ifseern     t      me -ceqarn M  -laa-w   tel saa ae  -eadssetasat--A--J -ta~   0-U    JlSP                                               M -at l sat  me sut
WPM-  -    P Aal -  ~  Al   -M-    -alvSe5flne                imseast      rna5e teeleveA     .  -m mamma c  eate   meW seaf-il aatrnV  'Csnae
en aen. Patseide-ft- ens-~ sa              n    ,aj eie     -    Meta            a-m  1ea,  -.Lseae   eecs  tcsseeeliendse  cess   A- I                      -14i
diteeetetcse  eete rna5jflfpeael5paq                              ame ssese   elt  m  ease m"W       tietadee as e".yBsa metiL  ~Wptt
meA si.   saSer    as-1erneaseatmen a alesa.  ataaceees  eae  ape,e   a=as d at3 -A lae-aen e-aa enm   n  s4ases    %tates .r metel.
em te  -sme  aceasa  met me  eep  s Laltirnlcee ee a         4a- 1a eADset  es m   eaneB   eeeaa            n meate  sm   e   cc   qLs
;C    lreaat   tB   ssrl  m   SeEr                   eaeele   ei  e   sa  iesa  eienStetsae                              see1ee   eSelna                   ci fsaeB
I ieaae.ee   eeere Kmea  aea  ta61sae   naa                                  -aests   lP~aa                    its   tael                  nSe          an    ai



- 20 -                                                     MANNEX I
20  -                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 4 of 5
ECONMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amounts in Millions of U5 Dollars)
Actual                   Annual Crowth Rate (S)            Share of CGP at Market
1982                           Actual                    Prices (Current Prices)
(sL-Esc. 79-473)   1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982          1977  1980  1981  1982
nrlow&L ACCOUNS
Gross Domestic Proauct ai           23,711        5.6   3.2   4.5   4.9   0.8   3.0         100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture                          2,028      -10.0   4.0   9.0   3.D  -13.2   6.0         12.2  10.2   8.3   8.6
Industry                             9118       9.5   3.2   5.0   6.0   1.6   2.4           25.4  30.0  29.4  29.3
Services                            12.565        5.9   3.0   3.5   4.5   2.8   2.8          62.4  59.8  62.3  62.1
Consumption h7                      I9,6L5        2.6   1.5   2.4   4.5   3.2   2.8          88.7  80.9  83.4  82.7
Gross Investment                     8,662       34.7  -4.7  -2.1  14.7   5.1   4.9          29.7  33.8  35.9  36.5
Exports of GNF5                      5.804        5.9  14.6  27.3   8.3  -2.8   5.8          17.1  27.1  25.5  24.5
Imports of GNFS                     10,370       12.0  -1.8   7.8  12.8   6.7   5.6          33.2  41.8  64.8  43.7
Cross NationaL Savings                           25.9  23.6  34.3  17.8  -1O.5  -0.2         17.3  Z0.5  23.8  23.3
PrLces
Rate of InfLation (CAn *aer Price Index)       26.0  19.3  24.3  17.0  20.0  22.4
Exchange Rate                                  38.28 43.94  48.92  50.06 61.5  79.5
EERU1HANDISE TRADE                            Annal Growth Rates at Constant 1970 Prices       As Percent of Total
1970  1975  1980  1982
lmports                              9,528       12.8  -2.1   6.7   9.0  5.6    6.4         100.0  [00.0  100.0  100.0
Foao                               1,117       -7.5  -3.1  16.9   8.7 .6    4.4            11.0  16.6   9.3 11.7
Otner Consumer Goods                 948      -23.9  -9.7   4.1  10.9  1.7    6.7           9.3   8.3   6.1  10.0
Petroleum Products                 2,470       -1.5  10.6  15.3   2.5  -7.7   14.7          9.5  16.4  24.3  25.9
Intermediate Goods                 2,507       19.4  -3.5   3.3  10.9  0.0    2.6          41.5  36.8  37.5  26.4
Capital Goods                      2,486       26.7  -5.8   3.6  11.0  16.0    4.5         28.6  21.9  22.8  26.0
Exports                              4,187       4.1  11.1  29.3   7.1  -2.0   I1.2         100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture and Food                 486        1.3   3.0  15.3  -1.0 =4-8        7.0      20.9  16.8  12.1  1i.6
Wood. Cork, Paper and Pulp           620       -3.8   3.3  28.2  17.3  -6.8    6.4         16.1  15.9  17.7  14.8
Textiles and Clothing              1,218       -0.5  22.1  26.2  -8.0  4.1   18.9          26.4  27.3  25.2  29.1
Petroleum Products                   292       11.0   9.6  33.6  50.0  10.0   23.3           ,,    ,,   6.3   7.0
Other Manufactures                 1,571                           13.0 -5.2   16.3        36.7  40.0  38.8  37.5
HERLAD1ISE TRADE INDICES                             1975-100             1980-100
Export Price Index                            145.1  179.0 229.1  315.7 113.2  131.9
Import Price Index                            143.9  177.5 240.0  381.0 121.2  141.7
Terms of Trade lndex                          100.8  100.8  95.5  82.9  93.4   93.1
Current Prices (Billion Escudos)         As Percent of GDP at Market Prices
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                               1977 1978  1979  1980 1961 1982
Current Receipts                              173.6  212.2  264.3  362.6 449.7  536.7      27.9 27.2 26.9 293  301 1
t6urrent ExpendLtures                         182.1  231.5  302.2 404.6 526.3  643.6       29.3  30.6  30.7  32.6  35.2  34.1
Current Surplus/Deficit (-) of the State       -8.5 -26.3  -37.9  -42.0 -76.6  -79.9       -1.3  -3.4  -3.9  -3.4 -5.1  -4.2
Capital Expenditures (Net)                     34.5  39.1  42.7  64.3  68.2   83.8          6.4  5.0  4.3  5.2  4.6  4.5
Net Financing Requirements                     43.0  65.4  80.6  106.3 144.8  163.7         8.0  8.4  8.2  8.6  9.7  8.7
Financing Needs                                44.7  75.8  97.1  127.4 163.8  189.6         7.2  9.7  9.9  10.3 10.9  10.1
Debt Amortization                              -1.7  -10.4  -16.5  -21.1 -18.2  -25.9       0.3  1.3  1.7  1.7  12.2  1.4
d1
LABOR FORmE                                                    TOTAL LABOR FORCE c/
in Thousands                          Percent of Total                   Annual
Growth RateCt)
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982 d/        1978  1979  1980  1981   1982             l980-81
Agriculture            1,187  Cll76  lT7lz   1.058   1,051         31.8  30.9  29.9   2 6..7                   -5.5
Industry               1,283  1,323   1,387  1,424  1,440          34.4  35.1  35.6  35.9   36.3              42.7
Services               1.259   1,352   1,4l7  1.486   1,477        33.8  34.0  34.5  37.4   37.2              *4.9
Total                3,729  3.851   3.924  3,968  3.968         100.0 100.0 100.0  100.0  100.0               1.1
a/ At mrket prices. For 1960-79 sectoral components are expresWd at factor costs and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect
taxes and subsidies.
0/ Statistical discrepancy is included in the consumpticn dsta.
c/ Total employed labor force excluding workers abroad and unemployed.
d/ First semester.
February 17. 1984
(0340G)



-21 -                                                                  ANt T
mLANcG  or PAIHrSrs Sb EXTD    L assisraNct AIID DIT
Ameunts in Hilbleot of US Dollars at Curret Prices
Actuat
got.
htlY61 OF BALANCE  OF PA1ET        1974  1971  1976  1977  1976  1979   1960   1981  1912   1983
mportc   V.0.s.)                 2238  193b  1790  2001  2379  3550  4375  4ON  4119  4597
lpoarts (u.o.s.)                 4277  3606  3965  4533  4787  6152   8781   9240  3590   7259
Trame SLince  14()-             -2039 -1170 -217  5 -53  -2-40  -2032  .fl    4E51 -an  4U
at lor-Factor Services          -74  -170    54    82   276   541    36      431   176   230
Tourism Receipts (Gros)        (313) (326) (327) (403) (592) (9421 (1148) (102241858Z )  Clan)
Resource  a-cj--                -2113 -i839-z2iat-1450 -212 -2        -3S31  _4721 -2      -12
1et Investnt Income  */           129  -14  -133  -179  -329  -437   -612   -991 -1245  -1500
V-t Transfers bi                 1111  1037   964  1134  1635  2476   30W    2917  2661   2207
Mince en Currnt Accomnt          -a73  -617 -1290 -1495  -826   -52  -1250  -2795 -3231  -1701
Direct ForLS. Invesment           lo   122   51    52    56    59   126    147   122
Crangee in Officalt Liquid
Foreiun Exchange Reserwes
t- -Increase)                 554  68B   126   359  -103  -68    179    2U        71    54
Of fica  ScL 1 enres"
Grois Eid of Yer c/            6317  4273  3905  4343  5872 12262  13064   9335  9609   7785
o0 uhich: Geld                 5192  3357  3729  3971  50D1 11331  13069  6801  9162   7448
Foreign  atchenge    1125   390   176   366   671   931 - 795    53i  447    337
Actual
get.
CGAMT AND LOR  CCUlENTS                                                                      oDT AD DOT REr   G  dt 1976 1977 1978 1979  19U0  1981  1952
OUicLss Greece and grec-liike             3    -     -      -     -                         Total NIT Debt Oetetand-
irg4 nd Dimburcznd -
PubLiC HALT Lase                                                                              Public Debt Ontly       1378 2266 2862 5283  6363  7160  9099
lUND                             . -   -     36    74   131   143   134    120    -   Ieerset on Public Debt          41   76  154  324  467   797   871
154                                          -     -     -     -      -       -     -   tepeymeea men Public Debt   102  140  257  417   510   689   703
Other NuitLateral                   -       123    87   112    59    187    2L3   472  Total Public Debt Srvice    143  218  411  742  97?  1486  1574
Governmes                        .    71   156   428   915   237    167    176   24
bappitr                          -    54   41    73    56       4    106    142    14
Pebllc Debt Service Rstia    4.1  5.4  7.9  9.5  144.  16.3  18.6
hi
FtasiLk Harlets                   .    99   388  406  766  1063   1217  2115  1750
P-ubli Loa ns .e-i-                                                          - .
Total Public ISLT Lomea           460   221   744 12wT     TI9D  133b   1631   271   2260    Averag  Te  of FPblic
Debt (irsnt Elemt)    11.1 12.9  4.5 -2.6   0.4   4.2  4.1
Dsbt Outstaedins an Dec    r 31. 1952                 nterst -l Fblic 71bt Z   6.3  6.6  7.6  7.5   6.1   9.6   9.6
1XEIA  DEBT                              DLiaburSd OnlY             ee
1UD                                          If S                2.0                       erdttain as I Prier
IDA                                           -                   -                         Yaer Public 106D           9.6 10.1 11.3 14.6   9.7  10.8   9.6
Other  tulclaecera1                          972                 10.7                     7UD Debt Ottsteding
CG eroments  (Bilateral Loan)               130U                 14.4                       and Desbaread             35.6 32.2 36.1 63.1 109.4 132.0 164.7
Suppliers' Credits                           307                 3.4                      18  D306D an   Public Debt
Financial IDeLatutios                       6327                69.5                        Outatading end Dlsbured  2.6  1.4  1.3  1.2   1.7   1.6   2.0
Total Public and Publicly Guarantced Debt  999 oI               96.2                      1iUD Debt Serice as S
te-1 PuVl.C end Private HILTbt D   i           7 Z0.0                                        Public Debt Srvic          4.3 3.1  1.8  1.7   2.D   1.7   2.6
Short-tem Debt CEstatsed) I/                3917
-   Lerly interest payments.
Largely urkerer  rosittaqcga.
Si Cold velied at the and Of perttd London mrket price, and Special Drauin  Rigebte
tI Dent envies an a ratieof ea*rnie  from enports *e-fecter services and workers  rmittecee  Can mdiu- and long-tern debt only).
i/ Erla te for public debt end peblicly  uranteed debt baaed ou Tcraury data processed by the World  ank Debt Reporting syte.
V/  lciude  S3538 nillioa of private am-guranteed debt (not included in CS).
Ii' Source: 7ank of Portugal.
hi  It enort-c    i.ntrst paes.t. en Public Debt end totel debt ervice -  neo-guarant-ed private debt are eddd. trh  debt service rtio vould reach 27.82
Ln 19g2 (VW extiastes).
. .aet  vabiae.
EUrope. fiddle Uwt  and  nrtb  Afiie  Region
Hlrc  6. TIV"
C340C)



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
As of March 31, 1984
($ million)
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS I/
Loan                                                      Amount (less cancellation)
No. Year      Borrower                Purpose               Bank       Undisbursed
Six loans for power development, one for
industrial finance, and one for industry
fully disbursed                                       197.5           -
1334 1977 Republic of Portugal      Highways                24.0            0.1
1541 1978 Republic of Portugal      Water Supply            40.0           16.6
1559 1978 Republic of Portugal      Education I             21.0           12.1
1603 1978 Republic of Portugal      Agricultural Credit    15.0            11.9
1700 1979 Republic of Portugal      Highways II             40.0           27.0
1701 1979 Republic of Portugal      Small and Medium
Industry (SHI) I      45.0           18.2
1793 1980 Republic of Portugal      Education II            40.0           34.8
1853 1980 Republic of Portugal      Forestry                50.0           37.3
1874 1980 COMETNA 2/                Mechanical Industry    25.8             6.7
1875 1980 SOREFAME 2/               Mechanical Industry      8.1            0.1
1942 19BlBanco de Fomento Nacional Development Finance   100.0             76.4
2024 1981 PETROGAL                  Petroleum Exploration  20.0             5.7
2168 1982 Republic of Portugal      Industrial Energy
Conservation           30.0          29.6
2175 1982 Republic of Portugal      Tras-os-Montes Rural
Development            51.0          50.9
2240 1983 Electricidade de
Portugal, EdP            Power VII              126.4         105.6
2263 1983 Republic of Portugal      SKI II                  40.3           40.0
TOTAL                                            874.1         473.0
of which has been repaid                        129.0
TOTAL now outstanding                            745.1
Amount sold                         2.6
of which has been repaid           2.5            0.1
TOTAL now held by Bank 31                        745.1
TOTAL undisbursed                                              473.0
1/ The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/ Loans to two companies under the same project.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustments



23-                        AHEXI l
Page 2 of 2
. STATE     OF IFC IIVESlEIS
Year       Oblitor            Type of Business      Loan  Equity   Total
1981 SPI Sociedade Portuguesa  Developmet Finance  10.0    1.0    11.0
de Investintos, S         Company
9983 Sociedade Portuguesa de    Mey and Capital      -      0.3      0.3
LocaIao Fi:anciera, SARI Market
1984 Soltejo - Sociedade Hoteleira                  2_0      -       2.0
DoTejo, SAIL              TouriS
TOTAL Gross Comitments                     10.0    1.3    11.3
Less Cancellations, Terminatiou3,
Repayments. Sales                       _        -       -
TOTAL Commitments now held by IFC          12.0    1.3    13.3
TOTAL Undisbursed                           3.1      -      3.1



- 24 -
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
TEHID EDUCATION PROJECT
Spplementarv Proiect Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the proiect    3 munths (November 1983-
Junury 1984)
(b) Agencies which prepared the project Ministries of Labor, Industry
and Energy,    ece and
Tourism, and Office of the
Presidency of the Council of
Ministers.
(c) Project first identified              tune 1982
Cd) Date of Bank appraisal mission        Jan yFebruary 1984
(e) Negotiations Completed                may 1984
Cf)  Planned date of effectiveness        October 1984
Section I1 - Special Bank Implementation Actions:
None
Section III: - Special Conditions:
Condition of Effectiveness
Establishment of a special account with an initial deposit of $1.0
million to umeet project expeuditure (para. 41).
Other conditions
(a) Project entities would evaluate the training programs, and make
the results of such evaluation available to the Bank by December
31, 1990 (para. 41).
(b) The Ministry of Labor and the Ministry of Crmerce and Tourism
would complete their follow-up study of the first and second class
graduates, and the results of the evaluation will be submitted to
the Bank by December 31, 1991 (para. 41).



IBRD 1811C*
PORTUGAL
MANPOWER TRAINNG /                        _
AND
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT            -
A  s6.n m_-  c_   s
_    awefe_ ro--__C    g \E   {^awm
r ~~~~~S
=°-.    -f-- M I-. d
1~~~7
_~~~ °- '          .           -
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 RANCE,  - \  f
Y's -' ,+ f S-            --
-~~         '_ X~-  _, -.-     \
5---.''  Xf     j~~~~MR-5
7>  -  .-   -  '-9+ 
_._ -- a --- -! a z
U    __ =_         ,     '      f       L
__  f    __   ,  cx,<      zr   C~_____________



X.'   19                 14I.I                                                                                                                              I,I
wF,                                                                                                                                                                          U o 2i  i 
-CA
.          .......
=0   -0   -                                  S..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~. ...                                                          ........     .....
0    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~-ll0  -S                                       P      A       I                     
R.
5.OL Alnr    ..o.o-o0oo,'-.co 
Z00   .O.6OLJ.4300.o1



