Documet af
The World Bank
FOR oMCIaAL USE ONLY
Rept No. PZ-02-
REPORT AND CO
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF TEE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECON!STbuCTION ANDE EL
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS -
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALT TO US$175 MILLION
TO
NACIONAL FINACIERA, S.A.
WIT  THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITMEXICA STATES
FOR A
THI  SMALL AID MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTR DEVELOPM   PROJECT
May 31, 1983
IV-omOhuargik istoin  dm  __  e      wedbY eemboWinte             e IWmo
dm  fiddd    t  okbm   eemir dbe _ r  W^d w&    W          B_



CURRENCY UNIT - PESO  EX $)
Since December 20, 1982,-Mexico has the following excbange rates:
{i) a sliding controlled rate for priority imports, most exports and service
payments on foreigni debt; this w   set at 95 pesos per dollar on Deceuber 20
and was about 115 on May 20, 1983; and (ii) a free exchange rate for all
other transactions; in recent days the free peso baa been trading around 148
per dollar.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ACRONYMS
ACT       Index of Averag- Cost of Funds to Multipurpose Banks
(Costo Porcentual Promedlo de Captacion)
CONACYT   National Council for Science and Technology
(Consejo Nacional de Ciencla y Tecnologia)
DGCP      General Directorate for Training and Productivity
(Direccion General de Capaecitacion y Productividad)
FIDEIN    Trust Fund for Industrial Estates
(Fideicomiso de ConJautos, Parques y Ciudades Industriales)
FOGAIN    Trust Fund for Guarantees and Development of Medium and Small
Tndustry
(Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequena)
F0MEX     Trust Fund for Promotion of Exports of Manufactured Products
(Fondo de Fomento a las Exportaciones de Productos Manufacturados)
FOMIN     National.Trust Fund for Industrial Development
(Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial)
FONEI    Trust Fund for Industrial Equipment
(Fondo para Equipamiento Industrial)
IDB       Iater-Auerican Development Bank
(Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo)
INFOTEC   Technological Information Service
(Servicio de Informacion Tecnologica)
NAFINSA   National Development Bank
(Nacional Fiuanciera, S.A.)
PAI       Integrated Program of Assistance to Smal and Medium Industry
(Prograna de Apoyo Integral a la Industria Mediana y Pequena)
SHE       National Employment Service
(Servicio Nacional de Eupleo)



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
MJCO
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCAIE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumary
Borrower:          aclaonal Financiera, S.A. (NAfINSA)
Guarantor:       United Nexican States
Beneficiaries:   NAFINSA In its own right and as trustee for Fondo de
Garantla y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequena
(FOGAIN), Fondo Nacjoaal de Fomento Industrial (FOMIN), and
Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques y Ciudades Industriales
(FIDEIN).
Amoun            US$175 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end
fee.
Terms:           Fifteen years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:         NAFINSA would channel about 89 percent of the loan" B
proceeds in pesos to FOGAIN and FIDEIN at a variable
interest rate linked to the ACF and which would allow them a
spread of two percentage points on their on-lending to
participating financial intermediaries or borrowers.
NAFINSA would channel in pesos another 10 percent of the
loan to FOMIN Which would repay the net amocnt recovered
from divesting equity investments, plus 50 percent of any
capital gains realized, and an agreed percentage of interest
received on convertible loans. NAFINSA would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:   The proposed project would support Mexico's integrated
program of assistance to small and medium industry by
providing credit and technical assistance to enterprises for
maintaining or expanding production and employment levels.
FOGAIN would provide credit through financial intermediaries
to finance fixed assets including equipment and common
service facilities, and working capital requirements; FOMIN
would make minority equity investments and loans convertible
into equity, to help finance fixed investments and permanent
working capital; FIDEIN would provide credit for inrfrastruc-
ture works in industrial estates; NAFINSA and specialized
institutions would provide technical assistance, including
training. About 10,000 new jobs would be created and a
further 20,000 - 30,000 jobs preserved in the 3,000 firms
that are expected to be helped under the project.
Mhis docunent has a resricted distrbuion and may be used by recpients only inte performan   of
Itir ofici duties. ts contents may not otherwise be dicked without World Bank authorization-



- ii -
Project Risks:   The project faces two risks.  The first, institutional, is
the disruption arising from large-scale personnel changes
and administratsive reorganizations normal in the initial
months of a new Administration in Mexico. Such changes have
also affected the key project implementing agencies. This
risk is being minimized through measures specified in an
agreed Project Execution Document. The second risk is
associated with credit demand for fixed capital, which is
likely to remain slack in the short-run, but should pick up
as the economy recovers. Also, up to half of loan funds
would be used to finance incremental working capital. Thus,
tle probability of loan funds remaining unutilized is low.
Estimated Cost:
Component               Local        Foreign       Total
US$ Millions
Credit                  210.6          90.8        301.4
Risk Capital              25.3         11.0          36.3
Industrial Parks          6.5           2.8          9.3
Technical Assistance      0.8           1.4          2.2
Project Cost             243.2        106.0         349.2
Front end fee             -             0.4          0.4
Total Cost              243.2         106.4        349.6
F!.ancial Plan:                    Local        Foreign       Total
US$ Millions
Government               64.6            -          64.6
Bauk                      68.6        106.4        175.0
Beneficiaries/
Intermediaries        110.0            -         110.0
Total                   243.2         106.4        349.6
=
Estimated
Disbursements: Bank FY           1984     1985     1986      1987
----US$ Millions      -
Annual           36.0      64.0     57.0     18.0
Cummulative      36.0    100.0    157.0    175.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report:        Report No. 4398-ME dated May 31, 1983.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA. S.A.
WITH THE GUAR-ANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A EITRD SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.*       1 submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nacional FinancLera, S.A. with the Guarantee of United Mexican States for
the equivalent of USS175 million to help finance the Third Small and Medium-
Scale Industry Development Project. The loan, which includes a capitalized
front-end fee of 0.25 percent on the Bank loan, would be repaid over 15
years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Final beneficiaries would pay, on sub-loans made in pesos, variable interest
rates adjusted quarterly to the average of the ACF (average cost of funds to
multipurpose banks) for the three immediately preceding months, plus at least
one percentage point. The margin for beneficiary trusts and financial
intermediaries would vary between two and three and one-half percentage
points. NAFINSA would carry the foreign exchange risk.
PART I; THE ECONOMY1/
2.        The Bank's last economic report on Mexico, -Mexico:  Development
Strategy - Prospects and Problems" (3605-ME), was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on August 31, 1981. Since then the Mexican economy has faced
severe economic and financial strains. An economic mission to ondertake an
in-depth analysis of the macro-economic developments and prospects for the
Mexican economy visited Mexico in February 1983. The mission's preliminary
findings have been incorporated in the discussion below and its full report
is expected later in 1983. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        Mexicots GDP grew at an average rate of 6 percent a year in real
terms between 1950 and 1980, yielding an increase of 3 percent a year in
output per capita. This rate of expansion was somewhat better than the
experience of other middle income LDCs. Agriculture grew at 3.5 perceut a
year and industry grew at an average rate of 7.5 percent. The sustained and
rapid industrialization resulted in the rise of the share of the industrial
sector. A similar change took place in the structure of foreign trade, with
manufactured products accounting for an increasing share of total exports
until 1975. The last thirty years also witnessed the passage of Mexico from
a rural to a largely urban society: in 1980, the fraction of total population
living in urban areas was estimated at two-thirds, while it had been less
than 30 percent in 1950.
4.        A dynamic private sector was the main engine of growth in the
Mexican economy even though the public sector continued to account for well
over one-third of domestic capital formation until the mid-1970s. The public



2-
sector's role in Mexico was seen both to set the pace and pattern of economic
grovth and to help correct the effects of an uneven distribution of resources
on the relative position of the poorer segments of the population and of the
less favored regions of the country- The Government's success in this
regard, however, was only partial. While the living standards of many
Mexicans improved considerably, the income of the poor farmers and marginal
urban dwellers lagged behind. Consequently, contrasts within the Mexican
economy remain conspicuous.
5.        In the early seventies, the Government sought to build up infra-
structure, expand basic industries, stimulate agricultural output and imple-
ment massive social programs. The difficulties it encountered in mobilizing
resources simultaneously to attain all these aims led to excessive public
sector deficits, while domestic supply rigidities caused a large part of the
aggregate demand to spill over into imports. Efforts to redress financial
imbalances by strengthening public revenues feln short of their goal and, in
September 1976, the Government abandoned the fixed parity of the peso and
imposed a strict stabilization program on the economy in the context of the
Extended Facility arrangements with the IMP. The program has yielded
positive results within a relatively short time, as described below.
Economic Performance, 1976-1982
6.        The last Administration, which took office in December 1976, saw
the control of inflation and the improvement of the current account balance
as its most urgent tasks. It succeeded in reducing the rate of increase of
domestic prices by half between 1977 and 1978 while, at the same time, the
current account deficit decreased by over 40 percent. After two years of
limited growth, in 1978, the economy resumed its rapid growth. One of the
major constraints on economic growth-the availability of foreigr exchange-
had been greatly relaxed by the successful exploitation of Mexico's oil
reserves; at the end of 1981 proven reserves were estimated at 72 billion
barrels. Oil not only contributed directly to foreign exchange earnings and
government revenue, but it also enabled the country to carry a much larger
external debt. The additional resources enabled the purchase of raw
materials and capital goods needed to sustain a high GDP growth, and allowed
the Government to embark on an ambitious expenditure program.
7.        Public expenditure grew 20 percent per year in real terms between
1979 and 1981. Revenues grew more slowly, thus causing the public sector
deficit to rise rapidly: as a proportion of GDP, the deficit jumped to about
15 percent in 1981, compared to a ratio of around 7 percent in the preceding
several years. Despite a high rate of mobilization of private savings into
the financial system, the Government had to resort increasingly to foreign
borrowing. Although public sector foreign indebtedness, as a percentage of
GDP, had fallen from 31 percent in 1977 to 20 percent in 1980, it rebounded
again to more than 30 percent in 1981. By 1980, the rapid rise in aggregate
demand was again beginning to exert pressure on prices, and domestic
inflation reached 26 percent. Since the nominal exchange rate had remained
practically stable since 1977, the higher Mexican inflation resulted in an
appreciation of the peso in real terms. By 1980 the competitive edge gained
after the 1976 devaluation had been lost. This made non-oil exports
progressively less attractive, while imports rose at over 30 percent per
year in real terms.
8.        On the positive side, the economic growth rate accelerated to over
8 percent during 1978-81, and resulted in an improvement of the labor



- 3 -
market. Conditions were created aot only to absorb the new entrants into the
labor force, but also to lower open unemployment, which is estimated to have
fallen to 4-5 percent of the labor force in the modern sector. The
Administration also strengthened its support to agriculture through
subsidies, reversing the trend towards a worsening trade balance on basic
foods, containing rural migration to some extent, and providing small farmers
with access to more efficient production methods. Finally, a combination of
fiscal incentives and administrative regulations had a positive effect on
spatial decentralization, one of the major policy objectives of the
Administration.
9.        The Mexican economy witnessed a progressive deterioration in the
course of 1981, and the Government's actions could be seen as responses to,
instead of guiding, events. By 1981, the need to bring domestic inflation
under control and to help restore the competitiveness of non-oil exports had
become apparent. The Administration chose to follow a policy of gradual
adjustment, and expected that the deceleration in the growth of demand, to be
brought about through slowing the rise in public expenditures, would reduce
inflation. With a continued favorable outlook for oil exports, no major
problems were expected in the external sector, and a path of gradual
adjustment to a rate of growth of 6-7 percent appeared sustainable in the
long -un and was considered to be less costly in terms of inflation and
unemrloyment than more drastic stabilization measures.  Thus, the
Administration decreed a 4 percent cut in its expenditures, broadened
coverage of import licenses to about 80 percent of imports, tightened public
procurement procedures, and allowed a more rapid depreciation of the peso.
10.       Unfavorable external circumstances as well as the ineffectiveness
of the policies adopted were at the root of the deteriorating economic
conditions in 1981-82.   Prospects for the world oil market worsened in the
second half of 1981, and Mexico's actual o'l revenues, at US$14 billion,
turned cut to be 25 percent below the budget estimate. Moreover, imports
continued to increase. There was also a tightening of the international
financial market, with a steep rise in interest rates, which greatly
increased the debt servicing burden since the bulk of Mexico's external
borrowing had been contracted at variable interest rates. By the end of
1981, the current account deficit reached $11.3 billion, or about 6 percent
of GDP. Half of tne public sector's financing gap in 1981 was met through
external funds, with net borrowing amounting to US$18 billion, half of which
consisted of short term debt. The foreign exchange proceeds were required to
sustain the reserve position of the Bank of Mexico as concern over economic
management and the continued real appreciation of the peso in the course of
the year led to substantial private capital outflows.
11.       Although the budget approved for 1982 was moderate, showing
virtually no real increase in expenditures, the belief that the oil market
would remain 1weak and continuing doubts about financial discipline in the
public sector fueled the expectation that the Government would not succeed in
reducing the deficit and bringing down the rate of inflation. In fact, the
general expectation was that inflation would worsen.  Raising the minimum
wage rate by 34 percent on January 1, 1982 and the award of a 24 percent wage
increase to public employees in March (retroactive to February 18) did little
to improve confidence in the management of the economy. In addition, foreign
commercial lenders became progressively wary of extending new loans or
rolling over the past ones as the country's financial and economic condition
worsened. By early 1982 private capital outflows had reached such



-4-
proportions that on February 18, 1982, the Bank of Mexico withdrew from the
exchange market, allowing the peso to depreciata from Mex$27 to Mex$45 to the
US dollar.
12.       The Administration also announced an adjustment program following
the devaluation.  On April 19, 1932, a 17-point stabilization program was
decreed, with further cuts in public expenditures, increases in prices of
public goods and services, and a ceiling on domestic deficit financing.
Nevertheless, public expenditures continued to rise faster than revenues; in
fact, the public sector deficit for 1982 reached the unprecedented level of
18.5 percent of GDP. As confidence in the ability of the Administration to
implement these measures continued to erode and further difficulties were
experienced in obtaining external funds,there was a renewed outflow of
capital. On August 5, the shortage of foreign exchange forced the Bank of
Mexico to withdraw once again from the exchange market. Following this,
major policy and institutional changes were introduced, the most salient
being rigorous control of foreign exchange transactions, a dual exchange rate
system (of Mex$50 and Mex$70 to the US dollar), nationalization of the
domestic commercia.l banks, and the mandatory conversion into pesos of the US
dollar accounts held in Mexico (the so-called Hex-dollar accounts) as they
matured. The Government also requested the foreign commercial banks to roll
over principal repayments on public debt falling due during the 90 days from
August 23, 1982.
13.       Thus, 1982 witnessed an abrupt halt to economic growth and a sharp
rise in prices. Preliminary estimates show a slight decline, of 0.2 percent,
in GDP and a 98.8 percent increase in consumer prices. Gross fixed capital
formation, which had been growing in real terms at 25 to 30 percent during
1978-80 and some 15 percent in 1981, fell sharply, by almost 17 percent. At
the same time, the fall in imports (by more than 40 percent), reflecting both
the imposition of controls and the decline in demand, led to a substantial
trade surplus of the order of US$6.5 billion, reducing the current account
deficit to US$2.4 billion or about 1.3 percent of GDP.
14.       On December 1, 1982, Lic. Miguel de la Madrid took office as the
new President. On December 23, the IMF Board approved an Extended Fund
Facility that would provide SDR 3.6 billion over three years to the
Government of Mexico in support of a medium-term stabilization program. The
main feature of the IMF agreement are summarized in Annex IV. In accordance
with the program, the Administration of President Miguel de la Madrid has
begun to carry out important ci[anges in domestic and external policies.
These_ are briefly described below.
Recent Stabilization Measures
15.       A key objective of the IMF-supported stabilization program is to
bring about a substantial improvement in fiscal performance in order to
create the conditions for the resumption of sustained economic growth. The
program calls for a reduction of the public sector deficit, from the
equivalent of dbout 18.5 percent of GDP in 1982 to 8.5 percent in 1983, with
further reductions in 1984 and 1985. Achievement of the above objective will
require a major effort to reduce public sector expenditure and to increase
revenues. Ihe alathorit:ies propose to hold down current expenditures by
eliminating or reducing subsidies to both the private and public sectors, and
by controlling the increase in the wage bill through a freeze on hiring and
pursuit of a restrained wage policy.



-5-
16.       Furthermore, the authorities have undertaken a review of public
investment projects with a view to reducing expenditures in sectors which
have in the recent past registered very large increases in capital formation,
in particular the petroleum, electricity and industrial sectors. No new
projects are to be started in these sectors, and priority will be given to
completing existing projects that are already quite advanced and which have
high rates of return. In line with this policy, the investment budget of
PEMEX for 1983 has been drastically scaled down in real terms, but
exploration and development expenditures are not expected to suffer. The
size and distribution of PEMEX's investment program remain an important
issue, due both to its claim on present scarce resources and to oil being a
critical determinant of future resource availability. Investment in power is
also being pared down through delaying construction of new generating
plants. Overall, public investment expenditures are projected to decline in
1983, by nearly 3 percentage points, to about 8 percent of GDP. Recent
organizational and proc-dural changes in programming and budgeting should
help tighten control ove.- public expenditures and align them closer to the
Government's objectives. A major institutional change introduced by the
present Administration is the upgrading of the Office of the Comptroller
General to a Federal Secretariat.
17.       With regard to public sector revenues, the authorities are carrying
out major adjustments in general taxation and public enterprise pricing
policies. The authorities are widening the tax base through the elimination
of special exemptions, and are adjusting taxation rates. The general rate of
the value added tax has been raised from 10 percent to 15, and new rates of 6
and 20 percent have been introduced for certain previously exempted goods and
luxury goods, respectively. There will be a 10 percent surtax during 1983 on
personal income above five times the minimum wage and shareholders will now
have to declare their holdings and include dividends received as part of
their taxable income.
18.       In regard to public enterprise pricing, the authorities have
implemented major adjustments, with the objective of bringing them into line
with domestic costs. Prices of petroleum products were increased by 20 to 70
percent in August 1982, followed by increases of 100 to 200 percent in
December 1982, and further increases of 20 to 25 percent in March 1983.
Electricity prices were increased by 50 percent in December 1982 and monthly
adjustments are scheduled throughout 1983. The price of sugar more than
doubled in November 1982, with further adjustments in December. Other public
enterprise prices are scheduled to be adjusted in accordance with the policy
objective stated above.
19.       In the area of monetary and credit policy, the operations of the
Bank of Mexico will be subject to limits consistent with the anti-inflation
and balance of payments aims of the program. The domestic credit policy of
the Bank of Mexico will reflect the aim of ensuring that the private sector
receives an appropriate share of domestic financial savings. The funds
available to the private sector will nonetheless be restricted by the limits
on domestic credit growth and the projected 10 percent shrinkage in the real
money base. Meanwhile, private sector demand for credit is expected to be
strong despite a decline in output, since this will be more than offset by
the need to finance debt service. Interest rates on deposits are being
adjusted upward to helj. promote savings and discourage further capital
outflows. The authorities have stated their intention to increase nominal
deposit rates so as to make them positive in real terms.  By end-March 1983,



- 6 -
the interest paid on 90-day certificates of deposit and treasury bills had
risen to over 80 percent (effective compounded yield) from about 40 percent
in the first quarter of 1982. Controls over interest rates charged for loans
are being relaxed. Credit subsidies will be reduced by relating the interest
charges on preferential credits granted by the Government development banks
to the average cost to the banks of loanable funds.
20.       Exchange Rate Policy:  On December 10, 1982 the Mexican author-
ities revoked the generalized exchange control system that had prevailed
since September and established a new exchanje system that included a
controlled exchange rate and a generalized free market. The new system
became operative on December 20, with the exchange rate in the controlled
market initially set at Mex$95 - US$1, a depreciation of some 35 percent in
relation to the previously prevailing ordinary rate of Mex$70 per US dollar.
Authorized imports and exports of most goods and debt related transactions
are ex-pected to take place through this market. The free market opened at a
rate of Mex$150 - US$1 and has stayed close to that level for some time. The
authorities have emphasized the temporary nature of this arrangement and
expect both rates to converge, as the controlled rate is adjusted daily. So
far the adjustment of the controlled rate has been at an annual rate of about
50 percent and will be modified as required in the light of changes in the
differential between the rates of inflation expected in Mexico and its main
trading partners. The controlled rate represents a substantial real
devaluation of the peso (relative to 1978 when exports were rising), thus
compensating in part for the anti-export bias implicit in the protection
system. In addition to these two exchange markets, the Bank of Mexico will
provide forward coverage in foreign exchange for the repayment of private
sector foreign debt obligations outstanding.
21.       Trade Policies:  The Administration recognizes that the generation
of a substantial trade surplus will be essential in managing the country's
external payments position. This will require policies to stimulate
non-petroleum exports combined with temporary measures to contain imports.
These actians should be consistent with longer-run objectives of reducing
excessive dependence on petroleum exports and raising domestic productivity
and efficiency. The principal components of this comprehensive trade
strategy include: pursuit of a flexible exchange rate that will help ensure
the profitability of export and import-competing sectors; a reorganization of
the protective system; progress in negotiations on bilateral and multilateral
trade arrangements; judicious use of export incentives and promotional
mechanisms; and setting up and/or strengthening of institutions that will
implement and monitor particular policies.
22.       External Debt Management:  A central objective of the adjustment
effort is to lower Mexico's reliance on external financing over the next few
years, and thereby contribute to an easing of the debt servicing problems
that Mexico has experienced in the recent past. Thus, the authorities are in
the process of completing the formalities for restructuring Mexican debt.
The restructuring exercise applies to nearly $20 billion in public debt,
consolidating short-term public debt into medium and long-term facilities,
and rescheduling principal payments on medium and long-term public debt due
to the commercial banks during the period August 23, 1982 - December 31,
1984. The restructuring exercise includes an understanding that the
international banks will maintain their exposure to the Mexican banks that
are now nationalized. At the same time, it provides a mechanism that will
eliminate 1982 private sector interest arrears and, in due course, facilitate



-7-
payment of principal on such debt. Based on the terms negotiated with the
commercial banks and on the projected net inflows, the actual ratio of debt
service to exports of goods and services is expected to decrease sharply in
1983 and 1984. Thereafter, it would increase to over 60 percent, as
repayments on the pre-1982 debt commence, and would stay around 60-65 percent
through 1989 (as compared to the peak of 66.2 percent reached in 1979);
amortization payments on new borrowing and on the rescheduled bebt are due to
begin in 1986 and 1987, respectively. External debt as a proportion of GDP
is expected to fall from 34 percent in 1982 to about 30 percent in 1985, and
25 percent in 1987..
23.       Balance of Payments Outlook and Financing Requirements for 1983:
The economic program requires a c3ntinued surplus in the trade balance in
order to provide for the US$12 billion in contractual interest payments,
while maintaining a relatively small current account deficit (around US$2.0
bill:.on in 1983 as against US$11.4 billion in 1981 and US$2.4 billion in
1982). Exports are projected to be around US$23 billion in 1983, from US$21
billion in 1982. Revenues from petroleum exports are projected to stay at
the previous year's level despite the expected increase in volume from an
average of about 1.4 million barrels per day in 1982 to 1.5 million in 198a
with the average price of the export mix between light and heavy crude oil
dropping to an estimated US$26 per barrel.  Other exports are expected to
increase by US$1.9 billion in 1983 to a total of US$7.6 billion at a result
of the more favorable exchange rate and the expected recovery in the US
(Mexico's primary trade partner). Imports are expected to remain around the
low levels of 1982 (US$14.9 billion) reflecting the stagnation of domestic
output and investment.
24.       To ensure adequate financing of the adjustment program, it was
generally agreed that Mexico needed US$8.3 billion through 1983 with the IMF
providing US$1.3 billion. Of the rest, US$2 billion would be forthcoming
from other official sources, complementing the US$5 billion committed by the
banking community early in March 1983.
Prospects
25.       It is particularly difficult at this stage to predict the course
the Mexican economy will follow in the next few years.  Even with the good
start made by the Government in 1983 in taking the required stabilization
measures, it is clear that the years ahead will be a period of austerity and
sacrifices on the part of the Mexican population. The Government faces the
challenge of maintaining the required policies over a difficult period. The
factor which helped to postpone difficult policy decisions in the past -
abundant foreign exchange - cannot be expected to provide a cushion in the
future. Although the Mexican economy can count on substantial natural
resources, an educated and skilled labor force, and well-developed
institutions, the prospects of growth in the short and medium-term will
depend basically on: (i) the deflationary effects of the proposed sharp
reduction in the budget deficit; (ii) the constraint on resource availability
imposed by the need to service the large external aebt; and (iii) the
specific measures the Government adopts to stimulate producrion of
agricultural and manufacturing products. Under generally favorable
conditions, a reduction of the budget deficit to 8.5 percent of GDP - the
target under the IMF agreement - will imply a decline of about 2-3 percent
in national output in 1983. This should, however, considerably lessen the
inflationary pressures in the economy. Once a reasonable budget balance has
been established - and it may take some time -- the economic health of the
economy should be restored, creating conditions favorable to steady growth.



26.       To avoid another financial crisis in a few years, there is need to
ensure that the country's debt servicing capacity improves quickly. A
critical element in this is the growth of the non-oil economy, specifically
agriculture and industry. Although a reduction in the budget deficit is
likely to impose limits on the overall growth of the economy, appropriate
incentive policies are needed to stimulate the growth of agriculture and
manufacturing, which are largely private sector activities.
27.       Restoration of a high and sustained rate of growth will provide the
strongest weapon to tackle the long-term problems mentioned above. At
present, Mexico is going through a period of adjustment, which dictates lower
real growth and employment generation in the next few years. However, this
will afford an opportunity to reappraise many of the past years' goals and
policy instruments, and provide a sounder basis for Mexico's develop-
ment. The new Administration has already shown its ability to take difficult
and politically unpopular decisions.
28.       The external debt prcblems have been described in para. 22.  Debt
service on Bank loans amounted to about 3 percent of public debt service in
1981; this ratio is projected to remain about the same during the mid-1980s.
The Bank currently holds about 6 percent of Mexico's total medium and
long-term public debt, and this ratio is not likely to change significantly
aver the next few years. In view of the medium and long-term potential of
the economy and provided that the new Administration continues to address
forcefully che challenges outlined above, Mexico is considered creditworthy
for IBRD borrowing. In view of the country's estimated foreign exchange
needs over the next few years, financing of ongoing and new projects should
include some local costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXIC02/
Bank Operations
29.       As of March 31, 1983, Mexico had received 78 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$5,749 million, net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 50 loans totalling US$2,724.6 million were fully disbursed. The Bank
held US$4,795.8 million, of which US$2,085.0 million had not yet been
disbursed. Some 46 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and
rural development, 17 percent for industry, 12 percent for power, and 14
percent for transportation; the remaining 11 percent has been for water
supply, tourism, urban development, vocational training and pollution control
projects. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of March
31, 1983, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
30.       Of the US$5.7 billion total lending, about US$2.6 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channelling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or von-existent, and setting up in the
2/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Third Medium-Size Cities and Sinaloa Water Project (Report No.
P-3532-ME of April 21, 1983), and identical to Part II of the
President's Report for the proposed Export Development Project (except
para. 35), which is being distributed at the same time.



- 9 -
commercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal
of investments in agriculture, industry and tourism. These credit programs
have facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small- and mediuar-scale
industrial and tourism enterprises based on productive investment plansn
rather than credit granted oa the basis of collateral.
31.       TE- Government arranged adequate budget financing in the years 1978
to 1981, which significantly improved project implementation. Government and
Bank officials met periods-ally to review project implementation, and greater
atteution was focused in Mexico on project monitoring. As a result of these
measures, most of the Bank-assisted projects were being implemented
satisfactorily until mid-1982 and disbursements rose from US$91 million in
FY78 to US$448 million in FY82. However, the present financial crisis is
again causing delays in the provision of counterpart funds, and proposals for
special actions are under preparation to help the Government ease the
counterpart fundilng constraints on the implementation of projects.
IFC Operations
32.       As of March 31, 1983, IFC had made investment commitments in 23
companies in Mexico, for a total of US$551.2 million, of which US$411.6
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC
investments is presented in Annex II. IFC has been working together with the
Bank in preparing proposals to establish a facility which would complement
the proposed Bank loan for the Export Development Project. The IFC loan
facility would provide foreign exchange financing to private sector companies
for the importation of machinery, equipment and spare parts required for
production of exportable products, for efficient import substitution anI for
improvements in the utilization of their existing productive capacity. IFC
is aiming at a US$75-100 million facility (including funds mobilized from
foreign commercial banks) which would provide financing for fixed investments
of a larger size than those assisted under the proposed Bank loan for an
Export Development Project.
Bank Stratey
33.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico in the past six years
have been to: (a) support poLicies and programs leading to a wider
distribution of the benefits of economic growth; (b) help finance projects
that, directly or indirectly, contribute significantly to output and
employment; (c) help reduce Mexico's urban-regicnal imbalances; and (d) help
free bottlenecks which prevent rapid growth. Under the present
circumstances, the Bank also intends to support the Government's
stabilization program, in close cooperation with the IMF, through quick-
disbursing operations and assistance to increase non-oil export earnings, and
to participate in an intensive macroeconomic and sector policy dialogue to
support design and implementation of appropriate development policies.
34.       Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the
sector's crucial importance for the one-third of the nation's population
living in the rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector
for its lending.  The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico has four
goals: first, to increase productivity of presently cultivated lands;
second, to improve the productivity of small farmers; third, to complement
infrastructure investments with support services, such as extension, market-
ing programs and credit; and fourth, to promote employment-genersting invest-



- 10 -
ments in rural areas. The Bank has made 13 loans in FYs77-82 totalling
US$1,834.4 million for irrigation, rural development and agricultural, agro-
industrial and livestock credit programs.  A US$175 million loan for a rural
development project and a US$180 million loan for an irrigation rehabili-
tation project were approved by the Executive Directors in FY82, and a
US$138.4 million loan for San Fernando rainfed agricultural development was
approved in early FY83. A US$115 million loan for marketizz perishables was
approved by the Executive Directors in April 1983.  Projects for rainfed
agriculture, regional development and rural credit are in preparation.
35.       Bank lending for industry has aimed at:  (a) reduction of the
balance of payments deficit; (b) decentralizing industrial activities away
from the major, increasingly congested, urban areas; and (c) promot4ng
greater employment. A steel project which the Bank helped structure and
finance is now operating in a previously underdeveloped area on the west
coast of Mexico, and the city in which it is located, Lazaro Cardenas, is
developing into a new growth pole. Four loans for industrial projects to
promote the development of small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises,
to finance expansion of small- and medium-scale mining, and to support an
industrial equipment fund (FONEI) were approved by the Executive Directors
in FYs78-80. A loan for a vocational training project was approved by the
Executive Directors in July 1981; it is assisting a program to increase the
supply of skilled workers and technicians. A US$152.3 million loan for
development of a capital goods industries project and a US$60 million loan
for pollution control were approved by the Executive Directors in FY82. A
modification in the capital goods project has now been approved by the
Executive Directors to set up a pilot export development fund to help
alleviate the current foreign exchange shortage confronting Mexican
exporters. A US$350 million loan for a proposed export development project
is being presented to the Executive Directors at the same time as the
proposed loan.
36.       Bank lending for physical infrastructure has been focused on
regional development and strengthening of institutions and sector policies.
A highway sector project (FY79) and the fourth railway project (FY81) support
these goals. The first and second medium-size cities water supply and
sewerage projects (FY76 and 81) reinforce the planning, management and
finance of specialized water supply and sewerage institutions at the federal
and mnicipal levels, and contribute to the establishment of tariffs more
closely relared to costs; a third project was approved by the Executive
Directors on May 17, 1983.
37.       The Government has adopted a National Urban Development Plan that
spells out its regional development priorities in operational terms. A
project to assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation area
was approved by the Executive Directors in FY78. and a second urban project
for oil-producing southeastern Mexico was approved by che Executive Directors
in FY81. A loan for the preparation of a deconcentration program for the
Mexico City Region was approved by the Executive Directors in August 1982.
38.       The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting CECADE (a
similar institute under the Ministry of Programming and Budget) in training
Government staff in project preparation, monitoring and evaluation. EDI
assistance is directed at courses on urban and regional development, agricul-
ture, rural development and agro-industries. The Bank has also assisted the



Mexican authorities in training personnel for managing water supply and
industrial credit projects.
39.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of inultilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico
totalling US$2,974.3 million as of March 31, 1983. Over 50 percent of the
total has gone to agricultural and rural development projects, and the
balance to transportation, industry, water supply and sewerage, tourism
infrastructure, education, municipal development, and pre-investment.  The
IDB and the Bank have coordinated their assistance on several projects. Each
has made loans for the national integrated rural development program (PIDER),
agricultural and livestock credit, small- and medium-scale industries
development, and botel development projects. The International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22 million for a
rural development project in the state of Oaxaca which was appraised by the
Bank's staff and for which the Bank is acting as cooperating institution for
administering the loan.
40.       Bank-supported power, steel, fertilizer and tourism projects in
Mexico have beea co-financed by several bilateral export credit agencies and
commercial banks. In January 1982, Mexico borrowed US$500 million from
commercial banks to provide complementary financing for Bank-assisted
projects where project specific co-financing would have been difficult.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
General
4i.       Mexico's dynamic manufacturing industry plays an important role in
the economy and the current economic stabilization program. Over the last
twenty years this sector has grown faster than GDP, except during the years
1975-77. During the subsequent period of recovery in 1978-81, manufacturing
value-added growth averaged 8.7 percent per annum in real terms, slightly
higher than average GDP growth. Because of the exceptional growth of the
petroleum sector, manufacturing industry's share of GDP remained unchanged at
roughly 23 percent in the decade 1970-80. Employment generated by the
manufacturing sector grew at an estimated 3.8 percent per annum in 1970-77,
rising to an impressive average of 6.8 percent per annum in 1977-81. By
1980, 19 percent of Mexico's labor force was employed in this sector.
However, as the country plunged into recession in 1982, manufacturing
value-added declined an estimated 2.4 perceut, and prospects for 1983 are not
brighter. As a result, unemployment has also risen.
42.       In 1971, Mexico created a range of incentives and an institutional
framework favorable to exports. Later, during the recovery after 1977,
important import liberalization measures were introduced. By 1979, nominal
protection in 24 out of 27 key subsectors was lower than in 1970. Combined
with the increasing overvaluation of the peso, however, this led to a
staggering rise in imports, growing at 32 percent annually in real terms
between 1977 and 1980. Most of the incremental imports were of intermediate
goods (such as chemicals, petrochemicals and basic metals) and capital goods
required by a rapidly expanding economy. Imports accounted for 12.8 percent
of all manufactures consumed in Mexico in 1980, as compared to 9.7 percent a
decade earlier.



- 12 -
43.       Manufactured exports rose between 1976 and 1979, and their level
peaked in 1978 reaching 5.5 percent of domestic manufacturing output, up from
3.8 percent in 1970. A subsequent decline of exports' share to 3.7 percent
of domestic output was caused by a loss in competitiveness of Mexican
exporters, as market conditions deteriorated abroad and the peso continued to
appreciate i-n real terms. Engineering industries, including metal products,
machinery and equipment, showed the greatest dynamism during the 1970's, and
their share in manufactured exports rose to 28 percent in 1980. Growing
exports of these products reflect both a significant level of technology
absorption and the relatively inexpensive skilled labor available in the
country.
Industrial Policy
44.       The Government's 1979 Industrial Development Plan set out as basic
objectives the creation of jobs to absorb a rapidly growing labor force,
promotion of industrial investment in accordance with regional priorities,
increasing real income, and the development of domestic technology. The
public sector's role under this plan was to invest in strategic productive
sectors and economic and social infrastructure. The private sector also had
a major role to play. To encourage private investment, and to generate
employment, fiscal incentives were introduced in priority regions and
sectors. As an additional incentive to investors in the new growth poles,
discounts were offered for certain energy-based inputs supplied by public
sector enterprises.  Small-scale industry received higher incentives on
capital than any other sector.
45.       The new Administration has retained the basic objectives of
previous industrial policies, although the means for achieving them are
expected to be somewhat different. A sectoral development plan, expected to
be published in September 1983, will spell out the whole policy package in
detail. The new foreign exchange policy (para. 20) has already had a strong
impact: relative prices have shifted towards tradeables, thus favoring both
exports and efficient import substitution. A major area of concern in
industrial policy is employment. In addition to the devaluation of the peso,
other important measures have already been taken which encourage the use of
labor such as upward adjustments in interest rates and increases in energy
prices. The proposed project has provided an opportunity for dialogue with
the Government on remaining employment issues, including a possible revision
of the investment incentive system. The new Administration was also
concerned that the system of labor- and employment-related data collection
and analysis was not adequate given the importance of these matters for
policy formulation. A number of measures have therefore been taken, and
others are planned, to strengthen the agencies responsible for the system,
to ensure the provision of adequate, timely and reliable data, and thus to
improve the system for monitoring employment and labor market developments
during the period of economic adjustment. A policy statement addressing
these issues was received from the Mexicans during negotiations. Discussions
between the Bank and the Mexican authorities on the recommendations of a
recent Bank industrial sector mission,3/ and on policies concerning exports
and capital goods development, have provided further opportunities for a
fruitful policy dialogue.
3/ The report resulting from this mission, Mexico - Future Directions of
Industrial Strategy' (Report No. 4313-ME, of May 31, 1983) is being
distributed to the Executive Directors at the same time as this report.



- 13 -
Small and Medium-Scale Enterprises
46.       Mexico's last comprehensive industrial census in 1975 reported that
95 percent of the country's industrial and mining enterprises employed fewer
than 250 workers each and, within the Mexican context, are considered small
or medium-sized. They employed 49 percent of industry's labor force and pro-
duced 39 percent of its total value-added. Small and medium-scale industry
participated effectively in recent industrial growth, and contributed to
development outside the urban concentrations of Mexico City, Guadalajara and
Monterrey.
47.       Important changes took place in small and medium-scale industry's
output structure between 1970 and 1975. The share of traditional consumer
goods (food, beverages, tobacco, textiles, clothing and shoes) in its total
value-added shrank from 41 to about 36 percent, while that of modern indus-
trial goods grew from 16 to 24 percent. After the recent devaluations,
imports have declined drastically and the demand for domestically produced
industrial goods is expected to increase. With the adoption of an effective
export development strategy, these goods would also have additional outlets
abroad, provided that the world economy recovers and that protectionist
tendencies are curbed.
48.       Small and medium-scale industrv has a critical role to play in the
economy's recovery, because it can help alleviate the difficulties of the
external sector through stepped-up exports and curb domestic unemployment
through increased labor absorption. Also, it has a potential for supplying
specialized products bought by larger firms, and it can contribute to a
broadening of industry's ownership base. The basic strategies to encourage
small and medium-scale industry are already in place; what is needed is an
increased availability of finance and a series of measures that would enable
the institutions dealing with such industry to be more effective. The
proposed project has been designed to support both.
Integrated Program and Technical Assistance
49.       To strengthen the institutional framework and to pull together the
critical functions of technical assistance and financial support, Nacional
Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA) established an integrated program of assistance to
small and medium-scale industry (PAI) in 1978. Its major objectives are
(a) to encourage more rapid growth in sectoral output and employment, (b) to
promote decentralization and regional development, (c) to provide close link-
age between extension services and credit, and (d) to adapt sectoral programs
to the needs of national development goals. The Bank has worked closely with
the Mexican authorities in launching the program and supported its objectives
through two previous projects (para. 57).
50.       The PAI program is governed by a Program Coordinating Committee
headed by the Director General of NAFINSA and including the heads of the
trust funds and representatives of several Government agencies concerned with
industrial development. This Committee determines policies and monitors and
evaluates operations, but it delegates to its Secretariat the function of
administering technical assistance services, promoting investments and coor-
dinating among the various institutions concerued. After the nationalization
of the Mexican banks in September 1982, the Administration has decided to
consolidate and redefine the roles of some financial institutions. NArINSA



- 14 -
would also, under plans already announced, take stock of the PAI program and,
where appropriate, redefine responsibilities and rearrange the division of
labor among its institutions.  As a first step, a new Directorate was created
in NAFINSA to oversee the PAI program.
51.       One of the central features of the PAI program has be-u its exten-
sion service, currently operating with a staff of 117 professionals, through
26 branch offices grouped into eight regions across the country. The
extension officers' primary tasks are to promote the PAI program and to
provide technical assistance to small and medium-sized firms.  Due to the
high cost of providing iadividual technical assistance, the extension service
has sought ways of providing effective technical assistance to groups of
firms. Thus, an experimental program of forming clusters of firms operating
in similar lines and located in the same geographical area was introduced
with Bank support under the previous Bank-financed small and medium-scale
industry project (Loan 1881-ME). Training programs and extension services
for these collective action groups have met with success. Both commercial
bank officials and industrialists have also received training from the local
PAI branch offices, with additional help provided by other specialized
institutions. Similar collective action would be encouraged under the
proposed project.  However, since considerable investment of staff time is
required, the costs and benefits of the present extension system should be
carefully studied before the program is expanded with an eye towards naking
the system more cost-effective. During negotiations, agreement was reached
with NAFINSA to undertake such a study, on terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank, and review the study's findings and recommendations with the Bank
by December 31, 1983 (Section 3.11 of the Loan Agreement).
52.       Several specialized institutions are providing technical assis-
tance to industrial firms in Mexico. The Servicio de Informacion y
Tecnologia (INFOTEC), a Government dependency, provides technical information
and in some cases assistance in technology. It channels its services for
small and medium-sized industry through the PAI extension service. The
Direccion General de Capacitacion y Productividad (DGCP), of the Ministry of
Labor, provides training courses, including accelerated vocational training,
to improve productivity. The Servicio Nacional de Empleo (SNE) - overseen
by the Labor Ministry - monitors and provides information on the labor
markets. As in the past, enterprises would be encouraged under the proposed
project to seek the services provided by these specialized institutions to
complement the assistance they receive directly through the PAI program. PAI
would enter into agreements establishing joint work programs with the more
important of these institutions by September 30, 1983. This is reflected in
the Project Execution Document referred to in para. 80.
Industrial Financing
53.       Because of encouragement from the Government for the formation of
large multipurpose banks offering a full range of financial services, the
number of financial intermediaries in the Mexican banking system declined
steadily from over 200 in 1978, to about 76 in 1982. This included
privately-owned commercial banks, which were nationalized on September 1,
1982. The new Administration has declared its intention to sell up to one-
third of the shares of the nationalized banks to the public, and to allow the
whole system to operate autonomously.



- 15 -
54.       Credit to small and mediumrscale enterprises is estimated to
account for some 15 percent of the total absorbed by the manufacturing
sector. This volume of financing is not proportional to the estimated 39
percent share of small and medium industry in the sector's total value
added. An estimated two out of three small and medium-sized firms have never
received credit from the banking system. This was one of the limiting
factors to their growth in the past, but under present circumstaaces many of
these firms need access to credit even t.- maintain production and employment
levels. Currently, sbortages in foreign exchange, strict import controls,
inflation, higher inventory costs and growing accounts receivable aU tend to
increase firms' cash-flow requirements. Institutional measures contemplated.
under the PAI program (para. 50), a review of its collective action potential
(para. 51), and the provision of finance under the proposed project, particu-
larly for increases in permanent working capital requirements, have been
designed to alleviate these problems.
55.       Resources for industrial finance have traditionally come from
current and savings accounts, deposits, certificates and bonds, along with
significant contributions from the public sector. The securities market as
a source of funds for industrial finance is still insignificant in Mexico,
representing only 4.2 perceat of the country's total term financing.
Exrernal sources of financing, on the other hand, have been substantial.
Foreign currency credit increased by 48 percent in real terms in 1981, while
total financing in the same year increased only by 22 percent. Interest
rates on deposits were positive in real terms in 1981, but as inflation rose
they became negative in 1982, and deposits were eroded in real terms. The
ensuing liquidity crisis created a particularly difficult situation for
industry. The new Government declared in December 1982 its intention to
allow deposit rates to rise, in order to stimulate deposits and a positive
capital flow to the country. iased on the stabilization program being
implemented with IMF suppor':, deposit rates should be reasonably in line with
expectations with respect to inflation by the end of 1983.
56.       The Government has created, over the years, a number of public
sector banks and trust funds to channel term financing, directly or through
intermediaries, to small and medium-scale enterprises - short-ternm credit,
traditionally, has been provided by commercial banks. By far the most
important agency supporting the industrial sector is Nacional Financiera,
S.A. (NAFINSA), one of the Bank's long-standing borrowers in Mexico. A well
developed and mature institution, NAFINSA, together with the Banco de Mexico,
oversees the country's most 'mportant trust funds dealing with the industrial
sector. The Trust Fund for Guarantees and Development of Medium and Small
Industry (FOGAIN), the National Trust Fund for Industrial Development (FOMIN)
and the Trust Fund for Industrial Estates (FIDEIN), are all administered by
NAFINSA and participate in the PAI program; the Trust Fund for Industrial
Equipment (FONEI) and the Trust Fund for Promotion of Exports of Manufactured
Products (FOMEX), are both administered by the Banco de Mexico. While the
above institutional arrangements may be affected by the proposed ins titu-
tional transfer and consolidation within the financial sector (para. 50), the
PAI program trust funds are expected to remain the main channels for interme-
diation of finance to small and medium-scale industry.
Past Experience in the Sector
57.       With the Bank's support, Mexico'c PAI program has become one of the
largest and most dynamic programs of its typa anyw;.ere. A first Bank loan
of US$47 million (Loan 1552-ME of May 4, 19?8) to help build the program was
fully disbursed by late 1902. A second, US$100 nillion, operation (Loan



- 16 -
1881-ME of September 29, 1980) supported the program's expansion. About 80
percent of its funds have been committed to date, and 72 percent have been
disbursed. An ex-post evaluation by FOGAIN in 1981 uf a representative
sample of its portfolio showed that operations financed under the two Bank
loans had a positive economic impact: three-quarters of the credits
benefitted enterprises with fewer than 50 employees each, and nearly
nine-tenths were channelled to priority regions outside Mexico City. The
employment impact of small and medium-scale industry has also been
significant, with an estimated 600,000 jobs creaLed in this sector between
1975 and 1981. Under the proposed project, NAFINSA would consolidate its
considerable accomplishments under the two previous projects and help
alleviate the liquidity problems currently facing smaller-scale enterprises
in Mexico.
58.       The Bank has previously granted four loans (Loans 824-HE of June 2,
1972, 1205-ME of April 30, 1976, 1560-ME of September 27, 1978 and 1712-ME of
July 30, 1979) totalling some US$360 million to support, through FONEI,
larger enterprises with important import substitution or export potential.
The first three loans are fully disbursed, and close to 60 percent of the
fourt.. Qperation has been disbursed to date.  Two more loans became effective
in early 1983 to support fixed investments in capital goods industries and
pollution control. Although the profile of Bank assistance to Mexico in
industrial development has become broader, the small and medium-scale
industry operations remain a central focus of the assistance strategy.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
59.       NAFINSA and the Mexican Government first discussed the proposed
project with a Bank mission reviewing progress under the previous operation
(Loan 1881-ME) in June 1982. Appraisal took place in two phases:  the first
phase in September/October 1982, and the second phase -;n January 1983 after
the change in Administration. Negotiations were held in the Bank, in April
1983. The Mexican negotiating team was headed by Mr. Mario Lopez of NAFINSA,
and included Messrs. Sergio Mota Marin, Director General of PAI-FOGAIN, Julio
Martinez, Deputy Director General of PAI, Sergio Luis Cano, Director of
FOMIN, Gustavo Varela Ruiz, Director of FIDEIN, Luis Nava of NAFINSA and
Hector Flores of the Ministry of Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report (No.
4398-ME) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Annex
III provides supplementary data on the project.
Project Description
60.       The integrated program of assistance to small and medium-scale
enterprises (PAI) 4/ has maintained its objectives of encouraging growth and
employment, promoting regional develoment, fostering integrated support and
enhancing the program's relevance to national development goals. The
proposed project would continue support for the PAI program and help refocus
4/  For FOGAIN and FIDEIN, small enterprises have an equity capital of
between Mex$50,000 and Mex$15 million (US$435 to US$130,000) and medium
enterprises have an equity capital of up to Mex$90 million (US$782,600).
For FOMIN, the maximum equity capital would be Mex$225 million (US$2.0
million).



- 17 -
its activities to respond to the present economic situation. In addition to
financing fixed investments, the project would assist small and medium-scale
enterprises to maintain production and employment levels by ensuring access
to credit and equity resources to finance their substantially increased
permanent working capital requirements. The Loan and Project Summary at the
front of this report provides a brief description of the project. The
proposed loan aould include the following specific components:
(a)    US$150 million for credit through FOGAIN and intermediaries
for (i) fixed investments in machinery, equipment, civil
works and industrial buildings, as well as in common service
facilities, such as maintenance and repair shops,
warehouses, training facilities, and quality and materials
testing centers; and (ii) increased permanent working
capital requirements for materials, components, spare parts
or other production inputs not including labor;
(b)    US$18 million for minority equity investments and loans
convertible into equity to be made by FOMIN to finance
establishment or expansion of productive capacity, and
increased permanent working capital requirements;
@c)    US$4.6 million for credit through FIDEIN for infrastructure
and urbanization investments of industrial estates; and
@d)    about US$2 million for technical assistance through NAFINSA
and specialized institutions for extension services and the
training of extension agents of the PAI program and other
institutions, as well as the provision of equipment and
materials required.
The FOGAIN Credit Component
61.       This component is by far the largest in the proposed project,
accounting for about 86 percent of project costs. FOGAIN, the most important
financial institution for small and medium-scale industry in Mexico, was
established in 1954 as a second-tier institution. Administered by NAFINSA,
it rediscounts loans for equipment, machinery, civil works and working
capital made by banks and other financial intermediaries, which take the
credit risk and appraise the investments. It also has a guarantee scheme
which, however, has not been used extensively. As new features under the
proposed project, FOGAIN would finance common service facilities managed by
collective groups of eligible enterprises, and -- in response to industry's
urgent needs - provide more substantial amounts for increases in permanent
working capital. Up to 50 percent of the FOGAIN component would be used to
finance sub-loans purely for incremental permanent working capital. The Bank
would monitor the evolving needs of small and medium-scale industry during
the project's implementation, but would not finance subloans purely for
incremental working capital in respect of which expenditures have been
incurred after December 31, 1985 (Section 2.02(d)(iv) of the Loan Agreement).
62.       The trust fund's highest decision-making body is a Technical
Committee, headed by a representative of the Ministry of Finance, and
composed of other Government officials and representatives of the private
sector. It decides matters of policy, procedure, financial plans and



- 18 -
budgets, and approves credit operations in excess of Mex$11 million
(US$95,650). FOGAIN's staff includes some 150 professionals, as well as
semi-professionals and some additional personnel attached to its regional
offices. Its staff, in general, is competent. It evaluates investments up
to Mex$11 million by their financial rate of return, as well as in light of
the location (geographic area), size and priority of the industrial enter-
prise. Evaluation criteria are sound, and analyses of investments over
Mex$11 million include economic rate of return tests.
63.       Since 1954, FOGAIN has made some 61,000 loans to 39,500 firms,
totalling Mex$41.3 billion. In 1981, this trust fund provided an estimated
10.7 percent of Mexico's total industr'al credit, representing about one
third of the credit made available to the small and medium-scale sector. Its
operations have grown 14 percent in real terms annually between 1979 and
1982. The investments it has supported are relatively labor-intensive, with
an estimated cost of US$12,000 per job created (1981 prices).
64.       FOGAIN's loan portfolio stood at Mex$43.6 billion on December 31,
1982.  While its income statement showed a mDderate profit in 1980, it
incurred losses of some Mex$68 million in 1981, and its position declined
further in 1982, losing some Mex$1.7 billion. These losses were caused by
rising negative spreads in FOGAIN's financial operations, mainly because -
as a policy -  interest rates on its outstanding loans were not adjusted,
even though most of FOGAIN's loan contracts include a clause permitting such
adjustments. FOGAIN would take steps to implement a program of adjustments
in the interest rates of sub-loans made before June 30, 1983, in accordance
with a timetable agreed with the Bank (Section 3.05(b) and Schedule 3 of the
Loan Agreement). FOGAIN would also take measures to protect its capital base
in the future (Section 3.01(c) of the Loan Agreement).
The Risk Capital Component
65.       This component, the second largest in the proposed project, would
constitute 10 percent of costs. FOMIN was established in 1972 as a
first-tier Government trust fund administered by NAFINSA. Its role is to
stimulate the creation of new smalI and medium-scale enterprises, or the
expansion or strengthening of existing ones, by subscribing up to 49 percent
of their equity capital requirement. Through this, FOMIN also helps promote
development of Mexico's capital market. FOMIN's financing can also include
loans convertible into equity. Its investments are intended to be temporary
and to be sold once the investee company achieves a satisfactory financial
position. FOMIN thus serves to bring together groups of investors, assuring
them of access to capital and permitting the enterprises to operate on a
larger and more economical scale. Its participation frequently helps firms
start the transition from a closed family business to a corporation with
wider ownership and professional management.  In order to continue expanding
throughout Mexico, FOMIN has been encouraged by the Bank to examine the
possibility of promoting the formation of regional venture capital corpora-
tions in which it would be a minority participant, together with state
governments, and pob.ibly IFC, and with private interests as the majority
share holders.
66.       FOMIN is governed by a Technical and Funds Disbursement Committee
which includes representatives from other Government agencies and the
private sector. FOMIN has some 45 staff in total, including 10 portfolio
analysts and supervisors who are well-qualified to appraise and monitor its



- 19 -
operations. The expected addition of three specialists in 1983 would enable
this trust fund to deal more effectively with sophisticaLed technology
transfer and marketing strategies. Its appraisal techniques are sound, but
the supervision of its portfolio has not been fully adequate due to shortages
of staff and rapid portfolio growth. To be able to expand its operations,
while correcting these minor shortcomings, FOKIN is establishing separate
units for supervision and portfolio control and is introducing greater
delegation of authority. The measures FOMIN is taking in these areas were
agreed during negotiations and are reflected in the Project Execution
Document referred to in para. 80.
67.       FOMIN's present portfolio of Mex$2 billion, involving investments
in 110 firms, has grown by 14 percent annually in real terms since 1979.
Because of the costs and risks involved in its operations, FOMIN's
beneficiaries are mainly medium-sized firms. Its investments have had a
positive _.mployment impact, as the average cost per job created has been
estimated at US$14,000 equivalent t1981 prices). After it inculrred losses
in 1979, FOMIN's financial performance improved, with revenues rising
significantly after 1980. Improved performance was achieved by rapid growth,
adoption of convertible debt instruments and a more profit-oriented equity
sales policy. FOMIN's return on equity sales increased from 36 percent in
1979 to 52 percent in 1982, in nominal terms, and broke even in real terms in
the last two years. To tighten its portfolio control further, FOMIN would
also enforce more frequent and prompt financial reporting by its investee
firms. These measures would be particularly beneficial as several of FOIIN's
clients began to experience serious problems during the financial crisis of
1982. By year's end, 43 companies, representing 36 percent of FOMIN's
portfolio, faced financial difficulties, mainly as a result of exchange
losses and working capital shortages following the 1982 devaluations. FOMIN
has prepared a plan of action to address the problems of tl-.. poorer
performers in its portfolio, which is reflected in the agreed Project
Execution Document referred to in para. 80.
The Industrial Estates Component
68.       FIDEIN was established in 1970 and is administered by NAFINSA.  It
plans, promotes and implements a national system of industrial estates, as
part of a comprehensive program of industrial decentralization and regional
development. Its overall policy-making body is the Technical Committee,
headed by the Minister of Urban Development and Ecology. This trust fund is
currently staffed by 38 professionals, up from 27 in 1980. Performance in
project appraisal has been uneven, mainly because its staff lacked adequate
experience.  FIDEIN intends to focus more attention on the technical,
administrative, marketing, financial, economic and credit aspects of
urbanization subprojects in tie future, and the Project Execution Document
referred to in para. 80 outlines the specific measures to be taken to
strengthen FIDEIN in these areas.
69.       As part of an expansion of its program, FIDEIN was expected to
finance, construct and lease standard factory buildings and common service
facilities, as well as to lease equipment and machinery to small and
medium-scale industry. FIDEIN's experience with this program has not been
fully satisfactory. Its technical and operational management has not been
built up to the level required by the growing demand for factory buildings.
In addition, the need for FIDEIN to build model factory buildings as a
promotional tool is declining; most firms would prefer to construct their



- 20 -
own factories. To date, a total of 48 factory buildings have been erected
and the infrastructure of some 20 industrial estates has been completed.
Private concerns, on the other hand, have been quite successful in meeting
the demand for industrial estates, of which they financed an estimated 110 in
the country. FIDEIN's financial losses in 1982 amounted to Mex$21.8 million,
compared to Mex$100,000 in 1981. Prospects for 1983 look better, since more
than half of LEs factory buildings have been sold recently, and the remainder
are on lease with options for sale.
70.       FIDEIN's management has decided to phnoe out the direct
construction of standard factory buildtiags and to transfer to FOGAIN
responsibility for providing credit to firms wishing to construct their own
buildings and facilities. Also, it does not plan further leasing of
equipment and machinery. After this major overhaul of its operations,
FIDEIN's role would be strengthened in providing information on Mexico's
industrial estates and promotional and advisory support to industrial estate
developers, including the evaluation of new industrial estate projects and
provision of specialized technical assistance services. FIDEIN would expand
its role in financing infrastructure and urbanization for industrial estates
by covering private as well as publicly-owned estates. In the proposed
project a small component has been reserved to assist FIDEIN in this new
role.
Technical Assistance Component
71.       The technical assistance component, of about US$2 million, would
provide training, specialized consultant services, and equipment and
materials through the PAI program and other specialized institutions (paras.
51 and 52). Training would concentrate on employees of the participating
industrial enterprises, and the extension agents and staff of the PAI
program, the four specialized institutions discussed in para. 52, as well as
other agencies whose ad-hoc support has proved effective under the previous
Bank projects. Legal arrangements between NAFINSA and the specialized
agencies in respect of the technical assistance, equipment and services
provided would be approved by the Bank (Section 2.04(b) of the Loan
Agreement).  Consultants to be financed under the loan would have
qualifications, and would be employed on terms and conditions, satisfactory
to the Bank (Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement).
Relending Terms
72.       The Borrower -  NAFINSA -- would channel the resources in pesos to
the individual trust funds and other participating institutions. The receipt
of contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for passing on the
proceeds of the Loan to FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN, would be a condition of
disbursement of the fundsi allocated in the loan to each trust-fund, respec-
tively (Sections 2.02(d)(iii) and 3.03(a) of the Loan Agreement). NAFINSA
would carry the foreign exchange risk and repay the loan. As under the pre-
vious Bank projects, in these contractual arrangements NAFINSA would pass on
the proceeds of the loan to the PAI program at cost, and FOGAIN and FIDEIN
would, before repaying PAI, retain a spread of 2 percentage points to cover
their operating costs. FOMIN would repay PAI the net amount recovered by
divesting its equity investments, 50 percent o' any capital gain realized,
and an agreed percentage of interest received on convertible loans. Recycled
loan funds accruing to NAFINSA as trustee of FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN would
be used for purposes similar to those of the project (Section 3.03(b) of the



- 21 -
Loan Agreement). FOGAIN's financial intermediaries would charge a spread
between two and three and one-half percentage points.
73.       In order to -educe the interval during which the trust funds must
finance the Bank's share of subloans with their own resources, a Special
Account would be opened in the Banco de Mexico for the PAI program. The Bank
would make an initial deposit of US$17.5 million into this account, to be
replenished as required through disbursements on the basis of statements of
expenditure. This Special Account would be wound down at the end of the
proposed project.
On-lending terms
74.       Since 1974, financial 4ntermediaries in Mexico have used the
weighted average of their cost of mobilizing resources -- the ACF -- to
determine the interest to be charged on medium and long-term loans.  This
index is published by the Banco de Mexico every month. In the past, it has
generally been an adequate index, reflecting the real cost of attracting
funds to the domestic financial system. Based on the policies currently
being followed by the Government (para. 55) it would remain a satisfactory
parameter for determining on-lending rates under the proposed project. The
Bank would review with the Government by February 1, 1984 the continuing
adequacy of the ACF as an index. In the event of its no longer being
adequate, Mexico and the Bank would agree on an alternative benchmark for
setting interest rates, consistent with the prevailing economic coaditions in
Mexico (Section 3.02 of the Guarantee Agreement).
75.       In 1979, FOGAIN introduced a structure of twelve interest rates to
give preference to small enterprises, especially those located outside the
metropolitan centers and engaged in priority activities (e.g. food process-
ing). Under the previous Bank project (Loan 1881-ME), the arithmetic average
of aU on-lending rates, in the twelve categories referred to above, had to
be at least one percentage point above the average of the ACF for the
previous 12 months. Rates had to be adjusted at least once a year to reflect
changes in the average ACF. With the Bank's agreement, NAFINSA, jointly with
the Government, has introduced improvements in the system, such as reducing
the number of interest rate categories from 12 to 6, and reviewing interest
rates every three months.
76.       Under the proposed project, FOGAIN would charge final borrowers
variable interest rates adjusted quarterly to reflect movements in the ACF.
Six interest rate categories would be used depending on the size and location
of the enterprise, and on average the rates would be equal to Lhe average of
the ACF for the last three months, plus at least one percentage point
(Section 3.04(a) and (b)(i) of the Loan Agreement). FOGAIN has not yet
defined the precise structure of 6 interest rates that it would apply.
Receipt by the Bank of FOGAIN's interest rate structure, satisfactory to the
Bank, would be a special condition of the loan's effectiveness, and changes
in the structure without the Bank's agreement would be an event of default
(Sections 6.01(b) and 5.01(b), respectively, of the Loan Agreement).
77.       The variable interest charges would be adjusted quarterly on all
FIDEIN and FOMIN investments. The rates would be set equal to the average of
the ACF for the three immediately preceding months, plus at least one
percentage point for FIDEIN loans, and 3 percentage points below the average



- 22 -
ACF for the preceding quarter on FOMIN's convertible loans (Section
3.04(b)(ii) of the Loan Agreement). However, as set out in FOMIN's operating
regulations, if FOMIN does not exercise its option for conversion luto
equity, its interest rates would be raised to the same levels as charged by
FIDEIN.
78.       The trust funds would have to introduce substantial increases In
interest rates to final borrowers, since their current rates are substan-
tially lower than those required by the covenants under the proposed loan.
This would require some time, so that interest rates may be increased in
stages.  Onlending interest rates would be increased by about 10 percentage
points in July, 1983 as a first step, and additional adjustments would be
made subsequently, as necessary, in order to reach full compliance with
covenanted interest rates.  In view of the urgent need for finance of small
and medium-scale industry, up to US$50 million would be disbursed through
December 31, 1983, at interest rates below those covenanted, for onlending
for FOGAIN or FIDEIN loans, provided that all such loans carry variable
interest rates, and that interest rates are adjusted, according to an agreed
program, to reach the covenanted levels.
Costs and Financing
79.       On the basis of the outlook for investment demand, project pipe-
lines of the participating institutions, and their institutional capacity, a
slice of the PAI program in an amount equivalent to about US$350 million
would be supported under the proposed project. The proposed Bank loan of
US$175 million equivalent (including US$436,409 for the capitalized front-end
fee) would represent 50 percent of total costs. The Government would provide
US$64.6 million, and the intermediaries and project beneficiaries would
contribute US$110.0 million. The Bank loan would cover the project's
estimated foreign exchange component of US$106.0 million, the front-end fee
of about US$0.4 million, and finance about US$68.6 million in local costs.
The rationale for local cost financing discussed in paras. 25-28 above.
Initially, US$150 million of the proposed loan would be allocated for the
credit component (FOMAIN), US$18 million for the risk capital component
(FOMIN), US$4.6 million for the industrial park component (FIDEIN) and about
US$2 million for technical assistance.
Project Implementation and Procurement
80.       The proposed project would take about three and one half years to
complete. Its implementation would hinge on NAFINSA's recent measures and
plans for the future development of the PAI program (para. 50).  Therefore,
NAFINSA has prepared a Project Execution Document to reflect the specific
measures and timetables required to complete the PAI program's reorganiza-
tion. The Document - agreed during negotiations - also covers a range of
implementation measures for the FOGAIN, FONIN and FIDEIN project components
(paras. 66, 67 and 68), as well as for technical assistance (para. 52). As
under the previous two projects, FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN would carry out
their project component in accordance with their respective Operating
Regulations, which were discussed during appraisal and found satisfactory.
Formal approval by the Technical Committees of FOGAIN and FIDEIN of the
agreed changes in their Operating Regulations would be a condition of the
proposed loan's effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the Loan Agreement).
Changes in the Project Execution Document and the Operating Regulations



- 23 -
materially and adversely affecting the project would be an event of
suspenrsion and default of the Bank loan (Section 5.01(b) of the Loan
Agreea-at).
81.       In view of the Bank's satisfactory experience with FOGAIN's
operations, the Bank's prior review would be required for only the first
three permanent working capital sub-loans, as well as all common service
facilities sub-loans. A1l FOMIN equity livestments requiring more than
US$400,000 equivalent, and the first three of its permanent working capital
sub-loans, would also be subject to prior Bank approval (Section 2.02(c) of
the Loan Agreement). Since FIDEIN is expected to make relatively few,
technically complex, investments for infrastructure and urbanization of
industrial estates, such subprojects would be approved by the Bank and all
related contracts would be awarded in accordance with the Project Execution
Document. Section 3.07(a)(ii) of the Loan Agreement).
82.       NAFINSA has had considerable experience with Bank-financed procure-
ment and its standard procedures - also used under the two previous Bank
loans - are satisfactory. Together with FOGAIN and FOMIN, it would ensure,
directly or through the intermediaries, that the goods and services financed
from the loan are competitive in quality and price and are appropriate for
its clients' needs. The project's account kept by NAFINSA, and the accounts
of FOGAIN, FONIN and FIDEIN, would be audited annually by independent
auditors according to standards acceptable to the Bank. The auditors'
reports - also in respect of the amounts advanced from the loan account 
would be submitted to the Bank witbin six months after the end of each fiscal
year (Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement and 3.03 of the Guarantee
Agreement).
Disbursements
83.       The Bank would reimburse 73 percent of the disbursements made by
FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN against statements of expenditures for machinery,
equipment, civil works andlor permanent working capital requirements under
qualified sub-projects. The Bank would finance 100 percent of foreign, and
75 percent of local, expenditures for consultants and related equipment,
materials and services. Taking into account the strong demand for permanent
working capital in Mexico, disbursements from the loan for this component are
expected to be quicker than the average for Bank-financed industrial
development finance projects. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by
mid-1987.
*        Project Benefits and Risks
84.       The proposed project's direct benefits would reach a wide range of
small and medium-sized firms, including many located in areas outside the
country's large urban concentrations. Permanent working capital finance
provided under the loan would help maintain production levels and employment
in these enterprises. Fixed investments financed through the loan would
support initially modernization and replacement and later, as the economy
recovers, expansion of productive capacity. Altogether, about 3,000 small
and medium-sized firms are expected to receive finance and benefit from
technical assistance programs under the FOGAIN, FOMIN and technical
assistance project components, and about 12 industrial estates would be
assisted through FIDEIN. An estimated 10,000 jobs at various levels,
including unskilled labor, would be generated in 1983-86 through investments
financed from the proposed loan. A further 20,000 to 30,000 jobs would be



- 24 -
preserved through helping to provide firms with adequate working capital.
The institutions of Mexico's integrated program of assistance to small and
medium scale industry would also be strengthened in both organizational and
financial management.
85.       The project faces two risks. First, the institutions which would
carry out the project are undertgoing reorganization, and have experienced
considerable changes in management after the new Administration took over in
December 1982. Implementation measures contained in the Project Execution
Document have been designed, however, to ensure that the adverse effects of
these reorganizations on the project's execution are minimized. Therefore,
the risk is low, and acceptable. Second, if Mexico's economic recovery is
delayed, effective demand for fixed Investments to be financed under the loan
could drop. The commitment and determination shown by the new Government in
adhering to the timetable of the recovery program suggest, however, that -
barring unforeseen external developments - the probability for substantial
delays is low. Moreover, a certain flexibility has been built into the
proiect by providing finance for incremental permanent working capital
requirements. Continued demnand for this component could neutralize any
slow-down in disbursements occasioned by lower-than-expected demAnd for fixed
investments in the first two years of the proposed project. Therefore, this
risk is also acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
86.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and NAFINSA, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the United Mexican States and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of the loan's disbursement are described in
para. 72. Two special conditions of the loan's effectiveness would be (i)
the receipt in the Bank of a new interest rate structure for FOGAIN, which
should be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 76), and (it) forml apprcval of
the changes in the FOGAIN and FIDEIN Operating Regulations (para. 80).
87.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan wonld comply with the
Articles of A_reement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOM-MNDATIONS
88.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
By E. Stern
Attachments
May 31, 1983



_ 2.A=NE_ 1
Page 1 of 5
xCo - SOCIAL IDICAOs DATA SH1ET
NEKICO                       RNUE t5  (HEICD  VT
AME   (THOUSAN   SQ. sm.)                                          __    __    __    __    __    __    __
TOL                                                 5 REEl )DLE in[
ACcULtURAL    977.2              1960 lb   1970 /b ESrDA   lb   LATI  NMRICA & CARIBA             EMtOM
GRIPsF CAPIrA (U3S$)              470.0      860.0   2090.0              1902.0                  23z3.9
ENERMY CONSUNPrTON PER CAPITA                                                .9204
(uLOC2ISi G: CaL EquLV     )     12.7     1066.5   1534.6       t       259.9                  2107.4
OPuLATIO  ID vrrAL srATLsTCS
poPULATIUn. mL-EAR cTrOUSA ) 36881.0    51187.0  69752.0
UlRAN POPMLATION (PERCEC   OF TOTAL) 50.8   59.0      66.7               65 J7.9
POPMUATION PROJECrION5                               115.0
POPULATIO  IN IMAX 2000 (MILLIONS)20.
STATIONARY POPULATION (MLIONS)                        .6
YEAR SnOlNARY POPULATWIO IS REACHED               2O75
POPULATION DENSITY3.2                                                                             3.
_MR SQ. ER.                    18.7       25.9 4    6.3                392                     83.3
JPER SQ. ER. MZRICUI.TUAL LAND    3b.9    52.4      69.3               92.5                   155.4
POPMlATION AGE SRUMCTUE (PERCENT)
0-14 YES.                      45.6       46.5      45.1               39.7                    31.1
15-6 'RS.                       51.0       50.0      51.4               56.1                    61.2
65 RS. AND AOE                   3.4        3.5       3.4                4_2                     7.7
POPULATI'NI GRUJIN RATE (PERCENTr)
TOTAL                           3.2         3.3      3.1                2.4                     L.6
URBAN                           4.9        4.8       4.3                3.8                     3.5
CA HE BIRTA TAE (PER INOSIND)    45.2       42.9     37.0                31.4                   Z3.6
CRIDE EAS RAIE (PER TODUSAND)    11.7        9.4      7.4                 8.4                    9.2
GROSS  aoDUCTN RATE               3.3        3.1       2.5                2.1                     1.6
FMILY PLANSING
ACCEP`RS. ANNAL (TCrOUSAiMS)      _        25_1    842.OIe
USERS (PECETC OF ARRIED OllEN)   ,_         _,      60.0
F:OD AsD NURIrlTO-
IDEMX OF FOOD PRODUCTON
PEI CAPITA (1969-71-100)       97.0       100.0    103.0              .10.0                   116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
RS)OTRNNES)                 117.7       110.5    l12.9/c            108.4                   125.1.
PROTEINS (GRAM PEt DIAY)       69.1       64.7      65.27;             66.0                    92.7
OF MICH ANIMAL AND PULSE     28.8        26.7     27z17;              34.0                   35.9
Cmn (IeS 1-4)  M         TRTALM   UIE   tO.3  6.5      3.7                5.6                     9.2
NEALTE                                                                                             7.
IFE EBECTA    AT NIMH (yEAS)   57.7         61.7      65.4               64.2                    67.6
INFANr NUBTALIT RAIE (PER
'ImIAD)                          91.1       73.6      56.0               64.2                    65.1
ACcESS TO SAFE WAIER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                          23.5        54.0     62.Ofd              65.6
mEAN                                      71.0      70.07d             78.9
RURAL                            ._       29.0      49.o7;i            43.9
ACCESS 70 ECRETA rISPOSAL (PERCN
OF POPOULTION]
TOTAL                            ' '        -                          59.3
UII                              ..         _.        __               75.3
RURAL                            -'       13.0      14.0/d             30.0
N                    POPULATION PER FrHTICIAS        1823.4     1506.3   1255.7/e            1617.3                 1105.4
POPATION PER HINRSUIC PERSON    3634.1    1640.2   1623.67;            1063.5                   634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTll                         585.7       844.8    B66.3/e             477.4                  286.8
I;BAS                            .       1012.1   1o0o.07;            679.8                   192.0
RURAL                            ..      1294.3   112L.Ile            1903.4
AVPISSIOh3S PR HOSPrTAL RED        ..         ..        ..               27.3                    20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSOLD
TOTAL                           5.4         5.7
URBAN                           5.7        5.7
mRLA                            5.2        5.8
AvERAG E alBER OF PERSONS PERb RO
TOTAL                           2.9        2-5
tURJAS                          2.6        2.2
RURAL                           3.4        3.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENr
OF DULLCGS)
TOAL                             *-        58.9
UR.-                                      80.7
RURAL                            '-       27.8



- 26 -                               ANNEX 1
TAMP 3k                                       Pave 2 of 5
mmm  SOCIAL  0ICAltOS ATA SIIEZT
umco                        REIEE  OUs Cuero=
- lUST rnzczuI  -STIAE)
MOST im               MIDDE INCOME IIL 7
1960  lb   1970 /b ISTZMAZE /b    UTIn AKERIC& 6 CAuBRW          EUROP
EmucAnoN
ADJUSTED REIOLZJII RATIOS
PRMt:    TTAL                   s0.0      1.0    12.0                   108.3                   102.4
MAUE                82.0      107.0    127.0                106.4                  107.1
PEmIUl             77.0       102.0    122.0               103.3                    99.0
SECONDART:  TOTAL               11.0       22.0       5.0                41.3                    60.2
IWLE                14.0       27.0     49.0                40.4                    66.4
FEMALE              8.0        17.0     41.0                41.8                    58.0
VOCATINAL ZEAL. (Z OF SECONDARY) 23.6        26.7       Z.9                33.7                   31.6
PUPIL-TEA     RA
lUNAR!                          44.D       45.9      40.7                29.9                   25.3
SECOfDIAT                       13.1       14.5      17.0                16.7                   22.2
ADULT LITERAC! RATE CPERCENT)     65.8       74.2      81.0                79.1                   75.9
coNsuoor
FASSENU  CARS PER TWUlSDl
POPULATION                      12.9       24.1      42.0c              42.8                   51.0
RADIO RECEIVS PER TROUSAZD
PFOPUIaN                        89.5      273.6    295.2                270.5                  157.2
nV RECEVERS PER TOMARD
POPULATIG                       17.h       58.5    110.7                107.7                  123.7
NPAPME ('tA= GRERAL
INr.EST) CIRUlATION PER
EDIMS POPULAFION                  73.7         ..      64.5ff              63.7                  123
CIRERA  WAL ATEEDAC PER CAPIA 10.0            5.0      4.IT                2.7                     4.0
LABOR FOR
TABL IO FORME (TWUSAIUMS)   11132.7    14724.8  20187.7
FUEE  (PERCE) )                 15.Z       17.4      19.5               24.4                    36.6
ACUIUME (PERCENT)               55.1       45.2      35.6                31.3                   38.7
ININTR (PERCEr                  19.5       22.9      25.8                23.9                   25.9
PARIICIPATION RAZE (PERCENT)
TOA                               30.2       28.8      28.9                33.6                   44.5
IALE                              51.1       47.4      46.8                50.4                   56.3
FEMALE                             9.2       10.1      11.4 -              16.8                   32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.6        1.7       1.7                 1.3                    0.9
INCOME DISTREUWTi
PERCEIT Or PRVATE INCOIE
RECEIVED R
IUC8EST S PERCE  O     R fO.  is..
IIGHEST 20 PERCEN OF  SLS  6.1             60.7      57.7Ic
ULOEST 20 PET ONF HOUSEBOI1S   3.4$j        3.3      2.7- 9..
LIOEST 40 mRT    OF ROSENOLRS   9.8         9.9      9.97c
POVERTY TAREr  OUPS
ESrDIAITE  ARSOLEE POVOERTY  MCUIE
LEVEL U5 PER CAITA)
u3M                               ..         ..        .                   ..
RURAL                             ..         ..        ..              184.1
ESrLATED RUATIVE POVERTY DCE
lEVL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URAN                              ..         ..    4n.o                 518.0
RAL                               .          ..       .o               371.1                   406.6
ESTnMED POPULATION BU ABOLUT
POVERIT DICOE IEVEL (PERENT)
RA                                ..         ..        ...
RAL                              ..          ..        .                   ..
Not avlhable
Not applicabl.
a  Tbe BreMp averages for each Indicaer wre populatow-iw.ehted arithettic usan. Coverage of coutrie
among the Indicators depends on o-ilabity of data and s not infom-
/b  Unlea otbarwLe noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwaen 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betnm  1969
nd 19n; and for mt Recen Estmate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c  1977; Id 1975; la 1974; If 1976; &  1963.
Nay, 1982



-27 -                                                           ANNHEXI
ceddEAdm-                                  ~~Page  3 of 5
sf.me  41148698cm 11. 494   drem  eve dememerspmrp j 4g.4 Wm s .5  4-4-18.11..a 4- .5188.. 14  -1   .3e14.  de..m.                gh 14  -,    -g 41mr-
...s...asty comperals 4-4      of On. INS4 of e1.14m44- 43414144  4- emea wu kV 4114r.,   comrlis Am, colIlowif 31. 4-s.  a    ms 4-4.1      . 1.
Mm -5.85...45 -4 4..g9 .14-9.6 CAd. 514.1fe. i.4-. 4- beressuraw sWue .11. 4I1lm..med bemed 14-1111.
T-  "e1emmed 54-Id 449 (IA 11 - cloe -1?me em   .4 118 .881.. .14-97        CD 1)  8-97 weep 4-h -swmbo    ..4 Mm Swedes 14- 4- "Wm"4 grew
or 11. embies comm e'we" 4., 'ago 111 031 some"I ovum .41P 11461 thmes 4-19 art". so "due1 ,8se in chum 41811. 4.4
4-181.184- 11311.I. I 1.44.mmimao UWO 4e0an m1s -w e id91414 141451 44114-Il mm 1.4.4- 11415811. 4- me A4- mt e
in)1417 . 4-  -11111      kw4- am cm18 te   ilse  41511r. sto   as se-am   of mmli..        18 CM   Ia.I.4  de4-.  .1.4  18118811117 of 1
4-  .E   "Alw.4.  ecamm mems 9.  A-48 . "ton"1. emmwes .1 -e  4-11.4  '.whether. Theme -roo  me -.  .r .4.4. a. op4e44- 195 ..1.1.
am_  Ct4.-.  me im.)                                                                 Imii                     --111. So"-. go1 ..s.  - 7w.1ORle1   (1.ldt.
- 11. 5141c.1.    Csl.WSs, 34-        4-  8.14-d mecem.s 1111 414ce..               4          4.        " y  .   mempecLe"  m  .4 "MU"4. 9w.4
- 1em..e.1414.11Ev"tmuch. ee1  cAmseveul, - g.rswenl                     mo.51i.s is   114f 4- prums winerL .1 we  1.llZa4  1.w1L am1 69-
19on. -a4 188 dell                                                                   .14ImL  M.&h41. 4-W. 984d11. c4m.) 88159  J           -.11,41.1414rn
4.11.  me 41.114. U 11114  Chewed4 m-1451 14-1t14d. Mem .1444-
T Ce4-11    'U 1117 -ml                   18 .4 1.4-1.1l11 rn.w  C8.eL               t- 11.8  -...  ..-  -pSla.I  3.111."we p4l.emaw.IIu.1.1h..8418e.
11c581.41eleme. 4-tecd11414.4 hbe-. . -A- 4-  gmetlessel .1.c-                4-mul 9.4 141 J4.. .1. .1 gewL e11pw8em  4- 4-d4.1 4- .11119141
"4114) I. km."eseefte       W111L-1  P14.111851.. LIM8. .4119194--    1..1e11..4 l.141841. - 8 md ".1.44 51                              lee l 48.
1D511Tm,424  ITArtIsTcs
111.1   II -4  4         I -~~A .el 2.1W L. 118O. 1918.  16I             mi
14b- he...L.. 41*.11 .4.1.  - 1.118 -I1 88.114c 1414           18p14-5m             eT MA 12 4-14181                                         L .4 61  41  11411
411 1.11l, 411.115.  .14m- drums her 1.g1: cemperbLIAA .4 Ga14                      a41 emir .114n"          4-18     844.4.   14MP  .14 E  bs 4lecled  14
ehme14......    1918LO. 1919. -    IWO 4.1.                                       U. b..GbU  41  4I.14  439
an.1  4-E empnsu.   151. *14.11   les .-11114 .1nl'   wcon             ~       Acm.c 17. 1.14.4-   --. 11411, 38o em 1111  4149.1 4-4
Centaur11 1cc514s- e1154-me 4-4 11.e 51..si A41-4 A1 4-1'81117
MAClA chemey I  b m  endhed-   eld11-4 .9 SWAM    4- C9.1. 141   mar .4 t-189s111.48   -14
151.141 1411h. 98544L. d.wml 48531 r8 81414141114 8411e 141115s8 4-iempsw                    194115w l4m- 1.144;.188..11 8141414  .11.dl5 .15.S
71embed 11   ChS. 4-1 4- .14 we..44-14- 14 1.1UlU   .ms0. V.1411l.-                D- - he P.Ada1  - .1 e1. .144113 -f de1141.   88b14  14-84.
4-. i...1 .         m                                                             4---   -2    Ctww   ~mcu-143.5 b- 4-141441   44..  1 kep5414- me4- a 4-41.11
4.41811-  ..11.  1. "eied - M- reer 4- 141414-I 41911c" 41141weil .1 l1.8. 1414144-ueo1418114                                                sw  gm14414    4-pl.
MM---- 514."-8 1919.84s- re   "e k81-1.w 1cum 1.81441) 41                   914811.81 81.1-1- 1144-M.gte        -4w -C   vecdcams   34-l18144-
..-&11414; 198. 1893  ad1 1919 4.cm.                                             3-.tlf te.14e. 14-111.1. 1  1   41418115 4-19d .63194318 d1l-4
't~ e                         Cemmemed~4   me  -   t-   aftcla" I                41-."v  - me, deneees,     .1448 ..             11144-441111
7141 841881141141  .  88-U.  -   CO1-I&88.    -cs s  (5                                                                          er  ta
1.8.58.8     .     =               a mew441 4  414rce-11811, 4-I   18-9. In". 194-    .g.o gg..
14111 q. 1 _.1 19d.3-14l 4-  9,                                          &Ad.. L184.m r-   1-l  1.11.3-h-                    44   4444
184  11 84           114-      4i11I44-141.1-4  1.1418911.1 1115 4-154- p.44-;   144.1lead.11.1 emed   1.1141
14- 0.1   41   p  Lose-06. LS-  l. ee   LVO11414-4 141471                          .1   -311411--1181l)-11116   1.4.04 11
P91414-1        gm1 11. 4m-mt 1- 4-.                                                114Alm1414 l,814-51  II,14-484 p45111.. 4-1-4.
L_v-Ae, v".-  4va-.g    -414.kil.                   81h1 to                   11mmeee C-14.141-4  4 3- ftdempe, -541 .1414.1. d41.
CC." ml-14  41411119 19411414W -   -     4i A998t4b.1C P     - 11511141             11484- 14ca  Lea44 C==1  lm 4.1  1.191 -7451"? 4- 1.ed.a 11441 848
C."  ..   m.1 AecC .. aml - 4-AN."1 4-8   4181.4'.  - 4-.. 4-1   1-1 1449-re       .511141141-- .841 -  All Med,4- 1et  -I"we -513
SC   8411I4-I541           .18i -    .1 degAmmem . m19.1, .11 4e.14e In           Im,emed cdc".W.15 Is -SWUM .81       I 1.41er .-  COUL1. 444l - C C."
811 .44141m 14 1   81  Le 4h. emeamcd                                          1411Oec"efe- ~   m .1 .tc."t9 II  c.11?  "M.1my.1141, 1194   4144-.. 4-14cd4
4-- lUl9    ~      ---yd,-wrmm  Gsg1                                             14 1 . 90  md memed,id 11 11mm  1  34c.24ft 1118   -
414.14 i11i~.de4- 4-14411  419e-fl-) -  141A.1- 41188 MOM                 14 Of111 4lM            4- TV411.814 811    1.4-i 81r   . "C reeum.4g
4.4.4-14-4  .1.i.d14-mil..   48-4-.44  4- 4- 44-s 4-                         :141.8.11 seb 11c,V  4l-he 118.P14L14411 4-1111detached-1 T     14
14.1114-1  Y   9.18.   4-414.511- 8.4571811 (.1    1414d-0Cmtrm 4-  -              d84   2.  ImC  0   lgl    1T   8tmdL  9et
IlE  -me11) is mem    8.e    1.11   - .l71. 111 II1*`4-rn                                     Ir
5418. 4-~. 14 5181. 4-    41n1.111-  4.11me p-. 1s4-. des,             Cmels     4 AP""    74M-lI 1m8c"14  111      lemma1414 ,41   11.1 -8.4 81.
R.~ me .4."i- "W4 3-.1 44-11ine p815115  4-8 l1.d C-.54-1~                         mCd1 188&L4  -L8.111.541.13844.e   4.11   -18  1
I- 4-    L"")11 .- .44.-pm .d4c- S m-1 c11141.110)1   L. b1 1.4-4.                   4-11.111.A-44-w  .   -1.4-.  111  44  .-
4-111.14 14511    v 39 c1-4). 111  4-191 1-48.                                 1988.Mdmm.lxu, 1919e 4- 14- 4414.                       mLd
4-4-17414-3144.,   4- mel?4 14-      I 441-..emce fr                   ..h. 4 threes 4-d e18  m1.1   14d   1184. 4-& 1     185s  Cc.5.1
1.84814.1  .4-4 W    em1.88114-     s   S.7 8814   mml4. 1.. 188rl-  pe411 l4ct4 15181 9811 40- 14-. 9193411.is4-1- c151mcc1141195
111- 11.          -"PL8  44-14 1.,4 a 41~4.. 45- 4.-181c 41,  .14-1.  4-m          111. 1916. -fi  1911451. Li 14- LOW dam.1   D   .11144  1
9                    19111 .14-11pecc .   14811    r    -41  111    e14    4   8-                       1."8.l.          -. 1.114Lamm1 fecc -..411  4-emdg  18. cm" law- t4
145 m&g   m,asee  rces. ed4-          Leaned L. 75mer he1me, om.a4 44lI                                        A 1  4".1111.1111Emm1c-4-11.814-44-
.18t1evm . p4.15158by.via 4..d 11. 4-Id. 4.814- f  97181 :41m 14144                                     p 4.14-Ilfce:LG.IM   ML     ed
l.M. -4.4114.. 1"981r45  . 1919    w- t-197ip.:..     "  make.q                    RWE _vM._                 5.1 .1991mg-    Gae.184.4-34 11c4- 4  4m-  mer
41c4-c 2"         41148 -.          _,14.113     4- 487 lm A1.4. 199 4-d 3917W 4-4.  .  Sencise
1811  f.    M-4 4-de 9  1". 14   e    -  41411 141--1                                               e14   41  1   .8-              -             .141.14wc
141.1 4l1 41411l144l14.181.f 198.4.19 4  198 414.                                  44-4341
1141.14                                                                       408981ace7 7usilL    4-481se.  l
1411;14.11184-th         1980d 4484.cem  t&$L e                                    4-. 4LId. 184LI-341 ,Th-114e 9514    14.,1414:4.14-.
P181- 14911c1el 4.  44-&c 2 498.- IAdb   . Em   11811381s151.4 K4.- 714            1n4-1  8111678411  3414- 11111mse   an  epec 4-   e 1441 -  cum111  4181 A
de.eu me 115 44 1951    mg 1195 armed. .98.11  4-L IWOM 4.11  23                     4.1888te  en 81.417 114 1r.951t 54e 11ece.114-59   8481818.1
41811158 el 1185111.    ~.1414-s  84141 tbs mee5d 4-  5 To  1118 ch -T  4-          .1,144-11  11..1  4- 41A.1.e1.1411.1 ...-14-5 .q.med        . 14-
,W,&43 VW"       454141.41514.1441144   1 S4-4-.118.1141                         1."a1m14--19411141  P514244  8911-  4841.   .14- 1
Pe. cap   4.11- 44f-   ememal e 4844-14. 1411.1.   *PIT-1.87ft 5148  I              3411119941   14114   84.94   44.889   -
cI44C-1m1, 1-4  Meech11 n8o"1 Amer dwm   14- =8  d-41    VW.1  4131115 1.           5.. 98  41-m4494.  4411.-4.9..11
11114111.9814  1914811-888 41.844  1.114-I.  4 418145..      18515444-114 1       .1l& .35E . m ..1. ...h7417 A .1 -1.5 lee."1 by 'mCh"
484111  44S -V1-.           1.11   -.92 1- -.     kidl1UC.9.1 C.;CWme   :1.qW 4-s11  I- m l - 4-4- 1    ..144 lp.1181 4- 41481). 4pEemm 4.9.1 peCe
C1.4-111.1.1wl-W   -IC 8 41441114 14-11.8  I 7.1 41. 19? 18. 1184111 
(81511.51111 214r41.tf  emlat                                            l  .L.a  mlmceec    "epeeldedemme   9pecT  -.
4-, .1 14b    ...11314-14-4-4p5  413.   -  4
MM fres p 414   9.          ..-Made.191.14  45414- by mR--L pIL111411- 47.Scheme 4J1-                                 4       I.18  98.8p 154141.
114 .- .114  41A.1 . 4t14  -144-11,4.1411172 18953t   .bemeWb.1144-1dm-twkLt                                          cde  1791.q,14-74214181 ---4-s
15218118  -* Sm4.4  744l- - 799141-          t 1  :.-5,44-    .                   Cy 4-5414 p41318114                          74  L-9I8             ~ mm
cem meb l . 144-ld Imp4118.ch 4-14-4-1. 14141184e 1 ch.4  4-eb1                 OC L-~ce, _                Mj           e                ..
31. 1114-m  11.4.115 .                                    Ecbm  h



___   Sn   1960     wi  ~~~~~~~~~~              PSE       SAT
soT                    94,436.5   011,431.7    wla,lots   INM,ns        s,o        in,as.      3,31.0   M.4.9    Z1.40.              La2     5IN03          0      15.    IU.
trans (SuL. 5931        3,33.2    13,52.2      "A"4.       3,54.4"    *,ai          I.mA"       3,0003    3)723 -  25,1993    11.0           1.9   -LI1  10.?       13.     10.0
GNneLP             10,415.0   11315.9    UZJ19J    254T.3    27,532.4    29*.0W             3,520A      =.,560.     29,113.3     Li2   15.&          .9   10.   12.     14.4
Loosen            ~~~~~I a.?   -113.3    -91.. -2,007.           -2*.3.       7,122.       9,9339    11,117       12,69.      29.7     1.1    -      0.1       1.1     4.4
(canad           12,40.2   ...,54.3   12,517A    1S,ihz.    13,770.9    150,.6    149,13.4   144,64.0   1o,7.                  4.1     4.3   -,2.7   77.3    17ia    72.4
facoscosoo       ~~21,35.X    2459.1   IA-19.4    22,45.4    40,15.9    43450.1           40,13.4    54,511.1    43,417.9      9.4     7.5  .0.5   3.&        3.1     2,7.
Gronssm. Rodsp         264.UG      29,15.4    44,34.3    SO0I.351    50,131.3    54,350.        14,150.4    4202.       71,319.4     4.9    IMA     34    22.7      3.0    27.7
tos  M.   R.d sm9      3,1731.9    27,150.4    41,0M53    44407-7    54,042.3    42~,9573       42,70.9    51*0         50,272.9     4.2    3.0    15    21.2        1.7   3216
Sotctoes saiNt                                                                                                                                                  aso  of TatL
prlosr7                 11,110.    13,144.     15,0W       13,50.      2014,12     IOA54        13,71.7        ....                  1.7     3.4    -.     11.5      3.4     7.4
RS.-W.                  1331312-    2.05.1    394745    09,12.         74.005.9    72,35.4      73,5.          ..          ..        7.1     7.4    ..     34.3     Wj.    536
Torclorp               34,WSj    74,449.4    90,134.5   10,23.7   112,51.4   117,32.9    11,5.7                .. ...                5.3     4.3    ..    34        34.0    55.3
Trod. I. Go.ds ad So4aclor SonVicoo                 (mno  P.4c. go4 Mtills
Soon.. 7tote (c.4.1tJ  3j34         1.00.4    1-4.7.0    fl05.7        33,21.4    3.0.0a        fL1ODg      flJom       V7M         2.      25 !    *tS   M0    IWA    "kg
Sona  Cads                114.3       493.7     1,1.9   - 2~,413.4      3,119.7       ...          .....                             23      9.3    .       5.7      9.4    -
IMtsrodlsrp Goods       I.341.4     4,130.3     7.541      117.M5       U.=5  4       ...          .....                   ...       3.5     3.9   ...    4659    45.?    519 
CrnItat Good.             744.      1,9193      3f.M4       5,3493      4,59.3                                                       4.1     5.4   ...     3.       5.7    133
C"nos                   91019     1,929.      3,154.6     5,54.9      5,02.       4,70.       5S.0W        4,550.0    7,406       2.       4.5"  ...    5.        24      25.4
tmmon_ rat. (t.o.b      2,754.0     6.136.     15.504    21497.3   23,6135    25.54.0            aaaO   3flSMt    BUSt0    "4               25.    55      mU                 .0
Arlicttoe                 563.5       293.4       754.3       701.9       75.1        ...          ..            .         ..        21      3.2     ..     4.6      2.9
PatrotsoollioSrt          106.9       704.2     4,35.3    10,40.3    1555.7          5,0.       14,100.0    1.953    1950.0          4.3     7.7    .. 12.4         44.3     5.
Uosatnros           55~~Gt.4  1,802.1     3,797.4     4,13s.      4,101.7       ..           .2.3                                     4.3    W.2.7           12-4
35,9 so                  1,444.2    3,35.7      4,333       6,51.5      7,93F.0     4,500.0      4,600       5,00.       9,100.      3.2     4.2    ... 52.         35.3    25.7
PrIm~ Icilco 1160-ON
tosse  Prio kd.s           14.3        3.-1        073        5M03        104.2        92.4         95.4       101.3       107.
'osort Pim inks.            2.8        31.7        37.2       100.0        95.2        95.7        101.9       111.1       119.4
braM ol f                  07 .3       72.         77.3       40.6        15.35        94.          953         "1A         5-99
GOP ot Ltots               19.7        35.5        7?.7       1003A       15.0        39.5         35.4        33.2        759.4
GLccw.w Got                12.49       13.49       22.31       22."9    5 243           4.0
(ao~tidolod PSatic Recto TftwBco  6292C
Co.rret Secoipto          1U."7        24          2k.3        V7.76       r.uo        us
ts,7sct gsosdtiar          14.44       19.7        22.9          .33       5.90        33.90
C-"s.t Srpk                 4.11        3.10        2.96        La4        -3.10       .4.00
copilt bosot...             4.5        10.0V       10.0         9.94       11.50       10.40
solicit (sot)              .2.10       -7.3        -?in        -7.51      -14.90      - U.S.
tenrs                        If   t0ML~O   WS,m.            70t,s3L0   234,754.0 3I                                                          34.5
Trasport a" Cssdcaotla             35,35.0    61,13.0    12433.-0    22,40.                                                                   a.1
SocIst Gwscdit..                   55,241.0     29,4173.    7,32.0s   94,760.19                                                              14,
I-dntry                     35- f,i1i3   10.472      142,92.     31-4.0                                                               7.1
ASHlc  ed trot Scootnact    .      3W9133       54,11.      I151,15.     13,451.0                                                             7.5 
Got. Idohadot. ad  ots to          64,441.0     14,2.0"   4425.0W  23771.0A                                                                  21.9
Csorwo".                           30.;M53      13,373O    113,40.-0    35,71.0                                                               5.4
Yarics                              1,2743        3,355.      4,4%.0        9361.0                                                            0.2
Sotocld ledifle
I5                           2.42       5.40         1.94         1.41        1ip
cqoot nausdtp                240        0.00         3.5         3.84         2.17
lao.w For                       I" Witf                          ls K of Taft                                                                                      3dm ~ I'f  bot
*orlcotto                    5.4        4.9                      34.9        5.1                       0.                          200.         3,194.0         25.4       31.7
frdmtuy                      2.1        4.4                      30.9        23.                       1.9                        115,545      15,323          171.7      156.4
I.terim                      3.2        9.5                      44.2        80.4                      M.                         14,373.7     11)794.9        103.       404
tat                        7S         10.5                     100.0       I00.                      24S                         .LNA        .3*.12          ..nn         M"a
Woots Ostto of. cotLat*td with ti's. tL-" -s-  -Ost.L
Not Goolisbi. soorotoi.
Mot MMIlGobi csWeototp  &At fMLactod in toftoL
1070 fip.rs  =  at sosltbto ino acooistot swriss sitS 110 toLeAttac 
ir bnctode -n-  of--AdwW
par4. 1933



- 29 -
mm I
Pap 5 of 5
BALANiCE   OF   PITRIENTS   EXTERltAL   ASSISTANCE   AND   DEBT
(US  S  MitLion,   Current   Prices)
PMwLil6
ACTUAL                             Estimtes         Pr o   ctions/
Sul_yBeae Of PBRwts               MD0       lW5         MYl7       lMB     --"Su          1911        19|       19
Eapwts  uinctfng NFS)            2,7.       6,011.6   15,M04    25,697.3    Z,618.5   2;,16.0    2,3M.0   34,5.0   3,4M.
Iorts Cinctuding IS)             3,434.     8,ARL4    16,70.0    5,7846    33,M1.4    2DA6.0        3,90.0    3M,.    2,7.
Rsorce aLwiace                    4105    -201.8    -1,6M.6    -W.3    4,62.9            7,28.0    8J,40    9,2.    1D0O=
kt Factor BUM                    -33.8       -6%.4   -3,V7    -4,45.0   -7,0P3.9    -0,2.0    -0,73    -3,10    -1,1A
Net Tfwufers                       55.4       140        25.8       346         M1         25.0        3m.0      33.o      33.0
Owwwt Acaxt Ba1se                -f.9    -3,1052    -4,55    -6,W.7   -4 '.i5            2,455.0     2,M0.   -3,0.   -20
Direct Inveait                    M.B        746.       971.9    1,313.      .,.1          ...        ...
Pt*Lic bd. & Lag Term Low, rt     256.6    3,W.B    3,1.1    6,0.3    9,57.0             6,60        5,3.O    4          3I=A
Misburselms)                  821.3    4,41.6    I3,415.0   10,011.2   13,3.5    10,1.6           ...
Rwmwts)                      -5w2.7     -62B      -,.9   -4,W.9   -3,72.0    -3,W76.0
No tr                               -          -         70.0       73.5       69.6        2D.0      1,1000    1,m1       1,3 0
OtIer CqpitaL                       .A    -1,053        73.4        75.1       53.4      9,8.       -1,310.      am0       g.0
aiwv  in Ress C- = i. . ea        -ml       -165.1     -43.9      1,1SI2    -,15.5       6,3.       -20.   -200.0  -2,i
liwt aid loan   I
R.bLic 1bd 9 Las Tesi LgTs
mm                               537       l16.2  5iY.0          63.0     1 .0          657.3
IDA                              -          -          -           -          -           -           _
Oter liLtibt*eL                  1.5        *.2       2745        51.0      31.5        15.5
_mernmuf1 79.9                              903       Z142       75.6       63.7        47.S
S43pLiers                       122        23.1        3.0        SL6       1S.9        117
ES wd FinwciaL Irstitutiais    370.4     1,S5    11,7622    5,179.0   11,M6.5    10,5.2
Dbt d Debt Sevice                                                                                           Exta   L
Pt*Lic Det Qmstsdirg ad          3,CB5    10,512.4   2,211.    33,965    4,6422         4,6140
Disbuned Gwd of eriled                                                                                   an iec. 31, 1
3Iterest an RPbic Debt            21.4       81A       2,56       3,841.9    4,6.8       6,Z5.3
Ropq    a cn PUbLic Debt          45.6       761.1    7,111.7    4,J.4    3,7821         3,W7.0    Wic H 1  UI LUfa 
Fl*Lic Debt Service               69o       1,9I 9     9,966.4    7,9B.3    8,61.9       9,9NL3        I.wuu
8jde an Eiort Earings CO                                                                                          2,A 4    5.5
a. Rbic Debt Service           25.1       3.3        662        33.2        .6 .A        4        rN Off.    4,9W6   102
b. P"Lic Debt Service ad       352        3.9        84.8       51.1       53.3        3.5       Smuel
Direct if_estt 1rm                                                                        O.w P4we  4D9W5.0    .3
5-
Awerage Terms of PtbLic Det
a. Dterest S  of prir    's   7.4         104        11.1       13.4       129           A6    T4abL  4*61U   10
D0.. ad 0.
b. P tzatin aras  of prior     16.3        92         7.8       13.8       10.4         8.
y's D.0. ad D.
I ewDure
a. SO D_0. adD. as Z af        19.1       15.0        8.3        8.3        5.7         S.6
ptbLic D0.. ad D.
b.  D Debt Service as  of       7.8        7.3        22         32         3.3         Z.7
PtLic Debt Sevice
al ALL dt figws refer W  Md  aid lteo. pzbLic dd* cnty.
bl Estiinte we frm IPF.
... N3C aviLIte sWotebY, bA ircLucd in tte toaL
ry 4, 1983



_30_                            Annex II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 11
A. Statement of Bank Loans (as of March 31, 1983)
Loan                                                           Amount less    Undis-
No.       Year     Borrower               Purpose             Cancellations   bursed
50 loans fully disbursed                  2,724.6
1053-5    1974     NAFINSA                Integrated Rural
Development            29.0          3.6
1111-5    1975     NAFINSA                Irrigation               50.0        12.7
1186      1975     BANOBRAS               Water Supply             40.0        10.4
1462-5    1977     NAFINSA                Integrated Rural
Development          120.0         1.8
1553-5    1978     NAFINSA                Agriculture              56.0        27.2
1554      1978     BANOBRAS               Urban Development        16.5         0.1
1643-5    1979     NAFINSA                Small-scale Agri.        60.0        38.0
1671      1979     BANOBRAS               Highways                120.0        51.4
1686-5    1979     FERTDMEX and NAFINSA   Industry                 80.0        10.6
1706-5    1979     NAFINSA                Irrigation               92.0        74.8
1712-5    1980     NAFINSA                Industry                175.0        73.8
1820-5    1980    NAFINSA                 Small and Medium
Scale Mining          40.0        35.1
1858-5    1980     NAFINSA                Irrigation              160.0       155.5
1881      1981     N&FINSA                Small and Medium
Scale Industry       100.0        30.7
1891-5    1981     NAFINSA                Agricultural Credit    325.0        186.0
1908      1981     NAFINSA                Irrigation               23.0        16.3
1913      1981     BANOBRAS               Water Supply            125.0       105.1
1929      1981     BANOBRAS               Railways                150.0        94.0
1945      1981     NAFINSA                Rainfed Agri.           280.0       226.9
1964      1981     BANPESCA               Port Development         14.0        13.4
1990      1981     BANOBRAS               Urban Development II   164.0        161.1
2042      1982    NAFINSA                 Technical Training       90.0        56.5
2043      1982     NAFINSA                Integrated Rural
Development          175.0       166.4
Irrigation. Rehab II   180.0       177.3
2100      1982     NAFINSA                Capital Goods
2142      1982     NAFINSA                  Industry              152.3
2154      1982     NAFINSA                Pollution Control        60.0        59.1
2191      1983     NAFINSA                San Fernando Agri.      138.4       136.4
2194      1983     BANOBRAS               Urban Enginering          9.2         8.5
TOTAL                                          5,749.0 2/
Of which bas been repaid to the Bank            953.2
Total now outstanding                          4,795.8
Amount sold                 92.3
of which has been repaid    92.3                   0.0
Total now held by Bank 11                      4,795.8
Total undisbursed                                          2,085.0
1/ Loans 2262, for US$115 million to NAFINSA for an Agricultural Marketing Project
and 2281, for US$100.3 million to BANOBRAS for a Third Medium Size Cities &
Sinaloa State Water Project, have not yet been signed.
21 Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                                                   US$ Million
Year          Obligor                    Type of Business           Loan  Equity  Total
1958/59  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. I1              Industrial Equipment         0.8    -       0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. /1    A.C. Engine Overhaul           0.5    -      0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. /1           Twist Drills                  0.3    -      0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora Fierro
66/68    y Acero de Monterrey, S.A.  Steel                          2.3   21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de Acero de Mexico,
S.A. /1                      Steel                        0.9    0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. /1       Sodium Sulphate               0.7    -      0.7
1964/66  Industria del Rierro, S.A. /1 Construction Equipment        -       2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A. /1      Iron Ore Mining               1.5    -      1.5
1971     Celanese Nexicana, S.A.        Textiles                     12.0    -     12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V. /1  Pulp and Paper                 /2      /2     /2
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.         Cement                       15.9    -     15.9
1974/81  Cancun Aristos Hotel           Tourism                       1.0    0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                  Steel                       12.0    3.2   15.2
1978/81  Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.        Pulp and Paper               9.0    3.5   12.5
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals                19.0    -     19.0
1979     (ementos Tolteca, S.A. /3      Cement                      100.0    -    100.0
1979/81  Rotel Camino Real Ixtapa,S.A. Tourism                       -       3.1    3.1
1979     Conductores Monterrey, S.A./3 Electrical Wire and Cable  18.0    -        18.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. /3  Particleboard                25.0    -      25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico
S.A. /3                      Flat Glass                 114.9    -    114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. /3              Mining                     110.0    -    110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro, S.A./3  Pulp and Paper               59.5    -      59.5
1981     Corporacion Agroindustrial,
S.A.                         Agri-Business               11.3    3.0   14.3
Total Gross Commitments                                   514.6   36.6  551.2
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
389.5   22.1  411.6
Total Commitmnets Now Held by IFC                         125.1   14.5  139.6
Total Undisbursed (including participants)                 34.1    1.5   35.6
/1    Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
/2    US$25,000.
/3    Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (March 31, 1983) I/
Lu. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  US$50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Subsequently reduced to US$29
Million; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1975. Closing Date:
December 30, 1982.
The undisbursed amount will be cancelled as soon as
applications in transit are processed.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio San
Juan: US$150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; Subsequently reduced
to US$50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
Following initial delays in implementation, the project was
redesigned in 1977. In August 1978, the Executive Directors
approved the modified program which is now close to comple-
tion. Disbursements, although lagging behind, are now proceed-
ing at an improved pace and the loan is expected to be com-
pletely disbursed by the extended closing date.
Ln. No. 1186   Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$40
Million Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April
26, 1976. Closing Date: January 14, 1984.
Five out of the seven subprojects have been completed, but
project completion has been delayed in 1982 as a result of the
budgetary constraints of Mexico this year. To accelerate
disbursements, some of the civil works to be financed under
this loan will be financed under loan 1913-ME , while some of
the equipment and material related to subprojects under loans
1913-ME will be disbursed under this loan. The disbursement
percentage has been increased to 70Z as announced in the R83-48
Report to the Executive Directors.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  US$120
Million Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date:  October 28,
1977; Closing Date: January 31, 1983.
The undisbursed balance will be cancelled as soon as
applications in transit are processed.
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The six pilot projects have been approved by the ftnk. Project
authorities are making good progress in the agricultural
development program of each pilot project. The applied
research programs are proceeding on schedule. The project area
under the credit component of the project has recently been
expanded. Disbursements are improving.
Ln. No. 1554   Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The loan funds have been almost fully disbursed.
Ln. No. 1643   Suall Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project:  US$60 Million
Loan of February 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Most livestock and irrigation subprojects for financing under
the Project have been approved by the Bank, and the Government
is accelerating preparation of withdrawal applications.
Ln. No. 1671   Highway Sector Project:  US$120 Million Loan of August 23,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Commitments are on target, but preparation of withdrawal
requests is still delayed; the loan will likely be fully
disbursed by the end of FY 1983.
Ln. No. 1686   Second Fertilizer Project - Lazaro Cardenas:  US$80 Million
Loan of May 18, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 21, 1979;
Closing Date: April 30, 1983.
The loan is now fully committed to finance contracts with
foreign suppliers of equipment, but disbursements are not
expected to be completed before the end of the year. Based on
the findings of a recent supervision mission, however, it was
agreed to extend the closing date temporarily through April 30,
1983 only to enable the Borrower and the project implementing
agency to provide additional informatior to the Bank and
improve project execution arrangements.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1706   Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$92 Million Loan
of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979; Closing
Date: July 31, 1986.
Project implementation would, in the normal course, experience
delays of one to two years due to budgetary constraints.
Special action program is under examination.
Lu. No. 1712   FONEI IV: US$175 Million Loan of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness
Date:  October 5, 1979; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984.
Demand for industrial project financing has softened as some
sub-projects of this previously fully committed loan have been
cancelled. Close monitoring indicates, however, that net new
commitments have outpaced cancellations in recent months, and
the full loan amount is expected to be committed again by mid-
1983.
Ln. No. 1820   Small and Medium Scale lining Development Project:  US$40
Million Loan of August 18, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 4, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Project execution has been initiated, and agreement on revised
interest rates is expected. Demand for credit has been less
than ariginally anticipated due to softening of mineral prices.
Lu. No. 1858   Apatzingan Irrigation Project: US$160 Million Loan of
September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 19, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
After some initial delays detailed plans for the Chilatan Dam
were completed in February 1983. Technical assistance and
agricultural development activities will require
strengthening. The Project is facing problems due to
counterpart funding constraints. The Government and the Bank
are studying special actions to help project implementation.
Ln. No. 1881   Second Small and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project:
US$100 Million Loan of September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 22, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
About two thirds of the loan have been committed and over one
half of it has been disbursed. The program is making
satisfactnry progress, and the loan is expected to be disbursed
before the closing date.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1891   Seventh Agricultural Credit Project:  US$325 Million Loan of
August 15, 1980; Effectiveness Date:  November 17, 1980
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
No major problems in implementation are foreseen. Sublending
rates to be revised shortly by the Mexican authorities.
Ln. No. 1908   Ocoroni Irrigation Project:  US$23 Million Loan of March 2,
1981; Effectiveness Date: July 1, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Project implementation is ahead of schedule with a fair chance
of its completion two years before schedule. Disbursement is
also catching up with the fast progress; however, some cost
overruns can be expected.
Ln. No. 1913   Second Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:
US$125 Million Loan of January 23, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
June 23, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
To accelerate disbursements, some of the civil works to be
financed under this loan will be financed under Loan 1186-ME,
while some of the equipment and material related to subprojects
under Loan 1186-ME will be disbursed under this loan. The
disbursement percentage has been increased to 70 percent, as
announced in the R83-48 Report to the Executive Directors.
Ln. No. 1929   Fourth Railway Project:  US$150 Million Loan of February 12,
1981; Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The proceeds of the loan have been reallocated to speed up
project implementation.
Ln. No. 1945   Rainfed Agricultural Development Project:  US$280 Million Loan
of March 2, 1981; Effectiveness Date: July 1, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986.
K                         Civil works are proceeding on schedule with exception of the
drainage component and a portion of the local development
centers. District operational committees are now functioning
to review credit programs in the eleven PLANAT districts.
Disbursements are behind appraisal estimates.
Ln. No. 1964   Ports Development Preparation Project:  US$14.0 Million Loan of
May 7, 1981; Effectiveness Date: August 24, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Progress of port project preparation work is somewhat delayed
by budgetary limitations imposed on all transport work, but the



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
new Administration has now indicated its desire to procede with
two specific items, which will be the subject of study by
consultants now in the field. Improvementa at the existing
industrial port of Lazaro Cardenas, and terminal facilities at
the new port of Altamira are under study.
Ln. No. 1990   Second Urban and Regional Development Project:  US$164 Million  
Loan of August 13, 1981; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Project implementation delayed due to managerial problems and
to the lack of counterpart funds in 1982. The situation is now
improving and disbursements are expected to accelerate in the
near future.
Ln. No. 2042   Technical Training Project:  US$90 Million Loan of July 31,
1981; Effectiveness Date: November 25, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Project implementation on schedule.
Ln. No. 2043   Integrated Rural Development (PIDER III):  US$175 Million Loan
of November 6, 1981; Effectiveness Date: May 5, 1982; Closing
Date: September 30, 1985.
Micro-regional offices have been established and staffed. The
Government has prepared the monitoring and evaluation plans for
all micro-regions under the project and these are satisfactory
to the Bank. Preparation of the training programs is now
substantially completed.
Lu. No. 2100   Bajo Rio Bravo/Bajo Rio Sap Juan Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project II: US$180 Million Loan of September 5, 1982;
Effectiveness Date: March 4, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988.
Project implementation unde.-way. Special action to provide
relief on counterpart funds under consideration.
Lu. No. 2142   Capital Goods Industries Development Project:  US$152.3 Million
Loan of September 5, 1982; Effectiveness Date: March 7, 1983;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1986.
The creation of a $100 million export development fund under
the project was approved by the Executive Directors on April 1,
1983. Loan financing for the original project component has
been temporarily reduced to $50 million.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Lu. No. 2154   Pollution Control Project:  US$60 Million Loan of July 16,
1982; Effectiveness Date:  February 11, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
Project executing agencies are now preparing the first
implementation phase.
Lu. No. 2191   San Fernando Rainfed Agricultural Development Project:
US$138.4 Million Loan of September 5, 1982; Effectiveness Date:
March 4, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1989.
Project implementation underway.
Lu. No. 2194  Deconcentration Program for the Mexico City Region: US$9.2
Million Loan of August 9, 1982; Effectiveness Date:
October 15, 1982; Closing Date: December 31. 1985.
Several studies have been contracted and the project is
progressing satisfactorily.
Loan approved after March 31, 1983:
Lu. No. 2262   Agricultural Marketing Project for Perishables: US$115 Million
Loan of              ; Effectiveness Date:
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
This loan, approved by the Executive Directors on April 19,
1983, has not yet been signed.



-38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MXICO - TIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
.
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:    About seven months
(b)  Project prepared by:                          NAFINSA
(c) First Bank mission:                            June 1982
(d) Departure of appraisal mission - 1st phase:  September 1982
2nd phase:  January 1983
(e) Negotiatiens Completed:                       May 1983
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                 September 1983
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) FOGAIN would implement a program of adjustments in the interest rates of
its existing portfolio, such program and a timetable to be satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 64); for new loans interest rates would be variable,
adjusted quarterly, linked to the ACF and on average be equal to the
average of the ACF for the three Imediately preceding months, plus at
least one percentage point. Submission of the interest rate structure,
consistent with this, will be a condition of effectiveness (para. 76).
(b) The receipt in the Bank of satisfactory contractual arrangements between
NAFINSA and each of FOGAIN, FOHIN and FIDEIN, (Condition of Disbursement
of respective loan funds (para. 72).
(c) By February 1, 1984, the Bank would review with the Government the
adequacy of the ACF as an index for setting interest rates; in the event
it would no longer be adequate, Mexico and the Bank would agree on an
alternative bencbmark for setting on-lending rates consistent with the
prevailing economic conditions in Mexico (para. 74).



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) Interest charges would be floating and adjusted quarterly on all FIDEIN
and FOHIN loans.  The rates would be set equal to the average of the ACF
for the three imediately preceding months, plus at least one percentage
point for FIDEIN, and not more than 3 percentage points below the
average of the ACF for the preceding quarter for FONIN's convertible
loans (para. 77).
(e) FOGAIN and FIDEIN present onlending interest rates would be adjusted,
according to an agreed progra-- to reach covenanted levels (para. 78).



- 40 -
EXICO - HUD SMNAL I ImDIUL-SCAIE DDUSlRY DEVEWOIETr PROJ=CY
Summary of the Stabilization Program: 19B3-1985
I - Sg tu (ln per e nt unItAe other-ir Indtcated)
1983         1911         1935
cr                                                             _-          3.0          8.0
Inflatio 2/                                            -      5.0 S l     30.0         18.0
Current cAcont Deficit/CUP                                    2.2(1-.1)31   1.8         1.2
Oertll balance of payment murplue
(Ia biUtena of U.S. dollars)                                2.0          2.0          2.0
A -  K   aaumptlOnm Cin U55 blillons mnim  othetvi e Indicated)
I ports                                                      23.722.8)3/ 28.5          29.3
onl (Incluting derivativem)3I                                16.1(15.0)TI 17.9         17.4
Import-                                                      15.2(14.3)31 17.3         19.0
Averaze interet rate on enternal debt (tL S)                 14.3(12.Z)31 13C9(11.1)3/ 13.3(11.3)31
m  -  Pri iel ElZI-ments
External Folietem:
ftxrh 0X 7at*:  To be manaeyd flexibly so an to ma5ntatn am adequate levl of co  petitivwene. for
expete, curb inports and dtscourage apeculativ  capital moemet-; liberaltzaten
of exhange *rtem  eA -  to preclude the ecergence of new arrer.
Pretective Stnema  Rationalization of the protective  yStem through c_agee ln the tariff *truc-
tgre. exporet Incentlve and import permit requirmnct
Net Vertlzn lorrouug:  Quarterly UIftte  e tbliahed on net officitl exterral borrewing so as
not to exceed US$5 billion In 19S3 am a whole. Camitment to continue
to reduee the we of net external financing by the pVble sector Am a
proportion of CDP in the following two yera
Rxternal Debt-Poltiees:   Reebeduling of rexco'. external debt was to be monJht. Including the
biort-tere debt. so an to ecae the baElnce of payments preemurem; there
van to be en orderly reduction of the external payments arre.rs (at
leamc CS5600 million to be repaid during 1983).
Domestic Policlee:
Public Sector Deficit:  The overall publtc mactnr dkficit vam tn be lImdted to VexS1.500 billion-
or the equivalant of 8.5 per cent of GDP-int 193. ad to decLne further
to the equlivaant of 5.5 per cent of CDP In 1984. and 3.5 per cent of cGP
is 1985. quarterly limitaton. wer. placed on the c lative deficit of
_ tmhe pubilc sector tn 1913. with ae ilIfnag ertabilahed for crd it to the
public aector from the rank of  ezico.
PubUlc Sector SaviAge: Were expected to be atrec_rhe-ed by th  equivalent of at leaet 4.4 per
cent of CGP through a combimetion of increimes In currenc receivte-
Including *obetantiaL Adjustmenta In the price e imrged by public meeter
enterpriua_acd a curbing of curret expenditure-through the redecti2n
of aubeidim And rim  growth of the wage bill.
Credit Policies: Ouarterly ceiling  placed on the expmason of net dom_tic sa tet of the Bsmk of
axSico. with *ubceilingw-a, noted above oN the credit to tbe public *ector.
The limitation on doea tic credit use by the pubilc sector Is expected to allow
a greater volume of credit to be channeled to the private *ector. Interet
rates for doeestic fnancia l Instruments are to be managed so m to make them
coetttve wvth other investnent alternattvee mnd the ext rnal objective. of
the Vrogram; in additio tbelr level shbould be compatlble wtth time exchange
rate poliey.
Incomm Policiem:  Wage policy Is to be directed to the Achievement of mEdiumterm employment
objectives in the framework of the edjuatuent effort. Price control. Are to
be revised in order to avoid the diecouragement of production and emplyment.
mlie asurtxng thot profit _mrgtn. are kept within rea_moble bound..
.                   .             _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
1/ The Mexitcn *utherities are now projecting a decline of 2 to 4 percent In CD  and a rate of tiflation
not emee dtng 70 per cent.
21 12-month rate of increaume by the end of the yer.
3T he fignres in parentheisa for 19R3 represent reeent rvialune In the balane of PaYment. eat-ta  re-
flecting the Impact of the drop ti the average price of leztcan oil crudes mud lower tnteret reteo on
the external debt.
4/ It va assumed that the prIce of petrolom nould remin stable in 1983 nd itcre   thereafter at an
average annual rate of 3.2 per cert. The volume of perrolem exports wmm um*ud at 1.5 ubd (mllilona
of barrel. datly) ln 1983, 1.5S *bd tn 1984 end 1.6 ubd In 1985.



