Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11484
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2325-ME)
DECEMBER 31, 1992
Country Operations Division I
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Mexican Pesos (Mex$) = 100 cents
Average Exchange Rates
1978                  US$1 =                              22.8
1979                  US$1 -                              22.8
1980                  US$1 -                              230
1981                  US$1 -                              24.
1982                  US$1_                               57.4
1983                  US$1 =                             1202
1984                  US$1                                1 167.8
1985                  US$1                               257.0
1988                  US$1 -                             811.8
1987                  US$1 -                            1,378.2
1988                  US$1 -                            2.273.1
199o                  US$1 -                            2,21.7
1990                  US$1 -                            2,821,0
1991                  US$1 =                            3,0205
1992 (March)          US$1 =                            3070.5
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ACF              - Index of Average Cost of Funds
AMPIP            - Association of Mexican Developers of Industrial Parks
DGCP            - Direccl6n General de Capacitaci6n y Productividad (Department of Training and Productvity)
FIDEIN          - Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques y Cludades Industriales (Trust Fund for Industrial Parks Development)
FOGAIN          - Fondo de Garantfa y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequefla
(Guarantee and Small and Medium Industry Development Fund)
FOMIN            - Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial (National Fund for Industrial Development)
Fl              - Financial Intermediary
GIRA             - General Interest Rate Agreement
IDB              - Inter-American Development Bank
IMF             - International Monetary Fund
INEGI           - Instituto Nacional de Geografta e Informitica (National Institute for Geography and Information)
INFOTEC         - Instituto de Informaci6n Tecnol6gica
(Institute tor Information and Technological Development)
NAFIN           - Nacional Financiera S.A. (Government's National Industrial Development Bank)
NAIOP           - National Association of Industrial and Office Parks
PAI             - Programa de Apoyo Integral a la Industria Mediana y Pequelia (National Program for SMI Development)
PCR             - Project Completion Report
PED             - Project Execution Document
PIPMI             Programa de Desarrollo Integral para la Pequefia y Mediana Industria
(Integral Development Program for SMIs)
SAR              - Staff Appraisal Report
SECOFI          - Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial (Ministry of Trade and Industrial Development)
SMI              - Small and Medium Scale Industry
SNE             - Servicio Nacional de Empleo (National Employment Service)
SOE             - Statements of Expenses
TA               - Technical Assistance
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 31, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:          Project Completion Report on Mexico
Third Small and Medium Scale Industry
Develovment Proiect (Loan 2325-ME)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Mexico Third SMI Development Project (Loan 2325-ME)
- Project Completion Report" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, with Part
11 contributed by the Borrower.
The original project objectives were to provide financial and technical assistance to small scale
enterprises, and to strengthen the financial intermediation role of the institutions concerned. The on-
lending objective was met, although with more than two years delay. The impact of the project on
institutional strengthening was limited. Overall, the project is rated marginally satisfactory.
In designing this project, Bank staff attempted to introduce new appraisal techniques and technical
assistance delivery programs--with meager results. Lack of coordination among executing agencies and
poor monitoring hindered progress. Bank supervision focused on resource transfer; not enough attention
was paid to institutional development and technical assistance.
The PCR presents a plausible assessment of project achievements but lacks basic information on
financial aspects and subproject benefits. The Region notes that this is due to the Borrower's loss of
project files following a major reorganization of the institution in 1989. An audit is planned.
Attachment
This docunent has a restricted distribution and nmy be used by recipients only in the performnance of their official duties. It contenus
mnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loan 2325-ME)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NO.
Preface  ................................................................                                            i
Evaluation Summary ...................................................   ill
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANKS PERSPECTIVE ......                                               .............  1
I. Project Identity  ................................................                   .                    1
II. Background                  ...................................................    1
III. Project Objectives and Description .......                   ....................... ...      .           2
IV. Project Design and Organization .......                     ....................                          3
V. Project Implementation  ........                   ....................................    7
V'I. Project Results          ...............................................                 .               9
'VII. Project Sustainability  ...........................................   12
V'III. Bank Performance                    ..............................................   13
IX. Borrowver Performance ...........................................    14
X. Project Relationships   ...                   .......................................              .     15
XI. Consulting Services                  .............................................                       16
XII. Project Documentation and Data   ..................................   16
XIIH. Lessons Learned                 .................................                   ..............    17
Part II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                               ......... 19
I.Background                  ...................................................   19
II. Project Objectives and Description                     .      .     ................................  21
III. Project Organization and Design  ......... . . . . .    .................................... .  22
IV. Project Implementation  ........                   ...................... ............   23
V. Project Results ............... ........................                                                 23
VI. General Comments  .................                        ................................  24
Part III: STATSTICAL INFORMATION  ..............                              ..         ...................   27
1. Related Bank loans                     .............................................    27
2. Project Timetable ...............................                                 ............    28
3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Dsbursements  .....                              .................   29
4. Project Estimate Financing   . ...............  ..    ................  ......   30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTD)
5. Allocation of loan Proceeds ..          .....................................  31
6. Status of Covenants        .............................................   32
7. Use of Bank Resources ...........................................  33
8. Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle .......        ........................  34
9. Project Benefit .......................................  35
10. Documento de Terminacion de Proyecto (Original Part II In Spanish) ... 36



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2325-ME)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Small and
Medium-Scale Industry Development Project in Mexico, for which Loan 2325-ME in the
amount of US$175.0 million was approved by the Bank on June 23, 1983. The loan was
closed on September 30, 1989, two years and three months behind schedule. The last
disbursement was on October 31, 1989. Twenty one thousand dollars were canceled.
The Project Completion Report (PCR) was prepared by the Country Operations
Division I of the Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III).   The Borrower agreed to prepare Part II
simultaneously with preparation of Parts I and III by the Bank. This was reconfirmed
by NAFIN in February 1992.
Preparation of this PCR was started in February 1991, and it is based Inter
alis, on data obtained during a three week mission to Mexico in February-March 1991,
and on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements, Project
Supervision Reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, interviews of
Bank staff involved in the implementation of the project, and internal Bank memoranda.






- ili -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
THIRD SMALL SCALE AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2325-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
i.      The project objectives vere to continue the Bank's support of Mexico's
integrated program of assistance to small and medium scale industry (SMI) by
providing credit and technical assistance to enterprises for maintaining or
expanding production and employment levels.   The loan mainly consisted of
provision of credit through the commercial banking system with several
Fideicomisos (trust funds) acting as second-tier lending institutions.  The
project was to be coordinated by a high level Program Coordinating Committee
(PAI), which included a Technical Secretariat to oversee the operational aspects
of the project. The loan comprised four components, of which three provided
credit to: (i) FOGAIN (Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y
Pequena - Guarantee and SMI Development Fund) to finance SMIs's fixed assets and
permanent working capital requirements, excluding labor; (ii) FOMIN (Fondo
Nacional de Fomento Industrial - Industrial Development Fund) to support its
equity and quasi-equity investment programs; and (iii) FIDEIN (Fideicomiso de
Conjuntos, Parques y Ciudades Industriales - Trust Fund for Industrial Park
Development) for the development of industrial parks and buildings. The fourth
component consisted of technical assistance and extension services to be provided
through PAI. This component also included funds for the acquisition of computer
equipment and materials by the executing agencies. About 10,000 new jobs were
expected to be created and a further 20,000-30,000 to be preserved in about 3,000
firms to be assisted by the project (para.6.2.).
ImDlementation Experience
ii.     The loan was approved on June 23, 1983, signed on August 25, 1983, and
declared effective on February 27, 1984. The original Closing Date of June 30,
1987 was extended twice to September 30, 1989, because of repeated delays in
project implementation. Among the factors affecting project implementation were:
(i) adverse economic conditions that prevailed in MNxico throughout project
implementation, mainly a severe recession combined with high inflation; (ii)
NAFIN (Nacional Financiera, the Government Industrial Development Bank)'s 1985
reorganization, as well as several organizational changes within the executing
agencies; (iii) the severe earthquake that hit Mexico in September 1985, which
resulted in a disruption of PAI's activities and created a large backlog of
pending subprojects for approval; and (iv) deficiencies of some implementing
agencies in subproject appraisal and evaluation (paras. 5.6 - 5.9)



- iv -
iii.    After a relatively slow start in implementation, the Bank approved a
reallocation of loan proceeds which reduced the FOGAIN and FOMIN components and
increased the industrial parks (FIDEIN) and technical assistance components
(PAI). The reallocation was prompted by a stronger-than-anticipated demand for
construction of industrial buildings, and the need for additional funds under the
technical assistance component to complete the establishment of a computer system
in the three executing agencies (para. 5.3).
iv.      Project implementation was also helped by the strengthening of FOGAIN's
loan approval process, which drastically reduced average subloan approval time
and by improvements in loan appraisal procedures of the participating financial
intermediaries made with FOGAIN's assistance (para. 5.6).
v.       The  Bank  agreed  to  increase  FOMIN's  "free  limit"  of  autonomous
investment approvals, given its improved appraisal capability. A similar request
was denied for FIDEIN because of institutional deficiencies in subproject
appraisal and supervision.   During project implementation,  FIDEIN received
technical assistance to improve its appraisal capability (para. 5.9).
vi.      The project accounts have been audited regularly, and the audits did not
reveal any particular problem (para. 5.4).
Proiect Results
vii.     When assessing the project from the quantitative lending objectives set
at appraisal, there can be little doubt about its positive results. The project
exceeded the targeted number of assisted enterprises by disbursing US$175 million
to 6,162 SMIs through 7,356 subloans. The loan was the main source of scarce
long-term financing for Small and Medium Industries (SMIs) and helped many SMIs
go through the severe economic crisis that prevailed in Mexico during most of the
19809.   Interviews of subborrowers carried out by NAFIN indicated positive
results in terms of growth in employment, production, sales, and profits.
Participating financial institutions also experienced low default rates and
reported that their SMI portfolio is generally sound (para. 6.2).   However,
little progress was made towards achieving the ambitious objective of developing
a secondary market for the shares of enterprises participating in the FOMIN
program (para. 6.7). The SMI IV follow-up operation, based on the implementation
experience of this project, concentrated more on lending through FOGAIN and
FIDEIN. It also carried out a financial analysis of 32 subborrowers under this
loan with a view to assessing the impact of the financing provided. The survey
found that FOGAIN has financed economically and financially sound SMIs.
viii.    The technical assistance part of the project was less successful.  The
TA program to SMIs was ambitious in terms of allocated amounts, but not well
defined, and was poorly implemented and insufficiently supervised.  There is
little indication that the training, assistance and extension services provided
to SMIs have made a significant difference in their performance, although it is
difficult to assess any impact precisely.   Several studies to evaluate the
benefits and impact of PAI's technical assistance and extension programs agreed
during loan negotiations, which would have helped improve the TA component, were
not carried out by the Borrower.   After initial progress in achieving the
explicit objective of strengthening FOGAIN, FOMIN, and FIDEIN, the efforts were



- v -
overtaken by the eventual merger of these institutions into NAFIN, with the
exception of FOMIN which was eliminated (paras. 5.6 and 6.13). The improvement
of their staff in project evaluation and supervision was not, however, totally
lost as most of FOGAIN former staff have continued on the same line of work at
NAFIN (paras. 6.13 and 7.2).
ix.     In summary, the project had positive results overall and was justified
by the need to assist SMIs during the severe economic recession and the gross
distortions that were prevailing in Mexico's financial sector, which effectively
blocked the access of credit to small enterprises. Following the far-reaching
reforms undertaken by Mexico over the last few years to liberalize the economy
and the financial sector and given the resumption of growth, a narrowly defined
directed credit operation would not be justified any longer (para. 7.3).
Sustainability
x.      With regard to the proiect subborrowers, field interviews conducted by
the PCR mission with beneficiaries under each of the three credit components and
with FIs provided positive feedback on their sustainability as discussed in para.
viii above.  The project is also sustainable in that SMI financing is now an
integral part of many participating FIs's activities. FIs also reported very low
levels of default, never exceeding 3% of their SMI portfolio (para. 7.1).
xi.     With regard to the executing agencies, NAFIN, as well as FOGAIN, FOMIN,
and FIDEIN benefitted from the project institutional development program and,
although the later three have been merged into NAFIN, some of their staff
(particularly FOGAIN's staff) have continued to work on SMI development. The
project appraisal and supervision experience acquired under this loan is
invaluable for the implementation of NAFIN's SMI modernization and development
program for 1991-94 (para. 7.2).
Lessons Learned
xii.    Proiect DesiRn (para. 13.1).  The institutional framework for SMIs was
very complex in Mexico at the time of the project, with many institutions
involved in the provision of credit and technical assistance to the sector. In
retrospect, the question may be asked whether the Bank should not have insisted
in simplifying and rationalizing the framework, instead of involving as many as
five institutions in the project, thus, complicating its implementation.  At
least, more attention should have been paid to the coordination issues, which
proved to have hampered project implementation.  Under the SMI IV follow-up
operation (Ln. 2858-ME),  some remedial measures were taken.   To simplify
implementation and facilitate coordination among various executing agencies, the
Bank and the Mexican Government agreed on the establishment of a small, but high
level, Project Coordinating Committee chaired by the Vice Minister of Finance and
with the following members: NAFIN's Director General and the two other NAPIN's
Deputy Director Generals, and the Director General of the Credit and Development
Banking Department in the Finance Ministry. FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN would also
participate in the Committee, but as non-voting members. The coordination issue
was resolved in April 1989 when the Mexican Government decided to merge all the
trust funds assisting the SMI sector into NAFIN and to convert the latter into
a second-tier institution. The merger is still too recent to allow a meaningful



- vi -
assessment of the new set-up in terms of its efficiency to meet SHIs's needs.
This assessment vill be done in the PCR for the SMI IV loan tentatively scheduled
for FY94.
xiii.    Sector Work tiara. 13.2).  The technical assistance program was put into
place without a sufficient understanding of the institutional, regulatory and
policy constraints hampering the growth of SHIs. Good sector work would have
helped better d-eigned that component. At least, the Bank should have insisted
that the studies on the PAI's technical assistance and extension programs be
carried out and respective improvements be implemented. The SMI IV follow-up
operation addressed the issue by providing financing for a series of studies
aimed at broadening the understanding of the potential and constraints of SHIs
to be carried out by SECOFI (S-cretaria de Comercio y Pomento Industrial -
Ministry of Trade and Industrial Development.
xiv.     Supervision Ipara. 13.3).  The TA component, although small (about 1%
of loan amount) should have been supervised more closely. Supervision of the
credit components was adequate. However, in retrospect, it appears that Bank
supervision was too narrowly focused on the implementation of the credit portion
of the loan and did not follow developments in the sector. Supervision missions
should have devoted some time to assess the non-financial constraints to SMI
development with a view to helping address them through the project's technical
assistance component. The Government's Integral Development Program for SHIs
(PIPHI) issued in 1985 should also have been more carefully analyzed and its
links to the project made more explicit.
xv.      PCR Preparation (para. 13.4).  Availability of quantitative data is
often a problem for the preparation of PCRi on loans through financial
intermediaries. In any possible future similar projects, it is recommended that
(i) the second-tier institutions conduct a close monitoring of the participating
institutions' portfolios that would permit an assessment of the project results;
and (ii) provision be made very early to have the Borrower make the necessary
efforts to compile the required data that will permit a meaningful project
evaluation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2325-ME)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I. Proiect Identity
Name:       Third Small and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project
Borrower:   Nacional Financiera S.A. (NAFIN)
Loan No:    2325-ME
RVP Unit:   Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country:    Mexico
Sector:     Industry
II. Background
2.1  In 1978, NAYIN established a program of assistance to SMIs, known as
Prosrema de Aoovo Intetral a 1. Industria Medians v Peauefia (PAIW.  The
program's major objectives were to: (i) encourage more rapid growth in output and
employment in SMIs; (ii) promote and facilitate the achievement of national plans
for industrial decentralization and regional development; (iii) foster a more
comprehensive and effective system of financial and technical assistance support
to SMIs; and (iv) develop a mechanism which would allow SMI assistance programs
to be adapted to reflect national industrial development goals.
2.2  The principal participants in the PAI program were: (i) a credit and
guarantee fund (FOGAIN) which channeled resources through the commercial banking
system; (ii) a risk capital financing fund (FOMIN); (iii) a credit and technical
assistance fund (FIDEIN) which supported the development of industrial states;
(iv) an extension service group which helped SMIs identify their financial and
technical assistance needs and obtain such assistance from any one of the
mentioned funds or from specialized institutions and technical institutions; and
(v) the Coordinating Committee with the Technical Secretariat, which oversaw the
working of the PAI program as a whole.
1 /PAI was the coordinating oommittee for the project agencies, which was created u part of the integrated program for
SMIs. It was govemed by a high level Program Coordinating Committee, headed by the Director General de NAFIN and
including the heads of aU participating instiutions, as well as representatives from the Ministries of Finance, Commerce and
Industry, and Banco de Mexioo.



- 2-
Experience under Previous Proiects
2.3   The PAI program of integrated financial and technical assistance to the SMI
sector was initiated and expanded under two previous Bank loans, which were the
first made in Mexico for SMI development: Ln. 1552-ME of FY79 (SMI I) and Ln.
1881-ME of FY80 (SKI II) for an amount of US$47 million and US$100, respectively.
Both loans consisted of the following components: Credit through FOGAIN; Risk
Capital through FOMIN; Industrial Estates through FIDEIN; and Technical
Assistance (TA) through PAI. Ln. 1552-HE became effective in January 1979 and
was closed in November 1981, while Ln. 1881-ME was declared effective in December
1980 and closed in June 1985.
2.4   The major objectives of both projects were to helped generate growth in
output and employment and promote regional development. Secondary objectives
included the institutional development of the executing agencies, operation of
an industrial extension service and support to other TA and research
institutions. According to the combined PCR for the two loans, experience with
the execution of both projects was good; allocation of resources was economically
efficient, and most institutional development objectives were achieved. During
implementation of these loans, financial assistance was given preferably to SMIs
located in less developed areas of Mexico, where employment impact and export
potential were considered favorable. Greater priority was also given to SMIs
that planned to develop and improve domestic technologies.
2.5   The first two SMI loans were considered successful in accomplishing the
primary objectives of stimulating output and employment growth and in promoting
regional development, but had a more limited impact on the institutional
development since the agencies were already well established when the Bank loans
started. Also, Bank funds represented only a small portion of total operational
resources for FOGAIN. Yet, with the Bank's advice some important organizational
and procedural improvements were initiated at all three executing agencies.
2.6   The proceeds of the first two loans financed 2,883 subprojects through
FOGAIN, results which were close to appraisal estimates. The economic impact of
FOGAIN subloans was considered positive as confirmed by a post SMI I survey, and
a sample of 240 SMI II subprojects, which indicated an average investment cost
per job of US$3,479 and US$5,369, respectively. Under both loans, 90 subprojects
received FOMIN financing, of which over 90Z in the form of equity investments and
the remainder as convertible loans.   Most of the funds was used for plant
expansion or restructuring.   Finally, the FIDEIN component under both loans
financed 63 industrial parks and a post-loan survey revealed that most of them
were profitable and that only two had gone out of business.
III. Project Objectives and Description
3.1   The primary objective of the project was to continue support for the PAI
program and help refocus its activities to respond to the deteriorated economic
situation following the crisis of 1982. In addition to financing fixed investment
in enterprises and industrial parks, the project was to assist SMIs to maintain
production and employment levels by ensuring access to credit and equity



resources to finance their substantially increased permanent working capital
requirements.
3.2  The Loan included four components!/:
(a)   Credit  component:  US$150 million for lending by participating
financial intermediaries through FOGAIN, of which: (i) US$75 million
for fixed asset investments by SMIs (including machinery, equipment,
civil works, and industrial buildings, as well as common service
facilities); and (ii) US$75 million for permanent working capital
requirements for materials, components, spare parts or other
production inputs, not including labor);
(b)   Risk  Capital  component:    US$18  million  for  minority  equity
investments and convertible loans by FOMIN, of which: (i) US$8
million were to finance the establishment or expansion of productive
capacity, and (ii) US$10 million were for permanent working capital
requirements;
(c)   Industrial estate component:   US$4.6 million for credit through
FIDEIN for infrastructure and urbanization investments of industrial
parks; and
(d)   Technical Assistance  component:   US$2 million  for technical
assistance and extension services through NAFIN and specialized
institutions and for computer equipment and related materials.
3.3   The project financing plan anticipated substantial contributions from other
sources: (i) US$64.5 million from the Mexican GoverDnment; (ii) US$110.0 million
from subproject sponsors and participating commercial banks for a total project
cost of US$349.5 million. The Bank loan would cover the project's estimated
foreign exchange component of US$106.0 million, the front-end fee of about US$0.4
million, and about US$68.6 million in local costs. The loan would cover about 75%
of the financing extended by the PAI program and 50% of its total investment
expenditures and related technical assistance activities. It was expected that
the loan of US$175 million would be used to finance: (i) about  2500 enterprises
through FOGAIN; (ii) 150 enterprises through FOMIN; and (iii) 10-12 industrial
estates through FIDEIN. The technical assistance program was expected to provide
assistance through PAI to several hundred enterprises.
IV. Prolect Design and Organization
4.1  The project was identified in June 1982 during supervision of Loan 1881-ME.
There was agreement that the PAI program had achieved its objectives, and that
2/ Excluding the frond-end fee of US$0.4 million.



in view of the deteriorating economic conditions in the country, a third project
would be necessary to help maintain production and employment in the SMI sector.
The Bank appraisal took place in two phases: the first phase in September/October
1982, and the second phase in January 1983 almost iinediately after the change
in the Mexican Administration. Negotiations were completed in April 1983. The
project was approved by the Board in June 1983 and signed in August 1983, but did
not become effective until February 1984 because of organizational and staff
changes within NAFIN.
4.3  Loan disbursements were projected to take up to four years from mid 1983
through 1987. The projected disbursement period, relatively short when compared
to other Bank-supported industrial development finance projects, was based on the
experience with the previous loans and the faster disbursement rate for the
permanent working capital component. However, disbursements were slower than
anticipated because of: (i) organizational and staff changes within all three
executing agencies; and (ii) deficiencies in subproject evaluation. The severe
earthquake that hit Mexico during 1985 also disrupted PAI's operations, resulting
in accumulation of credit approvals by the executing agencies. The last
disbursement took place in October 1989.
4.4  All the procurement was to be done in accordance with prevailing Bank
guidelines. NAFIN, together with FOGAIN and FOMIN, would ensure directly or
through participating FI for financial intermediary operations, that goods and
services financed from the loan would be competitive in quality and price and
appropriate for their client's needs. Procurement packages above $500,000
requiring LCB would be reviewed by the Bank. The project's accounts were to be
kept by NAFIN and, together with those of FOGAIN, FIDEIN and FOMIN, would be
audited annually by independent auditors according to standards acceptable to the
Bank.
4.5  To facilitate project execution, the Bank agreed to the establishment of
a Special Account (SA) for the Loan and made an initial deposit of US$17.5
million and allowed expenditures for subprojects below the free limit to be
eligible for disbursement from the SA.  The Bank also allowed participating
agencies to use Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) for disbursement of loan
proceeds.
4.6  During preparation and appraisal of the project, the following important
issues arose: (i) working capital financing; (ii) foreign exchange risk coverage;
(iii) interest rates; (iv) FIDEIN participation; and (v) project execution
document. These issues are discussed below.
4.7  Workina Cavital Financing: During the preparation of the project, there was
initial concern that too large a share of the loan, almost half (US$75 million)
was being directed toward permanent working capital purposes. However, it was
perceived that the severe foreign exchange shortage, increasing inventory costs
resulting from high inflation rates, and growing accounts receivables would hit
SMI firms more adversely than large industries and that demand for this type of
financing would remain strong.
4.8  Foreign Exchanze Risk: During project appraisal, the Bank was concerned as
to whether NAFIN would be in a position to assume the foreign exchange risk of



the project, and whether the risk should be passed on to the beneficiary trust
funds. However, NAPIN, as the larg-at public sector financial institution, and
as the Government's  financial agent both in Mexico and abroad,  had the
Government's strong support for the PAI program, and was considered to be able
to assume the loan's foreign exchange risk. Also, PAI subloans were expected to
be small (average about US$50,000) end, therefore, it was not considered
appropriate to pass on the foreign exchange risk to the borrowersa'    It was
agreed that NAPIN would carry the foreign risk and repay the loan.
4.9  Interest  Rates:  Interest  rates had long been  an  issue  in Mexico,
particularly with FOGAIN, which was still using fixed rates at the beginning of
the first SKI loan. In 1979, following Bank advice, rates were made flexible and
linked to the ACF indexi1. However, adjustments were made with a lag and, with
rampant inflation in the early 1980s, lending rates generally were substantially
negative in real terms. Under the project, it was agreed that: (i) adjustments
of lending rates would be based on a three-month average of the ACF, instead of
a twelve-month average; (ii) all lending under the project would be at variable
rates; and (iii) FOGAIN would implement a comprehensive interest rate adjustment
on the fixed interest rate portion of its outstanding portfolio. With regard to
relending rates, it was agreed that Bank funds would be passed on to FOGAIN and
FIDEIN at a variable interest rate linked to the ACP and which would allow them
a spread of two percentage points on their lending to participating
intermediaries (FOGAIN) or borrowers (FIDEIN).  Funds channeled to FOMIN for
equity investments would be repaid as follow: net amount recovered from divesting
equity investments, plus 502 of any capital gains realized, and a percentage of
interest received  on convertible  loans.   These  arrangements  resulted  in
substantially subsidized interest rates to SKI beneficiaries until the General
Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA) was introduced in August 1989 which, short of
ensuring fully market determined rates, has been used to eliminate direct
Government subsidies for most onlending through financial intermediaries.
4. 10 FIDEIN Participation: Serious considerations were given whether to include
a FIDEIN component, given its poor performance during the first two projects.
However, following FIDEIN's reorientation of its activities by: (i) phasing out
direct construction and first-tier financing of factory buildings and common
service facilities, and discontinuing leasing; (ii) concentrating on providing
information on industrial estates, advisory and promotional service support to
developers, including project evaluation, and specialized TAI and (iii) limiting
lending to infrastructure and urbanization of industrial estates, the Bank
decided to continue supporting FIDEIN.
4.11        Proiect Execution Docusment  During processing, there was concern
that the project might face some risks since the institutions involved could be
undergoing reorganization and experiencing changes in management as a new Mexican
Administration took over in December 1982. Also, the Bank was concerned that
3 / Under the Loans 1551-ME and 181-ME the foreign exchange risk wu asumed by the Mexican Govemment.
A/ The average cost of funds (ACF) index is caulated as a weight avnege of intemst rate paid on al term funds and
deposits by the Mexican banking system.



social and political pressures, together with unforeseen external shocks, might
prevent the Mexican authorities from taking the necessary stabilization measures,
thus retarding recovery and reducing investment demand.   To minimize these
possible adverse effects, a number of measures were agreed and incorporated into
a Project Execution Document (PED) to guide implementation of the project. These
measures included: (i) establishment within NAFIN of a Small and Medium Industry
Development Department to coordinate the project activities; (ii) development of
a portfolio control system by FOGAIN; (iii) conclusion of TA agreements between
the PAI's Technical Secretariat and the Institute for Information and
Technological Development; and (iv) establishment of a staff training program by
FOMIN.   The PED also stipulated three studies to be completed by the PAI
Technical Secretariat: (i) evaluation of the major TA programs; (ii) ex-post
analysis of a representative sample of FOGAIN sub-loans to measure program
impact; and (iii) survey of FOGAIN assisted enterprises to assess the impact of
the depressed economic situation on SMIs.
4.12 The design and organization of the project were identical to the first two
operations, but the Bank could have devoted more attention into its preparation.
As in both previous SMI loans, Loan 2325-ME was executed by FOGAIN, FOMIN, FIDEIN
and PAI, which was also assigned the task of coordinating the project. However,
there were major changes in the activities of most of the executing institutions
and the Bank should have carried out a comprehensive assessment of their
institutional capabilities before granting the loan. FOGAIN had been a second-
tier institution for quite some time and was in general considered a good
institution. However, FOMIN had difficulties with its portfolio; FIDEIN was to
perform a completely new task of provider of technical assistance and evaluation
of subprojects and PAI was embarking on a massive training program.  An full
evaluation of FOMIN's capabilities as a risk capital investor and of its
investment policies (entry and exit mechanisms, shares valuation, divestiture
policies, etc.) as well as an assessment of FIDEIN and PAI's programs and
objectives would have been warranted. At negotiations, agreement was reached on
a plan of action to be presented to the Bank for the reorganization of FOMIN and
its manpower requirements. It was also agreed that PAI would carry out a cost-
benefit analysis of its programs. These actions were included in the PED but
never implemented and there is no evidence that the Bank had taken any remedial
action to ensure compliance.   Furthermore, no monitoring system of project
implementation was established to assess results and take corrective actions, if
necessary (Annex VI).   In retrospect, the institutional capabilities of the
executing agencies and the coordination difficulties have contributed to slow
down project  implementation.   In the SMI IV the follow-up  operation,  an
assessment of the executing agencies was made with a view to simplifying project
implementation arrangements. Under that loan, a small, but high level, Project
Coordinating Committee chaired by one of the Vice Ministera of Finance was also
established to coordinate project's activities.
4.13 On the positive side, the inclusion of working capital financing proved to
be a good decision, contributing for much to the relatively fast disbursement of
the FOGAIN component. Also, the introduction of the GIRA in August 1985 at the
beginning of project implementation helped reduce the risk of providing subloans
at substantially subsidized interest rates under the project.



- 7 -
V. Proiect Implementation
5.1   Economic Environment.  Implementation of the project took place during a
period of deep recession. With the economic crisis industrial growth came to an
abrupt halt in 1982. Industrial production dropped 11% in 1982 from its 1981
peak, and gross domestic investment as a proportion of GDP fell from its peak of
29% in 1981 to 17% in 1982. In 1983, industrial production dropped another 9%.
The recovery of industrial output in 1984 and 1985 was initially made possible
by major improvements in macroeconomic policies, notably a sharply reduced fiscal
deficit and a major real depreciation of the exchange rate.   A premature
reflation of the economy in early 1985 gave further impetus to industrial
recovery, but soon led to balance of payments difficulties. Industrial output
dropped by about 5% during 1986, aggravated by the collapse of oil export
earnings. Problems caused by the severe recession in the domestic market was
compounded by the deterioration in the financial structure of many industrial
enterprises. The crisis was felt more among medium to large-scale enterprises
which had to reduce output considerably. SMIs were generally more able to adapt
their output to the reduced demand situation.   However,  more than large
enterprises, they suffered from the general shortage of finance.
5.3   Overview of Prolect Implementation.  The loan was approved in August 1983,
but did not become effective until February 1984 because of organizational and
staff changes within NAFIN. After a slow start, disbursements moved faster and,
by June 1986, US$138 million (78% of project amount) were committed and US$125
million (71%) were disbursed, despite the September 1985 earthquake, which
disrupted loan processing and created a backlog of project approvals. In order
to help project implementation, US$10 million in loan proceeds were reallocated
in September 1985 to finance: (i) the increased demand of FIDEIN credits, mainly
construction of industrial buildings; and (ii) increased TA activities, primarily
related to the establishment of computer systems for the three participating
agencies. This was the first of six loan reallocations.
5.4   In late 1986, project implementation slowed down, due to reduced investment
demand brought about by extremely high nominal and real interest rates resulting
from the deceleration of inflation (as adjustment started to yield positive
results) and the downward stickiness of interest rates. The commitment and the
closing dates were both extended twice. The final disbursement took place in
October 1989. In retrospect, the project implementation period was perhaps too
optimistic. It was based on the Bank's experience with the previous projects,
but did not take into account the particular implementation environment of this
loan, which were characterized by economic depression and reorganization of all
executing agencies. The project accounts were regularly audited, and the audits
did not reveal any particular problem.
5.5   Interest rates of subloans were to be linked to the ACF and were to be
adjusted quarterly to reflect movements on the ACF index. The rates were highly
segmented because FOGAIN, FIDEIN and FOMIN had different interest rate structures
which were mostly negative in real terms. This situation was corrected with the
introduction of GIRA, which established generally acceptable rates for continued
Bank lending through the financial sector (para. 4.9).



- 8 -
5.6  Credit  Comuonent  (lOCLUN).    During  project  implementation,  FOGAIN
introduced several major changes in its organization to improve project
execution, including the creation of the Juridical Bureau and the Bureau of Loan
Supervision. At the beginning of project implementation, FOGAIN, although being
a second tier institution, appraised all sub-projects above Mex$3.0 million
(US$10,000) prior to approval. This process resulted in backlogs as long as nine
months, causing many subborrovers to withdraw their credit applications from the
participating FIs. In 1985, FOGAIN with Bank approval, introduced an automatic
free limit for loans below Mex$15. 0 million (US$48,000) for all FIs except Credit
Unions.  This change along with the 60 day automatic authorization of credit
policy accelerated loan processing and introduced fluidity and standardization
into the approval system. Average loan approval was reduced from 90 to 15 days.
In early 1986, FOGAIN was requested by the Bank to calculate the IRR for sub-
projects above US$100,000, but FOGAIN did not comply. Remedial action by the
Bank was thought difficult as by mid-1986, about 802 of the loan were already
committed. The issue was taken up again under the SMI IV follow-up operation
(Ln. 2858-ME) when the Bank again requested that a FRR be calculated for
subprojects above $50,000.   However,  FOGAIN was merged into NAPIN before
implementation of SKI IV. Under RAFIN, participating FIs generally comply with
this requirement and calculate IRR for subprojects above $50,000. This will be
reviewed in the context of the SMI PCR tentatively scheduled for FY94.
5.7  Risk Capital Comwonent (FOMIN). The implementation of the FOHIN component
was slow at the beginning, due to the severe economic recession, instability
caused by the earthquake, and difficult information requirements for approval of
equity investment proposals.  In addition, delays occurred in obtaining Bank
approval, usually because of incomplete information submitted by FOMIN. The free
limit was also set too low, resulting in the Bank having to review and approve
almost every subproject submitted to POMIN. In 1986, to accelerate project
implementation, and given PONIN's improved project appraisal capability, the Bank
approved an increase in the free limit from US$400,000 to US$600,000. FOHIN also
introduced a new organizational structure to reduce the number of managerial
levels, thus permitting greater delegation of authority to middle management.
It established separate units to evaluate technology and venture capital projects
and to monitor its portfolio. Finally, POMIN increased its administrative staff
from 80 to 106 to handle the increased workload.
5.8  Industrial Estate ComDonent (YIDEIN). As mentioned above, because of
technical and managerial difficulties, FIDEIN's role had changed to only include
rationalization of industrial estates development and operation and provision of
technical assistance. Under the loan, its lending was limited to infrastructure
and urbanization projects. To carry out these responsibilities, FIDEIN first
retrained its staff using own resources and foreign experts and established close
working contacts with the newly formed Association of Mexican Industrial Paiks
(AMPIP). The technical assistance provided by FIDEIN to industrial estates came
from its own resourceas funding from the project was only for lending for
infrastructure development in both public and private estates.
5.9  FIDEIN often encountered Bank delays in having its subprojects approved
because the documentation submitted were incomplete or insufficient. In 1987,
a foreign consultant was provided by the Bank under the TA component to help



improve FIDEIN's appraisal capability.   Subsequently,  subproject  approval
accelerated, reflecting FIDEIN's improved appraisal capability.
5.8  Technical Assistance.  Under SHI I and II, the Technical Secretary of PAI
administered an industrial extension service and other TA programs that helped
clients of FOGAIN, F0MIN and FIDEIN. During project implementation, the Bank
suggested that an assessment be made of the effectivenoss of the TA received
through the extension services, partly in preparation for the follow-up loan
(2858-ME). However, no assessment was made and the SMI IV appraisal mission had
to do part of the work itself. Under the project, PAI carried out seminars on a
wide variety of subjects all over the country, but these seminars were unfocussed
and did not have a clear objective. In 1987, when the PAI was abolished, its TA
program was integrated within the Industrial Promotional Directorate of NAFIN,
which transferred suitable staff from its headquarters to the regional offices
to manage it. By the end of 1988, there were more than 150 agents operating in
more than 50 NAYIN regional offices.
VI. Proiect Results
6.1  When assessing the project from a resource transfer point of view, there
is little doubt the loan did achieve its objective of providing financial support
to SMIs. Despite adverse macro-economic conditions, all the funds were disbursed
to the targeted group (SMIs), albeit with some delays, especially during the
later years. Term financing to SMIs for investment and permanent working capital
was made available, providing resources at a time of great liquidity scarcity.
Efforts were made to strengthen the institutions in charge of assisting SMIs and
some progress was achieved in terms of improvements in project appraisal and
supervision. The project, by providing funds during a period of adverse economic
conditions to generally viable enterprises, helped preserve jobs and alleviate
the deterioration of the SMI sector.
6.2  The employment creation expected from the project was estimated at 10,000
jobs. In addition, an estimated 20,000 to 30,000 jobs were preserved through
helping firms with adequate working capital. Although no exhaustive assessment
of the project results was made, preliminary analysis of the four project
components showed that targets were generally met; some were even exceeded. A
sample survey of 49 subprojects indicated that 4,300 new jobs were generated at
an average cost of US$9,000 in 1982 constant prices.  Another sample of 10
industrial subprojects with Mexican public utilities as the main market completed
in December 1989 showed: (i) employment generation effects almost equal to
estimated individual subproject goals; (ii) product sales increases of 42.51 on
average; and (iii) production increases that reached an average of 64% of
estimated levels. The latter sample is particularly interesting as suppliers to
public entities were more adversely affected by public sector budget reductions
than SMIs in general.
6.3  FOGAIN (Oritinal allocation: $150.0 million: Utilization: $144.4 million).
The FOGAIN credit component developed as expected.   FOGAIN's loan discount
operation provided financial support at a critical time whan many firms were
facing financing problems and enabled the SMI sector to continue receiving



- 10 -
long-term credits, not available elsewhere.   During project implementation,
FOGAIN activated a guarantee program with its own resources solely for use by
micro-enterprises. The program helped encourage participating FIs to lend to
micro-enterprises.
6.4  A total of 7,235 subloans were made to 6,041 industrial enterprises for a
total of US$144.4 million. As expected, 58% of the subloans were for permanent
working capital and the remaining for fixed assets financing, excluding building
constructions (Annex IX). In dollar terms, however, working capital financing
was below appraisal expectations, with only $63.1 million disbursed as compared
to an estimate of $75 million (Annex V).   NAFIN was the main participating
financial institution with 1,203 subprojects, or 19S of total approvals under the
loan. A total of 4,934 micro and small enterprises received subloans, which
represented over 80% of the total enterprises. While financing was provided to
the entire industrial sector, the bulk of subloans were channeled to traditional
SMI industries: food processing, textiles and apparel, leather products, rubber
and plastics, and metal products industries. The largest number of enterprises
financed were in Mexico City, Monterrey and Guadalajara.   In spite of the
disruptions and adverse economic conditions during project implementation,
FOGAIN, which had losses in 1981 and 1983, rebounded strongly, posting profits
for each year from 1984 through 1987.   As of September 1987,  FOGAIN had
accumulated reserves amounting to US$130.9 million, including funds received from
Government.
6.5   FOMIN (Oritinal allocation: S18.0 million: Utilization: S12.6 million).
During the early years of project implementation, few FOMIN financed industrial
firms made profits. In 1984 and 1985, FOMIN sold off for Mex$660 million its
share holdings in 17 companies for which it had originally paid Mex$300 million,
making a more than 100Z nominal profit and about breaking even in real terms.
FOMIN showed operating profits of between US$1.3 million and US$3.3 million in
1984-86. The value of its portfolio at the end of 1986 was US$12.7 million with
participation in 110 firms. Only 14 of the 110 companies reported profits; nine
were in bankruptcy proceedings (though these represented only 1.1% of FOMIN's
portfolio), and the remaining firms reported losses during 1986 as result of the
difficult financial conditions of the country. By November 1987, FOMIN had fully
committed its reallocated amount of US$12.6 million, of which US$7.9 million was
channeled to 44 subprojects for fixed assets investments and US$4.7 million to
34 subprojects  for permanent working capital purposes.   About 70% of the
subprojects were equity participation and the remainder 30% convertible loans.
Before liquidation in December 1989, FOMIN had outstanding investments in 102
enterprises. Of these, 44 were classified as in "normal condition", 23 were to
be sold at a loss, 5 required an audit, and 30 were in companies undergoing
judicial proceedings.  These overall results reflect the great difficulty of
equity investments and venture capital in SMIs and are not very different from
the experience of other countries. However, FOMIN did not have any cash flow or
profitability problems as it reimbursed PAI only what it recovered in
subordinated credit and sale of shares, but kept 20% of interest collected and
50% of profits accrued through share sales. To provide an incentive for active
investment promotion, FOMIN did not pay PAI for the funds invested in equity nor
for the interests generated by the installment sales.



- 11 -
6.6      FOMIN investments covered a wide range of industrial subsectors from
food processing, basic metals, pulp and paper, wood products, to chemical
industries.  The geographical distribution of FOHIN's portfolio showed that many
of its investments were made in support of the Government's policy of promoting
investments outside the high concentration zones.
6.7       Two secondary objectives in the FOMIN component were not achieved.
These were:  (i)  the  emergence  of new minority  investors;  and  (ii)  the
establishment of a secondary market for the share equity portfolio.  As agreed
under the project, FOMIN would liquidate its investment by selling back to the
original enterprises within 3 or 4 years. This buy back period was, however,
probably too short for this kind of investment.  In any case, FOMIN-financed
companies interviewed by the PCR mission declined to buy back the shares,
invoking financial difficulties and inflated share values as calculated by NAFIN.
6.8  FIDEIN (Oriainal allocation: S4.6 million: Utilization: S14.6 million).
The loan helped FIDEIN finance 43 infrastructure subprojects for a total of
US$14.6 million, of which 76% were privately-owned estates and 24% publicly-owned
estates. From 1983 through 1988, FIDEIN sponsored activities in 113 industrial
parks that included: (i) feasibility, pre-investment and engineering studies;
(ii) technical assistance; (iii) financing of infrastructure projects; and (iv)
development of an information bank on industrial location. FIDEIN's program gave
priority to industrial centers that met decentralization criteria, promote export
industries and were located in border towns.  By the end of 1985, FIDEIN had
comitted the entire original US$4.6 million assigned to this component, and was
allocated another US$10 million to enable it to meet the strong demand for
industrial buildings.
6.9  A total of 94 prefeasibility studies were performed by FIDEIN during the
1983-88 period in 26 different states.   In many cases FIDEIN carried out
prefeasibility studies free of charge as a promotional activity to generate
industrial parks development interest.   Another 35 feasibility studies were
conducted in 17 states. The agency also carried out 49 engineering studies in
industrial parks, many leading to financing, and performed special studies on a
state-wide basis to define criteria necessary for state government participation.
FIDEIN provided TA for the administration and supervision of industrial towns
constructed by state governments, and for the supervision of 126 different
construction works in 19 States. Based on data from its subproject supervision
files, FIDEIN estimates that its industrial parks promotion and development
program, under this five year period, helped generate approximately 65,000 jobs.
6.10 In 1986, FIDEIN developed an Operating Manual for industrial parks, which
became a key publication for industrial parks management in Mexico. By the end
of that year, there were 93 industrial parks in operation, some of which
supported by the project, which demonstrated that the decentralization objectives
of this program had been met.  FIDEIN lending program was not as successful.
When FIDEIN was merged with NAFIN in November 1988, the quality of its portfolio
was relatively poor: two companies totalling 8% of the portfolio were in arrears
and eight enterprises totalling 23% of the portfolio were awaiting judicial
proceedings.



- 12 -
6. 11 Technical Assistance (Ortainal allocation: S2.0 million: Utilixation: S2.7
million). This component financed 115 separate TA subprojects through various
entities, which benefitted hundreds of SIs. Thirty-seven subprojects went to
INFOTEC (Inatituto de Informacion Tecnologica - Institute for Technological
Information) for US$0.9 million, vhich played a key role throughout the entire
project implementation period by providing consulting services for industry,
technical information, financial, production, and technology assistance to SMIs
through its various programs. SKI Training and industrial extension activities
(20 subprojects), along with training of the three trust funds' staff (26
subprojects), and miscellaneous PAI program activities (25 subprojects) accounted
for most of the other technical assistance services. This component also provided
financing for computer equipment, software and training for the PAI program,
along with consultant services. In addition, it financed a national survey of
SMIs (US$0.6 million), conducted by Instituto Nacional de Geografia * Inform6tica
(INEGI). The results were used in the preparation the Loan 2858-ME.
6.12 The benefits derived from the technical assistance program are very
difficult to evaluate, since no monitoring mechanisms were developed to follow
and evaluate the program, and the Bank during supervision missions did neither
make a preliminary assessment of the program, nor insist on any corrective
measures.  The TA provided under the project was unfocused, lacked a clear
objective and a long-term strategy.  Many enterprises benefitted from direct
assistance given by extension agents in the field and technology services
provided by INFOTEC without a comprehensive assessment of their needs or attempts
to recover costs. A technical assistance program of the type carried out by PAI
has had little success in other countries (Ecuador and Colombia) and was very
costly.
6.13 Proiect Coordination    Overall coordination of the project was to be
carried out by PAI. However, institutional rivalries, constant changes in staff
and, more importantly, the lack of coordinator's authority made this task
impossible to achieve. In April 1989, the Mexican Government decided to merge
all the trust funds assisting the industrial sector into NAFIN and to convert the
latter into a second-tier financial institution. The merger is too recent to
assess whether the new set up responds better and more efficiently to the needs
of SMIs. This assessment will be made in the PCR for SMI IV scheduled for FY94.
VII. Proiect Sustainabilitv
7.1  As mentioned above, no comprehensive ex-post evaluation of enterprises
financed under the project was made, therefore, their sustainability would have
to be assessed differently. Field interviews conducted by the PCR mission with
beneficiaries under each of the three components and with participating FIs
provided overall positive feedback on subproject sustainability as discussed in
para. 6.2 above. The project is also sustainable in the sense that SMI financing
is now an integral part of many participating FIs's activities.   FIs also
reported a very low level of defaults, which never exceeded 3Z of their SMI
portfolio.



- 13 -
7.2     NAFIN benefitted from the project institutional development program, as
well as FOGAIN, FOMIN, and FIDEIN and, although these three executing agencies
have been merged into NAFIN, many of their staff (particularly those of FOGAIN)
have continued to work on SMI development. The project appraisal and supervision
experience acquired under this loan is invaluable for the implementation of
NAFIN's SMI modernization and development program for 1991-94.
7.3  With regard to the Bank, the project was justified by the need to assist
SMIs during the severe economic recession of the early 1980. and the gross
distortions in Mexico's financial sector at that time, which effectively blocked
the access of credit to small enterprises.   The situation has drastically
changed. Mexico has implemented far-reaching reforms to liberalize the economy
and the financial sector, and growth has resumed. NAFIN has also embarked on a
multi-billion dollar program of technical and financial assistance to SMIs.
Thus, any potential role of the Bank in the sector would now be to deemphasize
provision of directed finance and concentrate on helping Mexico identify and
address regulatory, institutional and other non-financial constraints to SMI
development.
VIII. Bank Performance
8.1  The Bank's performance has been satisfactory overall.  There is evidence
throughout the implementation of the loan that the Bank kept a constant and
careful monitoring of the project financial aspects, acting promptly at early
problem signs emanating from the executing agencies.   Generally, the Bank
provided sound advice and took adequate actions to smooth implementation
problems. A particular case in point wva the Bank's recommendation to FIDEIN to
introduce a competitive bidding proces for contractors for its industrial estate
subprojects, rather than have the subborrowers choose any firm without clear
criteria. This was successful and became a standardized procedure throughout the
country. Also, in mid-1985, the Bank helped NAFIN and PAI-FOGAIN establish a
computer program with software and analytical system compatible with those of the
Bank to facilitate loan disbursement monitoring. This proved very useful during
project implementation.
8.2  In general, the Borrower agreed with Bank suggestions. However, there were
several instances where Bank advice was not followed.   Thus, under the TA
component, the Bank suggested that TA activities be provided to clients on a
collective rather than on an individual basis, and that the TA programs be
consolidated from PAI's central office rather than directly from the regions. The
Bank also recommended that an extension agent impact evaluation be carried out
in conformance with Section 3.11 of the Loan Agreement. Both recommendations
were not acted upon, but the Bank did not follow up on its advice nor take
remedial measures.   NAFIN continued to expand its regional TA office and
extension agents kept on providing assistance on an individual basis, as NAFIN
believed that effective extension work must be tailored to the individual
entrepreneur's problems. The Bank also did not insist on the carrying out of a
number of agreed actions and studies, such as the TA program evaluations and the
assessment of FOGAIN borrowers.  Annex VI provides a list of covenants not
complied with.  The appraisal mission of SKI IV, however, did carry out an



- 14 -
assessment of a sample of 32 FOGAIN subjects, as well as 17 others provided by
PAI and follow up on some of the other shortcomings observed above. According
to that sample, FOGAIN has been financing economically and financially sound
investments.
8.3   The amount of supervision was adequate. Supervision efforts were sustained
through an average of two missions per year (full or partial) during the first
years of project implementation, decreasing to about one mission per year in the
project's last two years.   The major supervision weakness was an excessive
emphasis on loan disbursement, subproject visits, and financial aspects of the
project at the expense of issues such as the overall content, goals and
objectives of the training program, or coordination and conflict between the
executing agencies.  The Bank may also have been rather lenient in accepting
inadequate/incomplete subproject reports and other less than satisfactory
information submitted by the executing agencies.
8.4   Besides these weaknesses, Bank supervision missions have been an important
factor in the implementation of the project. The staff of the former executing
agencies generally expressed appreciation for the flexibility and for the
technical advice provided by the Bank staff, especially on issues such as
improvement of subproject evaluation criteria and increases in the free limit of
subproject approvals.
IX. Borrower Performance
9.1   Considering the adverse economic situation experienced by Mexico during
project implementation, including a serious economic contraction, monetary and
credit restrictions, high inflation, reorganization and frequent changes of staff
in all the executing agencies, the Borrower performed as well as could have been
expected under the circumstances. The three credit/equity investment components
of the project were all implemented in accordance with agreed upon terms, and
loan categories were reallocated as conditions warranted. A criticism of NAFIN
would be its non-performing of several studies, evaluation, appraisals and impact
analyses agreed upon at negotiations and included in the Loan Agreement and in
the PED, not to mention the ex-post evaluation of a sample of a dozen subprojects
requested by the PCR mission to estimate the impact of the project on SMIs.
Obviously, the Borrower gave greater attention and provided more management
resources to credit and TA delivery and performance by the executing agencies
than to the assessments needed to measure impact and quality of the assistance
provided, a typical weakness of development banking institutions.
9.2  The three trust funds developed institutionally and established improved
project appraisal and supervision procedures as the loan progressed.  FOGAIN
passed through a trial and error phase with the use of outside consultants to
help carry out loan supervision and follow-up activities on its subborrowers.
After less than a year of implementation, however, it appeared that these
supervision evaluations, paid for by FOGAIN on a piece-meal basis, lacked
uniformity and objectivity and they proved unsuccessful, generating complaints
from both, the subborrowers and the FIs, that the evaluations had become



- 15 -
self-serving to the consultants.   An agreement was reached whereby the FIs
themselves would perform the supervision tasks, with FOGAIN (as a second-tier
institution) carrying out an ex-post analysis on a sample basis, which included
sanctions against the FIs for non-compliance.   This change helped establish
professional supervisory departments in the participating FIs and the system
still  exists  today.    This was  a fundamental  innovation  that  introduced
standardized supervisory practices into the Mexican banking system, which
previously had promotional rather than supervisory departments.   Compliance
supervisory criteria are now codified in operating rules and regulations that are
updated periodically, the latest in 1989. In 1986, the information and computer
system were improved with the purchase of adequate computer hardware and
software, and linkage between the central and regional offices. The expanded
computer network fell short of providing FOGAIN with information on portfolio
default rates, which remained with the FIs.
9.3  Following Bank recommendation, FOMIN adequately revised and expanded the
data submitted to the Bank for subprojects above the US$600,000 free limit, and
this accelerated Bank reviews and approvals. FOMIN also took adequate measures
to mitigate the impact of its tight personal budget on project implementation as
a result of limited program promotion and subproject identification.   These
measures were: (i) use of INFOTEC resources for subproject appraisal, with costs
assumed by the beneficiaries; (ii) use of outside consultants for supervision and
control tasks in subprojects above Mex$150.0 million, paid for by the recipients;
and (iii) use of State Fund risk capital programs by FOMIN, thus expanding
program promotion.
9.4  Of the three executing agencies, FIDEIN absorbed the largest reallocation
of the loan proceeds and demonstrated growth as a specialized financing agency.
It went through a transformation both in its role and objectives, and emerged in
the process with a more professional and technical staff than it had at
appraisal. FIDEIN designed operational criteria for financing industrial parks
infrastructure credits, which were approved for national applicability in
November 1987 by the Mexican Treasury. On the negative side, FIDEIN did neither
transfer its credit control operation to FOGAIN for its management, nor transfer
its loan portfolio to an intermediary bank trust fund for collection and
administration, as agreed upon during negotiations.
X. Prolect Relationships
10.1 By and large, relationships between the Bank and the Borrower were close,
candid and, both were generally in agreement concerning identification of an
issue or problem and the mechanism to be used for solution or improvement.
Similarly there was a good cooperation between Bank staff and the three executing
agencies. An example of good relationship was the timely request by the Borrower
and the quick response by the Bank for a US$1 million reallocation from the
FOGAIN component to the TA component to reestablish computer installations
destroyed in the 1985 earthquake. Both the Bank and the Borrower tended to have
similar views regarding the project, emphasizing fluid and timely loan commitment
and disbursement on the part of the three executing agencies, with less concern
given by each to: (i) the TA needed by the subborrowers, especially in the



- 16 -
technically more difficult and specialized FO7IN and FIDEIN programs; and (ii)
the specific requiromnto of the  O1IN risk capital program at a time of high
inflation. These two areas should have attracted more of both the Bank's and the
Borrower's attentioni,-long vith greater efforts to establish the institutional
framework for a venture capital market. As mentioned earlier, both the Bank and
the Borrower tondod not to follow up vigorously on the respective studies and
avaluations which vere not completed.
10.2 The SKI III project represented a comprehensive program for the development
of Mexico's SKI sector at a time when Government policy tended to favor large-
scale industry. It was only in April 1985 that an official Government SMI policy
was made explicit vith the Integral Development Program for SMIs (PIPMI) whose
objectives dovetailed with this project.  Yet, there were no known linkages
established between the project and PIPHI either by the Bank or the Borrower.
XI, Consultina Services
11.1 Performance of the consultants and the results obtained under the project
were mixed.   The consultants used by FIDEIN to help design a Project Plan
Analysis perform d vwll and gave good recommendations t a time that FIDEIN was
altering its role. They vwre highly qualified industrial estate experts who
focused their time on transferring their specific expertise onto FIDEIN staff.
On the other hand, the consultants hired by FOGAIN for subprojects supervision
and follow-up monitoring activities had problems with both the subborrowers and
the Fla and were eventually removed from the project. A team of consultants was
also recruited to deviset (i) a guarantee mechanism for risk capital investment;
and (ii) a long-tern echanim for financing industrial'plant construction in
industrial estates. The results were not conclusive and were not used.
XII. Progect Documentation and Data
12.1 Project documentation and data includes the legal documents, the staff
appraisal report (SAR), missions back-to-office reports and supervision reports,
and progress reports provided by the Borrower.
12.2 The legal agrements and the SAR were adequately prepared and
satisfactorily guided project start-up and implementation. Supervision reports
gave a good idea of the project evolution, and the issues addressed during
implementation.   However, ome of the reports--and other relevant project
documents available at the Bank- were not sufficiently detailed and did not
provide all the quantitative data needed for the preparation of the PCR.
12.3 NAFIN *etended ample assltance to the PCR mission in facilitating meetings
with staff from the three former executing agencies, who provided available
institutional Information. Unfortunately, the PCR mission was conducted more
than a year after loan closing and two years after NAFIN's reorganization which
made access to remaining Institutional memory more difficult.  As indicated



- 17 -
earlier, no comprehensive ex-pout documentation on the financed subprojects was
provided.  In addition, NAPIN had little data on the present status of the
subloan/investment portfolios of the participating financial intermediaries.
XIII. Lessons Learned
13.1 Proiect Desian. The institutional framework for SHI. was complex in Mexico
at the time of the project, with many institutions involved in the provision of
technical assistance and credit to the sector. In retrospect, the question may
be asked whether the Bank should not have tried to simplify and rationalize the
framework, instead of involving so many institutions in the project, thus,
complicating its implementation. At least, more attention should have been paid
to the coordination issues, which proved to have hampered project implementation.
Under the SMI IV follow up operation, some remedial measures were taken. To
simplify implementation and facilitate coordination among various executing
agencies, the Bank and th Mexican Government agreed on the establishment of a
small, but high level, Project Coordinating ComiIttee chaired by one of the Vice
Ministers of Finance and with the following members: NAFIN's Director General and
two other NAFIN's Deputy Director Generals, and the Director General of the
Credit and Development Banks in the Finance Ministry. FOGAIN, FOMIN, and FIDEIN
also participated in the Committee, but as non-voting members. The coordination
issue was resolved in April 1989 (before effectiveness of SMI IV) when the
Mexican Government decided to merge all the trust funds assisting the industrial
sector into NAFIN and to convert the latter into a second-tier institution. The
merger is still too recent to allow a meaningful assessment of the new set-up in
terms of its efficiency to meet SMIs's needs. This assessment will be done in
the PCR for the SMI IV.loan tentatively scheduled for FY94.
13.2 Sector Work. The technical assistance component was put into place without
a good understanding of the institutional, regulatory and policy constraints
hampering SKI growth.   Good sector would have helped better design this
component. At least, the Bank should have insisted that the studies on the PAI's
technical assistance and extension programs be carried out and the results
implemented. The SMI IV follow-up operation addressed the issue by providing
financing for a series of studies aimed at broadening the understanding of the
potential and constraints to SHI development to be carried out by SECOFI.
13.3 SuDervision. More attention--and staff resources--should have been devoted
to the supervision of the TA component, which although small is very complex and
labor intensive. Supervision of the credit components was adequate. However,
in retrospect, it appears that Bank supervision was too narrowly focused on the
implementation of the loan and did not follow developments in the sector.
Supervision missions must have devoted some time to assess the non-financial
constraints hampering the development of SMIs with a view to helping address them
through the project technical assistanc- resources. Also, the Government's PIPMI
program should have been carefully analyzed and its links to the project made
explicit.
13.4 PCR Preparation. Availability of quantitative data is often a problem for
the preparation of PCR., particularly those on loans through financial



- 18 -
intermediaries. In any future similar projects, it is recommended that (i) the
second-tier institutions conduct a close monitoring of the participating
institutions' portfolios that would permit an assessment of the project impact;
and (ii) provision be made to have the Borrower make the necessary efforts to
compile the required data that will permit a meaningful project evaluation.



- 19 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I. Background
1.1  In 1978 the Federal Government, acting through Nacional Financiera, S.A.
(NAFIN), established the Programs de Apoyo Integral a In Industria Mediana y
PequefiAs (PAI), which was intended to strengthen and promote actions to bring
about modernization and growth in the industrial sector through improved use of
its human, financial and technological resources.
1.2  As one step in this direction, PAI sought to minimize the dispersal of
programs and support efforts for SMIs by instituting a number of technical
assistance programs and giving full support to the development funds set up by
the Federal Government to assist small and medium-scale industries -- for
instance, Fondo Hacional de Estudios y Proyectos (FONEP), Fondo Nacional de
Fomento Industrial (FOMIN), Fondo de Garantis y Fomento a In Industria Medians
y Pequefia (FOGAIN), Fidelcomiso pars el EstudIo y Fomento de Conjuntos, Parques,
Cludades Industriales y Centros Comerciales (FIDEIN), and Fondo de Informaci6n
y Documentscifn pars In Industris (INFOTEC).
1.3   In addition, PAI became the central point for processing the external
resources obtained through loans signed with the World Bank to finance SMIs.
Such operations included two earlier Bank loans for a total of US$147 million
(Loan 1552-ME for US$47 million, and 1881-ME for US$100 million), which were
satisfactorily concluded -- as confirmed in the respective PCRs -- despite very
serious macroeconomic problems that were already beginning to emerge and which
became fully apparent by the early 1980s.
1.4  Throughout the period 1982-88, in fact, Mexico was confronted with a
serious economic crisis, provoked mainly by such factors as:   the Federal
Government's huge domestic and external debt burden; the steep plunge, in 1982,
in world prices for petroleum, the country's principal export; and the resultant
high rates of inflation, which caused domestic markets to collapse and reduced
growth in the national productive sector.
1.5  In view of the change of Federal Government in 1982, at the time this new
loan was being appraised, the World Bank suggested a number of measures it
believed would minimize the impact of the transition on execution of this
project:
PROPOSAL                                    COMMENTS
1.   Creation of an SMI Support Unit       NAFIN had its Direcci6n Adjunta de
to coordinate activities geared      Promoci6n,  Filiales y Fideicomisos
to satisfactory  execution of         (Subdirectorate    of    Promotion,
this project.                         Subsidiaries and Trusts), responsible
for regulating and supervising the
operations of Government trust funds
as far as implementation of its own
policies was concerned.



- 20 -
2     Devise  a portfolio  oversight        FOGAIN developed a computer program
system for FOGAIN.                    to  identify  subprojects  possibly
eligible for IBRD financing; however,
the records vere not kept in a
separate file.
3.   Conclude negotiations  started         During the six year period 1982-88,
with  INFOTEC  to  support  SMI       INFOTEC    supported    SMIs    with
needs in terms of information         information and technical assistance,
and technical assistance,             under arrangements entered into by it
with the World Bank, Mexico's own
technology information agencies, and
the    Asian    Organization    for
Technological Productivity.
4.   Establishment  of  a  training         Although   such   a  program   never
program for FOMIN staff.              materialized, FOMIN's results in 1983
were satisfactory in real terms, and
in 1984 it sought to guarantee its
temporary participation, in order to
recover its resources.
In addition, the Bank obtained a commitment from PAI to carry out various
studies:
-     evaluation of the major PAI programs implemented;
-     cost-benefit analysis of PAI programs implemented;
-     ex-post  analysis  of  the  impact  of  the  loan,  based  on  a
representative sample of subprojects supported by FOGAIN;
-     analysis  of a number of  enterprises  supported by FOGAIN,  to
determine the impact of the economic crisis on small and medium-
scale industries.
These studies were not carried out, for the following reasons:
In  1985,  the  Federal  Government  took  a  number  of  steps  to
rationalize the system supporting the industrial sector; one of them
was to merge the development funds with RAFIN.
The first institution to become part of NAFIN was PAI, in 1987, when
the loan had just been reactivated following the delays mentioned
above.
In addition, while the merger of the development funds with RAEIN
was being planned and put into effect, an assessment was made of the
advisability of continuing with the programs they had launched.
Based on RABIN's analysis, it was determined that implementation of
the technical assistance programs had not been as successful as
initially expected, since they were not meeting major SMI needs.



- 21 -
Given the resulting lack of continuity in PAI programs, it became
impossible to carry out the studies requested.
-     With respect to evaluation of the impact of the loan on small and
medium-scale industries, it should be recalled that in 1989, the
year of loan completion, FOGAIN was in the process of being merged
with NAFIN, which delayed the studies requested.   However, the
possibility is currently being reviewed of conducting them at the
same time as evaluation of the results of loan 2858-HE (PAI IV),
since this would allow comparative analyses of results obtained in
economic contexts as different as those experienced by Mexico over
the period 1980-92.
1.6  It should be noted here that the measures suggested by the World Bank were
not implemented by lAPIN strictly as recommended. Nowever, NAFIN's performance
throughout the execution of PAI III ensured that its component programs operated
adequately, while project implementation in general was satisfactory in that
quantitative and qualitative objectives were met.
II. Proiect Obiectives and DescriDtion
2.1  From the time it was first identified, the projaet was designed as a set
of support actions intended to expand the base of the SKI sector in the face of
the serious economic crisis confronting the country. Loan proceeds were used
predominantly to build up permanent working capital and finance purchases of
machinery and equipment, in order to ward off further reductions in sector
production and employment levels.
2.2  As with the two previous operations in this field, the proceeds of this
third loan were deposited with PAI to be administered and channeled to the
industrial sector through the development funds.   On the basis of earlier
experience, a disbursement schedule was drawn up for a period not to exceed four
years (1983-87).
2.3  The loan was signed for US$175 million, of which US$150 million was
earmarked to support credit operations, US$18 aillion for equity investments,
US$5 million for industrial infrastructure, and US$2 million for technical
assistance programs.
2.4  Of the amount allocated to the various loan categories,  a total of
US$174,979,354 was disbursed as follows:
Category I:       Credit               US$ 144,792,000
Category II:      Equity investments      12,887,354
Category III:     Infrastructure          14,600,000
Category IV:      Technical assistance    2,700,000
________________________
TOTAL US$ 174,979,354
.. -.r_--rn---, 



- 22 -
III. Proiect Organization and Design
3.1   Loan 2325-ME (PAI III) was signed on August 15, 1983 but did not become
effective until January 16, 1984.  This was because NAFIN and PAI were unable to
meet the agreed conditions of effectiveness, for the following two principal
reasons:
-     failure by the World Bank to consider Mexico's serious economic and
political problems, which meant that the proceeds of PAI III were
applied very differently from those of PAI I and II;
-     the reorganization and restructuring that took place between 1983
and 1984, mainly affecting PAI and FOGAIN.
3.2  A  few months  after  PAI  started  operations  in  1978,  its  Technical
Secretariat and the FOGAIN Directorate General came under the command of a single
individual, so that both entities then had to coexist within a single
administrative structure. Given the differences in the concepts underlying them,
it became necessary to establish a dual structure reporting to the same director.
3.3   PAI, as an entity functioning within the FOGAIN organizational framework,
had a staff of 300 and was set up as follows:
-     Secretaria T6cnica (Technical Secretariat)
-     Subdirecci6n General (General Subdirectorate)
-      Subdirecci6n de Operaci6n (Operations Subdirectorate)
-     Subdirecci6n   de   Asistencia   T6cnica   (Technical   Assistance
Subdirectorate)
-     Subdirecci6n de Promoci6n (Promotion Subdirectorate)
-     Subdirecciones Regionales (Regional Subdirectorates) (8).
3.4   However, the fact that these two entities functioned jointly prevented PAI
from serving effectively as intersectoral coordinator. Consequently, in 1984 it
reformulated its objectives and strategies and broke away permanently from the
FOGAIN organizational structure, to become the executing agency for integrated
technical assistance programs.
3.5   The new scheme of organization proposed provided for the elimination,
creation and relocation of administrative units, with a view to maximizing PAI
operational effectiveness while keeping its staff down to the authorized figure
of 300.
3.6   In that same year (1984), the PAI Technical Committee was set up to approve
and oversee implementation of PAI programs. Other units established that year
were Organization and Methods, Internal Control, and Coordination of Regional
Subdirectorates.



- 23 -
IV. Proiect Implementation
4.1   It should be pointed out that in addition to the initial delay  caused by
the time lapse between loan signature and effectiveness, Mexico City was
devastated by a severe earthquake in September 1985, which destroyed certain
buildings, including the headquarters of NAPIN and the development funds.
4.2  Although alternative arrangements were made as quickly as possible, they
involved housing staff in temporary offices, purchasing furniture, searching for
new premises, and reinstalling the computing equipment that handled all of the
operations of NAFIN and the funds.  This naturally caused delays in getting
credit and technical assistance programs into operation.
4.3   Following the PAI-FOGAIN split in 1984 and the earthquake in 1985, FOGAIN
resumed its normal activities and, in 1986, reorganized itself, adding a
Juridical Bureau and a Bureau of Loan Supervision, as a means of speeding up
credit authorization and improving supervision, functions which had normally been
handled previously by external consultants.
4.4   These changes, together with the introduction of automatic authorization,
cut FOGAIN's average subproject approval time from 45-60 days (and occasionally
longer) to 15 days.   In any case, a maximum response time of  60 days was
guaranteed, or authorization was to be automatic.
4.5   In addition, as NAFIN's internal operating reports indicate, FOMIN and
FIDEIN operations expanded during the period 1983-86, despite the country's
economic difficulties.   However, the World Bank's reimbursement rate slowed
because of the time needed to prepare the technical information it required for
authorization of subprojects.
4.6   The technical assistance provided, for both individuals and groups, sought
to induce businessmen to change their attitudes and embrace technological,
technical, administrative and marketing innovations. As a result, collective
purchasing centers were set up and credit unions established, among other
achievements.
V. Proiect Results
5.1   Implementation  of  this  project  was  clearly  not  easy,  and  it was
consequently not completed within the period anticipated at appraisal, which had
serious repercussions where the disbursement schedule was concerned. Despite the
slippage in compliance with the disbursement schedule, however, the loan was
almost fully utilized within a period only 18 months longer than expected. All
additional disbursement commitments made to the Bank during loan negotiations
were also met.
5.2   In the case of FOGAIN, all targets and objectives set for this period were
met, the only interruption in the rate of disbursement occurring in 1985 for the
reasons already indicated.   FOGAIN used the proceeds of the loan to assist a
total of 6,041 enterprises. By 1987, it was unable to meet its targets for lack
of funds, the amount allocated for this component having already been fully
committed.



- 24 -
5.3  Where FIDEIN was concerned, the severe economic crisis faced by Mexico
substantially reduced investment demand.   however, the financing channeled
through this fund helped to create 56,960 jobe during the period 1983-87.
5.4  FOMIN, for its part, assisted a total of 558 enterprises, providing them
with risk capital and capital for minority equity investments, which helped to
promote divestiture by FO1IN once the enterprises had reached full development
and thus to assist efficient enterprises.
5.5  With respect to technical assistance and training activities, PAI assisted
a total of 446,608 enterprises from 1984 to 1987, thereby directly contributing
to the industrial modernization proce.
5.6  In addition, using World Bank funding, lAPIN comissioned the Instituto
Naclonal de Geografla a Infor=Atlcs (INRGI) in 1987 to conduct a survey to
determine the status of micro,  mall and medium enterprises.  Although the
results of this study were not actually published until 1989, the information
obtained was used during negotiations for Loan 2858-MH.
5.7  Finally, it should be explained that coordination of programs followed
Federal Government policy guidelines for the period in question, and that in 1987
action was initiated to merge the various executing agencies with lAPIN, in order
to meet the requirements set by the new period.
VI. General Coments
6.1  Despite the series of problems that arose during the execution of Loan
2325-ME, its general objectives were nevertheless accomplished: the number of
enterprises assisted, loans granted and technical assistance activities
conducted, using the proceeds of the loan, met (or even exceeded, as in the case
of technical assistance) the targets originally set.
6.2  Among the factors which adversely affected the project execution process,
one in particular warrants mention, since it significantly delayed the rate of
loan disbursement -- namely the type and quantity of information requested by
IBRD for authorization of subprojects.
6.3  This problem could be alleviated in future operations if World Bank staff
responsible for project design were to allow the executing agency greater
participation at this early stage. Views could then be exchanged on the quantity
and type of information that -- given operating constraints -- should reasonably
be required for authorization of subprojects, while still allowing an adequate
disbursement rate to be maintained during project implemntation.



THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2325-ME)
PROJECT ACTIVITIES FINANCED BY THE DEVELOPMENT FUNDS AND THE PAI PROGRAM
ACTIVITY                                                            NO. OF BENPICIARY KNTERPRISES
1983      1984       1985        1986       1987
1.  Extension Services and Technical Assistance            14,549      9,119      5,203      8,084       9,653
2.  Working capital financing                                          4,997      4,815       3,412      4,372
3.  Fixed assets financing                                             3,927      3,327       2,059      2,220
4.  Capital works financing                                    58         73         58          48         46
S.  Zquity investment                                          109       121        115         112        111



THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2325-HE)
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE CHANNELED TO MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY
(Max$ millions)
FUND                     1983               1984               1985               1986               1987
1.  FOGAIN                 2,678.6            6,074.1           18,675.1           14,260.0            8,865.9
2.  FOHIN                    442.6            1,962.3              666.6            2,672.8           12,143.1
3.  FIDEIN                   101.5              564.8            2,173.0            4,035.0            5,458.2
4.  PAI                        9.7              141.4              393.9              473.7              533.2
TOTAL                3.232.4            8,742.6           21,908.6           21.441.5           27,000.4



- 27 -
PART III STATISTICAL IWJORHATIOI
1. RELATED BAD LOANS
1552-ME. Firat Small and   To generate growth   1978           Closed    Loan of US$47.0
Medium Scale Industry       in and employment                             million was closed on
Development Project (SMI   and promote                                    11/31/1981.
I)                          regional                                      PCR No. 7552 issued
development,                                  on December 1988.
1881-ME. Second Small and  Same aa above.         1980         Closed    Loan of US$100.0
Medium Scale Industry                                                     million was closed on
Development Project (SMI                                                  6/30/1985.
II)                                                                       PCR No. 7552 issued
on December 1988.
2858-ME. Fourth Small and  Same as above. Also  1987           In         Loan US$100.0
Medium Scale Industry       include pilot                       progress  million. Reduced from
Development Project (SMI   micro-industry,                                original amount of
IV)                                                                       US$185.0 million.
Became effective
3/01/1991.



- 28 -
2.  1X5C TINTABL
Identification                6110/1982                              6/10/1982
Appraisal Migglons
let Mission                  9120/1982                              9/20/1982
2nt Mission                  1/10/1983                               1/10/1983
Loan Nogotigtions             4/20/1983                               4/20/1983
Board Approval                6/23/1983                              6/23/1983
Loan Signature                8/25/1983                              8/25/1983
Loan Zffectivenso             9/2711983                              2/2711984
Loan Clog"ng                  6/30/1987                               6/30/1988
9/30/1989



: .  :'   .......  :'  .   '   :':'  '   :    '  ' j" '"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......
tS4UO~~~~~~ 9                                               TOU*OI Tsn,4ov
.... ~            ~~ ~ ~           ~ ~ ~~~           ~ j .. ... ....   ........ ....  :.ij
......-'  :' "..:.
-O :       -            O U  6.. ....j...6                                        ... .         . ......
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... .,,,..... ., ..                                                ,                                  ... .....i .........
::        :                :   .    ::   i  :   ::           i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  . .......
- :6:8M: ~~~~~......  .i-v o:...
(uo;tTuzF $sn)
SJIUIZS1l1SIG 'ZDIO  0Wt UZYIIS  Z&VL)D
- 6Z -



- 30 -
4. PROJECT ESTIMATE FINANCING
(US$ million equivalent)
tComponents-; -R00   4 0Ba:nk       GOW M0Total   SMI/ftji        Totol
*Credit                150.0       56.0   206.0         95.4         301.4
*Risk Capital           18.0        6.7    24.7         11.6          36.3
*Industrial Parks        4.6        1.7     6.3          3.0           9.3
*Technical               2.0        0.2     2.2            -           2.2
Assistance
TOTAL                 174.6*       64.6   239.2        110.0        349.2
|  Participation        50.0       18.5    68.5         31.5         100.0
* Front end fee of US$0.4 million is not included
CONTENT OF FINANCING
(US$million)
component.              Local Cost       7o:e1 gn- ixcnan             ni        of
Credit                    210.6                 90.8                59.2
Risk Capital               25.3                 11.0                 7.0
Industrial Parks           6.5                  2.8                  1.8
Technical                  0.8                  1.4                 0.6
Assistance
TOTAL                     243.2                106.0                68.6
Percentage                 70Z                  30Z                  20Z



- 31 -
5. ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
(US$ thousands)
r   -   -  :--   - .... .  . . . . . .-                      
Items                          A ri1d-
FOGAIN
* Fixed assets investments      75,000         81,400          81,323
* Permanent working capital     75,000         63,100          63,046
FOHIN
* Fixed assets and increases     8,000          7,900           7,897
in working capital
* Increase in permanent         10,000          4,700           4,695
working capital
FIDEIN                           4,600          14,600         14,596
Technical Assistance             1,964          2,700           2,703
Capitalized Front End Fee          436             436            436
TOTAL                          17S000         175,000        174,698



- 32 -
6. STATUS 0F IZGAL COYKEATS
Loan Agreement
Section 3.11      *Cost-Benefit Analysis of       lot complied  Study was intially put on
extension       service                         hold for one year, then
postponed to May 1989.
Study not carried out.
Section 5.01      *Consultation vith Bank         In             Regulations were revised in
(b)                before            changes        compliance    1986.
Introduced in FOGAIN's
operating regulations
Project
Executlon
Document (PAD)
PAI
*Industrial Survey of            In             Survey initiated in 1984
enterprises                      compliance    and completed in 1986.
els-post evaluation of           Not complied  Evaluation not carried out.
Subprojects under Ln.1552-M
and Ln.1881-ME.
FOGAIN
*Plln of action established    in              Delay occurred because of
to                improvo        compliance    earthquake. Task completed
portfolio control                               in 1986.
elapllemntation of guarantee   lot complied  Implemented for micro-
program                             industry only, but not with
Bank funds.
FIDEIN
*leorganization of FIDEIN       In             Institutional set-up
compliance    remained unchanged but
staff upgraded.
elvaluation of its overall      lot complied  Study not performed.
operation
FOKIN
*Two-phase study to determine  Not             Study not performed.
problems its          completed
clients



- 33 -
7. UJS 0 SAK REsso3cEs
(US$ million)
| FOGAIN                               144.4         82.0
Fixed assets                          81.3         47.0
Permanent working capital             63.1         35.0
| FOMIN                                 15.6          8.0
Fixed assets and increases in          7.9          4.0
working capital
Increase in permanent working          4.7          4.0
capital
FIDEIN                                  14.6          8.0
Technical Assistance                     2.7          2.0
Front end fee                            0.4            -
-i TOTAL                               174.7        100.0
DISTRIBUTION 0F TOE TICUEICAL ASSISTANCE IUIES
(US$ thousands)
| INFOTEC                   853.3        32.0
1 INEGI                     625.4        23.0
|FPOMIN                      68.5         3.0
| FOGAIN                    102.1         4.0
Consultants                  20.1          1.0
Computer Equipment           37.4          1.0
PAI courses and             786.6        28.0
seminars
Industrial extension        205.3         8.0
training
TOTAL                     2,703.7        100.0



- 34 -
8.  STAFF INPUTS BY STAGE OF PlOJECT CYCLE
A. Staff Inputs
Through Appraisal                               82.6
Appraisal through Board                         24.1
Approval
Supervision                                    125.7
PCR                                             18.4
B. Missions
AT T              M .Ot i- .   X4TYEA    . -i. i.:S,  . N R OF  .: -S  : . .: -iS- .. C,L,,-IZA . N.U-:B:-E.  OP.-: STAFF.  DA'MS
-                                             : :f.1 0   ,04 | .   L   iN i :.iE ,. iv, A, t i, ::! 40 ,0-, S: i ., .. , .: ... i E ... , ,, E .... . ,,.E ,E,: ',; ,'-'S -E''.L'. . . . . .... . . . . ... . . . .   . .
REPORT
Apprisal               6/1982              4          FNA,LEG,POF,OTH             4            12        5/1983
Post-Appraisal         1/1983              3            FNA, LEG,POF              3            6         5/1983
Supervision*           8/1983              1                 POP                  2            2        11/1983
Supervision            11/1983             1                 POP                  1            1        12/1983
Supevision             1211983             1                 POP                  1            1         2/1984
Supervision            3/1984              1                 POP                  2            2         6/1984
Supmvision             4/1985              1                 POF                  2            2         7/1984
Supervision            611985              1                 FNA                  2            2        10/1985
Supervision            7/1985              2               PNA,POP                2            4        11/1985
Supervision            2/1986              1                 POP                  1            1         2/1986
Superviuion*           12/1986             1                 PNA                  2            2         1/1987
Supervision*           9/1987              2               PNA,POP                2            4        11/1987
Supervision*           10/1988             2               FNA,POP                1            2        11/1988
Supervision            2/1989              2               FNA,POP                1            2         2/1989
PCR                    2/1991              1                 OTH                  2            2         4/1991
(draft)
* combined with iupviaous of other projects
Specialities: Project Officer-POP; Pinancial Analyst-PNA; Legal-LEG; Oter-OTH



- 35 -
9. FrAOECIRE-IFIS
A) Direct Benefits
[INDICATORS                                   EPRIA   STIMATE:   A..   ....R.1SUM-~
Number of Enterprises Receiving Credits              2,650             6,162
*FOGAIN                                             2,500             6,041
*FOMIN                                               150              78
*FIDEIN                                            10- 12             43
Number of Jobs Generated                             10,000            20,000 - 25,000 *
Number of jobs Preserved                         20,000 - 30,000       Over 100,000 *|
Technical Assistance                               no estimate         Over 500 firms
Source: NAFIN
B) Indirect Benefits
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.             .   :: . :. :    i~j.--.-.   -.. .. . . . .   ..
FIDEIN Studies
*Prefeasibility       94 in 26 States
*Feasibility          35 in 17 States
*Engineering          49 in industrial parks
*Special Reports      over 20
Other Benefits          *Industrial decentralization
*Follow-up subproject lending
-Strengthened NAFIN financial intormediary
*Institutionalized TA services within NAFIN
-Expanded subproject local market export
Source: NAFIN
* NAFIN estimate ** FIDEIN alone estimated 65,000 from its financed projects.



- 36 -
MACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
DOCUMENTO DE TERMINACION DE PROYECTO
IEXICO
T-CA 1SAPA DEL PitOYTO DE APOYO A LA PEQOURA Y.EDIANA
INUSTRA
(Pr&stano 2325-ME)
Junio 1992
1
n&ceola wuM ase



- 37 -
I K D I C U
I.  ANTECEDENTES
II.  ORGANIZACION Y DISEaO
III. DESCRIPCION Y OBJETIVOS
IV.  EJECUCION DEL PROYECTO
V.   RESULTADOS
VI.  COMENTARIOS GENERALES
VII. ANEXOS
2
nacional fnnca



- 38 -
I.   ANTECEDENTES
En 1978, el Gobierno Federal, a traves de Nacional Financiera,
S.A., cre6 el Programa de Apoyo Integral a la Industria Mediana
y Pequenia (PAI) con el objeto de fortalecer y promover las
acciones encaminadas a la modernizaci6n y crecimiento del sector
industrial, a traves de un mejor aprovechamiento de los recursos
humanos, financieros y tecnol6gicos de que dispone.
En este sentido y como parte de las acciones implementadas para
el logro de sus objetivos el PAI busc6 minimizar la dispersi6n
de los programas y apoyos a la pequefia y mediana industria, por
lo que desarroll6 diferentes programas de asistencia tecnica y
promovi6 integralmente a los Fondos de Fomento constituidos por
el Gobierno Federal para el apoyo de la pequena y mediana
industria, tales como el Fondo Nacional de Estudios y Proyectos
(FONEP), Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial (FOMIN), Fondo de
Xarantfa y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequefia (FOGAIN),
Fideicomiso para el estudio y Fomento de Conjuntos, Parques,
Ciudades Industriales y Centros Comerciales (FIDEIN) y el Fondo
de Informaci6n y Documentaci6n para la Industria (INFOTEC).
Asimismo, centraliz6 la operacion de los recursos externos
captados de prestamos contratados con el Banco Mundial para
financiar a estos estratos industriales entre los que figuran
dos operaciones previas contratadas con este Organismo por 147.0
millones de d6lares (pr6stamos 1552-ME por 47.0 y 1881-ME por
100.0 millones de d6lares respectivamente), cuya administracifn
fue satisfactoria, de conformidad con lo expresado en los
documentos de terminaci6n de proyecto de ambas operaciones, a
pesar de los graves problemas macroecon6micos que ya se gestaban
y que detonaron a principios de la decada de los 80's.
3
nacional financiera



- 39 -
Pr4staao 2325-XE
Sobre este iltimo punto es conveniente sehalar que durante el
periodo comprendido entre 1982-1988, el pals atravesd por una
gran crisis econ6mica, provocada fundamentalmente por: el gran
endeudamiento interno y externo del Gobierno Federal: la
drastica caida durante 1982 de los precios internacionales del
petr6leo, principal producto de exportacion en el PaIs; las
altas tasas de inflaci6n obtenidas como resultado de este
proceso que colapsaron los mercados domesticos y redujeron el
crecimiento del sector productivo de nuestra economia.
Ante el cambio de administracidn del Gobierno Federal en 1982,
el Banco Mundial durante la evaluaci6n de este nuevo prestamo
sugirio una serie de medidas, que a su punto de vista pudieran
minimizar los efectos que este proceso ocasionard en la
ejecucion del proyecto, tales cono:
PROPUESTA                       OBSERVACIONES
1.   Creaci6n de una Unidad de      *    Al interior de NAFIN se
apoyo a la mediana  y pe-            contaba con  la  Direc-
quefia industria cuyo  ob-           ci6n Adjunta de  Promo-
jetivo seria llevar a ca-           ci6n, Filiales y Fidei-
bo la coordinacion de las            comisos,  la  cual  era
actividades concernientes            encargada de  normar y
al buen desempeho  en  la            supervisar  la  funcidn
ejecuci6n del proyecto.              de  los diferentes  fi-
deicomisos del Gobier-
no en cumplimiento a
sus propias politicas.
4
nacional financiera



- 40 -
III ETAPA DEL PROGRAMA DE APOYO A
AL  PEQUERA  Y MEDIANA INDUSTRIA
PROPUESTA                       OBSERVACIONES
2.   Desarrollar un sistsua  d      *    Dentro del sistema  de
control  de   cartera   en          cdmputo del FOGAIN,  se
FOGAIN.                             desarrollo un  mddulo
especifico para identi-
ficar aquellos subpro-
yectos que pudieran ser
susceptibles de redes-
cuento ante el BIRF,
sin embargo, no se man-
tenian en up archivo
por separado.
3.   Concluir las  negociaciones   *    El INFOTEC durante  el
iniciadas con INFOTEC  para         sexenio comprendido en-
apoyar  los  requerimientos         tre 1982-1988  apoyb  a
de inforuacidn y asistencia         estratos con servicios
tecnoldgica de la pequefta y        informaci6n y asistencia
mediana industria.                  tecnol6gica que a su vez
fueron obtenidos de los
convenios suscritos en-
tre INFOTEC y el Banco
Mundial, los Servicios
Nacionales de Informa-
ci6n Tecnol6gica, la
Organizacion  Asiatica
de Productividad Tec-
nol6gica.
5
nactonad fmnanclor



- 41 -
Pr6stauo 2325-RE
PROPUESTA                       OBSERVACIONES
4.   Establecimiento de un  Pro-   *    A pesar de que dicho
grama de capacitaci6n  para         Programa de capacitacion
el personal del FOMIN.              no fue implantado, los
resultados del FOXIN
en 1983, fueron satis-
factorios en  t6ruinos
reales y para 1984  el
Fondo busc6 garantizar
Su  participaci6n   on
forma temporal a fin de
asegurar la recupera-
cidn de sUs recursos.
El Banco Mundial tambien estableci6 como un compromiso por parte
del PAI, la realizacion de diferentes estudios, tal como:
-    Evaluaci6n de los principales programas implementados
por el PAI.
-    Analisis  del  costo-beneficio  de  los  programas
implementadOs por el PAI.
-    Andlisis ex-post del impacto provocado por el prestamo
utilizando para ello una muestra representativa de los
suproyectos apoyados por el FOGAIN.
-    Andlisis de una serie de empresas apoyadas por el
FOGAIN a fin de determinaar e1 impacto de la crisis
econ6mica en las pequehas y modianas industrias.
Dichos estudios no fueron realizados en virtud de las siguientes
causas:
-    Durante 1985 el Gobierno Federal como part. de sus medidas
de racionalizaci6n de los diversos instrumentos de apoyo al
sector industrial, decidio fusionar las entidades de
fomento a la estructura de NAFIN.
6
nacional financtera



- 42 -
III ETAPA DEL PROGRAMA DE APOYO A
LA PEQUERA Y MEDIANA INDUSTRIA
En este sentido la prinera institucidn que pasa a formar
parte de Nacional Financiera es el PAI, durante el ano de
1987, afio en que el prestamo apenas reactivaba su
operatividad debido a los retrasos ya mencionados en puntos
anteriores.
Adicionalmente y durante el proceso de planeacion y
formalizacion de la fusi6n de los Fondos de Fomento a la
Instituci6n, se evalu6 la conveniencia de continuar con los
programa desarrollados por esas instituciones y derivado
del an&lisis efectuado por NAFIN, se comprob6 que la
aplicaci6n de los Programas de Asistencia Tecnica no habia
resultado tan exitosa como se esperaba, en virtud de que
estos no alcanzaban a responder a las grandes necesidades
de los estratos atendidos, ante lo cual se perdi6 la
continuidad en los programas ejecutados por el PAI y por lo
tanto se imposibilito la realizacion de los estudios
solicitados.
-    Con relacion a los estudios solicitados para evaluar el
impacto del prestamo en los estratos industriales mediano
y pequefto, es conveniente sefialar que durante 1989, aho en
que el pr6stamo concluyo, FOGAIN llevaba a cabo su proceso
de incorporaci6n a NAFIN, lo cual retraso el cumplimiento
de este compromiso, sin embargo, actualmente se ha
contemplado la posibilidad de realizarlos conjuntamente con
los resultados obtenidos del prestamo 2858-ME (PAI IV), a
fin de poder establecer andlisis comparativos de los
diferentes resultados obtenidos en contextos econfmicos tan
diferentes como los experimentados par Mexico durante el
peri6do 1980-1992.
En este sentido es conveniente sefialar que las medidas sugeridas
por el BIRF no fueron implementadas por NAFIN en el estricto
sentido en que se recomendaron, sin embargo las acciones
instrumentadas por esta Instituci6n a lo largo de la ejecuci6n
del Programa permitieron la adecuada operaci6n de los programas
y la implementacion del proyecto en general cumpli6 sus
objetivos cuantitativos y cualitativos en un grado ampliamente
satisfactorio.
7
nacional financiera



- 43 -
Pr6stazo 2325-ME
II.  DESCRIPCION Y OBJETIVOS DEL PROYE
El prdstamo desde su identificacion fue concebido como una serie
de apoyos para ampliar la base del sector industrial mediano y
pequefio ante la grave crisis economica del Pais. Durante la
ejecuci6n  del  mismo,  presento  una  tendencia  hacia  la
canalizacion de recursos para capital de trabajo permanente y
adquisici6n de maquinaria y equipo principalmente, con el objeto
de evitar una mayor reduccion en los niveles de produccion y
empleo logrados por este sector.
Al igual que las dos operaciones anteriormente contratadas con
el BIRF, los recursos de este prestamo fueron entregados al PAI
para su administracion y canalizaci6n al sector industrial, a
traves de los Fondos de Fomento y con base en las experiencias
obtenidas, se fijo un calendario de disposiciones para un
peri6do no mayor de cuatro ahos (1983-1987).
El prestamo se suscribi6 por 175.0 millones de d6lares de los
cuales 150.0 millones fueron etiquetados para apoyar operaciones
de credito, 18.0 millones para aportacidn accionaria, 5.0
millones para infraestructura industrial y 2.0 millones para
programas de asistencia tecnica.
Del total asignado en cada una de las categorias del pr&stamo,
se utilizaron 174'979,354.00 d6lares de acuerdo al siguiente
desglose:
Categoria I.   Crddito                   144'792,000.00
Categoria II.  Capital accionario          12'887,354.00
Categoria III. Infraestructura             14'600,000.00
Categoria IV.  Asistencia Tecnica           2'700,000.00
TOTAL     174'979,354.00
8
nacional financ,era



-44 -
III ETAPA DEL PROGRAMA DE APOYO A
LA PEQUERA Y KEDIANA INDUSTRIA
III. ORGANIZACION Y DISErO DnEL PROYECTO
El pr6stano 2325-HE (PAI III) fue firmado el 15 de agosto de
1983 y declarado en efectividad a partir del 16 de enero de
1984, dada la imposibilidad de Nacional Financiera y el PAI para
dar cumplimiento a las condiciones de efectividad, lo cual fue
provocado por dos razones principalnente:
-    la falta de consideracion por parte del BIRF de
ls graves problemas economicos y politicos del
Pals, los cuales marcaron una fuerte diferencia
en la manera de aplicaci6n de los recursos con
respecto  a  las  dos  primeras   operaciones
contratadas con el Banco Mundial, y
la reestructuracion organizacional y estructural que
durante 1983-1984 fue experimentada principalmente en
las ostructuras del PAI y el FOGAIN
A los pocas meses de gue el PAI iniciara operaciones en 1978, la
Secretaria Tdcnica del PAI y la Direccidn General del FOGAIN
recayeron bajo la responsabilidad de una sola persona,
circunscribiendo a ambos dentro de una misma estructura
administrativa, ante lo cual y dado la diferencia en su
concepcidn, result6 necesario el establecimiento de una
*structura dual que reportara a la misma direccidn.
La ostructura admisitrativa del PAI que funcionaba dentro del
esquena organizacional do FOGAIN, estaba conformada por una
plantilla de 300 plazas y estructurada de la siguiente manera:
-    Secretaria Tecnica
-    Subdirecci6n General
-    Subdireccidn de Operacidn
-    Subdirecci6n do Asistencia Tecnica
-    Subdireccidn de Promocidn
-    Subdirecciones Regionales (8)
9
n-cional ftnan6iera



- 45 -
Prdstauo 2325-NE
Sin embargo, la operacion conjunta de *stos organismos propicio
que el PAI no atendiera con la oficiencia requerida mu funcion
de congruencia intersectorial, por lo quo a partir do 1984, el
PAI  replanted  sus  objetivas  y  estrat6gias,  separ6ndose
definitivamente de la ostructura organizacional del FOGAIN para
transfornarse en ojecutor do Programas de Asistoncia Tecnica
Integrales.
La propuesta de organizacidn contemplo la eliminacidn, creacidn
y reubicacidn do unidades administrativas con e1 prop6sito de
optimizar la operatividad del PAI, manejando i1nicamente las 300
plazas autorizadas por e1 PAZ.
Durante este mismo afio (1984), so croa el Conit6 T4cnico del PAI
encargado de sancionar y supervisar la impleuontacidn de los
programas desarrollados por osa Institucidn, asi como las
unidades de Organizacion y Ndtodo., la Contraloria Interna, la
Coordinacion de Subdirocciones Regionales.
IV.  EJEPCUCIO  DEL POUT
Es conveniento sehalar quo adicionalmento al rotraso ya
provocado por la distencia *ntr  la f-echa do firma y la fecha do
declaracidn de ofectividad del pr6stamo, on S-ptienbre do 1985
un fuerte torr-ooto azat6 a 1  Cd. do N6xico, dorruub6ndose
entre otras cosas, .1 editfcioa n quo Nacional Financiera y loa
Fondos de Pouento atendian sus operaciones.
Esta situacidn adn y cuando fue solucionada lo ads rapidamente
posible, implicd la adecuacidn del personal on oficinas
provisionales, coupra de zobiliario busqueda do nuovas
instalaciones y la roinstalaci6n del equipo do co6puto quo
manejaba toda la operacion do ostas entidades, rotrasandose asi
la operacion de los prograzas do cr6dito y asistencia t6cnica.
10
nacional financiera



- 46 -
III ETAPA DEL PROGRAKA DE APOYO A
1A PEQUERA Y MEDIANA INDUSTRIA
Posteriormente a la separaci6n del PAI-FOGAIN en 1984 y despues
del sismo de 1985, FOGAIN continuo normalmente *us actividades
e instruuent6 durante 1986 una reestructuracion en su
organizaci6n, incorporando a su estructura las Dirocciones
Juridica y de Sequiziento de Cr6dito con el objeto de agilizar
su proceso de autorizacion de cr6dito y mejorar au funci6n de
supervisidn, en virtud de que 6stas funciones se venian
realizando  normalmente  a  traves  de  la  contrataci6n  de
consultores externos.
Ante estas modificaciones y aunado al Programa de Autorizacion
automitica instrunentado por .1 FOGAIN, es conveniente sefalar
que el proceso de autorizacion de proyectos, que era en promedio
entre 45 y 60 dias y on algunos casos mayor, fue reducido a un
lapso de 15 dias promedio y se garantizo que la respuesta sobre
el financiamiento no excediera en ningdn caso de los sesenta
dias, pues. en caso contrario se procederia a la autorizacion
automatica.
Por otra parte y seg1n los reportes internos de operacion de
NAPIN, la operaci6n del FONIN y do FIDEIN observ6 crecimiento
durante el peri6do couprendido entre 1983 y 1986, a pesar de la
dificil  situacion econ6mica  prevaleciente en el pals,  sin
embargo e1 ritmo de reembolso de recursos por parte del Banco
Mundial disminuy6 en virtud del tiempo utilizado en la
preparacion de la inforuaci6n tdcnica solicitada por el Banco
Mundial para la autorizaci6n de subproyectos.
La Asistencia Tdcnica en forma individual y colectiva se brindd
buscando un caubio de actitud on ei empresario a fin de
inducirlo a la innovaci6n tocnol6qica, t6cnica, administrativa
y de couercializaci6n. Derivado de estas acciones se obtuvo la
constitucidn de contros do coupras en comdn y uniones de cr&dito
entre otros.
11
nac.anad financuer~a



- 47 -
Pr6stano 2325-NE
V.  RESULTADOS DEL PROYECTO
Como se puede observar, el proceso de ejecuci6n del proyecto no
fue facil lo cual provoc6 que la ejecuci6n del proyecto no fuera
concluido de acuerdo a lo previsto durante la evaluacidn del
proyecto,  repercutiendo  drdsticamente  en  el  peri6do  de
desembolso de recursos ante el Banco. Sin embargo y a pesar de
los retrasos en el calendario de desembolsos, el pr6stamo se
dispuso practicamente en su totalidad, en un periddo mayor al
previsto en tan solo un aho y medio. Asi mismo, se di6
cumplimiento   a   todos   los   compromisos   de   desembolso
adicionalmente  contraidos  con  ese  Organismo  durante  la
contrataci6n del Prestamo.
Con la relacidn a la operacidn del FOGAIN, este cumplio con las
metas y objetivos planteados para este peri6do, interrumpiendo
solamente el ritmo de desembolsos ante el Banco Mundial en 1985,
por las causas que ya fueron descritas con anterioridad. El
FOGAIN atendi6 un total de 6,041 empresas con recursos del
pr6stamo. Para 1987, este fondo no pudo alcanzar las metas
previstas en virtud de la falta de recursos pues para el
prestamo 2325-ME ya se habia comprometido la totalidad del
componente que se le asign6.
Por parte del FIDEIN y ante la grave crisis econ6mica del pals,
sus programas se redujeron sustancialmente por falta de demanda,
sin embargo el financiamiento canalizado por esta instituci6n
favorecio la creacion de 56,960 empleos durante el periddo 1983-
1987.
Por parte del FOMIN, se atendi6 un total de 558 empresas con
aportaci6n de capital de cardcter temporal y minoritario, lo
cual ha favorecido para fomentar la desincorporacidn de las
empresas una vez que 6stas han conseguido su madurez, fomentando
asi el apoyo a empresas eficientes.
Con relacidn a las actividades de Asistencia T6cnica y
Capacitacion, el PAI apoyo entre 1984-1987 un total de 46,608
empresas contribuyendo directamente al proceso de modernizaci6n
industrial.
12
nacional financiera



- 48 -
III ETAPA DEL PROGRAMA DE APOYO A
LA PEQUHIA Y NDIANA INDUSTRIA
Asimisuo y d-rivado del financiaziento obtenido del Banco
Mundial, durante 1987 NAPIN encomendo la realizacion de una
*ncuesta para deteruinar la *ituaci6n do la micro, pequefia y
mediana empresa al Instituto Nacional de GCograf la e Inform6tica
(INEGI) cuyos resultados fueron publicados hasta 1989, sin
embargo la informacifn obtenida fue utilizads durante la
negociaci6n del prdstamo 2858-NE.
Finalmente es conveniente aclarar que la coordinaci6n de los
programsas fue realizada de conforuidad con los lineamientos de
politica establecidos por el Gobierno Federal para ese peri6do
y para 1987 so inicia la incorporaci6n de las diferentes
entidades ejecutoras a NAFIN, con el objeto de responder a los
requerizientos del nuevo periddo.
13
nacuonid hnancsers



- 49 -
Prestamo 2325-NE
1.   Es  conveniente  sehialar  que  no  obstante  la  serie  de
problemas que se presentaron durante la ejecuci6n del
prestamo 2325-ME, los objetivos generales del mismo fueron
alcanzados; el ndmero de empresas apoyadas, crdditos
concedidos y actividades de asistencia tecnica realizadas
con los recursos del pr6stamo alcanzaron (y en el caso de
asistencia tecnica superaron), las metas establecidas
originalmente.
2.   Adicionalmente a los factores negativos mencionados que
afectaron la ejecuci6n del Programa, es conveniente
mencionar  como  un  factor  fundamental  que  retrasd
considerablemente el ritmo de desembolsos del pr6stamo, fue
el tipo y cantidad de informacion solicitada por el BIRF
para autorizar subproyectos.
3.  Al  respecto  es  conveniente  sefialar  que  en  futuras
operaciones, este problema podria disminuirse si los
tecnicos del Banco Mundial, encargados del disefho del
Programa a ser apoyado, permitieran que existiera una mayor
participaci6n del ejecutor en dicha etapa de preparacy6n
del proyecto, con el objeto de intercambiar puntos de vista
sobre  la  cantidad  y  el  tipo  de  informacidn  quo
operativamente seria mds conveniente presentar para
autorizaci6n de subproyectos, con el objeto de mantener un
adecuado ritmo de desembolsos durante la ejecuci6n del
mismo.
14
nacional financtera



- 50 -
III ETAPA DEL PROGRAXA DE APOYO A
LA PEQUERA Y KEDIANA INDUSTRIA
x N E X O S



III ITAPA DEL PROGRAMA DE APOYO A
LA PEQUERA Y MEDIANA INDUSTRIA
BALACE D  E3cucION MR1 PAT   E O ONDOS DE FONENTO YELNATPl
ACTIVIDAD                                                NUMERO DE EMPREAS  ATENHIDAS
1983      1984      1985       1986      1987
1.   Orientaci6n y Asistencia T6cnica               14,549     9,119    5,203      8,084     9,653
2.   Credito de Habilitaci6n o Avio                            4,997    4,815      3,412     4,372
3.   Cr6dito Refaccionario                                     3,927    3,327      2,059     2,220
4.   Crddito Refaccionario para Insta-                  58        73        58        48        46
laciones fisicas
5.   Aportaci6n Accionaria                             109       121       115       112       ill
15



Pr4staao 2325-M1
APOYOS FINANCIZERO CANALI ZADOS A LA MICRO, PEQUERA Y MEDIANA INDUSTRIA
(Millones de Pesos)
F O N p 0                      18             94L2                           2218
1.   FOGAIN                      2,678.6         6,074.1        18,675.1       14,260.0     8,865.9
2.   FOMIN                         442.6         1,962.3           666.6        2,672.8    12,143.1
3.   FIDEIN                        101.5           564.8         2,173.0        4,035.0     5,458.2
4.   PAI                              9.7          141.4           393.9          473.7       533.2
TOTAL                  3,232.4         8,742.6        21,908.6      21,441.5    27,000.4
16



