Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4398a-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
THIRD St-ALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 31, 1983
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may, be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUKKJNCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         Peso (Mex$)
Since December 20, 1982, Mexico has the following exchange rates:
(i) a sliding controlled rate for priority imports, most exports
and service payments on foreigrn debt; this was set at 95 pesos per
dollar on December 20 and was about 115 on May 20, 1983 (used in
this report); and (ii) a free exchange rate for all other
transactions; in recent days the free peso has been trading around
148 per dollar.
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACE          Index of Average Cost of Funds to Multipurpose Banks
BANXICO     Banco de Mexico, S.A.
CANACINTRA  Camara Nacional de la Industria de Transformacion
CEDI        Certificado de Devolucion de Impuestos
CENAPRO      Centro Nacional de Productividad
CEPROFI     Certificados de Promocion Fiscal
CEPSE        Centro Empresarial de Perfeccionamiento Socio-Economico, A.C.
CONACYT     Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia
CONCAMIN    Confederacion de Camaras Industriales
DGCP        Direccion General de Capacitacion y Productividad
DGE          Direccion General de Empleo
EFF         Extended Fund Facility
FIDEIN       Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques y Ciudades Industriales
FIRA        Fondo Instituido en Relacion con la Agricultura
FISOMEX      Fomento Industrial SOMEX
FOGAIN      Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequena
FOMEX        Fondo para el Fomento de las Exportaciones de Productos
Manufacturados
FOMIN        Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial
FONATUR     Fondo Nacional de Turismo
FONEI       Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial
FONEP       Fondo Nacional de Estudios de Preinversion
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
IMCE        Instituto Mexicano de Comercio Exterior
IMF          International Monetary Fund
IMIT         Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones Tecnologicas
INFONAVIT   Instituto de Fomento Nacional de Vivienda para los Trabajadores
INFOTEC      Servicio de Informacion Tecnologica
IPADE       Instituto Panamer4cano de Alta Direccion de Empresa
NAFINSA     Nacional Financiera, S.A.
PAI         Programa de Apoyo Integral a la Industria Mediana y Pequena
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
SECOFIN     Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial
SEDUE        Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia
SEPAFIN     Secretaria de Patrimonio Nacional y Fomento Industrial
SFB         Standard Factory Building
SMI          Small and Medium-Scale Industry
SNE          Servicio Nacional de Empleo
SOE          Statement of Expenditure
SOMEX        Sociedad Mexicana de Credito Industrial
STPS        Secretaria de Trabajo y Prevision Social
FISCAL YEAPR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.    THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS AND MEDIUM SCALE
INDUSTRY.                                                                        1
A.    Introduction  ........................................                     I
Recent Economic Events  ..............................                    1
B.    Manufacturing Sector Performance and Policy                 .........      1
Growth and Structure ......................               .    .1
Imports  ...........         ..................................           2
Exports  ...        ..........................................            3
Employment  .........          .................................          3
The Industrial Development Plan and Industrial
Incentives  ........................................                    3
Small and Medium Industry  ...........................                    4
C.    The Financial Sector ............................                          5
Institutional Structure  .............................                    5
Credit Availability and Interest Rate Policy                 ........     6
SMI Financing  .......................................                    7
D.    Prospects, Policy and the Project  ...................                    8
Prospects  ..........................................                     8
Policy  ..............................................                    8
The Project ............                                                  9
II. THE INTEGRATED SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM (PAI) ................    .                                            11
Introduction  ........................................                   11
PAI's Organizational Structure  ......................                   11
The Industrial Extension Service  ....................                   12
This report was prepared by Messrs. Claudio J. Joseph, and George Faillace,
Ms. Judith Press, LCPI2; Ms. Michelle Pilon, LCP; and Mr. A. Cabral de Andrade,
(Consultant), following two missions to the field in September/October, 1982
and January 1983, respectively.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
Specialized Technical Assistance Institutions  .......                      13
- INFOTEC   . .13
-     Direccion General de Capacitacion y
Productividad   .                       .14
-  Direccion General de Empleo                        .        .            14
-     Other Specialized Technical Assistance
Institutions        ................. ................             14
Participating Lending Institutions  ....                 ..............     15
A.    Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria
Mediana y Pequena (FOGAIN)  ........................                      15
-     Organization, Management and Staffing                                 15
-     Operating Regulations and Policies .16
-  Onlending Interest Rates   .                        .16
-   Participating Intermediaries   .                      .17
-  Past Operations and Impact   .                        .17
-  The Credit Guarantee Scheme   .                       .18
-  Past Financial Performance   .                       .18
-   Project Appraisal and Supervision   .                    .19
-  Procurement and Disbursement   .                      .19
-     Accounting Procedures, Data Processing
and Auditing Arrangements   .                   .20
-  Projected Demand.                                                        20
-     Operational and Financial Projections   .                 .21
B.    Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial (FOMIN)  . .......                      22
-  Background and Objectives   .                        .22
-   Organization, Management and Staffing  . .22
- Investment Goals   .                            .23
-  Investment Instruments   .                         .23
-     Past Performance          .................           e.....          24
- Portfolio Quality    .                           .24
-   Project Appraisal and Supervision   .                    .25
-   Procurement and Disbursement    .                      .25
-   Accounting Procedures and Auditing  . .25
-   Financial Position and Projections  . .26
C.    Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques y Ciudades
Industriales (FIDEIN) .26
-     Background, Objectives and Organization                               26
-     Organization, Management and Staffing                   .             27
-     Past Performance  ...........................                .        27
- New Program   .                              .28
-   Project Appraisal and Supervision  .                     .28
-  Procurement and Disbursement   .                       .29
-     Accounting, Credit Control and Auditing                               29
-   Financial Situation and Projections  . .29



- iii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
III. THE PROJECT AND THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN ........................             31
Experience Under Previous Bank Loans .....................            31
Focus of Proposed Third Project ..........................            31
Size of Program and Proposed Loan ........................            32
- The Credit Component .32
-  Working Capital Subprojects .34
-  Investment Subprojects .34
-    Common Facilities Subprojects .34
-  The Risk Capital Component .34
-  The Industrial Estates Component .35
-    The Technical Assistance Component .35
Loan Channelling and Repayment Arrangements ....         ..........   35
Procurement and Disbursement .............................            36
Approval Limits ..........................................            37
-    FOGAIN ..............................................            37
-    FOMIN ...............................................            37
-    FIDEIN ..............................................             37
-    Technical Assistance ................................             37
Auditing .................................................            37
Project Benefits and Risks ...............................             37
-    Risks   ...............................................           38
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .........................              39
A.   Agreements and/or Understandings Reached ....        ........     39
B.   Recommendation ......................................             40
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex I - The Average Cost of Funds (ACF) Index
Annex 2 - Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursements
Annex 3 - Project Execution Document



- iv -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Annex 4 - Supporting Tables
T-1       Structure of Gross Value of Industrial Production by Type of
Goods (Current Pesos), 1970-1980.
T-2       Structure of Gross Value of Industrial Production by Type of
Goods (Constant Pesos), 1970-1980.
T-3       Structure of Value Added by Type of Goods (Current Pesos),
1970-1980.
T-4       Structure of Value Added by Type of Goods (Constant 1970
Pesos), 1970-1978.
T-5       Structure of Industrial Imports by Type of Goods (Current
Pesos CIF), 1970-1978.
T-6       Structure of Industrial Exports by Type of Goods (Current
Pesos FOB), 1970-78.
T-7       Summary of Principal Fiscal Incentives for Industrial
Investment Under Original 1979 Decrees.
T-8       Alternative Incentive System for Employment Generation.
T-9       Value of Investment Approved Under Investment Incentive Laws
by Priority Classification.
T-10      Manufacturing Industries CEPROFIs Issued for Actual
Investment, 1979-1981.
T-11      Number of Industrial Establishments, Employment and Value
Added by Manufacture, According to the Number of
Employees, 1970 and 1975.
T-12      Structure of Manufacturing Industry, 1970-1975.
T-13      Organization Chart of FOGAIN and PAI Secretariat.
T-14      Integrated Small and Medium Scale Industry Program (PAI)
Financial Statements.
T-15      Estimated Breakdown of Technical Assistance Component by
Institution for the Proposed Project Loan.
T-16      Analysis of FOGAIN's Total Credit Operations, 1954 to 1982.
T-17      FOGAIN's Balance Sheets and Income Statements Audited and
Unaudited, 1980-1982.
T-18      FOGAIN's Projected Sources and Uses of Funds.



-v-
Table of Contents (Continued)
Annex 4 - Supporting Tables (Continued)
T-19      FOGAIN's Projected Balance Sheets, 1983-1987.
T-20      FOGAIN's Projected Income Statements, 1983-1987.
T-21      FOGAIN's Current Interest Rate Structure.
T-22      Summary of FOMIN's Investments, 1978-1982.
T-23      Economic Activity of Firms Supervised by FOMIN, 1978-1982.
T-24      FOMIN's Equity Investment Held.
T-25      FOMIN's Convertible Credit Operations.
T-26      Revenues from FOMIN's Disinvestments, 1980-1982.
T-27      FOMIN - Audited and Projected Balance Sheets, 1980-1987.
T-28      FOMIN - Audited and Projected Income Statements, 1980-1987.
T-29      FOMIN's Sources and Applications of Funds, 1983-1987.
T-30      FIDEIN - Audited and Projected Balance Sheets, 1980-1987.
T-31      FIDEIN - Audited and Projected Income Statements, 1980-1987.
T-32      Resources Needed for Support of FIDEIN's Expected Level of
Operations, 1983-1986.
Annex 5 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File






MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I.  THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS AND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY
A. Introduction
1.01 Recent Economic Events. The discovery and exploitation of significant
petroleum reserves was a major contributor to the rapid expansion of the
Mexican economy during the four years from 1978-1981. Similarly, the recent
oil glut has been the immediate, though not the underlying, cause of Mexico's
current recession. Petroleum exports, coupled with Mexico's large borrowings
abroad, enabled the Government to maintain the peso at a level inconsistent
with the differential between foreign and domestic inflation rates, which
grew progressively as a result of the Administration's liberal demand
management and investment policies 1/. The sums borrowed abroad amounted,
by the end of 1982, to some US$80 billion; new debt was contracted
increasingly on a short-term basis after June 1981. The exchange rate and
the very high level of investment - which grew by 15% in real terms in 1981 -
contributed to a strong increase in merchandise imports (20% in real terms in
1981). The world-wide recession contributed to the recent oil glut which,
with the resultant shift in expectations, precipitated adjustments in
exchange rate and demand management policies from February 1982. As the
situation continued to deteriorate, the Mexican authorities introduced
exchange controls in early August 1982 and again devalued the peso; on
September 1, 1982, the private banks were nationalized.
1.02      Since the change in Administration on December 1, 1982, further
austerity measures have been announced, and new national and sectoral
development plans are under preparation (see paras. 1.27-1.29). The peso was
devalued for the third time in less than a year in December 1982 and a dual
exchange rate policy was introduced; the official rate has been depreciated
on a daily basis since then to reflect the differential between domestic and
international inflation rates. The exchange rate in mid-May, 1983 was around
115 peso3 to the US dollar for official transactions, and around 148 for free
transactions, as opposed to 26.90/US$ before the February 1982 devaluation.
A SDR 3.6 billion Extended Fund Facility was approved by the IMF in late
December 1982; a further US$7 billion in net new financing is estimated to
be required to support the stabilization program in 1983. An agreement was
reached on March 4, 1983 for US$5 billion of this amount from Mexico's
commercial creditors, and the remaining US$2 billion is being sought from
official sources, including resource transfers from the multi-lateral banks.
At the same time, the banks refinanced Mexico's US$20 billion of debt
maturing through December 31, 1984.
B. Manufacturing Sector Performance and Policy
1.03      Growth and Structure.  Recent growth rates for both the economy as
a whole and manufacturing in particular are summarized in Table 1.1. While
this table highlights the impressive growth in GDP and employment during
1977-81, it also reveals the very high real growth in imports over the same
period.
1/   Mexico's inflation rate was 28.7% in 1981, accelerating to 98.8% in
1982, while the public sector deficit reached 15% of GDP in 1981,
increasing to 18.5% in 1982.



- 2 -
Table 1.1:  Growth Rates of Key Indicators, 1971-1981
Average
Annual Real
Growth Rates            1971-74            1975-77                 78-81
(%)             Economy   Mfg.    Economy   Mfg.         Economy   Mfg.
GDP (V.A.)               6.8     7.4         4.4    4.1            8.5    8.7
Employment               4.1*    3.8*        4.1*   3.8*           5.7    6.8
Imports  (Goods &
Services)             10.2    10.6         -3.1   -7.2           25.6   28.1
Exports (Goods &
Services)             11.3      8.7         6.8    0.6            8.9    7.4
* These data are for 1971-77.
1.04      Table 1.2 summarizes the changes in the structure of manufacturing
value-added between 1970 and 1980. In particular, there has been a slight
decline in the share of traditional goods, and a corresponding increase in
the share of modern industrial goods.
Table 1.2: Structure of Value-Added in Manufacturing a/
(in percentages)
1970           1980
Traditional Goods                              51.5           46.4
Food, Beverages and Tobacco               (27.9)         (24.1)
Other Traditional Goods                   (23.6)         (22.3)
Intermediate Goods                            24.7            25.0
Modern Industrial Goods                        20.1           24.0
Petroleum and Petroleum Products                2.7            1.6
a/  Excluding petroleum refinancing; see Annex 6, Tables 3 and 4
for detailed breakdown for 1970-1981.
1.05      Imports.  During 1977-80, a policy of import liberalization was
followed; thus in 1979 nominal protection for 24 out of 27 comparable
manufacturing subsectors was lower than in 1970. After 1980, as the peso
became increasingly overvalued, this policy was progressively reversed. This
was to staunch the flow of imports: the growth of manufactured imports had
averaged 32% annually (in real terms) over the three years 1977-1980 (Annex
4, Table 5). While liberalization made it possible, this growth in imports
was primarily due to the high growth in the economy as a whole. Most of the
increased imports were intermediate goods, such as certain petrochemicals and



- 3 -
basic metals, and capital goods required by the substantial investment boom.
Imports of manufactures represented 12.8% of domestic consumption of
manufactures in 1980, as opposed to 9.7% in 1970.
1.06      Exports.  Manufactured exports grew significantly between 1976 and
1979, peaking in 1978 at 5.5% of the gross value of manufacturing output, as
compared to 3.8% in 1970. However, declines were recorded in both 1980 and
1981; in 1980 manufactured exports represented 3.7% of the gross value of
manufacturing output. While external market conditions have played a
fundamental role in the development of exports, the decline in 1980 and 1981
reflected the growing loss of competitiveness due to the appreciation of the
real exchange rate. Until December 1982, the CEDI (Certificado de Devolucion
de Impuestos) system provided fiscal incentives to exporters; financial
incentives continue to be provided through FOMEX (Fondo para el Fomento de
las Exportaciones de Productos Manufacturados). The subsector which showed
the most dynamism during the 1970s was the engineering industries, comprising
metal products, machinery and equipment, whose share in manufactured exports
rose from around 11% in 1970 to 28% in 1980 (Annex 4, Table 6). These
products are not in general resource-based, and their export reflects growing
technological mastery as well as the relatively inexpensive skilled labor
which is available in Mexico.
1.07      Employment.  Employment generation from 1971 to 1981 was
substantial, particularly from 1978 on (see Table 1.1 above). The results
after 1977 can be attributed in part to the macroeconomic strategy followed
by the Lopez Portillo Administration, which relied on high GDP growth to
generate sufficient employment. In fact, although productivity was still
increasing, productivity growth declined in manufacturing during this period,
as in most other sectors, and thereby contributed significantly to employment
generation.
1.08      This decline in productivity growth was not altogether surprising,
despite the fact that much new investment coming on-stream was capital-inten-
sive. The rapid growth in the manufacturing labor force during the four
years 1978-81 meant that, by the end of 1981, almost one in four of the total
work force had been hired during that period. In the case of the Machinery
and Equipment subsector, this ratio was almost one in three. It is difficult
to see how such a large number of new workers could be adequately trained,
either prior to hiring or on-the-job, to enable productivity growth rates to
be maintained. This was also corroborated by circumstantial evidence sug-
gesting increasing difficulties in obtaining skilled labor and even, in
certain cases, unskilled labor. It seems, however, that the strength of
aggregate demand, together with the industrial protection policies which
enabled firms to sell as much as they could produce, encouraged the continued
hiring of new workers, even as marginal productivity declined.
1.09      The Industrial Development Plan and Industrial Incentives.  The
Industrial Development Plan of 1979 set out the Government's basic sectoral
objectives, including: accelerating the generation of employment
opportunities through rapid growth, promoting industrial investment in
accordance with regional priorities, increasing the real income of the
population, orienting industrial production towards external markets and
promoting indigenous technological growth in industry. The public sector's
role in achieving these objectives was set out in the Plan, including direct
investment in strategic subsectors and in economic and social infrastructure.



- 4 -
1.10      For the private sector, the main policy instrument was the
industrial investment incentive system, with fiscal incentives in the form of
tax rebate certificates (CEPROFIs) for additional investment and employment
generation. Annex 4, Table 7 summarizes the system, and shows how these
incentives varied in accordance with the regional and subsectoral
priorities. Small enterprises received higher investment incentives (25%)
than any other type of industry, but no employment incentive. In addition to
the fiscal incentives, special prices for certain energy-related inputs
supplied by public sector enterprises were offered to favor the location of
new industries in the priority development areas, comprising four industrial
ports.
1.11      Traditional investment incentive schemes have generally contained
no incentive to employment; the Government had recognized this shortcoming,
and therefore included employment incentives in the CEPROFI system. The
magnitude of these incentives was not sufficient, however, to overcome the
anti-labor bias of the traditional system, let alone the anti-labor bias
implicit in other policies. Although there has been no study examining the
capital-intensity of total new investment since 1979, data on CEPROFIs
authorized and issued (Annex 4, Tables 9 and 10), suggest that the bulk of
investment took place in the more capital-intensive sectors.  In view of
these problems, the CEPROFI system was revised in March, 1982 introducing, as
an alternative, a scheme providing no investment subsidy, but an increased
employment incentive (Annex 4, Table 8). The revised system is favorable to
industries which are either quite capital-intensive or quite labor-intensive,
but leaves those with intermediate capital/labor intensities at a
disadvantage; it also displays a bias in favor of fixed capital as opposed
to working capital.
1.12      Small and Medium Industry.  There are indications that small and
medium industry 2/ (SMI) has been able to participate in the recent growth
and that a number of former SMI enterprises have moved into the category of
large industry during this period of expansion. Table 1.3 is based on the
1970 and 1975 industrial censuses 3/; while the total number of
establishments remained slightly above 23,000, total employment grew from
under 1.4 million to over 1.5 million between 1970 and 1975. Given the
overall trends in employment generation between 1975 and 1981, SMI employment
may have increased by more than 600,000 during this period.
2/   Establishment with between six and 250 employees.
3/   The results of the 1981 census are not yet available.



Table 1.3: CHARACTERISTICS OF INDUSTRY CLASSIFIED
BY SIZE OF ESTABLISHMENT a/
(Percentages)
Distribution of                          Value-Added
Establishments        Employment   (millions of pesos)
1970       1975    1970        1975    1970        1975
6-50 workers             76.9        75.9    21.1       18.3     13.3       11.1
51 - 250 workers         18.5        18.8    33.3      30.5      30.6       27.6
Over 250 workers          4.6         5.3    45.6       51.2     56.1       61.2
Total               100.0       100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0        100.0
a/  The group of enterprises with up to 5 employees has been omitted from
these comparisons.    About half of the employees in this group are
unremunerated family members.
SOURCE: Industrial Census for 1970 and 1975.
1.13      The 1975 industrial census suggests important changes in the size
structure of industry. In common with other industralizing and
industrialized countries, there has been a tendency towards increasing the
average size of industrial establishments.   A comparison of the 1970 and
1975 censuses show that even in this relatively short period large industry
increased its share of overall employment from 45.6% to 51.2% and its share
of value-added from 56.% to 61.2%.
1.14      Within SMI there have been significant changes in output structure
(Annex 4, Tables 11 and 12). Between 1970 and 1975, the share of the
traditional consumer goods industries in the total value-added by SMI
(excluding mining) declined from 41.3% to 35.8% for food, beverage, tobacco,
textiles, clothing and shoes. The share of modern industrial goods
(para. 1.04) grew from 16% to 24%, over this period. While this trend is
typical for an industrialized country, these changes within the SMI grouping
were more marked than those of industry as a whole (Table 1.2). This change
has important implications for future growth patterns, since these modern
industrial goods are very likely to be the most dynamic group as the indus-
trialization process accelerates, particularly following the recent devalua-
tions and the decline of imports, if advantage is taken of the opportunities
further to substitute imports of these goods. There are also new
opportunities for manufactured exports, which can be expected to increase
with the world recovery.
C.   The Financial Sector
1.15      Institutional Structure.  On August 31, 1982, Mexico's banking
system comprised some 76 financial intermediaries, including the Central Bank
(Banco de Mexico), other public banks, and commercial and mixed-ownership



-6-
banks. The number of financial intermediaries had been declining steadily
from over 200 in 1978, due to a change in the Banking Law that year encourag-
ing the consolidation of specialized banks into multipurpose "multibancos".
Other financial institutions included insurance and guarantee companies,
credit unions and the securities market, and jointly accounted for about one
quarter of total financial intermediation.
1.16      The commercial banks made industrial loans and investments
primarily using resources mobilized via current and savings accounts,
deposits and the issue of certificates and bonds; however, they also had
access to resources through the public sector trust funds, which were set up
to channel additional financial resources to sectors the government considers
a priority. These funds derived their resources principally from the reserve
requirements of the banking system, although several have also received loans
from local and international sources, including the Bank. The most important
trust funds providing financing to the industrial sector are among those
managed by Nacional Financiera (NAFINSA) and Banco de Mexico.
1.17      Among the public sector banks, NAFINSA is by far the most important
one supporting the industrial sector; as well as administering several Gov-
ernment trust funds, it has fulfilled a combination of development banking,
commercial banking and industrial promotion activities and acted as an agent
of the Government in obtaining external borrowings. The main NAFINSA-
administered trust funds supporting industrial activities are FOGAIN (credit
to small and medium scale industry), FOMIN (equity and quasi-equity financing
to small and medium scale industry), and FIDEIN (promotion and development of
industrial parks). The principal industry-related trust funds administered
by Banco de Mexico are FONEI, which finances relatively large export and
efficient import substitution projects in the industrial sector, and FOMEX,
whose main activity is pre- and post-export financing.
1.18      Although it has grown rapidly following a series of reforms in the
mid-1970s, Mexico's securities market is still relatively small and has not
yet developed into a very important mechanism to finance industrial firms.
In 1980, new issues of shares and fixed interest securities accounted for
only 4.2% of the country's total financing through financial intermediaries.
Comparatively few, mostly well-established and large, companies are listed in
the organized securities market. Recognizing the limitations of the existing
securities market, the Government has been providing equity and quasi-equity
financing through direct investments undertaken by NAFINSA, FOMIN and FISOMEX
(holding company wing of the mixed-ownership bank SOMEX).
1.19      On September 1, 1982, the privately-owned commercial banks were
nationalized. While it seems that this action is irreversible, the Adminis-
tration which took office on December 1, 1982 has declared its intention of
allowing the system to operate in an autonomous manner, as in the past. The
issue of a changed role for organizations such as NA.FINSA has nevertheless
been raised, and the ramifications of the nationalization for the financial
sector as a whole are not yet entirely clear.
1.20      Credit Availability and Interest Rate Policy.  In 1981, credit
availability was high, although domestic credit to the non-banking private
sector remained almost constant in real terms. Foreign currency financing
to this sector through the domestic banking system increased by almost 48% in



- 7 -
real terms in 1981, for a total private sector real increase (domestic and
foreign currency) of some 7.3%, as compared to a 12% increase in 1980.
Financing to the public and private sector together increased almost 22% in
real terms in 1981, up from 6.4% in 1980. The net outstandings of the
manufacturing sector increased by 12.3% in real terms in 1981, and
represented about 16% of the total net increase in outstandings. In 1982, as
Mexico's economic situation deteriorated, credit availability declined
significantly in real terms, by about one-thrid.
1.21      Although interest rates on deposits were positive in real terms
during 1981, they became negative in real terms during 1982, as inflation
surged following the major devaluations. The new Administration, however,
has stated its intention to allow deposit interest rates to rise to levels
that would encourage a positive flow of capital to Mexico. Based on the
stabilization program being implemented with IMF support, deposit rates
should be reasonably in line with expectations with respect to inflation by
the end of 1983. Lending interest rates are also negative in nominal terms
at present, but effective rates are considerably higher, and positive in real
terms, due to banking practices which involve monthly compounding of interest
payments, prepaid interest and compensatory balances. Since trust fund loans
do not allow the use of these banking practices, but still wish to advertise
rates that are competitive in nominal terms, their lending rates have also
been negative in real terms.
1.22      Since 1977, practically all term loans have been made at floating
interest rates, using as an index the average cost of deposit funds (ACF) to
investment banking departments of intermediaries 4/. Since December 1979,
the ACF index has been based on the average cost of all term resources (3
days to 2 years) to the commercial banking system; it is thus a broad and
good indicator of the cost of these funds in the Mexican financial system.
The May, 1983 ACF index of 58.14%, represents a considerable increase over
the 36.26% ACF of May, 1982.
1.23.     SMI Financing.  Small and medium industry has always had some
difficulty finding financing due to the considerable collateral requirements
generally imposed by the banking system. FOGAIN's outstandings at end-1981
represented some 5% of total banking system outstandings to manufacturing;
while SMI receives financing from other parts of the banking system, it is
estimated to be of the order of only some 15% of total credit to manufactur-
ing. Thus, SMI's share of financing still falls well below its approximately
35% share of value-added. FOGAIN has estimated that as many as two out of
three SMIs in Mexico may never have used credit from the banking system; this
could be a major factor in inhibiting more rapid growth in SMI value-added
and employment generation.
1.24      SMI's need for financing has also increased in the last year as the
economic situation has deteriorated. As a result of the foreign exchange
shortage, imports have been closely controlled; when they are available they
are much more costly than previously, due to the severe devaluations. These
4/   The index is a weighted average of interest rates paid on bonds, notes,
and certificates of deposit, and excludes checking and savings accounts.



- 8 -
increased costs are reflected in higher inventory costs for the many SMIs
which require imported inputs, particularly since such inputs may have to be
purchased whenever they are available rather than as required. Also, many
enterprises had contracted significant US dollar-denominated debt which
assumed increasing importance in peso terms as the exchange rate fell; while
comparatively few SMIs had such debt, most have been indirectly affected by
the consequent liquidity squeeze. Thus, precisely because they are small,
SMIs find it difficult to resist pressure to keep their accounts payable
current, at the same time that they find their accounts receivable collection
period considerably extended.  Inflation has also put direct pressure on
SMIs, which cannot always immediately pass on higher prices. In response to
this liquidity shortage faced by much of the economy, and in particular SMI,
the Mexican government in September 1982 authorizEtd Mex$50 billion (about
US$500 million) in emergency funds, to be distribttted through four trust
funds.  Half of this amount was allocated to FOGAIN9 and was committed and
largely disbursed in the last quarter of 1982.
D.   Prospects, Policy and the Project
1.25      Prospects.  Mexico is currently undergcing a major recession
requiring significant structural adjustment.  Wtfhile an Extended Fund Facility
(EFF) was approved by the IMF in December 1982, projecting stagnant GDP in
1983 and a slow resumption of growth from 1984 on, the recent further decline
in world oil prices may tend to deepen and prolong Mexico's recession. In
either case, it is clear that Mexico will be operating under dual constraints
during the next few years with, on the one hand, the need for fiscal
restraint and for significant inflows of external resources and, on the other
hand, the need to maintain social stability, with one key element being the
adequate absorption of new entrants to the labor force, who currently number
in excess of 800,000 per annum.
1.26      It is clear that industry has a critical role to play in assisting
Mexico to return to a stable growth path: industry can contribute to the
alleviation of both the external constraint, through increased exports, and
the domestic constraint, through improved labor absorption. Small and medium
industry can be expected to make an important but somewhat smaller
contribution than larger enterprises to the first goals due to some of the
inherent disadvantages that small production volume causes for the export of
some products. But SMI can make a proportionally greater contribution to the
second objective since SMI tends to be more heavily concentrated in the more
labor-intensive branches of industry. In order to be able to fulfill this
role, however, SMI will require adequate working capital to overcome the
current difficulties and to respond to the new opportunities.
1.27      Policy.  The new Administration is revising both the macroeconomic
and the industrial sector policy framework to take account of these new
realities. The main elements of the macro-framework for the short to
medium-term are already in place, and largely reflect the EFF agreement: the
public sector deficit is to be considerably reduced, and a flexible exchange
rate policy is being followed. The Government is currently preparing the
longer-run macro policy framework, which is expected to be made explicit in
the Plan Nacional de Desarrollo (National Development Plan) for 1983-1988,
due to be published in late May 1983. According to recent speeches by the
President, employment and exports will be two major focal areas (paras. 1.28



- 9 -
and 1.29 below).  In addition, maintenance of an adequate supply of low cost
basic consumption goods remains a high priority, but emphasis will be placed
on efficient production and marketing rather than on direct price controls as
means to this end. Encouragement of industrial decentralization and regional
development will continue, with greater delegation of responsibility for
implementation from the Federal Government to state governments.
1.28      The detailed sectoral policy framework is likely to take longer to
become explicit: the sectoral plans deriving from the Plan Nacional are not
due until late September 1983. The general objectives and main lines of
industrial policy have already been determined, however. The recent changes
in foreign exchange policy have already resulted in a shift in relative
prices towards tradeables, thus favouring both exports and efficient import
substitution. There nevertheless remain significant disincentives to
exports, largely because exporters are subject to cumbersome administrative
requirements, as well as other barriers, relating to imperfect knowledge of
international production norms and standards and other similar problems.
Trade policy will be directed to overcoming these disincentives and barriers.
1.29      The second major area of concern in industrial sector policy will
be employment. Short-term measures have already been announced in the
context of the Programa para la Defensa de la Planta Productiva y el Empleo.
Longer-term measures will largely involve further changes in the relative
price of capital and labor. The largest single cause of the artificially low
price of capital in the last few years was the increasingly overvalued
exchange rate, which has now been corrected. Other contributing factors
related to interest rate policy and energy pricing policy, which have also
been addressed by the new Administration. Further changes in relative prices
may be achieved through a revision of the investment incentive (CEPROFI)
scheme, possibly to a system which gives only employment incentives; such a
revision is currently under consideration. In addition, the Administration
was concerned that the system of labor-and employment-related data collection
and analysis was not adequate given the importance of these matters for
policy formulation. It has therefore strengthened the institutional struc-
ture for this work, and an improved system to provide timely and reliable
data, with wider coverage, is now being implemented.
1.30      The Project.  The reorientation of Mexico's industrial strategy, as
outlined above, is in the directions advocated by the Bank and deserves con-
tinuing Bank support. In particular, a further lending operation to support
the PAI program appears well justified in view of: (i) the effectiveness of
the program so far in respect of employment creation and regional develop-
ment; (ii) the strong support for PAI expressed by both the outgoing and
incoming Administrations; and (iii) the useful role that the Bank can play in
helping PAI further to develop and adapt its activities to reflect the
evolving industrial strategy. Processing this project has also provided
further opportunities for an effective dialogue with the Government on
employment issues: the Mexican authorities have prepared a policy statement
on employment in the context of the project. This statement clarifies the
types of measures the Government has taken, and plans to take, to encourage
the growth of more labor-intensive activities, and to improve the system for
monitoring employment and labor market developments during the period of
economic adjustment, along the lines mentioned in para 1.29 above.



- 10 -
1.31      The project also seeks to support some concrete actions in various
areas. In particular, provision has been made in the technical assistance
component to support, through financing consultant studies and equipment
acquisition, implementation of the improved labor- and employment-related
data collection and analysis system mentioned in para. 1.29 above. The
technical assistance component also includes an element designed to improve
SMI access to the labor markets. In addition, through the industrial
extension service, the project seeks to assist SMI working in collective
action groups that wish to improve their worker training capabilities and to
develop exports.



- 11 -
II.   THE INTEGRATED SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (PAI)
Introduction
2.01      The PAI program was established by Nacional Financiera (NAFINSA) in
1978 (with Bank support) to strengthen and make more effective the extensive
framework of institutions providing financial and technical assistance to SMI.
The program has the following main objectives: (a) to encourage more rapid
growth in output and employment in SMI; (b) to promote and facilitate the
achievement of national plans for industrial decentralization and regional
development; (c) to foster a more comprehensive and effective system of finan-
cial and technical assistance support for SMI; and (d) to develop a mechanism
which would allow SMI assistance programs to be adapted to reflect national
industrial development goals.
2.02      The principal participants in the PAI program are:  (i) a credit and
guarantee fund (FOGAIN) which channels resources through the commercial banking
system; (ii) a risk capital financing fund (FOMIN); (iii) a credit and tech-
nical assistance fund (FIDEIN) which supports the development of industrial
estates; (iv) an extension service group which helps SMIs to identify their
financial and technical assistance needs and to obtain such assistance from one
of the above funds or from specialized agencies and technical institutions;
and (v) a Coordinating Committee with a Technical Secretariat, which oversees
the working of the PAI program as a whole.
2.03      The first two Bank projects to assist small and medium industry
supported the initiation and rapid expansion of the PAI program and its parti-
cipants.  The proposed third project would build on the results achieved to
date by expanding some elements of the program and helping to consolidate or
better to focus others. Following the recent nationalization of the banking
system, the government has expressed its intention to consolidate and redefine
the roles of some financial institutions in order to achieve better
coordination, reduce duplications and realize some economies of scale. This is
expected to affect NAFINSA and possibly some of the trust funds participating
in the PAI program, but the detailed changes have not yet been decided. At the
same time, it is desirable that some elements of the PAI program be redirected
and streamlined to take into account past experience and the changing needs of
the economy. A Project Execution Document, covering NAFINSA's intentions
regarding the future development of the various elements of the PAI program,
was agreed by NAFINSA and the Bank during negotiations. Particular points
covered in this document, which is attached as Annex 3, are described later in
this chapter as part of the discussion of individual elements of the PAI
program.
PAI's Organizational Structure
2.04      PAI is governed by a Program Coordinating Committee, which is headed
by the Director General of NAFINSA and includes the heads of all the
participating institutions as well as the representatives of the Ministry of
Finance (SHCP), the Ministry of Commerce and Industrial Development (SECOFIN),
and Banco de Mexico. The Committee's responsibilities include setting policies
and priorities for PAI operations and for the use of PAI resources, reviewing
the results of PAI's operations, including the general characteristics of



-  12  -
subprojects submitted for financing, and coordinating the activi'les of the
various participating institutions. In addition, there is a working level
Technical Coordinating Committee, which coordinates the efforts of the various
participating lending and specialized technical assistance institutions.
2.05      The Technical Secretariat, which reports to the Program Coordinating
Committee, provides the administrative mechanism necessary to implement PAI,
and is responsible for the execution of the technical assistance and promotion
subprograms through its extension services and for linking up with other
institutions that provide services for SMI (see diagram). To date, the posts
of Technical Secretary and Director General of FOGAIN have been assigned to the
same person, to whom two deputy directors report, one responsible for the PAI
Secretariat and the other for FOGAIN. In order to achieve economies of scale,
a number of administrative functions are shared between PAI and FOGAIN,
PAI Coordinating 
Committee 
PAI Secretariat                        Technical
(Technical Secretary)                   Coordinating
_   l                     1      ~~~~~~~~Committee
| 1 ~~~PAI Extension|
Services
Len ding                                 Specialized Technical
Institutions 1                         | Assistance Institutions5/
FOGAIN                                           INFOTEC
FOMIN                                 Direccion General de Empleo
FIDEIN                            Direccion General de Capacitacion
y Productividad
The Industrial Extension Service
2.06      A central feature of the PAI program has been the creation of an
industrial extension service which currently operates 26 branches, grouped into
eight regions, with a staff of 117 professionals. Because the qualifications
of the extension officers are quite high and salaries have been competitive,
the extension service has had high administrative costs, but in the past these
costs have been recovered through the margins and commissions earned from the
financing channelled to FOGAIN and FOMIN by the extension agents. Nevertheless,
the PAI service has been conscious that their work needs to be cost-effective.
From making the program and its services known to local entrepreneurs initial-
-ly, the extension officers' primary task has increasingly become the provision
5/   Herein considered as institutions, although they are two separate
departments of the Labor Ministry (STPS).



- 13 -
of direct technical assistance to SMIs. As the agents gained in experience,
they increasingly realized the high cost of providing only individual technical
assistance; as a result, the extension service has recently been experimenting
with ways to provide technical assistance to groups of SMIs rather than
individual firms. One form of group action has been through training courses,
held for both industrialists and commercial bank officials. Most of these
training courses have been carried out by the local branch offices themselves,
although in some cases they have been helped by other regional staff or
CENAPRO, which has now become part of the new Direccion General de Capacitacion
y Productividad in the Ministry of Labor. More significantly, PAI has
developed an innovative program for clustering together firms in the same
geographical area and with similar product lines (say, shoes or textiles,
etc.), and imparting technical assistance to the group. The preliminary
results of the work undertaken in late 1981 and 1982 with collective action
groups were very promising, and considerable expansion in these types of
programs took place in 1982.
2.07      The success of PAI's methods suggests that further work in estab-
lishing and assisting collective action groups should be encouraged under the
proposed project. However, given the considerable investment of staff time
required, the costs and benefits of the program would need to be studied care-
fully before embarking on an expanded program. During negotiations, agreement
was reached with PAI and Government officials on the terms of reference and
timetable for undertaking such a cost-benefit analysis, which should be
completed by December 31, 1983.
2.08      As the extension service has evolved, the nature of referrals to the
specialized technical assistance institutions has also changed, and coordina-
tion with these institutions becomes more important, as their assistance
becomes increasingly complementary to the extension services work.
Specialized Technical Assistance Institutions
2.09      The experience obtained during the second SMI project with the
different specialized agencies has made it possible to formulate more specific
PAI-related programs for each specialized agency than in the past. A
substantial portion of technical assistance funds under the project would be
allocated to the three specialized agencies whose services are more closely
linked to PAI's own activities, viz INFOTEC, the Direccion General de Empleo
and the Direccion General de Capacitacion y Productividad (previously CENAPRO),
which would enter into collaboration agreements with PAI. Technical assistance
funds would also be available to support the Government agencies implementing
the improved labor market-related statistical system (see paras. 1.29 and
1.31). The remaining technical assistance funds would not be allocated in
advance, but would be available to be used on an ad-hoc basis for institutions
whose assistance is required only occasionally or which may develop over the
life of the loan.
2.10      INFOTEC (Fondo de Informacion y Documentacion para la Industria)
has worked closely with PAI from the outset of the program. INFOTEC's
services include an industrial information service, technical advice and
courses on industrial technology. It now has a staff of about one hundred,
most of whom are professionals. In the past INFOTEC has assisted PAI's SMI
clients by providing information services via PAI's extension agents and also,
although to a much lesser extent, through direct technological assistance in
the field. The precise mix of services which INFOTEC will offer PAI's clients



- 14 -
in the future will vary; however, in general terms, it is expected that INFOTEC
would increase its direct technological assistance in the field, and expand the
information services that it has provided up to present, making material
available in a form which is more understable by small and medium
industrialists. In addition, INFOTEC would initiate three new activities: it
would (i) develop regional data banks to help firms make decisions with regard
to plant location and relocation and generally help small and medium industries
know local markets better; (ii) establish and operate a quality control program
through extension agents and collective action groups; and (iii) establish a
program of industrial audits of FOMIN's investee firms in order to detect
weaknesses which require action by their management (para. 2.47).
2.11      The Direccion General de Capacitacion y Productividad (DGCP), in the
Ministry of Labor, was established in the 1960s as CENAPRO-ARMO to help train
and develop managers as well as to provide vocational training programs for
workers. In the past, CENAPRO assisted PAI in training its extension agents
and has also provided materials for SMI managerial development. Under the
proposed project, it is expected that DGCP would: (i) train PAI extension
agents to become instructors in management development courses and also make
the necessary material available to them; (ii) advise collective action groups
that wish to set up their own training centers, covering both legal and
organizational aspects and the development of training programs; and (iii)
develop more appropriate training for SMI entrepreneurs and managers.
2.12      The Direccion General de Empleo (DGE), in the Ministry of Labor,
coordinates the Servicio Nacional de Empleo (SNE), and the Directorate for
Employment Planning. The Servicio Nacional de Empleo comprises the policy
unit, with the individual State Employment Services as the operating units.
SNE's current role is primarily as a labor exchange and, in order to carry out
this task more effectively, it routinely prepares regional studies to evaluate
the labor markets and general labor needs.  In view of PAI's potential role in
helping small and medium industry address the present problems of employment
maintenance and generation, a joint work program for PAI and the DGE is being
developed. Under this program, it is expected that SNE would help SMIs
identify their labor needs, preselect suitable candidates, and help define the
training needs of potential employees.
2.13      The new Administration's concern with employment policy has been
reflected in the raised hierarchical level of DGE (to Direccion General from
Direccion) in the context of the restructuring of the Ministry of Labor.
Measures to strengthen the technical capability of the State Employment
Services are also planned. Financing for DGE to carry out some of its
PAI-related activities would be included under the technical assistance
component of the proposed project.
2.14      Other Specialized Technical Assistance Institutions expected to be
brought in as required to provide technical assistance to SMIs through PAI
include FONEP (Fondo Nacional de Estudios de Preinversion), CONACYT (Consejo
Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia), IMCE (Instituto Mexicano de Comercio
Exterior), and CEPSE (Centro Empresarial de Perfeccionamiento Socio-Economico,
A.C.). All of these agencies have cooperated with PAI in the past, but since
their services are fairly specialized and are used only as required, no special
programs would be developed with PAI.



- 15 -
Participating Lending Institutions
A. Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequena (FOGAIN)
2.15      FOGAIN, the most important financial institution for small and
medium industry in Mexico, was established in 1954 as a government trust fund
administered by NAFINSA. FOGAIN is a second-tier institution, rediscounting
credits for equipment, machinery, civil works and working capital made by
banks, credit unions and other financial intermediaries to SMI 6/ enterprises
to add new, and/or expand existing, productive capacity.
2.16      Organization, Management and Staffing.  FOGAIN's highest decision-
making body is its Technical Committee which is headed by a representative
from SHCP, and includes representatives from SECOFIN, Secretaria de
Programacion y Presupuesto (SPP), Banco de Mexico, NAFINSA, Confederacion de
Camaras Industriales (CONCAMIN), Camara Nacional de la Industria de
Transformacion (CANACINTRA) and FOMIN. The committee decides matters of
policy, procedure, financial plans and budgets, and approves credit operations,
on the basis of recommendations made by FOGAIN's staff. FOGAIN's Director
General is authorized by the Technical Committee to approve credit operations
of up to Mex$11 million (US$95,650).
2.17      The previous Director General (1979-82), Mr. Gonzalez Hinojosa,
reorganized its structure by delegating greater authority to middle management
and consolidating certain functions and responsibilities, and streamlined
administrative and operational procedures, upgraded middle management and
promoted decentralization of staff to regional offices. This structure coupled
with greater autonomy of regional offices7/, facilitated a rapid growth in
FOGAIN's activities, particularly outside the Mexico City Metropolitan area.
Presently, FOGAIN is a mature and dynamic organization staffed with experienced
personnel. The new Director General for FOGAIN and PAI, Mr. Sergio Mota Marin
is focussing his attention on strengthening FOGAIN's management information
systems and further development of PAI's collective action groups by upgrading
the extension service's technical support to SMI enterprises.
2.18      FOGAIN and PAI staff share the same Director General, regional
office management and also some technical, administrative and financial
areas. This dual character of PAI-FOGAIN has been generally positive.
As of year-end 1982, FOGAIN's professional and semi-professional staff num-
bered about 150, a 30% increase over year-end 1979. Salaries have been
generally attractive, permitting FOGAIN to hire qualified professionals.
6/   Small-scale enterprises supported by FOGAIN are defined as firms with
total equity between Mex$50,000 (US$435 equivalent) and Mex$15.0 million
(US$130,000 equivalent). Medium enterprises have equity between
Mex$15.0 million and Mex$90.0 million (US$782,600 equivalent).
7/   Regional credit representatives have the authority to approve FOGAIN's
credits up to Mex$6 million (US$52,200).



-  16  -
2.19      Operating Regulations and Policies.  FOGAIN's regulations and
policies allow industrial financing for: (i) working capital (up to Mex$20.0
million with terms between 1-1/2 and 3 years); (ii) fixed assets (up to
Mex$20.0 rmillion with terms betwseen 3 and 6 years), and, (iii) debt
consolidation (for up to Mex$12.0 million with terms between 4 and 7 years).
The total amount of credit that FOGAIN can grant any single enterprise was
raised to Mex$45.0 million (US$391,300 equivalent) on September 275 1982.
FOGAIN's operational policy statement would be modified under the proposed
project to include financing of industrial buildings in industrial estates
(para. 2.59) and common service facilities (para. 3.06)  During negotiations
agreement was reached with the Governmnent and NAFINISA on the revised
regulations and policy statement  lFormal approval by FOGAIN's Technical
Committee is a condition of loan effectiveness.  To encourage rapid processing,
FOGAIN grants special credit lines to some participating banks, permitting
automatic rediscounts for credits up to Mex$5 mill-on (US$43,500 equivalent).
FOGAIN reserves the right to cancel ex-post an-y subLoan found to be ineligible
or not in accordance with FOGAINs regulations. C-ea--  line limits are
adjusted periodically based on FOGAIN's experience w-ith individual banks.
2.20      Onlending Interest Rates,  FOGAIN's iterest rate structure, which
under the Second SMI Project (Loan t881-ME) consist:ed of twelve different rates
varying by geographic zone, size and priority of inciustrial enterprise, has
been recently simplified to six rates (Annex 4, Table 21), Interest rates are
now variable and adjusted quarterly on the basis of movements of the ACF 8/
index which is the average interest rate paid by Mexican banks for
term-deposits (para. 1.22). Interest rates are adjusted suen that their
average equals ACF+1. The ACF index (58.14% in May 1983) is expected to remain
an appropriate basis for setting on-lending interest rates under the new
Administration's interest rate policy. As mentioned in para. 1.21 above, the
Mexican authorities have affirmed their intention, in connection with the IMF
agreement, to adjust deposit interest rates as needed to ensure adequate
resource mobilization in the economy.
2M21      Several improvements are still needed in FOGAIN's interest rate
structure. Because FOGAIN has used the average ACF for the previous 12 months
as a basis for its quarterly adjustments, its interest rates have lagged
seriously behind current deposit rates during the recent period of rapidly
rising interest rates.  Second, FOGAIN has not fully implemented its variable
interest rate scheme, partly because of computer system and administrative
problems and partly because of the very difficult cash flow situation of SMIs
in Mexico (para. 1.24).   Third, the basis for setting individual interest
rates had not been clearly defined with the result that: (a) protracted
negotiations took place each quarter; and (b) the dispersion between the lowest
and highest rates became too large.  Therefore, agreement was sought with the
Mexican authorities on: (i) fully implementing the variable interest rate
system with quarterly interest rate adjustments; (ii) having an average
interest rate equal to at least ACF+1, based on the average ACF for the last
three months (ACF); (iii) relating each of FOGAIN's interest rates to the ACF
by a constant, to be specified in FOGAIN's interest rate structure; and (iv)
reducing the dispersion between the highest and lowest rates. The first two
8/   See Annex 1.



-  17  -
points are reflected in the loan agreement and the third and fourth would be
reflected in the interest rate schedule to be presented to the Bank before loan
effectiveness.
2.22      Participating Intermediaries.  The nationalization of the Mexican
private banking system on September 1, 1982 is not expected to affect the
proposed third SMI project significantly. While some consolidation of the
banks by absorption of smaller banks and reduction of competing branches may
take place, no significant changes are expected in the nationalized banking
system, since the Mexican Government has expressed its intention to transform
it into a mixed ownership banking system with shares traded in stock exchanges,
and gradually increasing private sector participation.   Presently, FOGAIN
channels funds through about 54 bank groups and 38 credit unions authorized and
inspected by the National Banking and Insurance Commission. Spreads for
intermediaries range between 2.0 and 3.5 points.
2.23      Past Operations and Impact.  From the beginning of its operations in
1954 until year end 1982, FOGAIN has assisted about 39,462 enterprises with
more than 60,834 credits amounting to Mex$41.3 billion. FOGAIN provided an
estimated 10.7% of total banking system credit to industry in 1981 (about 33%
of total credits to the SMI sector). FOGAIN's operations have increased from
4,420 credits amounting to Mex$4.7 billion in 1979, to 7,911 credits amounting
to Mex$23.2 billion in 1982, at an average annual growth rate of 70% in nominal
terms and 14% in real terms.
2.24      About 89% of FOGAIN's credits (75% by amount) in 1982 were directed
to enterprises with less than 50 employees. Small scale industry (equity of up
to Mex$10 million) accounted for 81% of the credits (53% by amount) of its 1982
operations. In addition, FOGAIN's operations have contributed to regional
development and decentralization. An estimated one-half of industrial value
added in Mexico comes from enterprises located in areas of low priority (e.g.,
Zone III - Mexico City Metropolitan and surrounding areas). During 1982 FOGAIN
directed 93% of its credits by number and 88% by amount to industrial priority
zones located outside Zone III.
2.25      The three most important subsectors financed by FOGAIN have been
metal processing and machine fabrication (18%), food products (18%) and manu-
facture of footwear and other leather products (13%). SMI's manufacturing
activities tend to be relatively labor intensive, and firms supported in 1982
had an estimated cost-per-job ratio of about US$12,000 (at 1981 prices), which
is satisfactory. About 55% of the enterprises supported by FOGAIN in 1982
(compared to 60% in 1979) used its credit facilities for the first time,
indicating that FOGAIN is still expanding its clientele. FOGAIN has emphasized
fixed asset financing in recent years for expansion of the productive capacity
of SMI enterprises. However, due to the increasing need for working capital-
financing, fixed asset financing accounted for only 39% by amount in 1982,
(compared to 54% in 1981).
2.26      Under the Second SMI Project, FOGAIN conducted an ex-post evalua-
tion in 1981 of a representative sample of its operations supported by the
Bank. The rates of return of the subprojects averaged almost 38% (financial)
and 51% (economic) suggesting that FOGAIN has been an important element in



-  18  -
fostering the SMI sector's growth according to objectives and policies
established by the Mexican Government. A similar ex-post evaluation of a
representative sample of Bank-financed subprojects would be conducted by
December 31, 1983.  Agreement has also been reached with the Mexican
authorities on conducting periodic surveys of the impact of the evolving
economic situation on SMIs.
2.27      The Credit Guarantee Scheme.  FOGAIN's guarantee scheme has had very
limited use since it has not been provided with sufficient allocations to cover
possible losses, and its guarantee coverage was restricted to no more than
Mex$200,000.  Since these operating regulations were included in FOGAIN's
Statutes, amendment requires Congressional approval. A new credit guarantee
program has been designed which would overcome the above-mentioned limitations,
and which would include the following: (i) only small enterprises and common
service facilities would be eligible; (ii) the guaLrantee would not exceed 75%
of the value of a credit, which would not exceed Mex$3 million; (iii) a premium
of at least 1.5% p.a. of the guaranteed amount outstanding 9/ to be paid by
the sub-borrower; and (iv) the initial capitalization of the guarantee fund
would be increased by the premiums paid and by additional capitalization. The
revised Guarantee System is expected to encourage banks to lend to the
substantial number of small enterprises in Mexico which do not have access to
bank credit because of inadequate collateral. During loan negotiations
agreement was reached on the Guarantee Fund policy regulations that would be
followed after Congress amended the law that created FOGAIN; these draft
regulations are included in the Project Execution DocuLment (Annex 3),
2.28      Past Financial Performance.  FOGAIN's loan portfolio has grown at an
explosive rate of 25% in real terms in the 1979-82 period. By December 31,
1982 the total loan portfolio stood at Mex$33.6 billion (US$336 million).
FOGAIN's portfolio, which represents 95% of its assets, at year-end 1982 was
financed mainly by loans from Banco de Mexico (347), NAFINSA (18%), IDB (11%),
equity (25%) and PAI (12%), including 7% from the Bank. BReflecting its
position as a second-tier institution, FOGAIN has sufferred virtually no losses
on its loan portfolio during its many years of operation. While FOGAIN does
not incur any substantial credit risks v4s-a-vis its sub-borrowers in its
operations, it is exposed to foreign exciange risks oni several 1DB loans and on
one NAFINSA dollar-denominated loan. FOGAIN's accounting practice has been to
defer the foreign exchange losses, amortizing them as principal and interest
payments became due, rather than to record exchange losses or gains during the
year, even when the transaction is not settled in rhe same accounting period as
that in which the losses or gains are provisioned. In part to offset these
losses and to strengthen FOGAIN's equity base, given its past rapidly growing
portfolio, the Government has been capitalizing FOGAIN through anrual
contributions and has been capitalizing the principal repayments of Bank funds
channelled through PAIT  FOGAIN's debt/equity ratio in December 31, 1982 stood
9/   It is expected that this premium would be sufficient fully to cover the
fund's losses, as each credit operation is to be evaluated on its own
merits prior to submission by the participating intermediary.
Additionally, FOGAIN would rely on the advice of PAI's extension service
regarding the clients concerned.



-  19  -
at 2.7:1. Subtracting from FOGAIN's equity the deferred exchange rate losses
would cause the debt/equity ratio to rise to about 6:1, which is within the
10:1 limit of its operating regulations.  At year-end 1982, arrears on loans
represented less than 0.1% of total porfolio. A survey of the portfolios of a
sample of participating intermediaries indicated that payments, on FOGAIN
subloans, overdue by more than 90 days represented less than 0.8% of their
outstanding balances by year-end 1982.
2.29      FOGAIN's income statement showed a moderate profit in 1980 (Annex 4,
Table 17). During 1981 FOGAIN incurred losses of some Mex$68 million (US$2.6
million) and in 1982 losses of Mex$1.7 billion (US$17 million equivalent).
FOGAIN's present portfolio is earning an average peso interest rate of about
18% compared to its average cost of funds, excluding its equity base, of about
30%. Since 1979, FOGAIN's subloan contracts have allowed it to adjust interest
rates on outstanding loans, but FOGAIN has not done so (para. 2.21). While the
average interest rate of its portfolio is expected to rise to about 25% during
1983 (as old loans with very low interest rates mature), losses almost double
those incurred in 1982 can be expected (due to the negative spreads) unless
appropriate adjustments to the interest rates are made (Annex 4, Table 20).
During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Mexican authorities on a
timetable for adjusting the interest rates of FOGAIN's outstanding loans to
bring them into line with the revised interest rate structure for new subloans
(para. 2.21).
2.30      Project Appraisal and Supervision.  Intermediaries evaluate the
creditworthiness and prospects of client enterprises before submitting sub-
loan requests for FOGAIN's review and approval. Given the generally small size
of FOGAIN's credits (para. 2.24), and the need for fast processing of these
loans, Bank review of FOGAIN subprojects is only made ex-post on a sample
basis. However, FOGAIN's appraisal procedures for fixed assets subloans are
satisfactory. FOGAIN requests sub-borrowers to supply careful justification in
the case of working capital loans, based on a detailed cash flow analysis
covering salary payments, inventories, accounts payable and receivable.
Revised criteria for appraising permanent working capital subloans have been
agreed with the Bank, which would take into account the increased peso prices
of inventories of raw materials, intermediate products, components and spare
parts, using the applicants' 1981 and 1982 production levels and prices as a
base. Follow-up of FOGAIN credits is adequately performed by the participating
intermediaries, in addition to FOGAIN's own supervision. During the past three
years FOGAIN's supervision unit, composed of seven experienced professionals,
has performed a satisfactory supervision of a representative number of
beneficiaries and intermediaries.
2.31      Procurement and Disbursement.  Due to the nature of FOGAIN's sub-
borrowers and the relatively small average loan size, it is often not practical
for FOGAIN to insist on price quotations from several suppliers. However, as
part of the credit evaluation, FOGAIN and its intermediary banks check that
prices paid by sub-borrowers for goods and services to be financed are reason-
able since, in many cases, the goods financed will be pledged as part of the
collateral for the subloan.
2.32      The participating intermediaries are held responsible for ensuring
that FOGAIN's financing is used for the purpose intended, and if any irregu-



-  20  -
larity is found, FOGAIN's loan is immediately fully reimbursed by the inter-
mediaries. Disbursements are made by FOGAIN to participating intermediaries
once they certify possession of purchase invoices, import documentation, or
certificates of completion of structural and civil works. Generally, in cases
of civil works and equipment installation, intermediaries establish
disbursement schedules pari-passu with construction schedules, and confirmed by
periodic visits to the job site. Based on samples from FOGAIN's supervision
unit, disbursement documentation for subprojects appears to be generally
acceptable.
2.33      Accounting Procedures, Data Processing and Auditing Arrangements.
FOGAIN maintains an adequate internal accounting system, and is carrying out
improvements in its portfolio control and information systems, using technical
assistance funds under Loan 1881-ME. FOGAIN also intends to implement a larger
data processing system to support the increasing needs of its operational area
(particularly in respect of variable interest rates) and to permit development
of more sophisticated monitoring and control systems, and financial
projections.
2.34      The internal auditing of FOGAIN is provided adequately by a special
unit of NAFINSA.  Additionally, FOGAIN has been independently audited for 1981
by De la Paz, Costemalle y Asociados, an established auditing firm of
acceptable quality, after four years of satisfactory audits performed by
Mancera Hermanos y Asociados, S.C. 10/ The audit report for 1981 was
unqualified, and arrangements made for the 1982 audit are satisfactory.
2.35      Projected Demand.  Preliminary results of FOGAIN's 1983-85 credit
demand study 11/ by industrial subsector show an average resource need of
about US$320 million for fixed asset financing per year. Given the recent
economic developments in Mexico, it is expected that demand for financing
capacity expansions would be relatively low through 1984, but should increase
as the economy recovers. Initially, demand for fixed asset financing is
expected to be mostly for equipment replacement and modernization. On the
other hand, demand for increased permanent working capital financing is strong
as a result of recent high inflation and the changes in relative prices and
increased cost of foreign borrowings resulting from the major devaluations.
10/ Independent auditors are designated every year by SPP, under a
procedure of selecting and monitoring auditors performance which has
been shifted during 1983 to the recently established "Secretaria de la
Contraloria General de la Federacion" (Government Controller's Office),
in accordance with Government-established rules.
11/ A separate study was carried out by FIDEIN to determine the credit
demand for industrial building construction and infrastructure in
industrial estates. The results of their study are included in FOGAIN's
total estimated resource needs for the 1983-87 period.



-  21  -
2.36      Operational and Financial Projections.  FOGAIN's operations over
1983-87 are expected to show very slight real growth, considerably less than in
the past few years (Annex 4, Table 18). Nonetheless, given the large amount of
funds (US$250 million equivalent) recently provided by the Banco de Mexico
through FOGAIN (para. 1.24), disbursements in 1983 are expected to show a real
growth of about 40%. During 1983-87 FOGAIN would orient its lending operations
towards:  (i) regions outside Mexico City and its surrounding areas; (ii) fixed
and working capital financing, the latter particularly to small clients
affected by the recent economic situation;  (iii) manufacturing subsectors
designated as priorities in the National Industrial Development Plan. In
addition to its internal mechanisms (e.g. differentiated margins and interest
rates), FOGAIN intends to rely heavily on the PAI extension service in order to
focus its operations on priority activities. Given the present situation and
expected slow resurgence of economic activities, FOGAIN's projected
disbursements appear quite realistic.
2.37      FOGAIN's projected requirements to meet expected credit
disbursements during 1983-86 amount to US$1,388 million equivalent, 12/ which
it expects to finance with the following resources:
Table 2.1 - FOGAIN's Financial Resources Requirements 1983-86
US$ millions (equivalent)          %
Government                                69.2                5.0
PAI (Excluding Bank)                      81.3                5.9
Bank (1881-ME)                            25.0                1.8
IDB                                      135.0                9.7
BANXICO                                  273.7               19.7
NAFINSA                                   42.6                3.1
Other Sources                            611.0               44.0
Bank (SMI III)                           150.0               10.8
TOTAL SOURCES                 US$1,387.8               100.0
2.38      The projected income statements (Annex 4, Table 20) show a net loss
of about US$30 million in 1983, if no adjustment of interest rates on the
12/ See Projected Sources and Uses of Funds Statement (Annex 4, Table 18).



-  22  -
existing portfolio takes place.  This loss could be reduced to one half, if
appropriate adjustments are made on a timely basis. Provided FOGAIN implements
its variable interest rate scheme, its financial spread is expected to remain
positive throughout the 1984-86 period.
B.   Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial (FOMIN)
2.39      Background and Objectives.  FOMIN was established in April 12, 1972
as a Government trust fund ("Fideicomiso") to assist in the implementation of
national plans for industrial diversification and regional development.
Previously administered by SHCP (through NAFINSA), it was shifted to
SEPAFTN13/ when PAT was created. FOMIN's role is to stimulate the creation of
new SMI--nterprises or the expansion or strengthening of existing ones by
subscribing up to 49% of the equity capital required, and to promote
deVelopment of the capital market. FOMIN's equity participation can also
include debt instruments with equity features, which permit adequate
flexibility in designing investment packages. Its investments are intended to
be temporary and to be sold once the investee company achieves a satisfactory
financial position. FOMIN thus serves to bring together groups of investors,
enabling enterprises to have access to additional capital and permitting them
to operate on a larger and more economical scale. Its participation frequently
helps firms make the transition from a closed family enterprise to a more
widely-owned corporation with professional management.
2.40      FOMIN has substantially expanded its investment instruments and
stepped up its promotional efforts, and demand for its assistance has become
quite strong; however, the supervision of a large number of investments
throughout Mexico is putting a heavy strain on FOMIN's organization and
staff. Thus, in order to continue expanding throughout Mexico, FOMIN has been
encouraged by the Bank to examine the possibility of promoting the formation
of Regional Venture Capital Corporations, in which it would participate on a
Vininority basis with State Governments and possibly IFC, with the majority of
shares being held by private sector interests,
2.41.     Organization, Management and Staffing.   The governing body of FOMIN
is its Technical and Funds Disbursement Committee formed by representatives
from SECOFIN, SHCP, NAFINSA, Banco de Mexico, plus two representatives from the
private sector selected by the main industrial associations CONCAMIN and
CANACINTRA. FOMIN's day-to-day operations are managed by an experienced
Director General, Mr. Sergio Luis Cano Luebbert, who has been in this position
for nine years. At present, FOMIN's staff totals 45, including some 30
professionals. In view of its expansion, a reorganization within FOMIN would
take place under the proposed project aimed at greater delegation of authority
to middle management, consolidation of related functions and responsibilities,
and reduction of the number of managerial levels in order to permit more
efficient supervision and portfolio control. During negotiations, agreement
was reached with the Mexican authorities for the preparation of a plan of
13/ SEPAFIN's industrial arm was incorporated into the Commerce Ministry in
January 1983, now renamed SECOFIN, and SEPAFIN has been renamed Ministry
of Mines, Energy and State-Controlled Enterprises.



- 23 -
action for this reorganization and the required manpower needs, which would be
presented to the Bank by September 30, 1983 (Annex 3).
2.42      Investment Goals.  Eligible SMI enterprises include those with total
equity ranging from Mex$50,000 to Mex$225.0 million 14/. Cost and risk
factors, along with certain provisions of its charter (such as the requirement
for external auditing), generally preclude FOMIN from having a significant role
in financing small firms. Therefore, FOMIN's assistance is focussed primarily
on medium (equity usually over Mex$10.0 million), and some larger, enterprises.
As a general policy, FOMIN does not invest in firms to help them reorganize
financially 15/, but focusses on creation or expansion of financially viable
SMI enterprises with good growth prospects. A strong demand for FOMIN's
participation has permitted better portfolio diversification and more
selectivity than initially. As a result of the economic situation, FOMIN is
currently experiencing a strong demand for financing increases in permanent
working capital. FOMIN has established 10% of its equity as its maximum
exposure (including investments through equity as well as other instruments) in
a single firm and 15% of its equity as its maximum total exposure in two or
more firms which belong to the same industrial group.
2.43      Investment Instruments.  Initially FOMIN's investments were mostly
in the form of new issues of common stock. As a result of the introduction in
early 1981 of investments in preferred shares and convertible credits, with
the encouragement and assistance of the Bank and IFC, FOMIN has broadened the
range of its potential customers and is better able to design investment
packages in accordance with an enterprise's cashflow and individual needs.
2.44      The use of preferred stock and convertible credits has allowed FOMIN
to achieve a more stable and predictable income. Furthermore, compared with
common stock, both have the advantage of receiving priority in liquidation.
Common stock exposes FOMIN to the full risks of loss but usually does not
reward FOMIN satisfactorily when the firm is successful, given the thin
mlarkets for minority equity investments. Convertible credits have been
favored to preferred stock by investee firms, because preferred dividends16/
are not tax deductible (as opposed to interest on convertibles).  FOMIN
utilizes common stock purchase primarily in those cases where the prospects for
eventual divestiture appear particularly favorable.
14/ FOMIN evaluates in each case whether there is need to revalue the assets
of the firm where equity participation is being considered. For
eligibility purposes FOMIN considers the value of the firm's equity at
the time of request for risk capital participation.
15/ Except for some investments made during its initial years.
16/ Preferred dividends are equivalent to 50% of NAFINSA's interest rates
for priority industries. Adjustment is made annually.



-  24  -
2.45       As of year-end 1982, FOMIN had completed  -1 -o-Iertibie credit opera-
tions (Annex 4, Table 25) in firms having total equities between US$150
thousand and US$1.5 million equivalent. FOMIN's convertible credits are for
terms ranging between 6 and 8 years (including  2 to 3 years of grace).  FOMIN
has the right to exercise the option to convert (totally or partially) during
the period of amortization of the principal.  The inter-est rate for convertible
credits used prior to option is the average ACF index for the previous quarter
minus three percentage points. If the option to convert is not exercised by a
stipulated date, the interest rate is increased by 4 points.
2.46       Past Performance.  FOMIN's policies give priority to investments in
SMI enterprises located in less developed areas. Although FOMIN has made sig-
nificant progress in supporting regional development., by participating in the
proposed Regional Venture Capital Corporations (para. 2.40), FOMIN could have
an even greater impact in the future. Presently about 39% of FOMIN's invest-
ments are for enterprises located in Zones III (Mexico City Metropolitan and
surrounding areas) with the remainder of its investmients distributed in Zones I
and II, (51% and 10% respectively). FOMIN's present portfolio of Mex$2.0
billion (US$17.4 million) has grown annually by 70% in nominal terms and 14% in
real terms since 1979. The substantial growth which has taken place,
particularly outside the metropolitan areas, is a result of the promotional
program undertaken and the close support FOMIN received from PAI's extension
agents. Industries supported by FOMIN present an estimated average cost per
direct job created of US$14,000 equivalent (at 1981 prices), reflecting the
relatively high employment impact of these enterprises.
2.47       Portfolio Quality.  The quality of FOMIN's portfolio improved pro-
gressively during the last six years, due primarily to FOMIN's growing expe-
rience and to its success in attracting a much larger number of potential
clients allowing greater selectivity in investments. However, several of
FOMIN's clients have begun to experience serious problems resulting from the
economic events of 1982. As of December 31, 1982, 54 companies representing
47% of FOMIN's total portfolio were operating profitably, and 43 firms repre-
senting 36% of FOMIN's portfolio were experiencing some financial difficulties,
many as a result of exchange losses and working capital shortages following the
September 1, 1982 devaluation. A remainder of 13 firms with about 17% of
FOMIN's portfolio were in the preoperating stage (Annex 4, Table 24). FOMIN
has drawn up a plan of action to address its overall portfolio control needs
with assistance from INFOTEC; this plan is reflected in the PAI Project
Execution Document (Annex 3).
2.48       Results of equity sales have steadily improved over the past six
years (Annex 4, Table 26). Out of equity in 35 firms sold by FOMIN during the
past three years, only one resulted in capital losses, if investments are
valued at historical costs. Although FOMIN's return on equity sales had
increased substantially for the period 1979 to 1982 ('36% return in 1979 com-
pared to 52% in 1982, in nominal terms), its results in real terms 17/ for
1981 and 1982 have been merely breaking even. A similar pattern is-expected
for equity sales in 1983 and a modest gain in real terms would be expected
17/ Considering variation of the ACF index as the discount factor to account
for time value of money.



-  25  -
after 1984 as industry recovers.  Since SMI enterprises do not have an easily
measuirable market value, in determining the sales price FOMIN has usually
considered the book value of shares plus a premium reflecting revaluations of
assets according to current replacement value as a starting point for divesti-
ture. FOMIN intends to make further use of estimates of firms' projected
future earnings to help establish appropriate share sale prices.
2.49      Project Appraisal and Supervision.  FOMIN's project appraisals are
carried out competently under the supervision of a well-qualified and motivated
team of ten analysts/supervisors.   Three additional professionals are expected
to be employed during 1983, to deal with the technology and marketing oriented
issues of FOMIN's increasing project sophistication. Additionally, FOMIN would
hire two professionals specialized in evaluating firms' management capabilities
and providing management support to investee firms. FOMIN's subproject
appraisal of permanent working capital investments would be carried out in line
with procedures described in para. 2.30 for FOGAIN, as reflected in the PAI
Project Execution Document. FOMIN's supervision is carried out by the same
analysts in charge of project appraisal. Supervision has not been fully
adequate due to staff shortages and FOMIN's rapid portfolio growth. Therefore,
FOMIN intends to establish a separate unit responsible for the supervision and
portfolio evaluation and control on a continuing basis (para. 2.41).
2.50      Procurement and Disbursement.  Disbursement policy provides for the
first 20% of FOMIN's investment to be disbursed when the firm has met all
formal conditions set by FOMIN. The remainder is disbursed against a sched-
ule agreed with the firm, which provides that FOMIN's subscriptions are made
at the same pace as, or sometimes after, those of the other shareholders. The
description of each project includes a list of goods and expenditure schedules
for disbursement purposes. As a general policy, FOMIN requires price
quotations from several suppliers and focusses on the quality and the technical
adequacy of goods purchased.
2.51      Accounting Procedures and Auditing.  FOMIN maintains an accounting
system using accounting principles generally accepted in Mexico. FOMIN's
audit reports have been prepared in satisfactory detail, but have been quali-
fied since the audited statement of some investee firms have been received
after FOMIN's audit is completed, and FOMIN has been unable to adequately
assess the value of its portfolio on a timely basis. FOMIN requires the
assignment of independent auditors, and the use of accounting systems to
FOMIN's satisfaction, by each firm in which it makes its investments. These
audit firms are requested to forward, for shareholders' information, a report
on internal control and accounting procedures for each of the enterprises,
together with the annual certified financial statements. During negotiations
agreement was reached that FOMIN would incorporate a complementary report to
its audited financial statements on its consolidated portfolio by July of each
year, as well as on a schedule for monthly reporting of key financial
indicators by these firms. Annex 4, Tables 27 and 28, presents summarized
year-end audited balance sheets and income statements of FOMIN for the years
1980, 1981, and 1982.



-  26  -
2.52       Financial Position and Projections.  After incurring losses in
preceding years, FOMIN's revenues for the years 1980, 1981 and 1982 rose
significantly due to the rapid growth of its portfolio, implementation of
convertible credits and a more profit-oriented equity sales policy. Net
revenues have covered operating and administrative expenses for the past three
years, as shown in Table 2.1. While stock dividends have risen constantly for
the period 1979 to 1982, these tend to reflect more fixed assets revaluations
and adjustments of book value than retained earnings. Annex 4, Table 29, shows
the importance of internally generated funds in financing FOMIN's future
portfolio.
Table 2.1: Operating Profits by Year
1979            1980          1981              1982
Summarized Income  Mex$  US$        Mex$  US$      Mex$   US$        Mex$    US$
Statement         mil.  equiv.  mil.  equiv.  mil.   equiv.   mil.   mil.
Net Revenues a/    18.3   0.8    40.4   1.6    151.3   5.6           256.2   2.6
Operating and
Administrative
Expenses          26.9   1.2.   34.5   1.4        61.4   2.2        80.7    .8
Net Profit (Loss)  (8.6) (0.4)    5.9   0.2          89.9   3.4      175.5   1.8
a/ Includes profit made on equity sales and excludes stock dividends.
(Negligible amounts of cash dividends were declared by investee firms).
2.53       FOMIN's allocation of US$10 million under the first SMI loan was
fully disbursed by the second quarter of 1982 and the US$12 million allocated
under the second SMI loan (Loan 1881-ME) are expected to be fully committed by
year-end 1983. Under the proposed project, US$18 million would be allocated to
FOMIN, which are expected to cover 36% of FOMIN's total financing needs for the
1984-86 period.
C. Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Pargues y Ciudades Industriales (FIDEIN)
2.54       Background, Objectives and Organization.  FIDEIN was established in
1970 as a Government trust fund administered by NAFINSA to plan, promote and
implement a national system of industrial estates, as part of a comprehensive
program of industrial decentralization and regional development. Initially,
FIDEIN's role was principally to act as a central promotional and advisory
institution to the "Fideicomisos Especiales", the legal entities owning and
operating the individual regional public industrial estates. Subsequently, as
part of the expansion of its role in implementing the Industrial Estates



-  27  -
subprograms under PAI, and with Bank assistance under the first and second SMI
Projects, FIDEIN was expected to finance directly: (a) the construction of
factory buildings on industrial estates to rent, lease with option to purchase,
or sell to SMI enterprises, (b) construction and leasing of common facilities
to provide services to groups of SMI enterprises on the estates, and (c) equip-
ment and machinery leasing to SMI enterprises operating in these industrial
estates. These activities were designed both to support new productive enter-
prises and to meet the expansion and/or relocation needs of existing SMIs.
2.55      Organization, Management and Staffing.  FIDEIN's overall policy-
making body is its Technical Committee, headed by the Minister of Urban
Development and Ecology (previously the Minister of Human Settlements and
Public Works). The Committee includes representatives of SHCP, SECOFIN,
Institute of Agrarian Reform, National Institute for Workers' Housing
Development (INFONAVIT), NAFINSA, plus two representatives from the private
sector selected by CONCAMIN and CANACINTRA. The present Director General, Mr.
Gustavo Varela Ruiz, has implemented some significant organizational changes in
FIDEIN to correct a series of technical and administrative problems. While
these recent changes have been positive, the frequent changes in management and
staff contributed in the past to a loss of continuity and momentum in the
institution. Under the previous acting Director General, the direct
construction of standard factory buildings (SFBs) initially accelerated but
quickly got bogged down as a result of FIDEIN's inadequate technical and
operational management capabilities in this area.
2.56      At the time, management sought to resolve these deficiencies by
rapidly increasing total staff, from about 43 (including 27 professionals) in
late 1980 to 84 employees (including 38 professionals) by December 1982, but
this only served further to aggravate FIDEIN's operational problems since many
of the new staff were not qualified. Under FIDEIN's revised program (para.
2.59) a careful review of its manpower needs, training and outside technical
assistance would be established in accordance with a plan of action reflected
in the Project Execution Document (Annex 3).
2.57      Past Performance.  Under FIDEIN's construction program, a total of 48
SFBs 18/ were built in a period of about two years (1981-82), with sizes
ranging from 1,100 to 2,400 square meters in 13 industrial estates. The infra-
structure work of almost all of the 20 industrial estates in FIDEIN's program
(for which FIDEIN acted in its advisory capacity) has been completed and most
have been in operation for a few years. It is not planned that additional
estates will be developed by the Federal Government, as the responsiblity for
eleveloping new estates and for further developing existing ones has been
assigned to the State Governments since June 1982. While FIDEIN's SFB
construction program has been a valuable promotional device, the need for such
promotion is diminishing at many of the estates. Given the difficulties for
18/ As of February 28, 1983, firm sales contracts had been signed for 24
SFBs, and there were option agreements for sale for 10 SFBs, leasing
agreements with option to purchase for 3 SFBs, 3 SFBs for sale and 8
SFBs under construction and expected to be completed by mid-1983.



- 28 -
FIDEIN to continue carrying out the construction of iidus;;cidj  bi ildings
country-wide and, recognizing that most SMIs now prefer to obtaiin credit to
construct their own buildings and facilities, FIDEIN is planning to: (i)
transfer lending operations for SFBs to FOGAIN; (ii) finalize SFB sales and
transfer the complete loan portfolio to an intermediary bank trust account for
collection and overall administration. In this manner it is !xpected that the
remaining balance allocated for FIDEIN under the second loan, aud to be
channelled through FOGAIN, would be committed by June 1984.
2.58      With respect to common service facilities and equipment leasing,
originally covered under the Second SMI project, the results have also been
disappointing. No common service facilities have been financed under the
second SMI loan, due to lack of active promotion by FIDEIN coupled with the
fact that some of the industrial estates are not yet sufficiently developed to
require common service facilities. Three machinery and equipment leasing
operations have been concluded by FIDEIN, requiring a total FIDEIN investment
of about US$449,000, with US$247,000 of Bank financing. In view of that very
limited success of these operations and FIDEIN's limited experience, no further
leasing operations would be planned under the proposed project. While the full
allocation of US$5 million under the First SMI Project has been disbursed to
FIDEIN, only US$2.3 million out of US$8.0 million have been committed under the
Second SMI Project.
2.59      New Program.  The Government has developed a new strategy for
FIDEIN. The focus of FIDEIN's new role would be to help rationalize the
development and operation of private, as well as publicly-owned, industrial
estates (with due account taken of their environmental impact), and to provide
SMIs with centralized information on the characteristics of the industrial
estates in the country. At the same time, FIDEIN would continue to provide
promotional and advisory support to industrial estates. Based on a survey of
24 of the estimated 110 private industrial estates in the country, a potential
demand for credit and technical assistance by industrial estate developers has
been estimated at Mex$1.7 billion (US$12.8 million equivalent) and Mex$234
million (US$1.8 million equivalent), respectively, over the 1983-86 period in
constant 1983 terms. Annex 4, Table 32 shows FIDEIN's resources needed for its
operations from 1983 to 1986. FIDEIN's future financing operations would be
limited to infrastructure development in industrial estates. Under the
proposed project, US$4.6 million of Bank funds would be allocated to FIDEIN for
this purpose.
2.60      Project Appraisal and Supervision.  FIDEIN's performance in project
appraisal has been uneven, reflecting the lack of experience of its staff.
FIDEIN is in the process of improving its project evaluation procedures to
adjust to the new orientation of its operations, which will focus on technical
assistance and infrastructure financing.  In particular it plans to prepare its
technical staff to cover more thoroughly the technical, administrative,
marketing, financial, economic, and credit aspects of urbanization sub-



-  29  -
projects. Thus, with this specialization, the quality of FIDEIN's appraisals
is expected to evolve satisfactorily. While FIDEIN's supervision activities
have sufferred considerably, mainly as a result of inadequate past leadership,
during the past year FIDEIN has opted to subcontract construction supervision
to private engineering consultants located in their widely dispersed project
areas, charging the client a supervision fee of 10% of project costs. This
approach has proved very successful so far, and would also be used for
urbanization projects. The revised operational regulations and procedures for
approval of infrastructure development in industrial parks, were reviewed with
the Mexican authorities during negotiations. Formal approval by FIDEIN's
Technical Committee would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
2.61      Procurement and Disbursement.  In view of the widely dispersed loca-
tions, the existence of many competitive domestic civil engineering and
construction firms, and the relatively small subproject size (average
investment cost of US$800,000 required at each industrial estate site), only
local competitive bidding would be used. Nevertheless, the beneficiary
industrial estate would be required to announce planned construction in advance
through advertisements in Mexican regional newspapers of wide circulation, and
a minimum of three competitive bids would be required. For all subprojects
above US$500,000 equivalent, the Bank would review subproject tender documents,
and the subsequent award proposal, as well as the draft contract between the
beneficiary and the winning contractor.
2.62      Disbursement of the credit proceeds are governed by FIDEIN's opera-
tions manual (in Project File) and by provisions contained in each construc-
tion contract between FIDEIN and the winning contractor. Bank disbursement
would be made in line with the physical progress of construction, two weeks
after certification by FIDEIN's supervising engineer or architect. If
necessary, FIDEIN would obtain technical assistance from SAHOP.
2.63      Accounting, Credit Control and Auditing.  FIDEIN's accounting
system has improved considerably; it has carried out the Plan of Action, to
improve its accounting and internal controls, which was agreed during the
negotiations for the Second Loan. While the collection system remained weak
until recently, substantial improvements have been made in this regard and
arrearages of over 30 days now represent only 14% of its total portfolio.
Nevertheless, with a view to reducing administrative costs, during negotiations
agreement was reached with FIDEIN and the Government to eliminate FIDEIN's
credit control operations by transferring this function to FOGAIN, to be
managed on FIDEIN's account, and FIDEIN's loan portfolio to an intermediary
bank trust account for collection and overall administration, as reflected in
its reorganization plan (para. 2.56).
2.64      Financial Situation and Projections.  Annex 4, Tables 30 and 31
present a summary of FIDEIN's audited financial statements for 1980, 1981 and



- 30 -
1982 (unaudited). During 1982 FIDEIN had a loss of Mex$21.8 million'9/
compared to Mex$0.1 million for 1981. A Mex$120 million book profit is
expected for 1983, primarily due to the sale or lease of the remaining factory
buildings constructed by FIDEIN. Projected income statements show acceptable
growth in FIDEIN's income for the period 1983 to 1987, provided administrative
and operating costs are streamlined.
19/ This loss is primarily due to the administrative costs incurred by
FIDEIN in the supervision and support of the "Fideicomisos Especiales"
for which FIDEIN receives budgetary support from the Government rather
than charging fees.



- 31 -
III. THE PROJECT AND THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN
Experience Under Previous Bank Loans
3.01      The PAI program of integrated financial and technical assistance to
the SMI sector was initiated and expanded under two previous Bank loans. The
first Loan (1552-ME) for US$47 million was made in June 1978. The credit
component was committed and disbursed by December 31, 1980, somewhat faster
than projected during appraisal, while the smaller components were disbursed
in line with appraisal estimates 20/. The second loan (1881-ME) for US$100
million was 79.0% committed and 71.8% disbursed as of May 31, 1983. The
credit component of this loan is expected to be fully committed during the
first half of 1983 and the other components by year-end 1983.
Table 3.1: UTILIZATION OF LOAN 1881-ME RESOURCES AS OF MAY 31, 1983
Subprograms          Bank Funds    Committed               Disbursed
(US$ million)  (US$ million)    %   (US$ million)         %
Credit (FOGAIN)           78             69.5        89.1       63.5         81.4
Risk Capital
(FOMIN)                 12              6.2        51.7        5.8         48.3
Industrial Estates
(FIDEIN)                 8               2.3       28.8        1.5         18.8
Technical
Assistance               2               1.0       50.0        1.0         50.0
TOTAL                100             79.0        79.0       71.8         71.8
Focus of Proposed Third Project
3.02      In view of the tight resource availability of PAI and the
substantial demand for credit by SMI, the Mexican authorities have asked the
Bank to continue to support PAI through a further loan. While the proposed
project would build on the successful results achieved by the two previous
operations, it would also help to refocus PAI's operations to respond to the
needs of SMI in the present economic situation. In particular, the project
would be geared to helping SMIs maintain production and employment levels by
ensuring adequate access to credit and investment resources, and to foreign
exchange to cover production inputs such as raw materials, components, spare
parts, and critical equipment needs. Initially, the project would finance
the strong demand for incremental permanent working capital arising from the
20/ The remaining funds of Loan 1552-ME for the risk capital and industrial
estates components were fully disbursed by late 1982.



-  32  -
surge in inflation and the increased relative cost ol ii;y,lrts anid foreign
borrowings arising from the major devaluation. The smaller fixed asset
financing demand foreseen for the first 12-18 months of the project would be
mainly for replacement, balancing and modernization equipment, but as the
economy recovers increasing demand to finance expansion projects is expected.
3.03      NAFINSA would be the borrower for the proposed loan and would
channel proceeds to the various participating institutions and handle project
administration and accounts. As in the case of the two prior loans, the pro-
posed loan would support a credit and guarantee subprogram through FOGAIN, a
risk capital subprogram through FOMIN, an industrial estates subprogram
through FIDEIN and a technical assistance subprogram through the PAI exten-
sion agents and special technical assistance and training institutions. As
explained in the previous chapter and highlighted below, the individual sub-
programs would differ somewhat from those financed under the previous
project, reflecting the increased emphasis on working capital financing and
on meeting other urgent needs of SMI in the present economic situation.
However, the allocations of loan funds to working capital and fixed
investment, as well as to the various trust funds, would be reviewed on the
basis of the first year of project implementation and the evolution of the
economic situation. Free-standing working capital financing by FOGAIN and
FOMIN would be provided only in respect of expenditures incurred by
December 31, 1985.
Size of Program and Proposed Loan
3.04      On the basis of demand projections for the participating institu-
tions, a Bank loan of US$175.0 million is proposed (including US$436,409 for
the capitalized front end fee). This loan, together with additional PAI
program resources of US$64.6 million equivalent, to be provided from govern-
ment sources to the participating institutions, would support investment and
technical assistance activities totalling US$349.2 million, with the balance
of US$110.0 million being provided by subproject sponsors and intermediary
banks. The proposed allocation of resources among the various subprograms is
shown in Table 3.2.
3.05      The proposed loan would cover about 73% of the financing extended
by the PAI program and 50% of the total expenditures on investments and tech-
nical assistance activities supported. Since the the overall foreign ex-
change content of the total expenditures is estimated to be US$106.0 million,
the Bank loan would be financing US$68.6 million in local expenditures. This
is justified in view of the very difficult economic situation currently being
faced by Mexico.
3.06      The credit component of US$150 million would finance 73% of
FOGAIN's credits for qualifying subprojects. Interest rates to final
borrowers would be variable and would be adjusted quarterly to reflect move-
ments in the ACF index.  FOGAIN would use six different interest rates
depending on the size and location of the ultimate sub-borrower but, on aver-
age, interest rates would be equal to at least ACF+1.  Margins for inter-
mediary banks would range from 2.0 to 3.5 percentage points to provide
incentives for banks to lend to small enterprises and those located outside



Table 3.2: Allocat'o f        Ra Psources
Sources of Fianclrg                                                 Content of Fin    g b/
Total         Additional Furds             Total        World                   lDcal Exchange  Foreign Exchange   Bank's Local
Subprogram      ITvestnent  Bereficiaries/Internediaries  Program Financing  Bank   Covernment   [    Content        Content        Cost Financing
1. credit               301.4                95.4                  206.0         150.0    56.0               210.6            90.8             59.2
2. Risk Capital          36.3                11.6                   24.7          18.0      6.7               25.3            11.0              7.0
3. lidustrial Parks       9.3                 3.0                    6.3           4.6      1.7                6.5             2.8              1.8
4. Technical Assistance    2.2                -                      2.2           2.0      0.2                0.8             1.4              0.6
TUOAL                349.2               110.0                  239.2         174.6 c/  64.6              243.2           106.0             68.6
_=                                    - ==                                   I                         _=
% Participation      100.0                31.5                   68.5         50.0      18.5                70              30               20
a/ US$1 = hx$115
b/ Considers that one half of the total investnent is allocated to permarent wrkirg capital reeds anxd assues 20% of foreign exchange content for working capitalI
component.
c/ Front-end fee of US$0.4 million not included.
1CPI2
May 1983



- 34 -
Mexico City. Small enterprises would be eligible under the Credit Guarantee
Scheme (see para. 2.27). Three types of FOGAIN credits would be eligible for
financing through Bank subloans as follows:
(a) Working capital subprojects: US$75 million of the Loan's
credit component would be available for financing FOGAIN credits for pure
permanent working capital subprojects. Such subprojects would help cover
increases in permanent working capital requirements arising from increased
costs of materials, components, spare parts and other production inputs.
FOGAIN would finance up to 80% of estimated additional working capital needs
using 1981 as a base year for determining normal production levels and cal-
culating price changes. Beneficiaries would finance the remaining 20%. The
maximum FOGAIN credit would be about US$390,O00.21/ Maximum credit and sub-
loan terms would be six years with up to two years of grace. Beneficiaries
would undertake not to reduce working capital below an agreed level during
the term of the subloan.
(b) Investment subprojects: US$70 million of the credit component
would be for financing fixed asset investment subprojects of SMIs (including
machinery, equipment, civil works, and industrial buildings) and increases in
permanent working capital related to any increase in production capacity
involved. FOGAIN credits for such subprojects would be limited to about
US$390,000 per enterprise, based on FOGAIN's Operating Regulations, and would
cover up to 80% of the total costs of the subproject. These credits would
have a maximum term of six years, including two years of grace.
(c) Common facilities subprojects: US$5 million would be avail-
able to finance common service facilities to be used by groups of enter-
prises. These may be firms located in industrial estates or groups of enter-
prises constituting a collective acti6n group outside an industrial estate.
In either case, the enterprises would need to organize themselves as a legal
entity able to contract debt and service such debt from members' dues.
Typical common services that might be required by such groups of enterprises
would include maintenance and repair shops, central warehousing, purchasing
and distribution centers, training facilities, quality control and materials
testing centers, accounting and data processing centers, and canteens.
FOGAIN credits would be for a maximum term of six years and would cover up to
80% of the cost of the common facilities, subject to a maximum credit of
US$300,000 per subproject. The credits would bear the interest rates applic-
able to small enterprises in the particular location and would be eligible
for coverage under the guarantee scheme.
3.07      The risk capital component of US$18 million would finance 73% of
FOMIN's investments through common and preferred shares, subordinated con-
vertible loans and other equity-type instruments. Such investments would be
to finance either (i) the acquisition of fixed assets and related increases
in permanent work capital, or (ii) increases in permanent working capital
requirements arising from increases in the prices of raw materials,
components, parts and other production inputs. No more than US$10 million
would be used for investments purely in working capital. The size of FOMIN's
21/ Expressed as 45 million pesos in FOGAIN's Operating Regulations.



-  35  -
investments would be such as to ensure that FOMIN would not be the majority
shareholder either immediately or on conversion of subordinated loans.
FOMIN 's investments eligible for Bank financing would be those whose total
assets prior to FOMIN's investment do not exceed the asset limitation on
eligibIlity for FOGAIN financing.  Prior to exercising the convertibility
oDption, subordinated convertible loans would carry a variable interest rate
that is not more than 3 points below ACF. If FOMIN decides not to excercise
the convertibility option by a specified date, the interest rate would be
raised to at least ACF+1.
3.08      The industrial estates component of US$4.6 million would finance
73% of FIDEIN's credits to private and public industrial estates to support
infrastructure and urbanization investments. In accordance with FIDEIN's
revised Operating Regulations, such credits would be for a period of up to 12
years, including up to 3 years of grace. Interest rates would be adjusted
each quarter to be equal to at least ACF plus 1 point.
3.09      The technical assistance component of about US$2.0 million would
finance 75% of local expenditures and 100% of foreign expenditures for: (i)
training PAI extension agents and staff in participating technical assistance
institutions; (ii) consultants; and (iii) facilities and equipment needed
under the program. In view of the large number of technical assistance
activities and the possibility that their financing needs would change during
project implementation, the initial allocation of the subprogram (Annex 4,
Table 15) would be reviewed and revised, as necessary, during the commitment
period, by agreement between NAFINSA and the Bank.
3o10      The trust funds would have to introduce substantial increases in
interest rates to final borrowers, since their current rates are substan-
tial[Ly lower than those required by the covenants under the proposed loan
(Annex 4, Table 21).   This would require some time, so that interest rates
may be increased in stages. Onlending interest rates are expected to be
increased by about 10 percentage points, to an average of 48%, in July, 1983,
as a first step, and additional adjustments would be made subsequently, as
necessary, in order to reach full compliance with covenanted interest rates
under the proposed loan. In view of the urgent need for finance of small and
medium-scale industry, up to US$50 million would be disbursed through
December 31, 1983 at interest rates below those covenanted, for onlending for
FOGAIN or FIDEIN loans, provided that all such loans carry variable interest
rates, and that interest rates are adjusted, according to an agreed program,
to reach the covenanted levels.
Loan Channelling and Repayment Arrangements
r, eI 1 1 NAFINSA would channel the loan proceeds in pesos through a Program
Account (established in NAFINSA) to PAI, the individual trust funds and other
participating institutions for qualifying subprojects and expenditures.  In
view of the trust funds' cashflow shortages due to a decrease in Government
contributions, and in order to reduce the interval during which the trust
funLds must finance the Bank's share of subloans with their own resources, an
initial deposit of US$17.5 million will be disbursed from the Bank's loan
zccount to a Special Account, to be set up in the Banco de Mexico for the
Program (para. 3.14). All debt service charges (principal, interest and
commitment fees) related to the Bank loan would be paid by NAFINSA to the
liank in accordance with a fixed 15 year amortization schedule including 3



- 36 -
years of grace. Participating institutions, with the exceptisn of technical
assistance institutions, would pay back PAI resources as funds are recovered
from subloan repayments and sales of investments.
3.12      FOGAIN and FIDEIN would be expected to repay to the PAI account
both principal and interest on the amounts lent to them. The interest rate
paid by FOGAIN and FIDEIN would be 2 percentage points below their onlending
rate to final borrowers; this spread would cover their operating
costs. FOMIN would repay PAI the net amount recovered from divesting its
equity investments, 50% of any realized capital gains, plus an agreed
percentage of interest received by FOMIN on convertible credits. Resources
paid back by the participating trust funds to the PAI account that are not
required to service the Bank loan would be utilized by PAI for purposes
similar to those under the proposed project. As a condition of disbursement
to each of the trust funds, channelling arrangements would be agreed by
NAFINSA and the respective trust fund on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank.
Procurement and Disbursement
3.13      NAFINSA, through the PAI secretariat, together with FOGAIN and
FOMIN would apply suitable procedures either directly or through the inter-
mediaries to ensure that goods and services procured are competitive in
quality and price, and are appropriate for the needs of the client enter-
prise. Procurement procedures applied in the past are acceptable to the Bank
and comply with standards for DFC operations. Infrastructure and urbaniza-
tion of industrial estates financed by FIDEIN would require detailed review
by the Bank of LCB procedures for all subprojects above US$500,000 equiva-
lent. Ex-post reviews would be conducted on FIDEIN subprojects below that
limit. Full ICB would not be required given the small average size of sub-
projects (US$800,000) and the availability of many competitive construction
and civil engineering companies in Mexico. Consultants hired through the
technical assistance component of the proposed loan would be engaged in
accordance with Bank guidelines.
3.14      Disbursements for the subloans and investments would be made
against Statements of Expenditures (SOE), issued by the respective trust
funds, for specific industrial subprojects. Bank reimbursement based on
NAFINSA's withdrawal applications would then replenish the Special Account in
the Banco de Mexico. Conversion from dollars into pesos wculd be made at the
official rate of exchange that prevails on the date payment is made by the
Program's Special Account to the trust funds. Detailed documentation
evidencing final expenditures on machinery, equipment, civil works and
permanent working capital would be retained by the respective trust funds and
would be available for inspection by the Bank. In addition, disbursement
requests by FOGAIN for common service facilities would include a detailed
list of items financed, and an estimated schedule of expenditures and
disbursements, which would be submitted to the Bank prior to Bank
authorization of the subproject. Since approvals under the multitier system
may involve relatively long processing times, expenditures up to 180 days
prior to receipt by the Bank of the financing application would be eligible
for Bank financing, as under the previous PAI projects. Annex 2 includes the
estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed loan. This disbursement
schedule was prepared assuming a somewhat faster disbursement rate during the
first two years than the average profile for IDF loans, as a result of the
faster disbursing permanent working capital component.



-  37  -
Approval Limits
3.15      The approval limits would be as follows:
(a) FOGAIN: While Bank approval would not be required for FOGAIN's
fixed asset financing to industries, the Bank could review at its
discretion any withdrawal request prior to disbursement. The Bank
would also review periodically a representative sample of
subprojects on an ex-post basis during supervision missions. Bank
approval would be required for the first 3 subloans for permanent
working capital, and for all common service facilities subprojects.
(b) FOMIN: Investments requiring more than US$400,000 equivalent in
Bank funds would require Bank approval.
(c) FIDEIN: Bank approval for infrastructure projects would be
required for all subloans to finance infrastructure and
urbanization of public and private industrial estates. Bank
approval of procurement for FIDEIN projects would follow the
procedure described in para. 3.13.
(d) Technical Assistance: All use of Bank funds under this component
would require Bank approval. Selection of, and contract terms
for,consultants would also require Bank approval (see Annex 4,
Table 15).
Auditing
3.16      The Borrower would make arrangements for a full audit of the
individual trust funds, as well as of PAI's Program Account, to be submitted
to the Bank annually and according to standards satisfactory to the Bank.
Contracts and working programs for external auditors should include a
requirement for commenting on important deficiencies in internal control.
Such comments from the auditors in a letter to management would be copied to
the Bank. Furthermore, the Borrowers would also present to the Bank
satisfactory audit of SOEs.  Procedures for reporting the results of the
review of FOGAIN's and FOMIN's SOEs would be incorporated into independent
auditor terms of reference by each institution.
Project Benefits and Risks
3.17      The proposed project is designed to address the urgent financial
needs of SMI enterprises under present economic conditions. One half of the
proceeds of the Loan are expected to be used to finance increased permanent
working capital needs to help SMIs make effective use of their production
capacity and maintain employment levels. The remainder of the Loan would be
used initially to cover financing of equipment for modernization and
replacement and later, as the economy recovers, expansions in production
capacity, but the allocations to each component would be reviewed after the
first year of project implementation. About 2,500 individual enterprises
would be assisted by FOGAIN during 1983-86. Some 150 enterprises would be
assisted through the Risk Capital Subprogram by FOMIN and 10-12 industrial
estates would receive FIDEIN's financing assistance. Finally, the Technical
Assistance Subprogram of PAI is expected to provide assistance to several



-  38  -
hundred SMI enterprises. An estimated 10,000 jobs at various levels,
including unskilled labor, would be generated in 1983-86 through investments
financed from the proposed loan. A further 20,000 to 30,000 jobs would be
preserved through helping to provide firms with adequate working capital.
Economic rates of return on subprojects financed under the first SMI Project
were estimated to average around 50% on the basis of a sample of firms
supported through the project; while the proposed project would include an
increased proportion of working capital financing, similar economic rates of
return are expected.
3.18      The project would also have an important institution-building
impact by helping the PAI system maintain its dynamism and relevance to the
evolving needs of SMI by: (i) consolidating and redefining the roles of some
financial institutions taking into account past experience and the changing
needs of the economy;  (ii) improving the access of small firms to credit
through implementation of the guarantee scheme;  (iii) expanding the volume
and range of technical services to SMIs through closer coordination between
PAI and the various specialized institutions; (iv) expanding risk capital
financing through the possible development of the regional venture capital
companies; (v) strengthening the links between the PAI program and the
National Employment Service. In addition, technical assistance provided
through the proposed project is expected to support implementation of an
improved labor-and employment-related data collection and analysis system,
thus providing additional inputs for policy formulation and decision making.
3.19      Risks.  The major risks in this project are of two kinds.  There
are institutional risks related to the considerable changes in managers and
some professionals that have taken place following the change in the
Administration. This could prove to have a destabilizing effect on the future
development of the PAI program and the various institutions involved in the
program. However, such a risk should not be too serious since a project
execution document has been jointly prepared with PAI, and was agreed during
loan negotiations. This document spells out the objectives and priorities of
the PAI program and the roles and action programs of the participating
institutions.
3.20      The other risk is that social and political pressures and further
external shocks may prevent the Mexican authorities from adhering fully to
the stabilization program on which they have embarked with IMF assistance.
The determination shown by the present Administration so far suggests that
their chances of successfully managing such pressures are quite high. While
delays in achieving economic stabilization may prolong the period of
recession and reduce investment demand somewhat, the need for working capital
financing is likely to increase in such circumstances.



- 39 -
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A.   Agreements and/or Understandings Reached
4.01      During loan negotiations, agreements or understandings were
reached:
(a)  With the Government on:
(i)   the policies to be followed with respect to the relative
prices of labor and capital in order to encourage a more
labor absorptive pattern of industrial growth (para. 1.30);
(ii)  the measures to be undertaken to improve the coverage and
timeliness of labor market statistics (para. 1.29).
(b)  With the Mexican Government and NAFINSA on: the Government's and
NAFINSA's responsibilities for servicing the loan, and providing
counterpart funds of US$64.6 million and the arrangements for
channelling loan and counterpart resources to the participating
trust funds through the Program's Special Account (paras. 3.04,
3.11 and 3.14).
(c)  With NAFINSA (in its own capacity and as the trustee for the
participating trust funds) on:
(i)   review by PAI's Secretariat, not later than December 31, 1983
of the PAI extension agent system and the results of PAI's
cost and benefit analysis (para. 2.07).
(ii)  auditing arrangements for PAI's Program Account and the
participating institutions, including a full audit of
Statements of Expenditures (para. 3.16);
(iii) a Project Execution Document explaining NAFINSA's intentions
regarding the future development of PAI and the role of the
various institutions involved in the program including the
following points:
a. FOGAIN's subloan policies for factory building and common
service facilities financing, and operation of the credit
guarantee fund (paras. 2.19 and 2.27);
b. measures to be taken by FOGAIN to avoid erosion of its
equity base, including a timetable for adjusting the
interest rates of its existing portfolio (para. 2.29);
c. procedures for appraising permanent working capital
subloans and investments (paras. 2.30 and 2.49);



- 40 -
d.   major points to be included in a plan for strengthening
FOMIN's organization and staffing, which would be
prepared not later than September 30, 1983 (paras. 2.41);
e.   FOMIN's plan of action for improving its portfolio
control and auditing (paras. 2.47, 2.49 and 2.51);
f.   a plan and timetable to implement a reorganization of
FIDEIN's structure (para. 2.56);
g.   FIDEIN's revised operational regulations and procedures
for approval of infrastructure development in industrial
estates (para. 2.60);
h.   specific subprograms of Specialized Technical Assistance
Institutions (INFOTEC, and DGE and DGCP in STPS) to
support PAI's activities, to be reviewed by the Bank not
later than September 30, 1983 (paras. 2.10 to 2.13).
(d)  With NAFINSA and FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN on:  onlending terms and
conditions, including application of variable interest rates to the
final beneficiaries and, in the case of FOGAIN, margins to the
intermediaries (paras. 3.06 to 3.08).
4.02      Conditions of Loan Effectiveness would be:
(i)   formal approval by Technical Committees of FOGAIN and FIDEIN
of agreed changes in their Operating Regulations (paras. 2.19
and 2.60);
(ii) presentation to the Bank of a satisfactory schedule of
interest rates to be applied by FOGAIN (para. 2.21).
4.03      Conditions of disbursement of loan allocations to each trust fund
would be:
(i) receipt by the Bank of documents attesting that satisfactory
arrangements have been made for channelling loan proceeds to
FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN (para. 3.12);
(ii) implementation of an agreed program to adjust present FOGAIN
and FIDEIN onlending interest rates to reach covenanted
levels (para. 3.10).
B.   Recommendation
4.04      With the above agreements, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for a loan of US$175 million to NAFINSA with a maturity of 15
years, including 3 years of grace, subject to the conditions outlined in
Chapter III.



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE AVERAGE COST OF FUNDS (ACF) INDEX
The ACF index is calculated as a weighted average of interest rates paid
on all term funds and deposits by Mexican banking system. Changes in the ACF index
below reflect adjustments in interest rates paid on deposits, and in the term
distribution of funds.
Table 1: ACF index, Highest Interest Rates on
Deposits and Inflation Rates
Highest Deposit
Rate  (End-period) ACF Index       Annual Inflation
Year       Quarter      Month          Nomnal  Effective                         Rate (CPI)
Compounded   (Avg.)         (Avg.)      (End Qt)
1975                                    14.2                   11.8           15.1
1976                                    14.4                   11.8           15.8
1977                                    17.1                   12.9          28.9
1978                                    16.0                   15.3           17.1
1979                                    18.5        20.0       16.5           18.4
1980         I                                                  18.5          22.6
II                                                20.2           25.1
III                        29.3        32.6       21.0          28.4
IV                                                23.2          28.9
1981        I                                                  26.0           28.0
II                                                27.3           28.4
III                        35.0        41.2       29.5           26.8
IV                                                31.6           28.6
1982         I                           -           -         33.2           32.7       34.7
II                          -           -         36.8           44.3      49.4
III                        44.8        52.9       45.8           65.5       73.9
IV                         57.9        71.2       45.9           89.0      99.8
1983                    January          -           -         50.3          110.1
February        -           -          54.2         113.5
March          65.8        83.8        56.2         115.8      115.8
April                                  57.2         117.6
May                                    58.1
LCPI2
May 1983



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursements
(US$ million)
Disbursements          Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter            in Quarter          Disbursements
1983-84
September 30, 1983                         -
December 31, 1983                         10.0                  10.0
March 31, 1984                            12.0                  22.0
June 30, 1984                             14.0                  36.0
1984-85
September 30, 1984                        14.0                 50.0
December 31, 1984                         16.0                  66.0
March 31, 1985                            16.0                  82.0
June 30, 1985                             18.0                 100.0
1985-86
September 30, 1985                        20.0                120.0
December 31, 1985                         15.0                 135.0
March 31, 1986                            12.0                 147.47
June 30, 1986                             10.0                 157.0
1986-87
September 30, 1986                         8.0                 165.0
December 31, 1986 a/                       5.0                 170.0
March 31, 1987                             3.0                 173.0
June 30, 1987 b/                           2.0                 175.0
a/   Last date for submission of subprojects for Bank financing.
b/   Closing date.
LCPI2
February 1983



Page 1 of 27
- 43 -                              TRANSLATION
MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE INTEGRATED SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (PAI)
THIRD STAGE - (PAI-III)
PROJECT EXECUTION DOCUMENT
I.       Institutional Aspects
1.       Stage III of the Integrated Small and Medium Industry Development
Program (PAI) will be undertaken in the framework of the Programa para la Defensa
de la Planta Productiva y el Empleo (Program for the Defense of Productive
Capacity and Employment), and its main objective remains to contribute to the
recovery, strengthening and development of small and medium industry through
appropriate and timely channeling of financial resources and technical assist-
ance services. This support will be furnished in the form of loans and
guarantees, through FOGAIN--Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana
y Pequena (Guarantee and Development Fund for Small and Medium Industry); of
risk capital, through FOMIN--Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial (National
Industrial Development Fund); of loans for infrastructure and urban develop-
ment of industrial parks, through FIDEIN--Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Pargues
y Ciudades Industriales (Industrial Estates Trust Fund); and of technical
assistance services, through the PAI extension system, specialized technical
institutions (INFOTEC, etc.) and the General Directorates of Employment and
of Training and Productivity of the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare.
2.       In pursuit of the object of rationalizing the Mexican financial and
banking system, activities are being developed aimed (a) at strengthening
coordination among the various entities and trust funds that support medium
and small industry, and (b) at tightening the links between their respective
action programs and the guidelines and directives of industrial development
policy. With these goals in mind, Nacional Financiera, in its capacity as
Industrial Development Bank and Trustee of the development trust funds,has
been implementing a series of measures, including in particular the establish-
ment of a Small and Medium Industry Development Department. In this context,
any future changes in operational systems or organizational structures will
pay particular regard to the aim of fully complying with the targets and
goals laid down for Stage III of the Integrated Program (PAI).
3.       The PAI Technical Assistance Program for 1983-84 will be submitted
to the World Bank by May 31, 1983. This Program will be designed to ensure
continuity of the major actions undertaken under the provisional program,
currently under way, so as to avoid either diminishing its dynamism or
interrupting integral support to small and medium industry. The new Program
will use a variety of means, such as the promotion of industrial clusters
and joint action, all aimed at strengthening the capacity of small and
medium enterprises to cope with the new economic situation and to contribute
more efficiently to the achievement of economic policy goals in the areas
of job creation, regional devlelopment, export promotion and import sub-
stitution.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 27
- 44 -
4.       With the particular aim of evaluating the effectiveness of the support
granted under the Program and drawing conclusions and recommendations for
increasing the operational efficiency of the various support activities,
the PAI Technical Secretariat will carry out the following three studies,
based on the terms of reference and timetables given in Annex I of this
document:
(a) Cost-benefit analysis and evaluation of three of the major
promotional and technical assistance programs:
(i) establishment of industrial clusters;
(ii) formation of new enterprises;
(iii) regional decentralization of enterprises.
(b) Ex-post analysis and evaluation of a representative sample
of industrial enterprises assisted by FOGAIN with Program
resources, with the particular aim of measuring the impact
of this support on, and its effective contribution to, the
structure and operation of the enterprises.
(c) Survey of a representative group of enterprises assisted with
FOGAIN resources, with the aim of evaluating, and deriving
conclusions about, the impact and repercussions of the new
economic situation on medium and small business. To achieve
this objective, this study will be updated periodically, as
necessary.
5.       The Technical Secretariat of the PAI will conclude technical assis-
tance agreements with INFOTEC and the General Directorates of Employment and
of Training and Productivity of the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare.
These agreements, together with the specifications and specific execution
timetables for each cooperation subprogram, will be opportunely submitted to
the World Bank,and such that they are satisfactory to the Bank, by September 30,
1983 at the latest.
6.       During execution of Stage III of the Program, PAI intends to foster
even more strongly the linkage of small and medium industry operation to
economic policy priorities. To that end it will be necessary to step up the
promotional and technical assistance efforts, particularly the establishment
of new collective aciton groups and strengthening of the industrial clusters
already in operation. The Technical Secretariat of PAI will therefore carry
out a study of the operation of the Program's industrial extension system,
in accordance with Section 3.11 of the Loan Agreement. The purpose of this
study will be to derive conclusions and recommendations as the basis for,
among other actions, strengthening the structure and operation of the ex-
tension system itself, with special emphasis on the incorporation of per-
sonnel specialized in various disciplines (technological processes, market-
ing, financial planning, etc.) and industrial subsectors. Where appropriate,
the technical strengthening of the extension system will aim to improve co-
ordination with the agencies responsible for execution of the technical assis-
tance subprograms.



ALNNtA J
Page 3 of 27
- 45 -
LOAN AND GUARANTEE PROGRAMS--(FOGAIN)
7.       Loans. - FOGAIN's operating norms and procedures will include criteria
with regard to the financing of projects for incremental permanent working
capital,defined as that increment in working capital used to purchase
inventory of raw materials or other items (such as spare parts) and other
production inputs to maintain or reach necessary production levels. These
credits will follow the terms and limits established by FOGAIN for working
capital operations in general. However, a full project appraisal will be
presented, to include historical and projected cash-flows, taking into account
inventory price increases in Mexican peso terms, using 1981 and 1982 pro-
duction levels and prices of the beneficiaries as the basis for calculations,
for those subprojects totalling more than US$50,000. In all cases, the
analysis will be supplemented by an annex presenting the details of the
initial inventory, goods purchased during the various periods,and final in-
ventory, together with a projection of estimated production volumes, for a
two-year projection period.
8.       Guarantee program. - FOGAIN is promoting legal and administrative
adjustments which will allow it to provide guarantees for 75% of the amount
of loans to small enterprises,and also to medium-sized enterprises in the
case of common services. A draft of the operating rules and criteria for
the Guarantee Program which, if appropriate, will enter into force as soon
as the pertinent authorizations are given, is appended as Annex 2.
9.       Portfolio control. - With the object of significantly improving its
asset management system and achieving capacity to perform the operational
tasks deriving from Stage III of the Integrated Program with the necessary
efficiency, FOGAIN will set up a portfolio control subsystem which will make
it possible, inter alia, to obtain the operational results set forth in
Annex 3. To operate this subsystem FOGAIN will have available the necessary
data computation facilities and programs and will carry out a specific sub-
program of basic and advanced training for technical personnel of its Finance
Department. The terms of reference and timetable are included in the said
Annex 3.
RISK CAPITAL PROGRAM--FOMIN
10.      To enable FOMIN to continue to carry out with the necessary efficiency
the activities arising from a growing volume of operations, and in particular
its active participation in Stage III of the Integrated Program, its organiza-
tion will be restructured to improve its technology and industrial process
appraisal and portfolio control capacities. The corresponding program will
be submitted to the Bank by September 30, 1983 at the latest. As part of
this effort to strengthen its institutional structure and operational pro-
ductivity, FOMIN will implement a permanent subprogram of human resource
training and development.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 27
- 46 -
11.      In connection with FOMIN's investment portfolio, a plan of action
including the following components will be implemented:
(a) Addition to the portfolio control system of a mechanism for
capturing information making it possible, through monthly
analysis of the financial indicators, to identify the situa-
tion, behavior and evolution of the associated enterprises.
(b) From September 30, 1983, preparation of a periodic report on
the specific situation of the enterprises that figure in
FOMIN's portfolio problem, which will include--where this
is merited--necessary rehabilitation actions and measures.
In cases in which a recovery effort is not justified, the
report will detail the steps that will have to be taken for
winding up and liquidation.
(c) Incorporation into FOMIN's audited financial statements of a
supplemental consolidated report (Investment Portfolio
Evaluation), in the month of July of each year, reflecting
the situation of the enterprises in which FOMIN holds shares.
(d) Implementation of a program of technical assistance for firms
associated with FOMIN, based on support for consulting ser-
vices, with the object of contributing to the improvement of
the enterprises' administrative, financial, production, and
marketing activities and, in general, all activities related
to their efficiency and productivity, as described in Annex 4.
12.      In the case of convertible loans or equity contributions to be
applied exclusively to permanent working capital, the appraisal methods will
include the criteria referred to in paragraph 7.
INDUSTRIAL ESTATES PROGRAM--FIDEIN
13.      During Stage III of the Integral Support Program, FIDEIN's work will
have to focus basically on the goal of promoting and providing integral support
for preinvestment, execution and operational phases of establishing and devel-
oping industrial estates, both public and private. To enable it to perform the
related tasks with the necessary efficiency, FIDEIN will make the necessary
adjustments to its scheme of operations and its organizational structure.
The program of activities and execution timetable are appended as Annex 5.
14.      After FIDEIN's Plan of Action has been in operation for 18 months,
an evaluation of the results achieved will be made and will be submitted to
the World Bank.
15.      In order to award contracts for works to be financed with World
Bank resources, the norms referred to in Annex 6 will be applied. With
regard to contracts totalling over US$500,000 equivalent,FIDEIN will, prior
to the award, present to the Bank for its approval:



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 27
- 47 -
(a) The document which will form the basis for the bidding; and
(b) The corresponding award proposal, including the background
and basis for said proposal.
With regard to contracts amounting to less than US$500,000 equivalent, FIDEIN
will submit to the World Bank, within 30 days of the contract award at the
latest, the terms on which the respective contract was awarded and the back-
ground materials which were considered in.making the award. Should the Bank
determine that a contract was not awarded in conformity with the norms of
the said Annex, it will notify FIDEIN of such circumstances in order that
FIDEIN apply the corresponding sanctions under its contract with the
Beneficiary.



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 27
- 48 -
ANNEX 1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
EVALUATION OF SUPPORT PROGRAMS
CONTENTS
A.  COST-BENEFIT EVALUATION OF MAJOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS.
B. EVALUATION OF ECONOMIC IMPACT THROUGH EX-POST ANALYSIS OF FIRMS
ASSISTED BY FOGAIN.
C. EVALUATION OF THE IMPACT OF THE ECONOMIC SITUATION AND THE NEEDS
OF SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY.



ANNEX 3
- 49 -                      Page 7 of 27
A. COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS OF MAJOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
CONTENTS
Background
Purpose and scope
Methodology
I.       BACKGROUND
There have been two main phases in the implementation of the technical
assistance activities of PAI. In the first phase the work of the industrial
extension agents emphasized individual technical assistance. On the basis of
the knowledge acquired and experience with the problems of small and medium
industry in the various regions of the country, emphasis was placed during a
second phase on the preparation and implementation of special programs geared to
the level of industrial development of the different regions of Mexico.
The results of these activities have been successful on the
whole, and the extension services provided have gradually become more
efficient.
Although information has been gathered periodically on the
results of the work done, there are some inconsistencies and/or
shortcomings in the manner of recording and analysis, both as regards
the effort invested in implementation itself and as regards the various
aspects that should be taken into account for a full knowledge of the
outcome of the technical assistance activities.
Because of this situation, a project must be undertaken to
remedy the shortcomings mentioned above, and which covers the major
technical assistance programs.
II. PURPOSES AND SCOPE
The purpose of this internal project is to make as accurate a
determination as possible of the results of the various technical
assistance programs.
The study should identify and evaluate results from both the
qualitative and quantitative standpoints, to permit an evaluation
of the costs and benefits of each program and of the indirect benefits that were
produced for the development of firms, entrepreneurs and the country in general.
In the design of the study, as well as in its findings, an effort will
be made to identify the most important aspects with the minimum of time
and effort, and to produce, as a final result, an objective evaluation
that can be applied to the various technical assistance activities.



III. Methodology and timetable for implementation
Periods of
No.            Stage                                              Activities                              Implementation
1.   Determination of the sample of firms and selection    Analysis of localities in which there              2 weeks
of localities in which the study will be conducted    have been programs of industrial
decon~centration, establishment of
industrial clusters and formation of new
enterprises.
Determination of the sample of firms.
2.   Preparation of questionnaires                            Design of questionnaires required to            1 week
evaluate the programs of:
- industrial deconcentration
- industrial clusters
- formation of new enterprises
- individual technical assistance
3.   Test of questionnaires                                    Sending of questionnaire to selected           3 weeks
localities for pilot testing.
4.   Revisions and approval of questionnaires                 Revisions of questionnaires with the            1 week
proposed changes
5.   Gathering of information                                  Gathering of information in the selected    6 weeks
localities.
6.   Compilation, analysis and interpretation of              Collation of questionnaires from the            1 week
sample data.                                             selected communities for the purpose of:
- arranging data
- analyzing data
- selecting required data
7.   Preparation and distribution of preliminary              On the basis of the information selected,   4 weeks             m X
document for discussion and approval.                    preparation of the basis document for                           0 L
discussion and/or approval.                                    
8.   Final version of the document                            After revision and/or approval, the final   1 week
document will be issued.
TOTAL                                                                                                   19 weeks



ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 27
- 51 -
The findings of the study will provide a basis for:
-         Updating of plans and programs and adoption of strategies that
wil'l make it possible to broaden the scope and increase the effectiveness
of support to small and medium industry.
Redesign of the present evaluation and control systems.
It is important to note that the methodology described above
calls for the simultaneous evaluation of the programs for establishment of
industrial clusters, formation of new enterprises and industrial
deconcentration.
A basic document is attached hereto, with more details on the
content of the studies.
It is estimated that the study will be presented on December 31,
1983.



ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 27
- 52 -
B. EX-POST EVALUATION OF THE IBRD-PAI-FOGAIN PROGRAuM
CONTENTS
Sampling framework
Methodology
Analysis of results
ANNEX ON THE EX-POST EVALUATION OF THE IBRD-PAI-FOGAIN PROGRAM
LOANS 1552 and 1881-ME
1.        Sampling framework
Comprises 2,267 projects supported on the basis of an application
under program PAI-I (May 4, 1978) and PAI-II (March 3, 1981).
2.        Sectoral classification
This will be based on the International Standard Industrial
Classification. The short and long forms will be used for the sectoral and
regional classification.
3.        Methodology to be followed for the ex-post evaluation
It is proposed that the evaluation use the methodology prepared
and approved by the World Bank for the ex-post evaluaEtion of
IBRD-PAI-FOGAIN I, Loan 1552-ME.
This evaluation was made from the private and social standpoints;
however, it is felt that at present the economy's protective and incentive
development instruments are not clearly defined. As an alternative, it is
recommended that the social evaluation be made on the basis of the costs
and benefits of the subsidies and taxes to the Goverr.ment. A comparative
analysis will be made of the economic and financial internal rates of
return from the ex-ante and ex-post evaluations.
In this connection, the short form is for credits of less than
Mex$12 million and the long form for those exceeding that amount.
3.1       The parameters to be measured in each element of the sample will
be those included in the forms mentioned above.
4.        Sampling method and selection of the sample.
A ramdon sample based on the following criteria will be used:
(a) Economic zone
(b) Industrial group
(c) Proportionality
(d) Type of credit
(e) The project selected must be typical of those supported by



ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 27
-53 -
PAI-FOGAIN in terms of size and financial characteristics.
(f) The sample selected must permit a comparison of the results
expected "ex-ante" and those actually obtained "ex-post," at
least one year after the project goes into operation.
(g) For selection of the sample, projects implemented between
January 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982 will be considered.
4.1       Size of the sample
At present, estimated at approximately 150 projects.
5.        Preliminary estimate of the cost of the survey
Mex$943,000.
6.        Analysis of survey findings
In this phase a comparative analysis will be made of the data
indicated in the project prior to the investment, and those obtained one
year after it goes into operation. The comparisons will refer to changes
in the level of employment, utilization of plant, production levels, sales,
etc., as well assuch ratios as employment/investment, value
added/employment.
7.        The results will be presented on December 31, 1983.



ANNEX 3
Page 12 of 27
- 54 -
C. SURVEY OF THE IMPACT OF THE ECONOMIC SITUATION AND THE NEEDS
OF SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY
CONTENTS
Purpose
Sampling framework and design of the sample
Analysis of results
Purpose
The purpose of the survey is to generate statistical data on the
present situation and prospects of small and medium industry. To this end,
data will be gathered on personnel employed, supply of raw materials,
production, sales, investment and financing.
Sampling framework and design of the sample
Firms to be sampled will be selected from FOGAIN's portfolio.
The design of the sample will be based on a probabilistic approach.
The firms will be classified by size, region and economic
activity. In any event, the typical economic activities of small and
medium industry will be properly represented: manufacture of food products,
textiles, clothing footwear, metal working (cast components, parts and
accessories etc.), among others.
Reference period and conduct of the survey
Using a specially designed questionnaire, data will be sought
forl981/82 and the outlook for 1983 based on the results for the initial
months of the year.
The survey will be conducted with the assistance of personnel
from the regional offices of PAI.
Processing and presentation of results
The processed data will be presented in specially designed forms,
with analysis and interpretation of the final results.
It is estimated that the document will be presented on December
31, 1983.
Alternative sources of data
Although the principal source of information for the study will
be the described, during its implementation reference will be made to other
sources of basic and/or derived data related to the industrial sector, and
particularly to small and medium industry.



ANNEX 3
Page 13 of 27
- 55 -
ANNEX 2
PROPOSED GUARANTEE PROGRAM
The proposed guarantee program is based on the following operating
rules and regulations.
1.        Guarantees will be extended to small industries (net worth between
Mex$50,000 and Mex$15 million) located in any economic zone of the country
except zone III, and engaged in industrial processing activities that require
priority attention, whether these small industries are considered individually
or grouped to provide common services.
2.        Technical support will be provided to small industries for the study
and determination of economic, technical and financial feasibility, and for the
processing and obtaining of the guarantee alone or of the guarantee and
rediscount with intermediary institutions.
3.        Guarantees will be given for working capital loans and preferentially
for fixed investment loans.
4.        The amount to be guaranteed for loans made to small industries shall
not exceed 75% of the maximum amount of Mex$3 million. The remaining 25% will
be guaranteed by the intermediary institution.
5.        The interest rate charged shall be that determined and authorized by
the financial authorities; in addition, the small entrepreneur will have to pay
an annual premium on the outstanding amount of the guarantee, the amount will be
studied.
6.        In return for the guarantee, the recipient will be required to
increase net worth, employment, and productivity, and to reinvest profits during
the effective period of the guarantee.
7.        The system of control, evaluation and monitoring will be strengthened
in order to verify the proper utilization of the credits provided.
8.        The resources of the Fund will be inceased by the premiums paid and
the capital contributions required for proper administration of the Fund.



ANNEX 3
Page 14 of 27
- 56 -
ANNEX 3
SYSTEMS FOR PORTFOLIO CONTROI,
INTEGRATED INTO FOGAIN INFORMATION SYSTEMS
New Developments
The diagram below shows how the different systems are to be integrated
in order to meet the needs of FOGAIN (in the area of information).
PORTFOLIO
APP.        AUTH.        OPE.    REC.
SISCOF
PAYROLL            ACCOUNTING              FlIANCIAL MODEL
SISNOM              BUDGETS              FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
This integration of systems will required certain adjustments, and the
development of interface modules and the financial model. The following are the
details of the various aspects involved.
SISCOF:              (1)  Stabilization of the system on Honeywell level 62
(FOGAIN OPERATIONS         equipment.
CONTROL SYSTEM)
(2)  Conversion of the lioneywell level 62 system to Sperry
1100/60.
(3)  Revision of the subsystem requested to meet the
information requirements in order to obtain financial
indicators for credit analysis.
(4)  Development of the following moduiles referring to
the portfolio:
4.1 INQUIRIES:
- Current portfolio with different
classifications
- Portfolio due
- Schedule of recoveries (efficiency)
- Simulation.
4.2 UPDATING OF RATES:
- Adjustment in the authorized subsystem
for periodic revision of rates
- Review of the general procedure for
changing rates,



ANNEX 3
Page 15 of 27
- 57 -
4.3 AUDITING:
- Internal, permitting evaluation of the
reliability of data
- External, guaranteeing that operating
procedures do not affect the portfolio.
(5) Development of the interface between SISCOF and
the Accounting System, which will permit the
direct application of policies after review and
approval by responsible authorities.
(6) Development of the interface between SISCOF and
the Financial Model, which will permit use of the
information from the system in FOGAIN's financial
planning.
ACCOUNTING:          (1)  Evaluation of the system in order to determine
whether it can include budgetary control.
(2) Development of interfaces between SISCOF and
SISNOM in order to apply policies directly.
(3) Development of the interface with the financial
model, to permit the use of information from this
system in that model.
SISNOM:              (1)  Development of the interface with the accounting
system, to generate the policies to be applied in
that system directly.
Finally, it must be pointed out that the change in computer equipment
has the following implications:
(1) To meet the needs of decentralization of FOGAIN operations.
(2) To optimize the systems on the basis of the advantages of the new
equipment. Examples: interactive processes, generation of non-planned reports,
etc.
(3) Determination of the appropriate data structure for use of the
information (data base).



TERMS OF REFERENCE AND TIMETABLE FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PORTFOLIO CONTRPL SYSTEM
(1)                              (2)                           (3)
1.   Purposes          Stabilization of SISCOF (FOGAIN    Conversion of SISCOF            Revision of the
operations control system)                                         subsystem
requested for
analysis of
each credit.
2.   Equipment         No additional equipment              Installation of the UNIVAC   No additional
1100/60 equipment.            requirement
3.   Software          No additional requirement            . Operation system             . Financial
. Basic package                 package
. Conversion packages         . Simulation
package
4.   Personnel         . 2 analysists                       . 1 technical assistant       The same as for               X0
. 4 programmers                     . I analyst                    stabilization.
5.   Systems           . Analysis and debugging             Conversion of program and    Programs
programming                       archives.
Program maintenance
6.   Training          . Training for operation of new    . Training of systems            . Training
(a) Systems         programs and of the system          personnel                    . Training
(b) Users         . Training in the system in          . Training of users
accordance with new administra-
tive procedures.
7.   Estimated date   May 30                                December 15                    September 15
ori
o M
-j



(4)
PORTFOLIO                                           PORTFOLIO
1. Purposes       4.1 Inquiries    Due                Recoveries      Simulation     4.2 Updating   4.2 Revision of             4.3 Auditing
Outstanding by                                                    Adjustments    rates                 Internal      External
classification                                                    Auth.           General proce-
dure
2.  Equipment    No additional    No additional    No additional  No additional  No additional  No additional          No additional  No Additional
requirement      requirement       requirement    requirement    requirement    requirement          requirement    requirement
3.  Software
4.  Personnel                                                                                                                           Organization
and
administra-
tion methods
5.  Systems      Programs          Programs          Programs        Programs       Cons. No. 1    Programs              Programs
6.  Training     Training for      Training for      Training for   Training for                    (a) Operation       C.C.operation C.C.operation
(a) Systems  operation of      operation of     operation of   operation of                     (b) Operation
new programs     new programs      new programs   new programs                        of lending
int. inst.
(b) Users    Training in        Training in      Training in    Training in                                                         Training in
the system in     the system in    the system in  the system in                                                       the system in
accordance w/     accordance wl    accordance w/  accordance w/                                                       accordance W/
new procedures    new procedures   new procedures new procedures                                                      new
procedures
7.   Estimated                                                                                                                                                  o
date        May 30             May 30            May 30         May 30          Cons. No. 1    May 30                May 30        May 30                  rDX
0h



ANNEX 3
Page 18 of 27
- 60 -
HARDWARE TO BE INSTALLED
MAY 1983
QUANTITY                             DESCRIPTION                         DISP. NO.
1              1100/60 model CI processors, including: central
processor, input/output processors, 524 K words
of memory, operator's console with printer, and
system support processor                              3042-99
1              8470 disk drive, including 500 M4 byte disk            5056-99
2              Model 8470 disk, 500 M byte capacity                   8470-99
1              Tape drive for models U-30, U-32, U-34 and U-36    5042-00
3               Uniservo 32 double density, 6250 BPI and 1600
BPI with transfer of 470 KB and 120 KB,
respectively                                          0873-00
2               800 LPM printer, including control unit               0770-00
2               Expansion set of characters                          F1534-00
2               Printing band                                        F1537-15
I              General communications subsystem, with 32-port
capacity                                              8583-00
1              CTA-STANDARD (graphing port)                          F1973-00
3               CTS-STANDARD (synchronous port)                      F1974-00
4               Cl-modem                                             F1979-00
3              Multiplexer terminal                                   8538-99
1               Synchronous interface                                F1266-00
2               Direct Interface                                     F1266-02
20               UTS-20 terminal                                       3560-93
3               Screen bypass                                        F3575-99
3               Hard copy of 200 CPS, bidirectional                   0798-99
2               UTS-40 terminal                                       3561-99
2               32 RAM memory                                        F3642-00
2               8 bit interface                                      F3643-00
2               Diskette unit with 1 M byte capacity                  8406-04



ANNEX 3
Page 19 of 27
- 61 -
SOFTWARE TO BE INSTALLED IN THE EQUIPMENT LISTED ABOVE DURING MAY
QUANTITY                         DESCRIPTION                  DISP. NO.
1                            APL 1100                       6172-00
1                            PCIOS.                          6152-00
1                            COBOL ASCII                     6153-00
1                            SORT/MERGE                      6135-00
1                            FORTRAN ASCII                   6154-00
1                            UBASIC                          6171-00
1                            QUIP                            6158-00
1                            DMS-1100                        6155-00
1                            DATA                            6133-00
1                            RPG-1100                       6164-00
QUERY
MAPPER
Note: An evaluation of various specialized software packages will be
undertaken in accordance with the requirements of the institution.



ANNEX 3
Page 20 of 27
- 62 -
ANNEX 4
FOMIN TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SUBPROGRAM UNDER PAI-Ill
FOMIN's participation in the firms it supports has given it a
knowledge of the current or structural problems of industry. Essentially, these
problems are the technological and managerial backwardness found in most of the
firms, especially in the medium and small ones.
Specific problems have been identified relating to the lack of
management training, inefficiency in operations control, obsolete or
inappropriate technology, low productivity, and the low skill level of workers,
to cite only the most obvious ones. This situation has its greatest impact on
the profitability of the companies.
In light of these circumstances, the officials of FOMIN wish to
provide the assisted companies with more intensive advisory services going
beyond the financial aspect, and focusing in particular on factory production
processes, to encourage modernization, eliminate bottlenecks, promote more
efficient use of facilities, develop new products, and in general, carry out
studies aimed at making the country's plants more productive.
Despite the importance of the matter indicated above, and
notwithstanding the efforts made by FOMIN to address the problem, its role has
been limited in practice by a shortage of manpower and financial resources. In
addition, because of the liquidity problems that industries face, they do not
have the funds needed to carry out such studies.
Accordingly, FOMIN deems it important to obtain resources that it
would use for the benefit of the supported firms, so that they can carry out the
studies mentioned through specialized Mexican or foreign consultants.
The program in question would comprise two phases: the first would be
a general analysis of all firms with which FOMIN is involved, in order to
ascertain their principal deficiencies; the second phase would consist of the
appointment of specialized consultants to provide solutions in selected firms
for the problems identified in the first phase.
The first phase could be implemented through one of the technical
agencies involved in the PAI-Ill Program, primarily INFOTEC, IMIT and
Secretariat for Labor and Social Welfare, so as to make the most rational
possible use of resources. The second phase would be implemented through the
consultants mentioned.



ANNEX 3
Page 21 of 27
- 63 -
ANNEX 5
TRUST FUND FOR THE STUDY AND DEVELOPMENT OF INDUSTRIAL ESTATES
Purposes of the Trust Fund
The general purposes of the Trust Fund for the Study and Development
of Industrial Estates, as set forth in the agreements establishing it and in its
operating regulations, remain in full effect. It is advisable, however, to
state them precisely in the new context of integral support of industrial
estates.
National Industrial Estates Support Program
Purpose:  To provide comprehensive support for the establishment and development
of industrial estates in the phases of preinvestment, implementation
and operation.
To this end, the following specific programs have been formulated:
(a)   STUDIES AND PROJECTS FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT AND/OR EXPANSION OF
INDUSTRIAL ESTATES
Purpose:  Carrying out of studies and projects for the establishment and/or
expansion of industrial estates in accordance with normative,
technical and methodological criteria that reconcile the priorities
set at the national level with the expectations of the project's
promoters.
(b)   PROGRAM OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO EXISTING INDUSTRIAL ESTATES
Purpose.: To provide a channel for disseminating information on the country's
industrial estates, through the establishment of a data bank
containing basic information on the services offered by such estates
for the optimum location of industry.
Concurrently, to foster communication among the industrial estates
themselves, helping them to improve their management through an
appropriate exchange of experiences.
(c)   PROGRAM FOR FINANCING OF INFRASTRUCTURE WORKS AND SERVICES FOR
INDUSTRIAL ESTATES
Purpose:  To support the development of industrial estates by providing credits
for infrastructure works and services geared to the type of industrial
investment to be made.
Activities plan and implementation chart for the program
The activities plan and timetable appear in figure 1.
Organizational aspects
The attached organization chart shows the structure that FIDEIN will
utilize to carry out the National Industrial Estates Support Program and the



ANNEX 3
-64-                         Page 22 of 27
program related to the trust function that NAFINSA has assigned to it with
respect to the Special Trust Funds that have recently taken on official status.
This second program is not connected with ithe credit support from the
World Bank, but will serve as support for those credit programs inasmuch as
complementary activities are involved. It should be noted that the program
relating to the trust function is being financed with government funds and with
the fees paid by the Special Trust Funds for technical assistance. Accordingly,
it is both necessary and proper that FIDEIN maintain separate accounts for the
two programs, which will permit their proper evaluation.
As may be seen, the National Industrial Estates Support Program will
be implemented through two organizational areas. One will be a new Gerencia de
Planeacion y Desarrollo (Planning and Development Division), made up of 14
technical specialists and 4 secretarial support staff, who will come from the
marketing area when they meet the proper qualifications, together with newly
hired staff.
This area will operate as follows:
Three Regional Coordination Offices (north, central and south) will be
established. Each coordinator will have integral responsibility for the
projects in his region, i.e., from their initiation through their monitoring and
evaluation.
Each coordinator will have three analysts and the corresponding
administrative support for this purpose.
The operational area will of course be supported by the Administrative
and Legal Departments of FIDEIN.
The other responsible area will be the Gerencia de Operation Tecnica
(Technical Operations Division), acting through the Department of Works
Supervision and Control to ensure that credits are granted in accordance with
the progress of the work; and through an Engineering Project Department that is
now being established, to be responsible for technical control.



ANNEX 3
Page 23 of 27
- 65 -
TRUST FUND FOR THE STUDY AND DEVELOPMENT OF INDUSTRIAL GROUPS, PARKS AND ESTATES
NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL PARK SUPPORT PROGRAM
Activities Plan and Timetable for Implementation
1 9 8 2               1 9 8 3                     1 9 8 4
ACTIVITY                            J A S O N D      E F M A M J J A S O N D      E F M A M J J A S O N D
I.    Preinvestment studies
II.    Survey of industrial estates to
determine their requirements
III.   Receipt of questionnaires                         l
IV.    Study to estimate the demand for
land and industrial buildings
(82-86)
V.     Preparation and execution of tech-
nical cooperation agreement with
industrial estates
VI.    FOGAIN-FIDEIN agreement for manage
ment of industrial buildings
VII.   Reorganization of FIDEIN                                        lI l
(a) Approval by Nafinsa and tech-
nical committee
(b)  Implementation                                                 L
VIII.  Financing for industrial estates
IX.    Establishment of data bank
(a)  Design of system                                                       l
(b) Implementation
K.     Evaluation of the program
(a)  Process                                                                            l         l
(b) Impact



ANNEX 3
- 66 -                           Page 24 of 27
FIDEIN
PERSONNEL REQUIRED
I    Phase I      Phase 2         Phase 3
AREA 
A   P S  A  T    P  S  A   T   P  S  A  T
General Offices                              1  2  2  5    122    51   2  2  5
Administrative Department                  12  1  1  4    2  1  1   4   2  1  1  4
Technical Operations Department              1  1  1  3 I  1  1  1   3 I 1  1  1  3
Planning and Development Department        I 0  0  0  0    1  1  0   2 I 1  1  0  2
Trust Fund Coordination                      3  1 0  4    3   1     4   3  1  0  4
Legal Coordination                         I4  2  1  7 14  2  1   7   4  2  1  7
Budget Department                            31 1 04        310    4 12  1  0  3
Personnel                                  12  4 10 161 0  00  0            0  0  0  0
Finance and Accounting                       5  2  2  9    6  6 12  24 15  4  6 15
Marketing                                  16     2  0  8                0    0 0    0 0 l   
Planning and Development                   i9  2  0 11    1  1  0   2 11  1  0  2
Works Supervision and Control                3  1  1  5    3  1  1   5   3  1  1  5
Information and Public Affairs               1  1  2  4    1  1  2   4   1  1  2  4
Internal Audit                               2  1 0  3    2  1 0    3   2  1  0  3
Planning - Northern Zone                   10  0  0 0        4  1  0   5   4  1  0  5
Planning - Central Zone                            0 00     4 0  0    4   4  0  0  4
Planning - Southern Zone                   l    0     0 0     4 0 0    4   4  0 0  4
Engineering Projects Department              0 0 0 0           0    0   1 2  1  0  3
142 21 20 83   40 20 20  80 t40 19 14 73
Phase 1:  Present Personnel
Phase 2:  Personnel proposed with reorganization
Phase 3:  Personnel proposed with reorganization after six months
P:         Professionals
S:         Secretaries
A:         Assistants
T:         Total



PROGRAM OF INDUSTRIAL GROUPS, PARKS AND ESTATES AND COMMERCIAL CENTERS
Technical Committee
Office of the_                               _     _ 
General Manager                           Internal Auditor
Lic. Gustavo Varela Ruiz            C.P. Alfonso Gonzalez Montes de Oca
Administrative and                               Technical Operation
Financial Department                                 Department
C.P. Armando Arroyo Machado                      Arq. Fidel Marquina Rodriguez
Coordination of      ]    Legal Coordination
Special Trusts             Lic. Jesus Garcia R.
Lic. Agustin Guillen         - -         _ _ _ _ _
Osorio
Budget and        Personnel and       Finance and       Marketing      Works Supervision                 Information            Planning
Financial         Supplies           Accounting         Lic. Mario       and Control                     and Public            Development
Planning          C.P. J. Angel      C.P. Said          Hernandez      Arq. Esteban                      Affairs               Lic. Joaquin
Lit. Manuel       Gomez R.           Daoda Murillo                     Cornejo Posales                   Antonio Gil           Morales                            |Q
1.  To be established with a department head and outside contract personnel.
2.  In the first phase this area will consist of four high-level officials and a minimum support staff.



ANNEX 3
- 68 -                          Page 26 of 27
ANNEX  _
Rules and Procedures for Bidding on Contracts
Financed with FIDEIN Resources
The following procedures shall be followed in the awarding of works
contracts financed by FIDEIN with World Bank funds:
1.        Publication at least 30 days prior to the date of submission of bids,
in a newspaper of wide regional and/or national circulation, of a call for bids
containing the following:
(a)   Place and description of the work to be performed.
(b)   Requirements to be met by interested parties.
(c)   Deadline for registration in the bidding competition
(d)   Place and date of opening of bids.
(e)   Place, date and time for visiting the site at which the work is
to be performed.
(f)   Place and date on which the contract award will be made, which
will take place within 45 days from the date of the call for
bids.
2.        At the time of registration for the competition, the participants will
be required to meet the general conditions that will serve as the basis for the
holding of the competition, including:
(a)   Estimated starting and completion date of the work.
(b)   Architectural and engineering designs.
(c)   List of specifications of works, indicating units of
measurement and quantities of work.
(d)   Applicable norms and specifications.
(e)   List of materials and equipment that the contractor will
require.
(f)   Specific terms of the contract.
(g)   Criteria and procedures for evaluation of bids.
3,        The bids of the participants must meet the following requirements:
(a)   They must be submitted in a sealed envelope at the place, time
date specified in the call for bids.
(b)   They must meet the requirements set forth in the call for bids,
(c)   The participants will be given a receipt and a record will be
prepared with details of the bids received and those rejected,
indicating the reasons therefor, if applicable.
4.        A contract will be awarded only when there are more than three
accepted bids.
5c.       FIDEIN and the borrowrer will evaluate the bids and decide on the
successful bidder. To this end, in addition to the specific conditions of the
work, they will take into account and evaluate the following particulars:
(a)   Experience and equipment of the contractors.
(b)   Comparison between the cost estimates submitted by the bidders
and the project budget prepared in advance and serving as the
basis for the bidding competition.
(c)   Period for execution of the works.



ANNEX 3
- 69 -                          Page 27 of 27
6.        The contract will be awarded to the firm that submits the bid
evaluated as most suitable in accordance with the criteria set forth in
para. 5 above.
7.        The decision will be made known at the place and on the date and time
stipulated, the bidders whose bids have been accepted will be invited to
attend. A record of the event will be prepared, which will be signed by those
present, stating their agreement or any observations they may wish to make.
8.       Once the works contract has been awarded, the contract will be drawn up
in the appropriate form within not more than 30 days, unless the authorization
of the World Bank has not been obtained by that time in the case of an operation
exceeding US$500,000 equivalent.
9.        The works contract will be signed with FIDEIN participating,
specifying the manner in which the credit is to be disbursed.



MEXICO  -- TIIIRD  SMALL  AND  MEDIUM  SCALE  INDtUSTRY  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
Table 1: Structure of Gross Value of Industrial Production
By Type of Goods
(in millions of Current Pesos)
i!G;'E.''   1??0   !r?i  1'??2       i973        1979        1975         1?76          1?77            1570           1?79          1900  AV.ERAGE p,A,,         7  AERASE p,A.           7         RATIO
l??Q-1?S                l??176-MO            ?S7-20d/7?0-75
FOOD; BEVERAGCE AND TOBACCO               1   93,007.9  105:251.2  1142:96.0  139;974.0  100,539.3  226t279.3  279:5?0.72   3.3.006.9                 49r,704.2     232:00? .      660 531.1       I14r537.0   33,92        462r369.3    31.39           3.20
bTHER TRADITIONAL GOODE                  2   57?i3,2   63i160.0   ?20S50.7   S 2:52-.5  1168;56_. 1131;?755.   ItC112.6    213,043.9                263t0- 9.0    352;509.?    140: 43?.4          09,521.0   20.?1       293,838.5   19?.5             3.32
INTz'ERMEDIARTE 00005ri 3   t7i20".?    65,923.6   76:796.3-  92:5 25.4  126:030.4                           15 2,079.9  107:002.4     ;535?5.4      324?762.!     4.29:26.2    569t,29?.5         ?6:1?2.2   22,51        352r569.9     23.93           3.67
MODERN INDUSETRIOl0 G0D0;                  4S;500,5   52:01?.1   60t77.9   70:147i.   104:721.1  124:067.              504:56.2    200727.8         2?5:292.3    37707'.7   522i'1t 9             7S0:04.5   19.2t        305;29.02   20.?2 7.01
PETROLEUM AND REFINERY PRODUCTS          5   12:25.2  1,1,1                             2..1   151 22192 ler!12.l   2?;510.3   31462,?   35:555.9  96:169.5  513,39.1  t67093.0   ?95166.3         20r131.9    4.?7           ?r5075.9    4.01           2.'?
Mt070                                        274;37?.6  300r36?.0  33?9639,9  417A:S6.2  5016:_5.7  6?66:51,1   . 2.2 -                .6,507.5  1t364:231,7  1:757I917.1  2:335r1?1.1            127:423.6  100.00   1:473:150.9   100.00               3.45     0
NOTES!
.-'OiEE 1t THROUGH 23!
2-CODES 24-30!                                                                                                              G-ROUTH PTES 13!1
'-COlDES 1'-A0  I7  ?7  1. l! SO
SERTAR o DEv    900000005100 SSs,                                                           '??G  '??'RAC  02  7205  -44   I??' 1?@ I?? 0 <? 70.40  I?E l??IE
';-5?'                 slrsTOoTOOA10507   0                              10I   I   1      0  177 2  171                 1?7? 9.   30.3
-^<CODnE '37
sTET          EN     NITMDT n0r25 -r                                                                                       ,4C!4   0         7       07LE7
SECREMIn! DE PROORWsAC,riTO  ,V PRESUPUESTO?             FOOD; KIstFMCiE AND'; TOBACCOr-         -    .?   Oj,A, 22_1. 3A,O   2M.t  23.1  ?.?.S  1.IM    1v   25 ?
OTjHER TlRADpTICKLt GCOvv               -   .?  115,A  21,5  'i2.0  12.?  21.5  3v?l  22,5  21,0t  tvvs
COOPSi!tT  GvLG                       .0  It.,5  20.5  Z7.!  20.5  22.   35-t  22t.1  32.2  32.A
MODEoRsN 10UELCTRU00  000               -    7    It.v0  101  37.0  105  1.1  33.2  37.1  37.0  30.6
scIso: 05 000 sCrEO!!!E   55001407      -  1A,3   7,?  21.0  60.7   6.6  13.0 29.? 113  30.5  11.0
LCPI2                                                     ,T-                                               17.1  22,9  701  47?.7  2,C  3.! 214.   70.,9  31 2
March  1983                                                                                   _        _      . -                __   ___    ___  __         _.   _



MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: Structure of Gross Value of Industrial Production
-                          By  Type  of  Goods
(in millions of Constant 1970 Pesos)
AOTES        1970        1971        1972        19?73       197?         1?75       1?76        1977         19?8        1?79        1990  OJERAGE P.A,          V  AVERAGE P.A.         t         RATIO
1970-1977               1976-1-90            76-90370-7?
FOOD: BEEVERICE AND TOBACCO             1   9319.7,9   95356.5  100:561.0  107:610.2  112:119.1  119:217.2  1231159.0  127.614.2  133,950,7  142:221,1  150:'2?.0                  101:690.9   32.03        135,42'S.6   29.56           1.2?
OTHER TRADITITONAL  OODS                2   57?973.2   61:037.9   66:212.9   69:533.5   73:379.1   73:381.8   76:549.0   81:366.6   96:297.3   P5:547.7  100r397.9                   6':919.6   20.48        89:029.7   19.22             1,32
INTERMEDIATE GOODS                      3   62:208.9   64:S12.3   74:276.4   92,797.1   988:34.5   93:546.2   99:405.0  103F645.0  115:658.6  127r669,9  135:096.1                   7?:762.6   23.90        116:25.0   25.39            1.50
MODERN INDUSTRIAL GOODS                 4   49:508.5   51:009.5   56:99,3.6   67:10t.6   74:633.0   78:10?.2   80:671.4   80:254.7   94:269.9  107:307.5  119:004.1                  620726.1   19.20         96:301.5   21.02            1,54
PETROLEUM AND REFINERY PRODUCTS         5   12:259.2   '2:9'3.2   14:001.4   15:431,1   16:453.9   17:101.1   19:524.5   19?675.3   2':170.1   23:97?.3   26:915.6                   14:693.3    4.50         22:053.0    4.81            1.50
TOTAL                                      274:137.6  285:129,4  312:0.8.3  34'2:506.5  365:519,6  31:?353.5  399:308.9  112:555.8  451236.,5  496:725.5  531:712,2                 326:792.3  100.00        458:107,8  100.00            1,40
VOTES'
'-CODES 11 THROUGH 23'
2-CODES 24-30:                                                                                                             GROWTH RATES (1%
3-C7rfES  7AA0      7 At47 AND 590
'-CDDES 41:42:19S:49: 51-591                                                              1970  19?71  1972  19?73  197I 1?75  1976  19?7 7S9  19??79  190
5-CODE 33
SOURCE'
ISTEMn DE CVUENTAS MACI0NALES
SECRETARIA BE PROGRAM,ACION Y PRESUPUEETO                FOMD: BEVERAGE 1q9 TODACCO             -   2.3   5.5   ?.0   4.2   6.3   3.3   3.6   4.9   6.3   5.7
OTHER TRADITIONAL GOODS                -   5.3   9.5   S.0   5.5        -   4.3   6.3   6.0  10,7   5.1
ITYERME TE S   OCDS                    -      214.6   11.5   7.4   5.2  6.3   4.3  11.6  10.4   5.9
MODnERNA  fDUSTRDI IADODS              -   5.2   u    1?,7  11.2   A.7   1.3  (O.5' 17.S  1310  10.?
OETRILEUI' AND REFIN!ER  PRODUSrTS     -   5.3   9.4  '1.2   6.6   3.9?  9.3   6.2   7.6  13.3  12.2
March  1983                                               TOTL                                                .4   ?.S   6,7   4.3   4.4  3.6   ?.4  10.1   7.0



MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3: Structure of Value Added by Type of Goods
(in millions of Current Pesos)
I  !?72          F73, -      ? $074                                           1070           7          90AEhEPP,                  zAEAEPA                              AI
* 070,.:? 070119
FO00: BE0ERA99 AND T090050                   29:372.7   35;827.0   39:371,4    !77129.i   62:675.3   74:,751.2   ?2:324.1  '121:936.9    155 s45,2.4   170~29.2?,   237:220.5             40TSD9.5   29. 09        5:4.    20. 44              23
iN1ERMEDSOT  00009s                      2   260:01?.0    28:348.8   32:763.0   39:610.2   50:501.2   L3:315.0   70:940.0  108;922.7   !36:9?53,4  2203277               240:102,1        40s269.0   24.29        150:722.2   25.061           3.74
OODE9Y IODISIRInL 99559S                 A   21;~, ~22107.0   20:224.0   Zi2423.6   44:835.2   552827.5   05:33i.4   389:793.3  '121;2.?0  7    5jZO.50  0   570.73737.7 333 1.  2015                              3ii.    2.20
PETROLEUM AND. 09E18909 980061TS         5    3:9 04.5    4:943.0    4s955.9        4:051.3       - 7:34. A, :95 ;5.3   11:570,0   18:409.       24;834.0   29i931,?   40193.4             "0D24.2    2023         25:3916.2    4.22           4.21
TOTAL                           ~~~~~~105:203.0  118:057.1  2473164:014l.9                     256:701.0  3S2.2440:812.0   550:9623.9  714:012.9  905:013.1                  16507264, 100.00        6,0lr522.1   500.00            31
1-CODEE '1 1HRUL080 221
2-00599 24-201
3-CODES 34-40: 43-47AN 509. D
4-CODES 41:42:49:49:, 50-591
00UCE :onR 2919  RATES 131
5E9R0TAR016DE POOGOONCIOH     R9       FET 09999099910                                                    ,         1972 1?3 974  1975  19761  1977  1070  1070  1?00
FOOD: 99E,5009E 081 TOBACCO             -  12   0   0, I40 1373A 0   7?,  217 0  Al    17, 0  IA 03719
OTHER               COOPS001000         -   0,1  1777   2117  107?  105  70S 3774   255  7072  707
:070014E0:ATEC 07000'-~20 9hiO:   no                                  22oe  27  700  2107  liP   34,7
N00909 1            COOPS9 000          -    .010.0  36. 4  31.1  153?2255 .  1920.,6  36.8  i2,2                                                                                     HS
PE100L9UM AND 0EFINERY PRODUICTS        -  26.6    02   51 00    721   16.2  09.11  12.2  42-.7-  14-3
LCPI2-- -                                                                                                     - -   -- -   - -    -- -   - -   -- -   --
March  1983                                                10106L                                   -   2.2  14.,1  21.7  21.0   9.   22.2  29.925.0  29.7  . 17.0



MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table  4:   Structure  of Value Added  by  Type  of  Goods
(in millions of Constant 1970 Pesos)
RITES       19?0        1971        19?72       17?3        1971        19?5       19?6        19?77     19?79       19?9        1990  h'lER^6E P.h,        I  R'ERAGE P.h.         2         RATIO
19?70-19?75            19?6-1990            ?6-97!O-?5
FOOD; 90916: MR  TOBACCO               1 29: 372.      2I79917.,5   31,601.2   33,:993.6   35:.79.3   37,7?9.3   39;202.2  M0661.O0   3,39?7,5   16,649.,2   19:94.0            33,007.3   26.20        03:90992   24.02           1,33
OTHER TRADITIONAL COODS                2   21,911.7   25,920,0   290O?79.    29i96i.l   31,227.0   32,005.7   33,i381.    35,U.27,  37?607.9    1-,692,6   13;831,2             29,669.7   22.75        39,3e87.    21.36          1.3A
IRTESREDIATE  9O00S                    3   267012.0   27,296.3   31,174.9   30,960.6   37,293.9   39:517.0   12Y019.0   13r557,7  48Y,2s5.    53,397.1   56,699.2               32,690.9   25.90        48i788.9   27.14           1,i9
MODEOR IRDUSTRItL 9009n                i   21;102.1   22,123.7   217650,3   29,s29.9   31;733.9   33,301.9   34r,99.9   35,122.5  40i923.5   06r250.9   51S153.4                26r957.0   21.39        41:660.8   23.19            1.55
PETROLEUM AND REFINERY PRODUCTS        5    3;901.5    1,112.5    4:A59.9    4,913.3    5,2389?    5,443.0    5:991.1    6,267.6   6,7?36.            ?;629.6    95691.2          4,679.6    3.71        7,017.3    3.90            1.50
T10TAL                                     105,203.0  109,260.5  119,965.2  132;551.5  1109?73.0  14,8057.7  155,516.6  .161036.6 176,916.5  1?5,613.7  209,?32.0               126,002.5  100.00      17?,743.1  100.00            1,43 I
NuOTES *
1-CODES 11 THROUGH 231
27-COODES 2A-30;
3-CODE0 34-10, 03-47 AND 501
4-CODES 011z219,09, 51-59;
5-CDDE 33
SOURCE                                                                                                                       9RONTH RATEe (1,X
S.TTE .Oh DE CUERTAS RACIONALES                                                                                               ----------------
SECRETORIA OF PROOR0HOCION Y PRESUPUESTO                                                     19?O 70 ?7    I?72  17?3  1971  1??5  19?76  19?77  17   1979  1990
FOOD:  El!EREhGE ANDR TOBACCO          -   1.5   6.0   7.5   0.4   6.5   3.0   3.6   6.7   7.5   6.1
OTHER TRADITIONRL COODE               -   4.5   9.3   6.7   0.2   2.5   4.3   6.1   6.2  10.8   5.2
IMTERMEDIhTE SO01                     -   4.9  10.2  11.9   ?.0   6.0 610   3.6  10.S  10.?   6.2
HOBERN IDIUSTR3OL 1N009              -   4.9  11.4  17.0  10.1   1.9   4.9   0.5  16.2  13.3  10.6
PETPOLEUM ANE' REFINERY PRODUCTS       -   5.3   9.0  10.2   6.6   3.9   9.2   6.4   ?.5  13.3  12.2
M.CPHi 1983                                               TITAL                                   -   3.9    ,9 9 0,5   60   5.0   5.0   3.5   9.9  10.6  7.2



MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 5: Structure of Industrial Imports by Type of Goods
(in millions of Current Pesos CIF)
GROWTH, RATES (3)
MOTES      !?90            1971  1972       19?3      1974       1975       1971        19??       1978                19?1   9??2   1973  197A  1975  197?6   197?  if
FOOD; BE.ERAGE AND TOBACCO              I   1:0-6.9   1:044.2   17i52.   1r?97.3   2,720-6  2.351.2   2r761.1    1:796,9    6            S76.5           (0.2) 39.1   Z6.2  37.5  (13.6) 17.4   ?3.7  41.1
OT.ER TRADITIONAL GOODS                2   2:9?9?.3   2.697.3   2;877.2   4148e.0   1,979.6   1;410.    5;599. 9    9;591.1   9241.1                     !6.!  6'.7   1A.2  17.6   (9.6) 27.0   53.2   ?.7
INTERMEDIATE GOODS                     3   4;943.3   7:056.3   9:062.6  11r?71,3  207037.9  20;263.9  22,243,1   35t091.1   56Y513.1                       7.1 '1 3   16.3  69.9    1.1   9.9   57.?  61.1
MODERN INDUSTRIA  GOODS                 4  16;707.2  15:94?.7  198265.4  22;090.9  30:218.1  39:601.6  48;359.2   61:137.3   86:141.2                     (1.5) 11.5   20.9  36.9   31.1  22.1   33.2  31.1
PETROLEUM AND REFINERY PRODUCTS         5     769.5   1:lt1.4   1:563.2   3r420.5   4i219.2   3Z293.9    17.7    3:365.9    4:5990,2                      51.2  3A46  12.1.6  ?7.   (4.01 4..2  (29.1) 36.6
_- -  - __ --_--__--_                                  _ _-- -- --   -   -_ - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - --   -- -- ---   ---   ----   -- -   ---   ----   ---   -----   ----__ __
TOTAL                                      29;2t3.1  2?7907.3  32:221.3  43i633.0  64-:0741.3  69:920.9  837711.5  116:262.6  1637562.4                   (1.3) 15.5   35.4  16.9    9.1  19.7   39.9  40.7                        -
NOTES:
1-CODES 11 THROUQGH 23Z
2-CODES 24-30;
3-CODES 3Z-10; 13-17 AND SO-
!-CODES  51:12:19:49:  1-59?
5-CODE 33
SOURCE:
SISTEMA PE CUENTAS MACIONALES
SECRETARKI  DE PROGRAMACIOH Y PRESUPUESTO
LCPI2
March 1983



MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVEI,OPMENT PRnJECT
Table 6: Structure of Industrial Exports by Type of Goods
(in-millions of Current Pesos FOB)
GRUNTH RATES (I)
MOTES       1?70        1?71      11?72       1?73        1?74       1?75        1?76       1?77       1?7                 1?71   19?72  1?97      ?197    1?75   19?6   1?77   1E71
FOOD; BPEERhGE AND TOBACCO                1   47146.7   40751.1   5rS13.  ?r35?.5   97390.0            8:253.7  12,;01.9  264:21.7  30r650.3                   S.8 16.1  33.4   20.7   ?7.!   50..3  114.7   13.!
OTVER TRPDITIONAL GOUODS                  2   2:55.?7   1:432.6   3Y525.1   4221.3   6: 623.?   5,169.6   8,444.9?  10569.4  141023.1                           (44.6) 146.1  21.5   54.7  (22.0)  63.4   25.2   3:.7
INTERMEDIATE COODS                        3     7?75.?   229.1   2rSO7.3   3rl51.1    4:969.0    4,442.1    6522.9  12;591.S  147942.1                         29.1    22.5  12.2   57.?  (10,.6  16.9   ?3.0   13.7
MODERN INDUSTRIAL  cOODS                 1   1;061.1    1:605.5   2,213.5   3,743,7   5;01,A           1;335.?   5:253.2   9:229.4  17166.2                     50.9   37.9  69.1   34.S  (14.1)  21.2   56.7  101.6
PETROLEUM AND REFINERY PRODUCTS           5     399.1       209.6      137.4      223.6   1:209.2        309.3      191.5       492.4      571.3               (16.0)  (34.4) 62.7  140.9  (74.4) (41.3) 1?1.3   16.0
TOTAL                                        10;260,3  10;290..9  1i197.1  19i75?.2  26;?72.  22:509.6  32,54.2  58:504.7  ?7;353.0                    0.         ?    3 0 77.1   42.5  (15.9)   15.7   ?2.3   32.2
- - -       __ - -_    __ -- -__      ----     -------   -__- -- --- -- -- -- --  - -- -- ---   - --^- ---    - -- -----  - - --  -- -- -- - --  -- - --  -- ---- - --~ ~-~ - - - ~ -                _-- 
NOTES:
!-CODES 11 THROUGH 23.
2-CODES 24-30-
3-CODES 31-40, 13-47 AND 50'
1CODEsS 41;42;49;4:. S!-..;
5-CODE 33
SOURCE:
SISTEMP, DE CUENTAS MACIOMALES
SECRETARIA 05. PROGRANACO  MY PRES'PUESTQ
LCPI2
March 1983
I1
ON
ci



MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 7: Summary of Principal Fiscal Incentives for Industrial Investment
iTh.Aer Original 1079 Decrees a/
Priority  Sectors                                                      All Industrial Activities
Cet'graphic Location                                                                                       Other           Purchntse  of       Employment Generated
of Investment         Small Enterprises b/   Activity Care or:y I c/  Activity Category 2 d/  Industries               Local Equipment    by A.tditionnl Shifts
Zone I
Preferential              25% Inveetment           20% InvestLnint             15% Investment             -                  5%               20% Additional
20% Employment             20% Employment                                                      Erl)loymerit
Znne II
State Priorities          252 Investment           202 rnvestment              10% Investment             -                  5S               iC0% Additional
20% Employment             20% Employment                                                      Employment
Peat of the Country         25% Investment  /         20% Investment             10% Investmnent el         -                   5%               20% Additional
20% Employment             20% Emifloyment el                                                  Einploymenc
Zolne III
A. Controlled growth                                                                                                           5%
B. Consolidated growth   25% Investment e/           20% lIiveatment 0/         10% Inveutment e/          -                   52               20% Additional
20% Employment e/          20% Eniployment el         -                                        Eaployment       -J
a/ Ceingraphic zones are defined in the decree published in Dinrio Oficial, February 2, 1979.  Fiscal credits can be used for the payment
of any federal tax which is not imposed for a specific use.  Thoe percentages shown in the table for investment are applied to thle total
valuo of con-atruction and installations And the puirchane of new mnachinery and equlpcient directly related to the production process; it
ib I ranetd eIt the titne of undertaking of the expenditure.  In the cane of cuiployment, the percentage is applied for a period of t*o years
on tile new employnment valued at the annual minimkun wage.
bI Enterprises witht fixed assets not exceeding 200 timues the annual minimumn aalary in the Federal District.
c/ Includes agroinduustrice,  capital goods producing InduiLrien and strategic  inputs for the industrial oector (e.g. steel, cement)
d/ Includes muon-dturable consumer goodo, durable consumtier goode and intermedinte products specified in decree publishled in Dlario Oficlal,
Marclh 9, 19/9.
e/ Applied only to exponsions of productive capacity in the snamu industrial activity.
Source:  Secretsria de Patrimonlo y Fomemito Industrial, Plan Niacional tle Denarrolln In,lustrial. 1979-1902 (Mexico, 1979) p. 1l1.
LCPI2
February  1983
-'



- 77 -
ANNEX 4
T-8
MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 8: Alternative Incentive System for Employment Generation
(as contained in Decree of March 15, 1982)
Percentage of Incentives
Priority Categorya/                  (in relation to labor costs)b/
Category 1
A.  In all geographic zones
except Zone III                                         80
B.  In Zone III B, only expansions                          80
Category 2
A.  In Zone I                                               60
B.  In Zone II                                              40
C.  In all other zones, except                              40
Zone III A, only expansions
Source:  Diario Official
a/ For definition of categories and zones, see Annex 4, Table 7.
b/  For method of computation, see Annex 4, Table 7.
LCPI2
March 1983



MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 9: Value of Investment Approved under Investment Incentive Laws by
Priority Classification a/
1979 - 1981
Expected  Increases        Investment
Total Value of Investment                     in Employment            Per Job
Value in Current Prices           X of                         %  of   Thousands US$/
Million Pesos    Million Us$-b  Total           Numbers        Total          Job
Category I                                  128,539.2          5,488.4        52.5          79,680         43.3          68.9
Agro-industries-/                          42,657.0          1,821.4        17.4         34,195          18.6          53.3
Capital goods                              35,759.0          1,526.9        14.6         39,238         21.3           38.9
Strategic inputs d/                        50,123.2         2,140.2        20.5           6,247          3.4         342.6
Category II                                 116,091.4          4,956.9        47.5        104,491          56.7          47.4
Non-durable  consumer goods eI             32,144.9          1,372.5        13.1         31,326          17.0          43.8
Durable consumer goods f.                  32,705.9_         1,396.5        13.4         58,245         31.6          24.0
Intermediates'/                   L             40.6        2 1879          20.9                          8.1        146.6
Grand Total                          244,630.5         10,445.4       100.0         184,171        100.0          56.7                         oo
Source: SEPAFIN
a/ The classification is given in the decree of March 9, 1979;with minor modifications introduced subsequently,
.b/ Converted at 23.42 pesos to the US dollar, the unweighted average exchange rate for years 1979
through 1981.
c/  Includesmainlyprocessed foodstuffs,inputs for the agricultural sector and agricultural products for
industrial uses.
d/ Includes basic iron and steel and cement.
e/  Mainly textiles, garments, shoes, and leather and related products.
f/  Includes mainly domestic appliances and automotive parts.
j/ Includes petrochemicals, chemicals, non-ferrous metals and construction materials.
LCPI2
February  1983



ANNEX 4
T-10
MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 10:  Manufacturing Industries CEPROFIs Issued for Actual
Investment - 1979-1981
Amount
(million pesos)    % of Total
Food, Beverages & Tobacco                      387.1              3.5
Textiles, Shoes and Clothing                   581.7              4.7
Wood Products                                  223.9              2.0
Paper & Printing                               329.5             3.0
Chemical Products                            1,204.4            11.0
Rubber Products                                157.4              1.4
Petroleum & Coal Derivatives                    65.6             0.6
Non-Metallic Minerals                        4,399.9            40.3
Basic Metals                                 2,298.7             21.0
Metal Products                                 230.7              2.1
Non-Electric Machinery & Equipment             498.0              4.6
Electric & Electronic Machinery                216.6              2.0
Transport Equipment                            381.7              3.5
Other Manufactures                              16.7              0.2
TOTAL                                  10,929.0           100.0
Source: SHCP
LCPI2
March 1983



- 80 -                                        ANNEX 4
T-ll
MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 11:   Number of Industrial Establishments, Employment and Value Added by Manufacture,
According to the Number of Employees, 1970 and 1975 a/
1970
Establishmentsi  Employment           Value added       Invested Capital
Number    %0   Number            II M$ Million    %    M$ Million    '.
Less than small (Up to 5):
Unremunerated                 57,568  48.0    91,963  5.8         674        0.8       742       0.4
Remunerated                   39,J22   32.7   107.026  6.8    069            2.5    2,181        1.4
Total                   96,790  80.7   198,979 12.6   2,743             3.3    2,903        1.8
Small: 6-50                       17,820  14.9   291,832 18.5  10,598           12.9   18,571       11.9
Medium: 51-250                     4,288   3.6   459,992 29.0  24,340           29.5   47,660       30.5
l4ore than 250             -         ,065   0.9   630,444 39.9  44,700          54.3   875526
Total                  119.963 100.0 1,581,?47 100.0 89 381          100 0  156 417    100.0
_        _0                  ~         
_                  ~~~~~~1975
Establishments Employment          Value Added         Invested Capital
Number          Numl,er    7.   M$ -Nillion    %    Ma Miillion    %
Less than small (Up to 5):
Unremunerated                62,666   52.6   102,044   6.0    1,799    1.0             1,427      0.5
Remunerated                  33,459   28.0    89,519   5.2                  1.9       2,606       1.0
Total                  96,125   30.6   191,563  11.2    5,332    ?.9             4,033      1.5
Small: 6-50                      17,525   14.7   277,244  16.2   19,772   10.8            23,551      9.0
Medium: 51-250                     4,347    3.7   462,781  ^7.1   49,021   26.8           65,271    24.9
More than 250                      1 215    1.0  _776,33   45.5  108,700   59.5    169,337    64.6
Total                 I_91 9'                        0.3  182,830  100.0    262,'92   lOO.0
1/ Includes mining
Source: Industrial Censuses 1970 and 1975
LCPI2
March 1983



MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 12: Structure of Manufacturing Industry, 1970 - 1975
____________                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 970                                                                                                  1 9175
'.11 0.o.61i.6.,,0.                                   9 6.1ll &   dl- A.t.6bli0.nt. (6-250 .lIe)                                        411 llI.t.bil6 h -nO.          I-H 9dl- 7.-ebli-lt. -2 l .
Ihb r of            P.o-             V.-                           Nnob-r of              rern            V.1u.                        8.b6r of            Per-on.         V.e1                   Nb.. o8             P    n          9.1,-.
1.-.bi.  no.          1.plooyd          Added                        1..b6i.h-nt.          llnlo  d          Add.d                      6.t b lt.6nO        plooed            Add;d                 dtebIl..n6          Ilood             dded
Food fo .....ng                          54.557          300,475            11,234                           4,638             114,069           6,097                          56,692          309,651           22.916                   4,527           107,032          9,640
ooo,o.leo                                 2,097            67,851            4,865                             505             26,512            1,985                           1,551           63,392           12.356                     391            22,897           3,879
To. oo-                                     63            10,698            1,948                               36              1,660             104                               57           8,645            3,966                      27             2,793           1,050
Scoolle.                                  3,592           154,565            6,266                           1,900              8S,642           3,123                           3,043          I44,444           10,098                   1,476            71,586           5.3L0
Clothino 1I                              13,708          124,579            3,444                           2,619              81,717           2,265                          10,602           90,606            4,627                   1,849             54,829          2,666
Shoe,, L.the- Prodo. -  1/                1.318           11,969               434                             339              9,773              403                           2,860           48,108            2,643                     852            27,U29           1,400
Ulood 6 Cort Produe 1. (co lodl,.g
(...lfding  ..r.no.n)                  3.,99            42,011             1,045                             496             17,731              517                           2,455           43,113            2,202                     546            20,455           1,172
(-enlod,ng *.1.6pl-4tIc)               3,819            33,626               939                             823             23,323              718                           5,099           32,002            1,700                     821            20,727           1,263
p.pe-                                       617            37,563            2,633                             389              19,056           1,010                             545            39,164           S,508                     352             18,626          1.556
P'inting                                  4,632            56,872            2,634                           1,382              35,290           1,564                           4,797            50,316           4,771                   1,283             31,067          2,9642           0
CI..l o.1                                 3,028           138,823           11,197                            1,723             76,478           5,295                            1,874          125.934          23,644                   1,121             51.063          8,175
P   ..l  8ef. /ro4dut                        91            4,499                500                             50               2,2S6             241                              64             5,247           1.151                      19                407             69
13bher Produbb-                           3,440            22,209            1,792                              341              9,508             394                           1,436            53,363           6,704                     924             33,315          3,112
901-n_et.lllo flioeo.                     98,266          91,319            4,180                           1,498              39,831           1,542                           9.592           100,714           9,751                   1,812             68,253          3,009
b--lc 9.0.1.                                334           69,979             7,016                             227              14,811             963                             326            79,035          15.370                     230             19,421          0,86
9.t011tc P-od-.u
1(7 oulodi.   eol0oer73                6,904           121,523             5,315                           1,957             65,284            2,653                           9,987          127,474           11,363                   2,158            66,634           5,375
Kedhinery
(,.l.di.sa 1.-L-c001                   2,312            45,213             2,432                             837             27,742            1,404                           4,162            76,373           8,870                   1,174            40,140           4,627
81144-i-l fP.ehi-n.y                      1,062           88,530             5,009                             691              38,407           1,883                           1,229           106,016          10,581                     654             40,634          3,911
T---porO lqoIp.ie                           833            70,173            5,239                             441              21,142           1,029                              930          110,669          13,002                     526             34,074          3,110
0th- r   -of-ot-oloo                      2.721            28.194            1.113                             663              17.501             693                           2,342            34  113          Z.719                     604             1,486 19515
T0t.1 9nof  turlo8                118,983         1,520,661            79,032                          21 545            727,733          33,881                          119.643        1,654,381          179,998                  01,346           730,249          66.871
it  The 1970 den.   Dobi-d  lolhng end ho.;  e.nth-er produ. t             lied *.AfP.-ly.
1he 1975          -bou o.n.d  .6o.  nd locoh-r prod-ct., end li-0d olthln       .     1 7p-t.l
Sour     1970 -nd 1975  ..d..rtl.l Ceno.,.,
LCP12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      x 
LCPI2
March 1983



MEXICO - THIRD SfALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 13:  Organization Chart of FOGAIN and PAI Secretariat
Program                                        Technical
Coordinating                                   Committee -
Committee-PAI                       .          FOGAIN
Director General-FOGAIN
and Technical Secretary-PAI
.             ~~~~FOGAIN
-Adviser
PAI 
AdviserI
l                                            .   E'C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~StnudieCs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1- e
Deputy Director                                             Deputy Director
General                                                     General
PAI                                                       FOGAIN
Operations     Technical     Promotion   Regional               Operations    Finance    Administration    Data
liAssistance iOffices                                                                           Pr..oadcestems|
LCPI2
March 1983



- 83 -
ANNEX 4
T-14
MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 14: Integrated Small and Medium Scale Industry Program (PAI)
Financial Statements, 1980-1982
(in Mex$ millions)
Audited              Unaudited
BALANCE SHEET                                  1980          1981            1982
ASSETS
Current Assets
-  Cash, Banks, and Marketable Securities         53            83              83
Long-Term Assets
Loan Portfolio                             1,372         3,516            5,427
Other Receivables                             220            90             296
Net Fixed Assets                               13            27              41
Deferred Charges                                6            16             520
Sub-Total                               1,611         3 649           6,284
Total Assets                               1,644         3,732           6,337
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Short-Term Liabilities (including
current portions of loans                 137           419             247
Loans Payable (long-term)                     315           505          1,827
Other Payables                                 -              4              28
Total Liabilities                             452           928          2,102
EQUITY
Capital                                    1,178         2,770           4,098
Retained Earnings (losses)                     41            34              34
Earnings (losses) of the year                  (7)          -              103
Total Equity                               1,212         2,804           4,235
Total Liabilities & Equity                 1,664         3,732           6,337
INCOME STATEMENT
Interest Income                                92          314             756
Interest on Market Securities                  16            31              34
Other Income                                   -              3              11
Total Income                                  108           348             801
Financial Expenses                                56           200             728
Operational Margin                             52           148              73
Administrative Expenses                          127           316             365
Depreciation and Amortization                      2             5               4
Net Profit (loss)                             (77)         (173)           (296)
Exchange Gain                                     -             -              144
Government Subsidy                                70           173             256
Earnings (losses)                                 (7)           -              103
LCPI2
March 1983



MEICO - THIRD  4AIL AND MEDIUA SCALE INWUSTY tEVEWMfr F0PRJECT
Table 15: FBtimated Breakdown of Technical Assistance Conponent by Institution for the Proposed Project loan
(in US$ thousands)
Applications of Funds                                                         Sources of Funds
Subprograms    Consultants       Training       Machir-ry & Equipment 1/   Other 2/    Total        Proposed Third  man         Co-vernment
INFOIEC                       500              60             30                    -                   30          620            570                          50
D]CP                          350              40             40                   80                   10          520            470                          50
DGE 3/                        150              70             40                    -                   20          280            255                          25
PAI                             -              50             60                    -                   30           140            125                         15
FOCIAN                          -              30             20                  220                   15           285            260                         25
F(I4N                           -              30             20                    -                   15            65             60                          5
FIIEIN                          -              60             20                    -                   10            90             80                         10
Other Institutions 4/           -              60             20                  100                   20          200             180                         20
Total                    1,000            400            250                  400                  150         2,200            2,000                     200.0
1/ Includes audio-visual equipment, computers, laboratory equipent, informastion, comunlcation and training equipnent.
E/ Includes armg others patent and information services (such as bxoks and other printed materials).
3/ Includes state emTploymnt services.
4/ Includes FOtEP, MIT, regional laboratories and technical training scbools.
LCPI2
May 1983



MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 16: Anslysis of Total Credit Oprtations of FOSAIN frur Tneption T,roag, 1982
____________       1981                                                               1982                                            April 1954 through Deoeler 1982
Noi-er                                                           Nhuter                                                               Nutier
of              Adnont                                            of                Amunt                                             of                Aunt
No. of Enterprises    %    Credits   X    (Mex$ millions)    %    No. of Enterprises    X    Credits   %    (MeoS millions)    X    No. of Enterprises    I    Credits   X    (MexS millions)
BY A11lT OF C3EDIT
(Mes millions)
Up to 1.0                                      4,458        58    6,031    59       2,963           17           3,773       48     5,134    49        2,729          12        27,0-)6           70     45,457   75       15,723       24
1.0 to 3.0                                     2,(11        26    2,553    25       4,990          28            2,358       30     2,969    29        5,836          25         7,660            19     10,209   17      19,054        30
More thni 3.0                                  1,275        16    1,617    16       9,542           55           1,780       22     2,242    22        14,657         63         3,996            11      5.168    8       29,781       46
11.                                       7,144       100   10,301   100      17,495          103           7,911      100    10,345  lO0T       23,222         100        39,462           100     60,834  100      64,558       100
BY NLER OF EMIFOYEES IN THE
REtiRSE
Up to 10                                       3,075        40    3,395    38       2,784           16           3,403       43      4,317   42         5,257         23         14,701           37     20,304   33       10,662       16
11 to 20                                       1,927        25    2,554    25       3,570           21           1,852       23      2,443   24         4,502         19         9,229            23     13,721   23       11,947       19
21 to 50                                       1,730        22    2,345    23       5,469           31           1,655       21      2,229   21         6,562         28          9,6G9           24     15,548   26       19,295       30
51 to 100                                        599         8      817     8       2,827           16              627       8        846    8         3,701         16         3,76B            10      6,938   11       11,819       18
Morei th   100                                   413         5      590     6       245             16              374       5        510    5         3,202         14          2                6      4,323    7       10 835        17
TOTAL                                     7,744       100   10,201   100      17,495          100            7,911     1?00    10,345  100        23,222        100         39,462          100     60,834  100       64,558      10o
BY TYPE OF ACTINTIY
Fool Products                                  1,515        20    1,993    20       3,559           20            1,574      20      2,006   19         4,473         19          6,838           17      10,200   17      11,740        18
Beverages                                         52         1       72     1         243            1               25       -         32    -           125          1            376            1        659    1          797         1
Toblco                                            11         -        14    -           40           -               11       -          15    -           29          -             33            -          53    -          78         -
Textiles                                         376         5      480     5        1,177           7              443       6        551    6         1,562          7          1,816            6       2,771    4       4,406         7
Clothing                                         668         9      841     8        1,006           6              685       9        877    9         1,412          6          7,108           18      10,959   18       8,953        14
Footwear and Leather                             579         7      761     8        1,144           7              626       8        845    8         1,715          7              -            -           -    -           -
Wooe Proucts                                    235         3      322     3          504           3              216       3        286    3           524          2          1,012            3       1,567    3       1,607         2
Furniture                                        413         5      588     5         697            4              425       5        568    6           914          4          2,263            6       3,359    6       2,567         4
Paper Products                                    56          1      90      1         247           1               56       -          78    1          161           1           422             1        740    1         847         1     '
Printing and Litography                          296         3      370     3          397           2              301       4        381    4           558          2          1,648            4       2,464    4       1,642         3
Rabber an1 Plastics                              326         4      457     4            1           -              352       4        462    4         1,383          6          1,158            3       1,743    3       3,259         6
Chnenical                                        258         3      343      3          -            5              268       4         385    4        1,267           5         1,635            4       2,787    5       3,675         6
Petroleum Products                                16         -       20    -             -           -               23       -          35    -          107           1            68            -         106    -         203         -
Bsic Metals                                       91         1      131     1           -            2               98       1         132    1          489          2            563             1        952    2       1,457         2
Other Minerals                                   665         9      887     9            1           9              693       9         957    9        2,406          10         3,269            8       5,079    8       5,817         9
Metal Worlidgs and Maddin Fabrications         1,024        24    2,405    24            4          23             1,814      2       2,396   23        5,406         23          8,279           21      12,691   21       14,461       22
Other Manufacturing                              224         3      279      3           -           2               193      2         243    2          441           2         1,755             4      3,001    4       2,133         3
Constraction                                      -          -       -       -           _           _                _       _           _    -            -          _             57            -          66    -          44         -
SesoEnes                                         145         2      174     2            _           1               88        1        106    1          256           1         1,222             3      1,039    3         872         2
IUTAL                                     7,744       100   10,201   100       17,494         10T            7,911       1oo    10,385  1oo        23,222        100        39,462           100    60,834  100       64,558       100
BY ICATION a/
Zone I                                         2,913        38    3,928    39            6,712      39           2,926         38     3,853   37         8,403         36        15,013            38     24,133   40      25,050        39
7Pas 11                                        4,249        55    5,572    54            8,795      58           4,313        54      5,668   55        11,630         50        13,910            35     18,369   30       26,636       41
7-eITT1                                          582         7      701     7            I 983      11             672          8       824    8         3189          14        10,539            27     18 332_30         12_872       20
TOTAL                                     7,744       100   10,201   100           17,495     100           7,911        100    10,345  100        23,222        100        39,462           100     60,834  100      64,558       1oo
BY TYPE OF PINANCI7C                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1
Pined Assets                                   4,471              4,866    48            9,446      54           4,612         58     4,971   48        11,899         51         n.e.                    25,388   42       32,099       50
Working Capital                                3,250               5,30B    52           7,942      45           3,176        40      9,214   50         9,887         43         n.e.                    34,150   56       29,836       46
Deht Reatrua.urirg                                23       _         27     -              107       1             123          2       160    2         1436           6         n..                      1296  _           2,623 24
TOTAL                                     7,744       100   10,201   109           17,495     100           7,911        100    10,345  100        23,222        100        39,462           100     60,834  100       64,558      100
a/ As defind in the National ludustrial DOeelpoPet Plee.
LCPI2
February 1983



- 86 -
ANNEX 4
T-17
MDaCD - THIRD 94ALL AND M)I  SZ lA    tE UEI    IED0VEL    PlDJ80
Table 17: FOAIN's Balance Sheets Audited for 1980 ard 1981, and 1982 (unaudited)
(Mex$ millions)
Audited       Unaudited                                                   Aidited         Unaudited
1980    1981        1982                                                 1980       1981        1982
ASSETS                                                           LIABlITIES AND E(JI1Y
Current                                                          Cbrrent
Cash, Bank ard Marketable                                        Short Term Loans Debt Consolidated     129      2,32B      2,265
Securities                  314      266         713
long Term Liabilities
Larg Temn Assets
Banco de Mexico                     3,950      4,750      12,682
Loan Portfolio              9,0C9   19.722       33,600          NAFINIA                              1,559     3,659       5,890
Bad Debts Reserve              (4)      (3)       (126)          1DB loan                               702       680       1,524
Net Fixed Assets               29       26           24          PAI Lan                              1,066     2,723       4,283
Deferred Charges 3/ 397                430        2,173          Other Payables (incl. Reserves)        336       496          29
TOTAL ASSETS              9,780   20,442       36,384            TOUAL LIABILITIES                  7,742     14,641     26,673
Equity
Share Capital frac Government       2,056      5,888      11,496
Retained Earnings (losses)            (22)       (19)        (87)
Net Profit (loss) for year              4        (68)    (1,698)
ITIAL E(JIY                       2,03B      5,801      9,711
ToTAL LIABILITIES AND 1(pJlY      9,780     20,442      36,384
a/ Due to foreigi ew-hange fluctuations of 1DB loans.
FOGAiN's incaoe Statements, 1980 to 1982
Audlited      Ulnaudited
1980    1981        1982
Interest on Portfolio       665      1,732        3,351
Interest on Marketable
Securities                 29         82          88
Other Incaie                 -          11            5
TOTAL IN1E             694      1,825        3,445
Finania Exeses
Interest on Loans           569      2,111        4,680
Carmissions                  39         67           49
TOTAL FLIALC
EXPENES              603      2,178        4,729
FINANCIAL MAGIN         86       (353)      (1,264)
Administrative Expenses     103        243          351
Operational Margin          (17)      (596)      (1,635)
Ecmhange Loss               (79)       (74)        (179)
Governcent Subisidy a/      100        602          117
Net Profit (Loss)           4        (68)      (1,698)
a/ Subsidy to cover exchang  rate losses on IDB loans, and
to cover losses due to deferred interest rate adjustoent.
LCPI2
may 1983



-  87                                                  AiNNEX  4
T-18
MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 18: FOGAIN's Projected Sources and Uses of Funds
(a) Sources
IN NLN OF HEX N)                                                  WUSS NLN)
1983     1984       1985       1986       1987                 1983       1984       1985       1986      1997
1.  SOURCES                       71140.28 106557.99 143312.71 165377.92 192470.51                   547.25    546.46    564.22    544.01    528.77
1. BEGINNINS CASH                 364.11    293.47    988.81        72.69    365.43                  2.80       1.50       3.89       0.24      1.00
-- - - - - --              - - ---    - - - --   - - - --  - - - --   - - - ---              - ---   --- - --    -- - - -   - - - -   -    -- - - -
2. PORTFOLIO RECOVERY           21509.47  34581.37  51984.99  71366.29  93891.40                   165.47    177.35    204.67    234.76    257.94
A.  EXISTING PORTFOLIO    11936.07  10647.86   7947.34   3015.87           0.00                 91.83      54.61     31.29       9.92       0.00
ZONE 1:                 4561.24   4068.97   3037.00   1152.49          0.00                35.09      20.87      11.96       3.79       0.00
lONE 1.A                4105.11   3662.08   2733.30   1027.24          0.00                31.58      18.78      10.76       2.41       0.00
lONE 1,8                 456.13    406.89    303.70    115.25          0.00                  3.51      2.09       1.20       0.38       0.00
ZONE 2:                 5694.52   5079.94   3791.55   1438.82          OR.                 43231      26.05      14.92       4.73       0.00
lONE 2.A                4755.06   4241.87   3166.04   1201.45          0.00                36.58      21.75      12.46       3.95       0.00
ZONE 2.8                 939.40    838.07    625.51    237.Z7          0.00                  7.23      4.30       2.46       0.78       0.00
lONE 3:                 1080.31   1498.95   I118.79    424.56          0.00                 12.93      7.69       4.41       1.40       0.00
ZONE 3.A                 1361.05   1214.15    906.22    343.B9         0.00                 10.47      6.23       3.57       1.13       0.00
ZONE 3.3                 319.26    284.00    212.57        80.67       0.00                 2.46       1.46       0.34       0.27       0,00
B. FUTURE PORTFOLIO         9573.40  22933.51  440Z7.65  68350,42  93891.40                    73,64    122.74    173.38    224.04    257.94
- - - - - - - --   - - - - - - - - --   - - ---   -- - - -    -- - - -            -  -  - --  - - - --    --- - --   - - ---     -- - - -
ZONE 1:                 3092.95   7732.26  14227.55  22671.29  Z2205.11                    23.79      39.65      56.01      74.58      90.26
ZONE l.A                2703.65   6959.13  12804.79  20404.16  29567.80                    21.41      55.60      50.41      67.12      01.23
ZONE 1.8                 309.27    772.24   1422.75   2207.13   3238.31                     2.78       3,97       5.60       7.46       0.07
ZONE 2:                 2835.20   7088.00  13041.92  20782.02  2si97.75                    21.81      36.35      51.35      68.36      78.84
IONE 2.8                2457.17   6142.92  11321.00  18011.08  24871.28                    10.90      31.50      44.50      59.25      68.33
ZONE 2.8                 378.03    945.07   1738.92   2770.94   3820.37                     2.91       4.85       6.85       9.11      10.51
ZONE 3:                 3645.26   9113.14  16768.18  24897.11  32240.54                    28.04      46.73      66.02      81.90      a0.85
ZONE 3.6                3037.71   7594.29  13973.49  20747.59  26950.45                    23.37      38.95      55.01      68.25      74.04
lONE 3.B                 607.54   1518.86   2794.70   4049.52   5390.09                     4.67       7.79      11,00      11.65      14.81
3. INTEREST INCOME              22041.43  36528.41  30967.60  36583.52  30129.64                   109.55    187.32    153.42    120.34    104.75
A.  EXISTING PORTFOLIO       5402.77   3508.19    960.22        0.00       0.00                 41.56      17.99       3.78      0.00       0.00
ZONE 1:                 2064.62   1340.63    327.31         0.00       0.00                15.88       6.88       1.29       0.00       0.00
ZONE 1.A                1850.10   1206.57    290.43         0.00       8.00                 14.29      6.19       1.14       0.00       0.00
ZONE 1.B                 206.46    134.06       36.88       0.00       0.00                  1.59      0.69       0.15       0.00       0.00
ZONE 2:                 2577.58   1673.72    467.55         0.00       0.00                 19.03      8.58       1.84       0.00      o0oo
ZONE 2.8                2152.34   1397.59    384.46         0.00       0.00                16.56       7.17       1.51       0.00       0.00
ZONE 2.8                 425.24    276.12       83.09       0.00       0.00                 3.27       1.41       0.33       0.00       0.00
ZONE 3:                  760.57    493.84    165.36         0.00       0.00                 5.85       2.53       0.65       0.00       0.00
ZONE 3.A                 616.07    400.04    130.68         0.00       0.00                 4,74       2.05       0.51       0.00       0.00
ZONE 3.B                 144.51      93.88      34.68       0.00       0.00                  1.11      0.48       0.14       0.00       0.00
B.  FUTURE PORTFOLIO        16638.67  33020.22  38007.44  36583.52  38129.64                   127.99    169.33    149.64    120.34    104.75
ZONE 1:                 6458.07  13124.91  15108.42  14162.10  14416.54                    49.68      07._1      59.48      46.09      39.61
ZONE L.8                5762.16  10698.29  13406.06  12468.81  12614.47                    44.32      59.99      52.78      41.02      34.66
ZONE 1.8                 095.91   1426.62   1702.26   1692.30   1802.07                      5.35      7.32       0.70       5.57       0.95
ZONE 2:                 5001.29   9975.05  11574.42  11148.91  1l605.65                    38.47      51.16      45.57      36.67      31.8b
ZONE 2.A                4300.05   8569.39   9907.32   9489.85   9839.57                    33,08      43.95      39.01      31.22      27.03
ZOXE 2.B                 701.24   1406.26   1607.10   1659.06   1706.00                     5.39       7.21       6.50       5.46       4.85
ZONE 3:                 5179.30   9919.66  11324.60  11272.50  12107.45                    29.04      50.87      44.59      37.00      Z3.26
ZONE 3.0                4252.80   8133.48   9234.65   9122.26   9750.97                    32.71      41.71      36.36      30.01      26.79
ZONE 3.8                 926.50   1786.18   2089.95   2150.25   2356.48                      7.13      9.16       0.23       7.07       6.47
4. SOURCES                      25025.00  34508.00  43005.40  51335.80  40000.00                   192.50    176.96    169.31       168.87    109.89
PAl                     3250.00   8444.00   5256.00   5256.00          0.00                 25.00     43.30      20.69      17.29       0.00
SNI 111                   975.00   7312.50  17145.00  11400.00         0.00                  7,50     37.50      67.50      37.50       0.00
NAFINSA                     0.00      0.00       0.00  12955.00  20000.00                    0.00      0.00       0.00      42.62      54,95
BANXICO                19500.00   7500.00  10800.00  13000.00  20000.00                    150.00     38.46      42.52      42.76      54.95
108                     1300.00  11251.50   9804.40   8724.80          0.00                 10.00     57.70      38.60      28.70       0.00
5. OTHER SHORT-TERN FUNOS         200.26    146.74    365.86        19.63     84.05                  1.54       0.75       1.44       0.06       0.23
6. FEOERAL GOVERNMENT            2000.00    500.00   8000.00   6000.O0  20000.00                    15.38       2.56      31.50      19.74     54.95
LCP12
May 1983



- 88 -                                                          ANNEX 4
T-]8R
MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table  18:   FOGAIN's  Projected  Sources  and  Uses  of  Funds
(b) Uses
(IN MLN OF MEX S)                                                      1US$ hLN
1983      1984       1951       1986        1967                  i9E;       1984        1985       1986       1987
;i. AFPL ZATII3NS                  71140.28 106557.93 142-412.71  1277.95  19247"C.11                    57.23    5'6,45    164.22          t44.00     528.76
1    E CRED1  0l000RSE08ENTS     42128.0f  63792.00  09208.80 1161t1.41 240000.                        327.   14      .14 11.61          381.91     &84.82
ZONE 1:                 17011.20  2-116.80  31723.12  46440.18  5600G. 00                     130.86      130.86    140.64      112.77    153.85
ONE 1.4                115310.28  22965.22  321511.17  41796.52  50490.07                    117.77      17.77      126.58     157.47      153.46
ZONE 1.8                 1701.12   2551.68   3172.35   4644.06   560C.0G0                        3.09      13.09      14.06      15.28       I1.38
ZONE 2                  12758.40  19137.60  26792.64  34830.43  42303.03                        98.14      98.14    105.48      114.57    i15.39
ZONE 2.A                11057.28  16585.92  23220.29  3186.-37  36400.00                       85.06       85.06      91.42      99.20      100.00
ZO3NE 2.8                1701.12   2551.68   3572.35   4044.36   55i00.20                      13.09       23.0?      14.06      15.28       15.33
ZONE 3:                 127518.40  19137.6b   26792.64  24830.44  4200.00                      98.114      98.14     101.48    114.57    1l1138
ZONE 30                 310632.00  15948.00 22327.20  29025.37 135000.03                      81.78       81.73      87.90      95.48       96.15
ZONE 3.B                 2126.40   3189.60   4465.44   1S80.07   7000.00                        16.36      16.36      17.58       97.10      17.23
2. ADOINlSTRATR `E EXPENSES         658.00   1003.00    1587.00   2208.00          o.oo                   5.06       5.45       6.25        7.26S      0.00
3. INTEREST EXPENSE             22607.54  29033.04  20214.89  28167.4?  31601.75                       173.90    143.8?      111.09      92.66       S6.32
PA1                       3353.49   6265.57   5413.57   4123.57   3031.4?                       25.80      32.13      21.31       13.56       8.13
581 111                    429.00   3232.13   6612.45   1285.20 3417.901                         3.30      16,58      26.03       17.39       9.39
NAFINSA                  2417.01    1734.28    326.81   4163.51   9162.S3                       18.59       8.89        1.29      13.70      24.90)
ERNXICO                  15541.00  11411.89  11892.65   9040.96   9490.50                      i19.58      79.24     4.6.82      29.74       26.07
IDB (OLD)                 216.94    288.62    334.38    357.35    376,65                         1.67       1.48       1.32        1.13       1.03
iDi (NEWi                 646.10   2060.55   3635.02   1196.88   6222.58                         4.97      10.57      14.31      17.10       17.10
4. COMl0TMENT FEES                 303.13      164.04      91.12        0.00       0.00                   1.56       0.34       0.36        0.00       0,00
!D2  (NEW)                 20         184.04      91.12        0.00       0.00                   1.56       0.84       0.36        0.00       0.00
5. OTHER FEES                       114.10      66.43    109.78       '          A'   10.12               0.88       0.34       0.43        0.58       0.49
lDB (OLD) N. FEE             6.85       9.05      20.45       11.17      11.77                   0.05       0.05       0.04        0.04       0.03
ID  (NEW) N. FEE           10.50      57.38      99.25      14J.63    168.35                    0.1 5      0.29       0.39       0.46        0.46
128 [NEW) F-E FEE           87.75       0.o00      0.00        0.0o       o.00                   0.68      0D.0        00          0.00       0.o00
6. AMORT1ZATISN                    2158.48   7679.23  19366.74  14155.71  1433-.19                       16.61      39.30      76.24       46.56      39,36
PAl                         75.50       0. 00    500.16      305.00    510.30)                   0.5        0.00        1.997      1.30       1.40a
sr1 111                      0. 00      0,0         0.00   380-.00   4550. 0,0c 0.00                        0. 00)     C,00       12.50      12.50
NAFINSA                   1762.50   1304.50   9242.00    525.00    262.50                       13.56       6.6?      36.39        1,73       0.72
800XICO                      0.00   5096.11   9052.31    e9ss.3E   8369.23                       0.0       30.24      31.80       29.58      22.99
IDE (OLD)                 320.68    478.58       532.27     533.403    638.36                    2.47       2.45       2.09        1.75       1.75
ID9 ihEW(0                   O.O        0.00       0.00        0.00       0.o0                   0.00       0.00       0.80        0.00       0.0O
7. EXCHANGE RATE LOSS              2557.36   3751.44   4541.78   4358.37   5388.24                       19.67      19.24      17.88       13.84      14.31
CAPITAL                   1829.05   1986.95   2046.62    49.989    603.86                       14.07      10.19       8.06        1.64       1.66
INTEREST                  728.31   1784.49   3495.16   33t09.18   4785.38                        1.60       9.05       9.82       12.20      13.15
S. INVESTMENTS                       2D.00      20.00      280.0       20.00      20.00                   0.15       0.10        0.08       0.07       0.05
9. FINAL CASH BALANCE               293.47    988.81        72.69    365.43    949.31                     2.26       5.07       0.29        1.20       2.61
LCPI2
May 1983



- 89 -
ANNEX 4
T- 19
MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUJM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 19: FOGAIN's Projected Balance Sheets, 1983-1987
(Mex$ ML)
1983      19B4       1985       1986       1987
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS                            364.11    293.41    988.81       72.69    365.43
LONG-TERN ASSETS
LOAN PORTFOLIO iPRE 1983)            21611.07  10963.21   3015.37         0.00       0.00
LOAN PORTFOLIO IPOST 19821           36737.42  89916.83 143264.73 197381.12 24c104.57
ACCOUNTS RECEEIVABLE "I                4365.25   6702.10   9688.01  13266.92  1i955. 5
FIXED ASSETS                             60.00     80.00    100.00    120.00    140.00
OTHER ASSETS                          2900.00   2800.00   3000.00   4000.00   5000.00
SUBTOTAL:                         65673.74 110464.1E 159068.61 214767.94 262200.08
TOTAL ASSETS:                     66037.85 110757.62 160057.42 214640.63 262565.51
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES                       275.98    427.03    559.94    749.95    882.69
LONG-TERM LIABILITIES
PA! (INCL. SMl Ill)                   8596.57  24353.07  46253.91  58904.91  53744.91
NAFINSA                                7459.00   8185.75    787.50  13217.50  '2955.00
BANY.ICO                             32350.00  33953.85  35661.54  39669.23  51300.00
IDB                                   6789.74  18922.61  29285.e4  38297.75  38539.03
SUBTOTAL:                         55195.31  85415.28 111988.79 149989.39 176539.94
TOTAL LIABiLITIES.                55471.29  85842.36 112543.73 150739.34 177421.63
EQUITY
BEGINNING SHARE CAPITAL               9700.00  16250.00  29001.50  45aO5.90  63530.70
NEW SOiT CONTRIBUTION                 2000.00    500.00   8000.00   6000.00  20000.00
NEf CAPITALIZED LOANS                  4550.00  11251.50   9804.40   8724.80         0.00
RETAINED EARNINGS                    -1785.00  -5683.44  -3086.24   1702.78   3570.59
PROFIT iLOSS) FOR YEAR               -3898.44   7597.20   4789.02   1367.31   10442s.5
TOTAL EQUlTY:                     10566.56  24915.26  47508.68  64101.29  85143.87
TOTAL LIAB. & EQUITY              66037.85 110757.62 160057.42 214840.63 262565.51
1I CONSIDERS PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST ON LOAN PORTFOLIO.
LCPI2
May 1983



ANNEX 4
_90  -T-20
MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 20:  FOGAIN's Projected Income Statements, 1983-1987
(HEX S ML)                                                    IUS $ ML)
1983      1984       1985       198S      1987                  1963       1984      1985       1986       1987
1. INCOME                       22241.69  36675.15  39333.51  36603.14  38213.69                  171.09    188.08    154.86    120.41    104.98
INTEREST INCOME        22041.43  36528.41  38967.66  36583.52  38129.64                   169.55    187.32    153.42    120.34    104.75
EXISTING PORTFOLIO   5402.77   3508.19    960.22         0.00       0.00                 41.56      17.99      3.78       0.00       0.00
FUTURE.PORTFOLIC    16638.67  33020.22  38007.44  36583.52  38129.64                    127.99    169.33    149.64    120.34    104.75
OTHER S-T FUNDS          200.26    146.74    365.86        19.63     84.05 -1.54                       0.75       1.44      0.06       0.23
11. EXPENSES                     26140.13  34077.95  34544.49  34735.33  37171.11                  201.08    174.76    136.00    114.26    102.12
INTEREST EXPENSE       22607.54  29033.04  28214.89  28167.49  31601.75                   173.90    146.89    111.08       92.66      86.82
COMMITMENT FEES          203.13    164.04       91.12       0.00      0.00                  1.56       0.84      0.36       0.00       0.00
OTHER FEES               114.10      66.43    109.70    151.77    180.12                    0.88       0.34      0.43       0.50       0.49
EXCH. RATE LOSS         2557.36   3751.44   4541.78   4208.07   5389.24                    19.67      19.24     17.88      13.84      14.81
ADM. EXPENSES            658.00   1063.00   1587.00   2208.00         0.00                  5.06       5.45      6.25       7.26       0.00
111. NET INCOME                   -3898.44   2597.20   478i.02   1867.81   1042.58                  -29.99      13.31      18.36       6.14       2.86
RATIOS:
6ROSS FINANCIAL SPREAD (USSHN)  -3440.70   3513.46   6010.16   4056.19    958.53
LOAN INTEREST
AS A I OF TOTAL INCOME            99.10      99.60     99.07      99.95      99.78
BORROWINGS EXPENSE
AS A t OF TOTAL INCOME           114.57      90.02    .83.79      88.86      97.27
BORROLINGS EXPENSE
AS A X OF TOTAL EXPENSES          97.48      96.88     95.41      93.64    100.00
BORROWINGS EXPENSE
AS A I OF TOTAL OUTSTANDING       46.17      38.65      29.43     21.69      21.06
LCPI2
May 1983



- 91 -
ANNEX 4
T-21
MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 21: FOGAIN's Current Interest Rate Structure
a!
ZONE I       ZONE II-/   ZONE III
Small and Medium Priority              30             35           39
Industries
Medium Non-Priority                    37             42           45
Industries
Average ACF      38
a/ Includes rest of the country.
LCPI2
March 1983



1MOC   - THIRD SMALL AND NEDIUM SCA  INLSTRY IEVEL(PMENr EPRJECT
Table 22: Suxmary of FOMIN's Investnents
(Mex$ millions)
1978              1979              1980              1981               1982
No. of             b. of            Nb. of           Nib. of            lb. of
Firms   AmDunt  Firms   Amunt   rEiS         Amunt   Firms    Aiunt   Erms    Aunt
Studies                            188     643.0    224      941.3    252      1,284.7  306      2,670.5  325       2,963.4
Rejections                          19      80.8      26      82.3      26        82.3   26          82.3   26         82.3
Approvals                          169     562.2    198    859.0    226        1,202.4  280       2,588.2  299      2,881.1
Net finalized a/                    87     169.8      66     195.6      73       208.8   94         343.7   91        378.2
In process                           6      64.7      16    203.5       17       200.0   19        686.8   25         414.2
Completed investments b/ c/         76     347.6    116      459.9     136       793.6  167       1,557.7   183     2,088.7
Investments sold                     4      35.1      31      38.8      39        84.2   56         203.7   60        225.1
Companies being liquidated           4       9.0       8      10.8       9        16.0     9         16.7     9        16.7
Portfolio as of year-to-date c/    68      303.5      76     410.3      88       693.4  102       1,337.3  114      1,846.9
_                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I\
a/ These include projects approved by EDNIN, but not inplenented generally because the client enterprise has not agreed to
conditions required by MIIIN for its investment.
b/ Reinvested dividends included in the investments of portfolio year-to-date.
1978 Mex$ 19.9 millions
1979 Mex$ 25.4 millions
1980 x$ 32.4 millions
1981 Mex$ 36.8 millions
1982 Me$ 73.8 millions
c/ Convertible Credits wre included in EtCN's operations for 1980, 1981 and 1982.
February 1983



WXMCO - THID  SMALL AND 8ll) SCAIY. INDUSTRY tI&O,38CENT PIWFCFT
Table 23: Econonic Activity of Fnirt Suyervised by M;UN 1978-82
tMex$ millions)
EON8C ACTIVY                              1 9 7 8                              1 9 7 9                               1 9 8 0                                1 9 8 1                          June 30, 1982
Aveag                                 Aee  A                                 Av EraeAeage                                                               Average
9J38ECIfR                 No. of   Anxnt              Avunt   No. of   Armot                 Aa,unt   No. of   Aeoknt              Anmunt   No. of   Aaunt              Ariunt   No. of   Amout                 Amount
Firms    Invested a/  I   I  Fira   Fis    Invested a/  I          rFver Firm   Fins    Invested a/ I   per Finn  Finms   Invested a!   1    per Firm
Chenmcals/Pbarmenuticals    13       51.0      16.8    3.9        16      66.4      16.2      4.2       15       91.2      15.3     6.3        18      151.1    11.5    8.6         18       201.5      11.1    11.4
Food Products               13       66.0     21.7    5.1         14      79.2      19.3      5.7       11       63.3      10.3     5.7        22      290.3    21.7   13.2         23       377.7      20.5    16.4
Metal Processirg             16      97.8      32.2    6.1        20      158.2     38.6      7.9        21     195.2      31.7     9.3        25      307.9    23.0   12.3         27       467.7      25.3    17.3
Wood Products                4       29.4       9.7    7.4         5      33.7       8.2      6.7        5       39.4       6.4     7.9         4       32.9      2.5    8.2         4        32.9       1.8      8.2
Cormtruction Materials       6       11.7       3.9    2.0         5       11.9      2.9      2.4        7       19.2       3.1     2.7         6       98.3      7.4   16.4         8       147.4       8.0    18.4
Electrical Madiinery         3        2.3      0.8    0.8          4       4.3       1.0      1.1        4        4.3       0.7     1.1         1        8.3      0.6    8.3         1         8.4       0.5      8.4
Textiles Apparel             2        3.0       1.0    1.5         2      11.9       2.9      6.0       12      114.4      18.6     9.5         7      152.1    11.4   21.7          7       143.0       7.6    20.4
Other                       11       42.3      13.9    3.8        10      44.7      10.9      4.5       15       84.9      13.9     5.7        19      293.4    21.9   15.4         26       465.3      25.2    17.9
T O T A L             68      303.5    100.0    4.5        76      410.3    100.0      5.4        90      614.9    100.0      6.8       102   1,337.3   100.0   13.1         114     1,846.9    100.0    16.2
a/ Amxnmts include reinvested dividends.
LCPI2
February 1983



- 94 -
ANNEX 4
T-24
MEXICO - TEEIES SMALL ANE ED1IUM SCALE INDESTRY DEVELOPMENT PEOJECT
Table  24:  POMIN's Equity 1-osc--c  Held
Ma,te  f8            Held                                                    TEAdaed    Etatesi
I03otinu              ESehe H1ld          Par VelIe  C9)Elal        Esrs1W (La)  4Yese              Is Shea      CEeE9                                      Det ea  A-eL   of  MlN's
TZ-      O.et   Pref-rr      To-         C-Cr    Stok    1982          1931      l9EE     1979    33/11/82     IMe                                           rlSa  Prllito
A.  CcswaEe Srrr-bo  sitS Trot                                                                                                                                                                                           POE(261  OF 370AL 14.0
A.Sse  PlEi-cfrIed,. SAIN-1A                        32.83     12,376    12,349       24,625    75,1100    52,656     (907)  (1,029)   4,351    8,084      D.eate-  (1972)         9,8255   (1977)   14,730
ESesseu  003.                             EEl-N     21.55          5    10,090       10,090    44,7350   19,410   (10,377)     169    4,851    2,275       eate-  (1974)          2,000   (1978)      526   (1979)   1,276   (1993)    1,804
Adelslst-a-Eo  Tesllle  S,.                 E-B     33.00          0        250         250       750        53       (68)     NI'      N/F       83     DreaM-   (19801            250
AlEre  0,A. 03 C.V.                        EE       32.12          0     6,264       6,264    19,500      1,512        86F   4,829      N/F    2,012       eD-e,  (1981 )         5,303   ((982)      9(4
3ord.des Nat  003. Or C.V.                  E-8B     4.00      2,003         0       2,303    62,500    29,561    (1,767)  (1,529)      N/F      1254    D-e-   (1980)              303   (1981)    2,500
CaEI- 'lnEcu  4.A.                          1-8B    33.43      2,200         E        2,203     6,603       189    (2,040)   1,022   (2.673)     733     Jur        (1979)        2,200
Caocsitbn.1A     r1- Lp    ,4S.           EEL-A     33.32      6,000     4,353       10,1333   31,02O     2,369      (704)   2,7825     N7     3,443     Soe   (1980)             1,0)0O
Fo-nol  PirnJ S.A.                        SEE-A     33,1(      9,005         5       9,E00    27,003      3,074    11,493      S/F   (3,193)  2,925      Jut        (1979)        9,000
G,.5.. 03 '1Sd-c SA.                      I2E-A    40,00           0      5,030       5,000    12,526     1,133       N/N    1,263      N(0    2,O30     -          (19825)       1,133
lI.d-lL,1 SAs  C.V.                       EEl-B     33,33     22,500         3      22,503    67,503    13,754      2,048      134    1,073    7,499     Mode      (1979)        22,506
L.bYt 003, ~  y La..lntEcE  Bursg 8.A.   EI-IA      29.61      2,961         0        2,961    10,003     2,020     2,947    3,378   (1,747)    977      D-heMe   (1978)          2,961
orse Potoe0S0.A   C8.0.                     E-E     33,33          0    39,7 58      39,750   119,250    21,712     2,450      378       "MF 13,210      D..dear  (1980)         39,326
tEJou-  03 WEe6 S.A.                         E-t    33.33          0    15,ODO       13,ODO    45,000     2,310     5,111      NIF      NIP    5,O0O     Se-ote  (1993)          15,030
\4E7yore  031 Nbt-  003.                   EE        15.86     4,60D          0      4,603    29,005      1,966       25F      N/F      NA'      72630        a    (1981)         4,600
Nstyf-or~   P817557c  003. 18.4.            I-N     36.15          0      6,200      4,700    13,030      2,232       975      N/N      NA'      735     E3-rete   (19825)        4,703
N6tyfor   S A. d8.0C.        -            EE-A      17.85      17,703         0      17,700    99,200    25,614      -V0       8(F      18F    4,325     Ikota   (1992)          17,700
lN~yloe   0.A.                            ElI-A     25.88      8,803          0       8,850    36,050     4,278       960      NIP      N/F    1,107      Searb.   (1982)         8,800
PrEss M8dce, S.A.                         EEl-A     25.26          0     2,350      11,550    44,00       8,943     6,303    2,360      N/N    2,750     DS.bt   (1981)          11,030
ProOn-   Cue  003.                        EEl-A     26.57          0     4,857       4,857    17,OO3     2,792      3,299      WV2      599    1,387     3-&r  (1973)             4,003
ProiNicros (urea DouSE .  C0.V3..     P8B       3.19         5     3,0lo       3,026    96,290          0       N'       NA'      NN         0      keNr(92)                  8
P-ctEeo  003.. 03.10.                       E-8    34.91           5   41,667        16,667    47,740     5,954       N/F      W'F      0/0    5,954     J-n        (1981)       41,667
Su-s de tEr2.a.- S Atae   0. 03.4C..   LIE-A        1 5.56         0    12,450        4,98D    16,lO        560       775      NA'      N/P      0/0     D-i-r  (1981)           12,450
oTte. y Ba-c0Edl  S.A.                      E-8    40.74           0    55,003      55,0OD   175,003          0         0      8/0      0F       W/F     D-eder  (1982)          55Slo
8.  C5p-iooeOpe-aIg 03 ELs or Trdauoai or Fi-dnEl DiffEsotl-E                                                                                                                                                         811R0) 0F I01,:  3009
A-oooli-    u-eduE 003.                     0-8    19.00      15,529     4,950       10,479    70,250    (7,190)   (26,626) (26,276)  (11.155)  (1.366) Dee..4   (1976)           4,950   (1978)    10,000
o26gagld  y  SI0rs de Cano  S.A.            1-0B    32.26     21,000         0      21,820    65,)20    (8,835)    (5,967)        5         D0 (2,853) lOonte    19861)           8,600   (19825)    12,400
Alssa/PsI. N5. Ar Scs, Hera  Or 03 CV       1-8      6.80          0    17,010      17,010   247,200  (I115.537)  (188.860)     909     1,996   (7,949) Ee-sh-   (1973)          12,426   (1977)       810  (1979)   3,786
4,rouSIOur 003.                       ELI-A     02.26          0    44,882      44,9825  129,266  (45,796)    11,348   25,476    16,004  (14,746) Noonot-  (1972) 4,4207(1976) 3,734/1 1980) 1,492  (1987)  24,296
VWecue  Mtr  003.                     IIE-A    16.22      6,003         0       6,003    37,000    (8,028)      1,342    2,853     5,425   (1.383) Dr-aMe   (1970)           6,000
EoicIot-  Toodt, S.A.-                      I-B     34.80          2    39,272      3B,272   110,350  (150,591)   (30.470)   3,167      1,434  (38.202) Jun        (1978)        12,200
0.1. GousEes 003.                           153     53.30     06,869         0      26,696   96,003        (967)   (12.164)    (216)     (264)  (4,054) Ernie ,1981 )            15,503   (1925)    11,669
Sordsdu  01 Orc-c  003.                     E-0     33.33      4,876         3       4,876    14,626    (1,632)       (835)    (511)     (3467    (544) Secrete  (1979)             975   (1980)     3,261
OsiSefo- 0.A. Or 0.V.                     OlE-A     33.75      2,726    0        0    ,700    8,003    (7,814)           0        0         0 (2.637) Sene    19825)              27,003
as. Hila1.8is Or Tore-  0SI.                E-E    45.26      20O00     13,800      33,000    73,000  (32.855)    (7,4492       995     1,438  (23,893) ScO,kr~  (1980)          20,000   (19825)    132600
copeS Nedoss  003.                          E-t    26.42      07,026         0      27,000    95,026    (4,066)          0        0         0   (I156( r)     ue   (1993)        20,849)  (1981)    6,151
109-15S. d03C,0,                          101-A     34.69      3,400         0       3,400     9,803          0          0        0         0        0   IMAetec  (1982)            696
Sep. Care  Pros  Zapopiu  003 03.0&C.               40.00          0     2,800       2,803     7,000    (1.010)          3        0         0     (404) D-eeh-  (1903)            2,8000
F.pu.  %-aEs-    y C- -rrSAOdrol            0-0    33.26      0       0   ,550       5,820    15.030    (6,258(    (1.649)   3,176      3,258   (2.045) Se-ute   (1909)           5,000
Dpi.PL  P..u"u  003,030,0N.                 I-S     37.20      6,103         0       6,103    16,426       (899)    (2,905)       0         0     (334) DrceH-  (1981 )           1,226   (19825)    4,780
TAstrs  3  -ulc    Sle  0,5           PS       262DO      2,590     4,340       6,930   24,250    (3.542)    (l.No5)      293      1,034     (992) J-si       (1L973)       4,340   (1907)       650  (1979)   1,96 0
'tq. 0103n,E0  Nedcau  0.A.               100-A     41.00          0    93,026      80,000   195,0OD   (46,075)          0             0    5        0   Mc         (1903)       80,000
Sea), 7. Oer-ueuta  tediss 003.           TEl-A     70.00      1,964         0        1,964    9,520    (5,970)                   9    (,62(,9)Doue    17)                        1,904
Silrile  11    Cel..id. un   Ca 185    -B     33,00           2    8,250        8,250    25,003    (2,093)         0        0          0    (663)  D-eaAe   (1986)          1,026   (1981)    4,026  (198252   3,250
Ieyfur del 8 C-sr  003.                             36.26          0    4,700        4,726    12,8725  (10.757)          0        0        0    (5,896)  Deeas5-  (19032          4,700
Ncty.T-s  Or InoOM-  003.d.030.0.         EE-A      32.50      6,810         0       6,")    21,004    (2.932)           0             0   I       969) r-autte  (19825)          6,930
76ktEe,r  Pe?     o  003,                   E-8     11.03          0     7,503       7,500   67,611
0-  Ca Pirdad S.A. 18.0C..                          33.33          0     6,000       6,lOD      (864)         0          5        0 10,003        (268) De-ete   (1982)           6,200
PoEOcEu S.A.                                E-E     25.26     55,026             5S0,E00   2oO,0
Sall1-r  Sar J-t 03A.                               46.20      6,00)         0       6,000                                            13,030
Snesifce  0.A. 180C.0.                    EEE-0     50.26      4,203         5       4,2DO    (3.291)         0          0            14,000      (984) D-e,t-  (19825)           4,226
Sie-ssie03a 18     S   .ut Ar0. 18.0C..     1-8    53.58    125,0W           0     125,000  (175,317)         0          0           370,0l0   (57,533)   e-ede-  (1982)        125,9)0
Seals y PErEe  18 ColAl. A   0180           2-5     25.96          0     6,994       6,996      (779)   (4,63B)          0            27,003      (262) J-t        (1978)         1,203   (1879)     3,794
Telp- 00A. 18.0C..                         IT       27.00     13,5OD         0      13,500    (2,883)         0          0            500,930     (781) DreaMer  (19825)         135,00
TraIlar  182 N-e S.A.                      EE       33.75          0    27,003      27,003   (25,752)  (26.7030)         5            96,003    (8,691)  D-rnrt-  (1981)         27,000
Trilpoy d8 Pt2eu~ue 0.A.                    1-B     17.93          0    12,500      12,500   (42,354)        IS   (13.834)   4,970   69,700    (7,596)  Se-nier  (1874)          12,300
Looccurs             Note- of Shar  Held         Ordit         N      Fr, Vale    Stie  Ep        cE,l.i9
Toe        Sto,    rf-rrd          C-ut       (beCel        Osed           Cast      Se..         D..t        F04EI  OrgiIgO     Psrtopetiou Seo  (yea)
C.  IbscArs lhtrr OuCrutSsui orCI. rlrto  St,,e                                                                                                                                    FKR268  OF T00TAL:  (7.5
AJa,t-r  T-reo- 803.                       II      29,O20      13,00o            I                     35.3     13,000         es.         08           (1902)      10,400
dAScutlo  003. 18.0C..                      P9B   15,003        3,000            0             0       33.3      5,003         n.e         08           (1903)       5,0O0
CaSeL1- y Cb-Artel  d3 S-sor S.A.          El     180,lo0           0            0       30,lOD        18.7    80,009          Jar 083     EM          (1961)      33,OD0
ESoua-i.c M10db       Sreo,e    0.         EE      22,425           0        SOOS5             0       26.5      5,30          re,.        Ju-          (1982)       0,000
Fep  y oeRf rtadte     V18OEolEld SA       II       6,02G       2,006            0            0        33.3      2,lo0         Peb '83    DEC          (19825)       2,O03
tE-Sus  18 Surtou S,.                      11       6,003       2,303            0             0       33.3      2,001         Fsk '5    0DM            (1925)       0,003
SeceEs  0.1. 18003.                        0I8   270,400            0       60,002        26,050       33.3     96,000         J-n '85    SE r          (1981)      60,200
EeH-tis  Sac      ~ Cat 003 . 0303,         0-   103,003            0       26,000            0        26030    26,003          o  '25     DI2         (1992)       26,082
LeAs-es Te-D  0.0.                         EL     I50,000           0       33,000            0        2203     33,lOD         81y '83    SEC           (1982)      33,260)
remIss y Sedved- d C118 OIS. 0480 C         E-    75,0O3       26,303            0             0       40.4    28,303          M.a '83    0Dr           (1986)       2,680  (1981)  10,640  (19825)  15,000
Prod. D-hidbete   &1E Fus 0SI.             II      60WOO            0       20,339            0        340 X    20,399         Ja  '83    55 x          (1991)      20,93B9
8'red-c  P-eatdo  0.A.                     EE     105,000           0       61,340             0       33.3     61,340         066 '83     tIC          (1925)      61,340
Tears. Eru St 0.4                          I18    39,000            0       13,820            0        53.3     13,00          Jun '83     DIC          (1981)      13,005
105,13 oC'r,-i                                                                                         353,034
EsurEir      Capital    ?kode  of NlShr  Mid4        N         o Vale
Tos   St,.k      Prferre        C-         Seed         `C-o      88M8N's 00025-e  P.rtocorli- D-c (Y-a)
0.  IlseasOr Sabiru to FSsenE1 IFehlAlstLo                                                                                               WERT C3 50DT1.,  3.0
Algutde y Gea  S,A.                         I-S       13,0OD             0         4,290      33.0        4,290     (1973)   4,290
AllsntsEsr  003S.                         1515*       26,000            0          6,040      21,4        6,820     (1973)    6,O30
aCEsreso  0.1.                            150-A       23,0(0            0         4,2000      17.4        4,300     (1979)      800    (1980)   3,226
Caron y TYrs1uee  S.A.                      P8B        6,034            0          1,991     33.0         1,991     (1975)    1,991
EotsAoAY.e MLI S.A.                         E-8       42,000        2,960         10,920      33.0       13,668     (1974)    5,026    (1977)  8,880
Lene  0.A.                                  E-8       11,600            0         2,125       19.1        2,10D     (1993)    2,103
K-anE  18 Y-eou  SAk.                       E-E       40,000            0         83,203      33.0'      13,200     (1975)   13,200
Le66rtorE  Ago. 0.1,                        1-8        6,230            0         2,965       3303        2,065     (0975)    2,065
LsheearEc  Alpb. 0.6.                       150       40,100            0         13,200      3303       13.200     (1975)   13,2800
TC'lL 9 oese60,706
0.  CW      lire                 haO,tf    di Pre 18 Li%ethta,                                                                           NEtI26OCFT9) 15     1 .4
Eq,P.n Ieals.  SardE       A~ .1            0-8       27,080             0       65,8859/    24.3         3,350     (1973)    3,350
leak. ro-1a- 18 Nayser ES.                 TI         34,452             0        6,442-    18.7          6,441     (1973)    6,441
Nseao  S.A. I/                            002-B       25,003             0         8,0(0      33.3        8,333     (1978)    8,333
a,   126o0  p-r shar
1/  Ad.lEtli-lEy h. a ehbdulssd ordit fee $7,0 dslLEe, lo-Ia1d octhe SSqobtMtl  -e&stlo-
Feb-uey 1983



NEXI)0 - THIRD SLL AND mEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY ]EVEDPENT P1E;FT
Table 25: FRUN's  Convertible Credit Operations
(in Mex thousands)
Contract                                                 Payment of      Paid up 1/
Date       Auunt of Credit   Terms   Grace Period    Principal         Interest
Ahercoat Mexicana S.A.                        03/11/80          15,000         7 Years     1 Year         3,462         10,676
Agrefados y Bloques de Cancun S.A.            30/07/82           8,000       5.5 Years     6 Months           0              0
Aceitera Matamoros S.A. de C.V.               10/10/80          36,000         5 Years     1 Year         4,500         19,395
Alimet S.A.                                   19/C8/82           3,500         5 Years  2.5 Years             0              0
Bordados Maty S.A.                            29/10/80          27,500         4 Years   16 Months        4,583         13,447
Copal Mexicana S.A.                           31/C8/81          17,000         5 Years     2 Years            0          4,185
Celulosa y Corrugado De Son. Sa de CV         31/05/82          30,000         7 Years   31 Months            0          3,277
Demi S.A.                                     29/06/82           7,000        58 Months   16 Months           0            750
Enpacadora La Potosina S.A.                  C8/10/81           3,000        46 Months  16 Months            0            467
Emp. de Carnes Frias Zapopan S.A.             (8/12/81           1,200         3 Years   18 Months            0            307
Enciclopedia de Mexico S.A.                   13/11/81          10,000         2 Years     1 Year             0          2,534
Flejes Industriales S.A.                     07/12/81           50,000         6 Years     2 Years            0         7,663
Fab. de Galletas La Moderna S.A.              20/04/82          40,000       4.5 Years     2 Years            0          4,0C8
Galletas Y Pastas S.A.                        07/04/81          19,000         5 Years   17 Months            0          7,213               '.D
Grupo LIdustrial Kaem S.A.                    07/12/81          54,000         7 Years   2.5 Years            0          3,987
Herstal S.A. de C.V.                          30/11/81          30,000       4.5 Years   1.5 Years            0          5,048
Industrial San-Cal S.A.                      C9/11/82           15,000       5.5 Years     1 Year             0              0
K. S. de Morelos S.A. de C.V.                 27/01/81          15,000         7 Years     1 Year             0          5,364
Laminas Etz--Nex S.A.                         27/10/81          40,000         5 Years  1.5 Year              0          5,997
Mfra. de Partes Para Motor S.A.               20/07/81           9,000       4.5 Years   17 Months            0          1,342
Martex Potosi S.A.                            19/01/82          20,250         5 Years   2.5 Years            0          1,608
Notyformas S.A.                               18/12/81          41,200         4 Years   16 Months            0              0
Otto La Piedad S.A. de C.V.                   18/06/82           4,000         4 Years     2 Years            0            401
Pastas Montecristo de Puebla S.A.             07/04/81          11,000         3 Years   17 Months            0          3,891
Polyvin S.A. de C.V.                          29/05/81          25,000       5.5 Years     1 Year             0         7,209
Productos Loma Bonita S.A. de C.V.            09/11/82          28,000         2 Years     1 Year             0              0
Silicatos Especiales S.A.                     19/0B/82           4,000         4 Years   1.5 Years            0            433
Telas no Tejadas S.A.                         27/11/81          17,300         5 Years    1 Year              0          4,129
Telpro S.A. de C.V.                           05/11/81           6,500       1.5 Years     1 Year             0              0
Textiles Potoso S.A.                         21/09/81           40,000         7 Years   2.5 Years            0          5,067
Vehiculos y Canponentes S.A.                  20/07/81          43,000       4.5 Years   17 Months       _
TOTAL                                                     670,450                                   12,545        125,043
1/ For interest explanatian see text para. 3.07.
U''
LCPI2
May 1983



- 96 -                                                ANNEX 4
T-26
~MOD - UM         I AM  MEIUM  SCALE       1ISI    IEVELT PRWECT
Table 26:  Revenues from FOMINTs Disinvestments, 1980-82
(Mex$ lld11ions)
Date of                                                     %
Origlnal                                                   Return
FOfN                                                       on
Enterprises a/                   Participation   Par Value   Sales Value   Earnirgs(Inss)       Sales
Amercoat Mexicana, S.A.                      1972            309          687           378
Acumilador Insuperable, S.A.                  1978        15,000       22,000         7,000
OQaps y Triplay del Sureste, S.A. b/         1974          7,560        7,560            -
Delicias Tropicales, S.A.                    1974          2,000        3,000         1,000
Forros y Aislamientos, S.A.                  1974          1,400        2,380           980
Inrdustrias Teenos, S.A.                     1977          6,00W       12,003         6,000
Neva Xalpa, S.A.                             1973          4,000        4,515           515
20th. (bntury  Ciemical de Mexico, S.A.      1979          8,500       10,880         2,380
Vitro Proceso del Nbrte, S.A.                1978            700          900           203
Sub-Total Sales - 1980                               45,469       63,922        18,453             41
Iadrillera Irapuato, S.A.                    1974          1,800        1,800            -
Auto Air-ex. S.A.                            1979          2,030        2,400           400
Lamina Desplegada, S.A.                      1978         13,500       20,250         6,750
Fisacero, S.A.                               1979         33,325       48,0OD        14,675
Amercoat Maxicana, S.A.                       1972           508          767           259
Cia. Forestal de la Lacandona, S.A.          1977          6,500        4,875        (1,625)
De Bebe, S.A.                                1978          6,000       11,000         5,000
Prinba, S.A.                                 1979            266          475           209
Inportadora y Distribuidora Tamex, S.A.      1979          7,500       11,500         4,000
Impulsora Audioelectronica, S.A.             1973            112          200            88
Leria, S.A.                                  1972          1,670        1,670            -
Demi, S.A.                                    1981         2,000        2,431           431
Hilados y Retorcidos La lMderna, S.A.        1980         12,500       16,539         4,039
Fabricas Unidas San Manuel, S.A.              1980        13,000       17,221         4,221
tcotlan Textil, S.A.                          1980        10,000       13,247         3,247
Acabados de Hilos, S.A.                       1980         3,030        3,973           973
Carnes Selectas del Nayar, S.A.               1974           165          165            -
Sub-Total Sales - 1981                              113,846      156,513        42,667             37
Forrajes Arevalo                              1973          1,473        1,768          295
Polipastos, S.A.                              1980         7,500       14,000         6,500
Aceitera Matamoros, S.A.                      1980         4,000        5,977         1,977
Imiustrias Tepeyac, S.A.                      1978         2,600        3,758         1,158
Silicatos Especiales, S.A.                   1980          6,700       11,700         5,000
Jigos del Valle, S.A.                         1981        80,000      112,000        32,000
Telas No Tejidas, S.A.                        1981         8,700       11,248         2,548
Productos Kerns, S.A.                         1977         8,000       20,000        12,000
Bibliowdel, S.A.                              1981         4,998        7,000         2,002
Savigiac, S.A.                                1979         2,600        5,200         2,600
Sub-Total Sales - 1982                               126,571      192,651       66,080             52
TOTAL Sales - 1980-1982                              285,886      413,086       127,200            45
a/ Acercoat 1xicana, S.A. disinvestments proceeded thruogh partial sales of shares.
b/ Includes neither interest on credit sales nor interest on convertible credits operated.
LCPI2
Febniaxy 1983



- 97 -
ANNEX 4
T-27
MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 27:  FOMIN - Audited and Projected Balance Sheets, 1980-1987
(in Mex$ millions)
Audited                                              Projeeted
1980        1981         1982          1983         1984         1985          1986          1987
Assets
Current
Cash, Banks and Marketable Securities                   57.7         64.3         111.4         50          108           137          164            164
Accounts Receivable
Interests Receivable                                   4.0         24.6          19.5         35          55            76            96           115
Employee Loans                                         2.4          4.4          19.6         15          13            18            24            29
Other Receivables                                      1.5          2.1          13.0         17           18           26             26           31
Provision for Bad Debts                                -           (3.4)         (4.5         (6)         (7)           (9)          (10)          (12)
Sub-total                                            7.9         27.7          47.6        61           79           107           136           163
Portfolio Investments (short-tern)
Loans on Portfolio Sales                              21.2         53.6          56.1         67          81            97           116           140
Subordinated Convertible Credits                       5.7         39.0         164.3       296          464           636           808           969
Slb-total                                           26.9        92.6         220.4        363          545           733           924        1,109
Portfolio Investoents (long-tern
Investments (at cost):
Common Stock                                         329.7        604.5         853.6
Preferred Stock                                      285.5        269.7         561.2     2,860        4,613         6,380         7,472         8,965
Advances for Stock Purchases                           -           17.1           -
Adjustment for Revaluation                            18.8         15.1          99.6
Effect of using Equity Method Valuation              (83.5)       (79.9)       (103.6)
loans on Portfolio Sales                                11.1         73.6         174.7        210          252           302           362          435
Subordinated Convertible Credit.                        72.8        423.0         464.6        836            -        1,799         2,284         2,741
Sub-total                                        634.4      1,324.1       2,050.1      3,906       6,178         8,481        10,118        12,141
Other Assets
Employee Loans                                            9.5        14.9           8.6         10           12            14            17           20
Net Fixed Assets                                          1.0          1.3           1.5         2            3             4             4             5
Deferred Assets                                            .3           .2            .1         -            -             -             -             -
Sub-Total                                           10.8         16.4          10.2        12           15            18            21            25
TOTAL ASSETS                                       737.7    1,525.4        2,439.7      4,392        6,896         9.447        11,336        13,602
Liabilities and Equity
Current
Subscriptions Payable                                   27.6        116.9          47.3         73           73            73            73            73
Tames Payable                                             2.1         3.9           3.9          6           10            15            20            25
Accounts Payable                                          5.7        17.2           9.2          7            6             5             3             2
Sub-Total                                           35.4       138.0           60.4        86           89            93            96           100
Long-Term Liabilities
Pension Reserves                                          1.6          3.4          6.6         12           19            26            33            39
Long-Term  Liabilities (PAI)                            85.7        385.8         653.1      1,623       3,221         5,043         6,051        -7,262
Sub-Total                                           87.3        389.2        659.7      1,635        3,240         5,096         6,084         7,301
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                  122.7        527.2         720.1     1,721        3,329         5,162         6,180         7,401
Equi ty
Government Capital Contributions                       720.7      1,014.0       1,481.5      2,206       2,815          3,188         3,649        4,299
Adjustenet for Fixed Asset Revaluation
in Stock Portfolio                                    47.3         47.1         153.6        169         203           244           292           350
Prior Term Profit (Loss)                              (158.8)    (152.8)          (91.1)        85          296           549           851        1,215
Current Year's Profit (Loss)                              6.0        90.0         175.6        211          253           304           364          437
TOTAL EQUITY                                       615.1        998.2      1,719.6      2,671        3,567         4,285         5,156         6,301
TOTAL LIABILITIES + EQUITY                         737.7     1,525.4       2,439.7      4,392        6,896         9,447        11,336        13,602
a/ Consists of calculating the effect of equity participation on profits or losses of investee firms.
LCPI2
December 1982



MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 28: FOMIN - Audited and Projected Income Statements, 1980-87
(in Mex$ million)
Audited _                       Projected
1980  1981   1982   1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Interest 1/                                        13    102    194    338        423     503      596      703
Income (Losses) on Equity Participation 3/          7       -       -    (35)    (28)    (17)       (9)      (5)
Net Income or Portfolio Sales 2/                   20      49      61     75      118      162     206      247
Other Income                                        -       -       1      2        3        5       8       10
Total Income                                   40    151    256    380        516     653      801      955
Expenses
Administrative and Operating Expenses               29     42      66    143      224      306     389      466
Consultant Fees                                     4      14      11     20       31       34      37       40
Commission to NAFINSA                               1       1       1      2        2        2       2        2
Depreciation                                        -       1       1      1        1        1        1       1
Bad Debts 4/                                        -       3       1      3        5        6       8        9
Total Expenses                                 34      61     80    169      263      349      437      518
Profit (Loss)                                        6     90    176    211       253      304     364      437
1/  Represented primarily by interest on convertible credits, credit sales of FOMIN's equity participation and
marketable securities.
2/  Considers stock sales and premium on convertible credit terms excised.
3/  Represents net income in FOMIN's portfolio for 1980.  Figures for 1981 and 1982.  Figure for 1982 (calculated
in 83) amounted to Mex$29 million)
4/  Bad debt account was provisioned for the first time in 1981.
LCPI2
February 1983



- 99 -                           ANNEX 4
T-29
MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 29: FOMIN's Sources and Applications of Funds 1983-87
(in Mex$ million)
1983      1984       1985       1986        1987
Initial-Working Capital                111         50         79        108        137
After Income                              2         3          5          8          10
Equity Sales 1/                         75        118        162        206        247
Net Interests 2/                       338        423        503        596         703
Government Resources              2,206      2,815      3,188     3,649       4,299
PAI Resources 3/                  1,623_    3,221       5,043     6.05        7,262
Bank                   7Y3          1,172      2,774      3,328      3,994
Government             730          1,449      2,269      2,723      3,268
Other Resources                     133        435        691        998      1,274
Total Sources                     4,377      7,015      9,592    11,508      13,795
Neit Investment Portfolio 4/         4,269      6,723      9,214    11,042      13,250
Total Expenses                         169        263        349        437         518
Total Applications                4,438      6,986      9,563    11,479      13,768
End,of-Period Working Capital           50         79        108        137         164
1/  Net increase of portfolio stock sales (with yearly projected losses deducted)
plus premium on convertible credit options exercised.
2/ Represented primarily by interest on convertible credits, credit sales of FOMIN's
equity participation, and marketable securities. Considers 2% spread assumed on
PAI's resources used to fund convertible credits.
3/  PAI resources for 1983 assume use of remaining funds of Loan 1881-ME.
4/  Includes amortization of principal.
LCPI2
May 1983



-100 -                                                          ANNEX 4
T-30
MENOD - nTlRD SMAL AND NEDIIt4 SCAIE INXISRY IEVEI
Table 30 FIDEIN - Aixlited and Projected Balance Shaets, 1980-87
(in MeKx$ million)
Audited t__naited                                    Projected '/
1980         1981         1982        1983        1984       1985      1986       1987
ASSUS
Cash, Bariks axl Marketable Securities          41.6          79.0         55.7        20.0       36.0        56.5     77.4        98.3
Accounts Receivables 2/                          23.9        204.1         394.3    1,615.0    2,394.4    2,505.5  2,004.4    1,603.5
loans to Industrial Parks 3/                    133.3        264.5        270.6       322.6     1 673.6    1,410.2  2,594.4    3,872.7
Other Receivables                                36.4        135.1        119.3        30.0       47.1        64.5     81.9        98.3
Factory Building Iventory 4/                    180.0        310.1        260.3         -          -           -        -
Net Fixed Assets 5/                              2.6          53.1         61.8       111.2       174.6      239.2    303.8        15.0
Net Deferred Charges                            462.2        295.2        292.2       160.0        50.0        -        -
Total Assets                               880.0      1,341.1       1,454.2    2,258.8    4,375.7    4,275.9  5,061.9    5,687.8
LIABILrIES
Accounts Payable to Contractors                  63.5        133.6         68.5         -          -           -         -
Accounts Payable to Fideiccmisos Especiales      5.9          76.3         32.3         -          -           -        -
Accxnts Payable to PAI                         142.7        298.2         352.4    1,125.3    3,184.7    3,017.0  3,721.9    4,024.1
Deferred Credits                                 10.2         44.8         73.3        50.0        25.0        -        -
Other Liabilities 6/                            26.9         118.7        179.2       215.0      279.5       335.4    402.5       483.0
Total Liabilities                          249.2        671.6         705.7    1,390.3    3,489.2    3,352.4  4,124.4    4,507.1
BQJI1y
Gavernment Capital Contributios                 603.8        603.8        661.9       661.9       661.9      661.9    661.9       904.1
Prior Term Profit (Loss)                        23.8          28.7         62.7        86.6       211.6      224.6    261.6       275.6
Current Year's Profit (Loss)                     3.2          37.0         23.9       120.0        13.0       37.0      14.0        1.0
Total Equity                               630.8        669.5         748.5      868.5       886.5      923.5    937.5    1,180.7
Total Liabilities and Equity               880.0      1,341.1       1,454.2    2,258.8    4,375.7    4,275.9  5,061.9    5,687.8
1/  Projections consider that in 1983:  (i) credits for construction of factory buildings are handled by F0GAIN; (ii) factory buildirg in-rentory
is terminated, and (iii) FIIEIN operates credit for industrial estates only, ard provides technical assistance.
2/  Includes capital to be amortized ard tnterest on Loans maie for construction of factory buildings.
3/  Includes only Fideiccnisos Especiales up to 1982, after 1983 includes public and private irdustrial estates.
4/ Includes factory buildings tnJer construction.
5/  After 1980 it is represented primrrily by infrastructure and urbanization caspleted durirg 1981 and 1982 for the Fideiconisos Especiales, ard
leased real property plus machinery and equipment. Lease transactions expire in 1987, and infrastructure and urainization wrks ccmpleted
during 1981/82 are transferred that same year to the public estates at cost.
6/  Considers loans from NAFPEA anmunting to  ex$ 41.1 million (1981) and Mex$ 31.6 million (1982) for infrastructure development.
LCPI2
February 1983



MENCO - THIR SMALL AND MEDILJM SCAIE INDUSTRY  EVEVMfNr PROJECT
Table 31: FIDEIN - Audited and Projected Income Statements, 1980-87
(in Mex$ million)
Audited            Unaudited                            Projected
1980         1981          1982        1983        1984       1985      1986        1987
INCE
Net Sales of Factory Buildings                    20.6         95.8          67.8        512          -          -         -          319
Cost of Sales                                     18.0         94.1          57.4        310         -           -         -          304
Operational Margin                            2.6           1.7         10.4        202          -           -         -           15
Net Interest                                      18.1         41.4          71.1        398         915        1,395     1,148      1,O(B
Net Leases                                        -             -             6.1          9          10           11        12        -
Technical Assistance and Services I/              4.2           9.4          22.0         40          62          85        138        196
Gross Profit                                 24.9          52.5        109.6        649         982        1,491     1,298      1,204
EXPENSES
Administrative & Operating Expenses               34.4         37.3          64.5        116          91          125       153        191
Financial Expenses                                 6.7          7.9          37.2        378         824        1,256     1,033        907
OCnmissions                                        1.6          5.0           5.5         10          16           22        28         33
Depreciation                                        .9           .8           2.2          4           5            6         7          3
Other Expenses 2/                                   .7           1.5         12.1         21          33           45        57         69
Total Expenses                               44.3          52.6        131.4        529         969        1,454     1,284      1,203         X
Net Profit (Loss)                            19.4           (.1)       (21.8)       120          13           37        14          1         >
Goverament Subsidy                      22.5          37.1         45.7         -           -            -         -          -
Earnings (Losses)                             3.1          37.0         23.9        120          13           37        14          1
1/  Technical assistance anxd services for industrial estates.
2/  Primarily consultants used for studies on industrial estates.
LCPI2
February 1983



MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 32:       Resources Needed for Support of FIDEIN's Expected Level of Operations - 1983-1986
(Mex$ millions)
Estimated
Total Costi/
(in Constant Terms)                                                       Total
Industrial Estates                   (US$1   Mex$130)        1983      1984       1985      19862/   (in Current Terms)
Tlajomulco, Jalisco                                  64.2               6.4       28.9       75.3        -            110.6
Orizaba, Vera Cruz                                   86.4               8.6       45.4       92.8        -            146.8
Quetzalcoatl                                         80.0               -          -         46.9      131.0          177.9
Acapulco, Guerrero                                   63.0               6.3       28.4       61.5       14.7           110.9
Tuxtepec, Oaxaca                                     62.4               6.2       51.5       42.7        -            100.4
Oaxaca, Oaxaca                                       50.4               7.6       37.8       34.5        -             79.9
Calera, Zacatecas                                    20.0               2.0       12.0       19.5        -             33.5
Guadalupe, Zacatecas                                100.0               -          -         39.1      187.1          226.2
Conjunto Ind. Arcovial                               97.0              14.6       50.9       94.8        -            160.3
Parques Ind. de Sonora                               94.5               8.6       58.1       92.3        -            159.0
Parque Ind. de Durango, Durango                      49.2               4.9       29.5       48.1        -             82.5
Parque Ind. de Morelia, Michoacan                    60.0               -         45.0       58.6        -            103.6
Parque Ind. de Tlaxcala, Xicotencatl                 75.2               -         38.7       88.2       10.6          137.5
Other Industrial Parks                              761.7               -         44.3      261.9   1,377.2         1,683.4
TOTAL (Mex$ millions)                       1,664.0                        470.5   1,056.2.  1,72Q.6          3,312.5
TOTAL (US$ millions)                           12.R                 *6        3-2       4.9        4-l
PAI Funds Disbursed - %                            100                 5         25         38         32
1/ Excludes additional contributions estimated at US$6.0 million from beneficiaries and financial intermediaries.
2/ Additional resources amount to about Mex$400 million required for 1986.
LCPI2
March 1983
4->c



- 103 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO - THIRD SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File
A.   On the manufacturing sector and financial system
1.   Informacion Economica, various issues; published by Banco de
Mexico.
2.   Informe Anual, 1981 and 1982; annual report of Banco de Mexico.
3.   El Mercado de Valores, various issues; published by NAFINSA
4.   X Industrial Census, 1976 (1975 data); published by the Secretaria
de Programacion y Presupuesto (1979).
5.   Plan Nacional de Desarrollo Industrial (1978-82); issued by the
Secretaria de Patrimonio y Fomento Industrial.
6.   Sistema de Cuentas Nacionales de Mexico (1970-78, 1978-80, and
Version Preliminar 1981) published by the Secretaria de
Programacion y Presupuesto.
7.   Encuesta Industrial Mensual, 1980; published by the Secretaria de
Programacion y Presupuesto.
B.   On the Project
1.   Plan de Ejecucion de Programa, May,1983; Project Execution
Document prepared by NAFINSA.
2.   Mexican Government's Policy Statement on Industrial Employment,
May,1983.
C.   On FOGAIN
1.   FOGAIN's audited financial statements, 1980 and 1981, and unaudited
financial statements,1982.
2.   FOGAIN's Operating Regulations.



- 104 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
D.   On FOMIN
1.   FOMIN's audited financial statements for 1980, 1981 and 1982.
2.   FOMIN's Operating Regulations.
E.   On FIDEIN
1.   FIDEIN's audited financial statements, 1980 and 1981, and unaudited
financial statements, 1982.
2.   FIDEIN's operations manual.
3.   FIDEIN's Operating Regulations.



