DOUNS LOAN NUMBER 2325 ME
0                              Loan Agreement
(Third Small- and Medium-Scale Industry
Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA S.A.
Dated                          /5     , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2325 ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       l*   Z               , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECON TRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA S.A. (hereinafter
called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Sche-
dule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "FOGAIN" means Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Indus-
tria Mediana y Pequena, established by a law of the Guarantor
published in the Diario Oficial on December 30, 1953 of which the
Borrower is the Trustee pursuant to a contrato de fideicomiso
between the Guarantor and the Borrower dated April 7, 1954, as
amended; and such term includes the technical and administrative
organization, resources, staff and facilities used, or to be
used, by the Borrower to operate FOGAIN.
(b)   "FOMIN" means Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial,
established by a contrato de fideicomiso between the Guarantor
and the Borrower dated April 12, 1972, as amended, and of which
the Borrower is Trustee pursuant to said contrato; and such term
includes the technical and administrative organization, re-
sources, staff and facilities used, or to be used, by the Bor-
rower to operate FOMIN.
(c) "FIDEIN" means Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques y
r..',dades Industriales y Centros Comerciales, established by a


﻿-2-
law of the Guarantor published in the Diario Oficial on Decem-
ber 24, 1970 of which the Borrower is Trustee pursuant to a
contrato de fideicomiso between the Guarantor and the Borrower
dated February 1, 1971, as amended; and such term includes the
technical and administrative organization, resources, staff and
facilities used, or to. be used, by the Borrower to operate
FIDEIN.
(d) "Fideicomisos" means FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN.
(e)  "Participating Intermediary" means any credit institu-
tion approved by FOGAIN.
(f) "FOGAIN Loan" means a loan made by the Borrower, as
Trustee for FOGAIN, to a Participating Intermediary to assist the
latter in the financing of an Investment Project or Working Capi-
tal   Project   or   Common   Service   Facilities   Project   in
accordance with the FOGAIN Operating Regulations, the proceeds of
such loan to be on-lent to an Investment Enterprise and to be
partially financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and "free-
limit FOGAIN Loan" means a FOGAIN Loan, as so defined, which
qualifies as a free-limit FOGAIN Loan pursuant to the provisions
of Section 2.02 (c) (i) rf this Agreement; and "FOGAIN Loan
Agreement" means the agr.. nt for the FOGAIN Loan.
(g) "FIDEIN Loan" .means a loan made by the Borrower as
Trustee for FIDEIN to an InVestment Enterprise pursuant to Sub-
paragraph (j) (iii) below to assist in the financing of a FIDEIN
Project under Part A (5). of the Project, all in accordance with
the FIDEIN Operating Regulations, and to be partially financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan; and "FIDEIN Loan Agreement"
means the agrlement for the FIDEIN Loan.
(h) "sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
a Participating Intermediary out of the proceeds of a FOGAIN Loan
to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project or a Work-
ing Capital Project or a Common Service Facilities Project.
(i) "FOMIN Equity Investment" means an equity investment,
including debt represented by instruments convertible into equi-
ty, made or proposed to be made by the Borrower as Trustee for
FOMIN in an Investment Enterprise pursuant to Sub-paragraph (j)
(ii) below for a FOMIN Project, all in accordance with the FOMIN
Operating Regulations, and to be partially financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan; and "free-limit FOMIN Equity Investment"


﻿-3-
means a FOMIN Equity Investment, as so defined, which qualifies
as a free-limit FOMIN Equity Investment pursuant to the provi-
sions of Section 2.02 (c) (ii) of this Agreement; and "FOMIN
Agreement" means the agreement for the FOMIN Equity Investment.
(j)  "Investment Enterprise" means (i) a small- or medium-
scale industrial enterprise engaged in the production of goods or
services to which a Participating Intermediary proposes to make
or has made a sub-loan, or (ii) an industrial enterprise in which
the Borrower as Trustee for FOMIN proposes to make or has made a
FOMIN Equity Investment, or (iii) an eligible borrower of a
FIDEIN Loan; and the term includes any group of Investment Enter-
prises joining forces, under legal arrangements satisfactory to
the Borrower, for the carrying out of a Common Service Facilities
Project.
(k)  "Sub-project" means an Investment Project or a Working
Capital Project or a Common Service Facilities Project or a FOMIN
Project or a FIDEIN Project or a Technical Assistance Project.
(1) "Investment Project" means a specific development pro-
ject to be ce,rried out by an Investment Enterprise under Part A
(2) of the Project utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan.
(m)    "Working Capital Project" means a specific working
capital project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise
under Part A (1) of the Project utilizing the proceeds of a sub-
loan.
(n) "Common Service Facilities Project" means a specific
development project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise
under Part A (3) of the Project utilizing the proceeds of a sub-
loan.
(o)  "FOMIN Projert" and "FIDEIN Project" mean a specific
development project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise
under Part A (4) and A (5) of the Project, respectively, uti-
lizing the proceeds of the Loan.
(p)  "Technical   Assistance  Project"   means  a   technical
assistance project under Part B of the Project to be carried out
by the Borrower, in its own capacity or as Trustee for any of the
Fideicomisos, or by any agency of the Guarantor acceptable to the
Bank, aad to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and
"Agency" means any of such agencies which has been accepLeu Oy


﻿the Bank for the purposes of carrying out a Technical Assistance
Project approved by the Bank pursuant to Section 2.03 (b) of this
Agreement.
(q)  "Peso" means the currency unit of the Guarantor.
(r)  "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(s) "FOGAIN Operating Regulations" means the operating
regulations of FOGAIN dated April 6, 1954, as amended to the date
of this Agreement and as further amended in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement.
(t)  "FOMIN Operating Regulations" means the operating regu-
lations of FOMIN dated April 12, 1972, as amended to the date of
this Agreement and as further amended in accordance with the pro-
visions of this Agreement.
(u) "FIDEIN Operating Regulations" means the operating
regulations of FIDEIN dated April 27, 1976, as amended to the
date of this Agreement and as further amended in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement.
(v) "Operating Regulations" means the FOGAIN Operating
Regulations, the FOMIN Operating Regulaticns and the FIDEIN Oper-
ating Regulations.
(w)  "Separate Account" means the account that the Borrower
shall open in its books pursuant to Section 3.09 of this Agree-
ment.
(x) "Small- and Medium-scale Industrial Enterprises" means
small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises as defined in the
FOGAIN Operating Regulations.
(y)  "Prevailing Interest Rate" or "ACF" means an annual
rate of interest which reflects the average cost of borrowed
funds to financial departments of multi-purpose banks operating
in Mexico as calculated and published by Banco de Mexico on a
monthly basis.
(z) "Interest Rate Structure" means a structure of interest
rates for sub-loans which provides for different categories of


﻿borrowers and the annual rate applicable to each of such catego-
ries, such rates to be expressed in terms of ACF and percentage
point constants; and "Agreed Interest Rate Structure" means the
Interest Rate Structure agreed between the Bank and the Borrower
for purposes of Sections 6.01 (b) or 5.01 (b) of this Agreement.
(aa) "Project Execution Document" means the document dated
May 13, 1983, approved by the Borrower in its own capacity and in
its capacity of Trustee for each of the Fideicomisos.
(bb) "Local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the terri-
tory of the Guarantor and "foreign expenditures" means expendi-
tures in the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and
for goods or services supplied from the territory of- any country
other than the Guarantor.
(cc) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.03 of this Agreement.
(dd) "Central.Bank" means Banco de Mexico.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Loan
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred and seventy five million dollars ($175,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for:
(i) 73%   of  amounts expended    by  the  Borrower, as
Trustee for FOGAIN, FOMIN or FIDEIN, under a
FOGAIN Loan, a FOMIN Equity Investment or a FIDEIN
Loan; all to meet the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Sub-project in respect
of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is
requested; provided, however, that no withdrawal
shall be made in respect of a FOGAIN Loan, FOMIN
Equity Investment or FIDEIN Loan unless (1) the
FOGAIN Loan or FIDEIN Loan or FOMIN Equity Invest-
ment shall have been approved by the Bank, or (2)


﻿the FOGAIN Loan or FOMIN Equity Investment shall
be a free-limit FOGAIN Loan or free-limit FOMIN
Equity Investment for which the Bank shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(ii)  75% of local expenditures and 100% of foreign
expenditures made by the Borrower to meet the rea-
sonable cost of goods- and services required for a
Technical Assistance Project under Part B of the
Project which shall have been approved by the
Bank.
(b) The proceeds of the Loan shall be allocated as follows:
(1) $75,000,000   equivalent   for  FOGAIN  Loans   for
Investment Projects or Common Service Facilities
Projects;
(ii)  $75,000,000 equivalent for FOGAIN Loans for Work-
ing Capital Projects;
(iii) $8,000,000 equivalent for FOMIN Equity Investments
for a FOMIN Project under Part A (4) (i) of the
Project;
(iv)  $10,000,000 equivalent for FOMIN Equity Invest-
ments for a FOMIN Project under Part A (4) (ii) of
the Project;
(v) .$4,600,000 equivalent for FIDEIN Loans;
(vi) $1,963,591 equivalent for Part B*of the Project;
and
(vii) $436,409 equivalent for amount due on account of
fee referred to in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
The foregoing allocation of the proceeds of the Loan may be
subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank
after consultation with the Borrower.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree:


﻿-7-
(i) a free-limit FOGAIN Loan shall be any FOGAIN Loan
made for purposes of financing a Sub-loan for an
Investment Project under Part A (2) of the Project
or any FOGAIN Loan made for purposes of financing
a Sub-loan for a Working Capital Project under
Part A (1) of the Project other than the first
three sub-loans proposed to be made thereunder;
(ii) a free-limit FOMIN Equity Investment shall be a
FOMIN Equity Investment for a FOMIN Project in an
amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $400,000
equivalent.
(d) Except -as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expendi-
tures made before the date of this Agreement, or (ii) expendi-
tures made by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a FOGAIN
Loan or FIDEIN Loan or FOMIN Equity Investment subject to the
Bank's approval, or by the Borrower in its own capacity or by an
Agency, in respect of a Technical Assistance Project, if such
expenditures shall have been made more than one hundred and
eighty days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received in respect of such FOGAIN Loan or FIDEIN Loan or FOMIN
Equity Investment or Technical Assistance Project the application
and information required by Section 2.04 (a) of this Agreement
or, in respect of a free-limit FOGAIN Loan or free-limit FOMIN
Equity Investment more than one hundred and eighty days prior to
the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such
free-limit FOGAIN Loan or free-limit FOMIN Equity Investment the
request and information required by Section 2.04 (c) of this
Agreement, or (iii) expenditures made by FOGAIN, FIDEIN or FOMIN
in respect of Part A of the Project unless the Borrower has
\           entered into the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.03 (a) of this Agreement with FOGAIN, FIDEIN or FOMIN, respec--
 tively, and the Bank has been furnished with an opinion satis-
factory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank showing
that such contractual arrangements are legally binding upon the
parties thereto; or (iv) expenditures made by an Investment
Enterprise in the carrying out of a Working Capital Project after
December 31, 1985.
Section 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be opened and
thereafter maintained a Special Account in the Central Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Payments out of


﻿the Special Account shall be made exclusively to pay the reason-
able cost of goods and services required to carry out the Project
and to be financed by the Bank under this Agreement in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.02 hereto of this Agreement.
(b)  The Bank may, after the Effective Date and at the
request of the Borrower, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account an amount in
dollars of up to $17,500,000. In the event that the amount of
such initial deposit into the Special Account is less than
$17,500,000, the Borrower may from time to time request the Bank
to withdraw from the Loan Account and make one or more additional
initial deposits into the Special Account, but in no event shall
the amount of such initial deposits exceed in the aggregate
$17,500,000. At the request of the Borrower, the Bank shall fur-
ther withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the
Special Account with amounts equal to payments made out of the
Special Account for expenditures for the Project eligible for
financing under this Agreement. Except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, each such deposit after the initial deposits shall be
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account pursuant to the pro-
visions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, and in the same res-
pective amounts, as have been justified by the documentation for
the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph (d)
of this Section.
(c) Prior to or at the time of each request for a with-
drawal by the Borrower from the Special Account, the Borrower
shall-furnish to the Central Bank an application for withdrawal
from the Special Account on the, basis of statements of expendi-
tures showing that the payment was made on account of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
paragraph (a) above.     The Central Bank shall authorize with-
drawals from the Special Account an amount in pesos determined on
the basis of such statements of expenditures, and shall debit the
Special Account with the dollar equivalent of such amount in
pesos determined on the basis of the rate of exchange between the
dollar and the peso in effect at the time each payment was made.
(d) Prior to or at the time of each request for a deposit
by the Bank into the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank in respect of each withdrawal from the Special
Account an application for withdrawal from the Loan Account on


﻿-9-
the basis of the statements of expenditures referred to in para-
graph (c) of this Section together with a statement from the Cen-
tral Bank indicating the amounts disbursed from the Special
Account in connection with each such application.
(e) If the Bank shall have determined that any payment out
of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any
amount Xot eligible for financing by withdrawal from the Loan
Account, or (ii) was not justified by the statements of expendi-
ture furnished pursuant to paragraph (d) above, the Bank shall
notify the Borrower of such circumstances, and if after a period
of 30 days from the issuance of such notice an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified has not been deposited by the Borrower into the
Special Account or, if the Bank shall so request, refunded to the
Bank, the Bank may refrain from making further deposits into such
Account.
(f) Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (a) of this
Agreement, when the withdrawals from the Loan Account deposited
into the Special Account plus the amount of any agreement to
reimburse made by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General   Conditions  shall   have   reached  the   equivalent  of
$140,000,000, the Bank shall be entitled, after consultations
with the Borrower, to reduce the percentage of disbursements for
expenditures under the Project or take any other action which
will ensure the Bank that, by the time the total amount of the
Loan has been disbursed, all deposits (including the amount cor-
responding to the initial deposit) made by the Bank into the
Special Account were made on account of the reasonable cost of
goods or services eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan in .accordance with paragraph (e) above.
Section 2.04. (a) When presenting a FOGAIN Loan (other than
a free-limit FOGAIN Loan) or a FIDEIN Loan or FOMIN Equity
investment (other than a free-limit FOMIN Equity Investment) to
the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an
application together with: (i) an appraisal of the corresponding
Sub-project (other than a Technical Assistance Project), includ-
ing a summary description of the expenditures proposed to be
partially financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and, whenever
applicable, a description of the Investment Enterprise; (ii) the
proposed terms and conditions of the FOGAIN Loan or the FIDEIN
Loan or the FOMIN Equity Investment; and (iii) such other inform-
ation as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿-10 -
(b) When presenting a Technical Assistance Project to the
Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an
application together with: (i) a description of the activities to
be undertaken and goods and services and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan for such Technical Assistance Project, a
statement on whether such Technical Assistance Project will be
carried out by the Borrower and/or any other agency of the Gua-
rantor and, if applicable, a description of such agency and of
the legal arrangements to be entered into between 'the Borrower
and such agency; and (ii) such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(c) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
FOGAIN Loan or a free-limit FOMIN Equity Investment shall con-
tain: (i) a summary description of the Investment Project,
including a summary description of the expenditures proposed to
be partially financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and, when-
ever applicable, a summary description of the Investment Enter-
prise; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the free-limit
FOGAIN Loan or free-limit FOMIN Equity Investment; and (iii) such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(d) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before December 31, 1986.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to four hundred thirty-six thousand four hundred nine            0
dollars ($436,409).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.


﻿- 11 -
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
mencing on each date specified in Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B) here-
under shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93% per
annum.
(iii) "Qualified Borrowings" means: (A) outstanding-bor-
rowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.09. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.10. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
.              ARTICLE III
The Project
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such technical assistance and produc-


﻿- 12
tive facilities and resources in Mexico as will contribute to the
economic development of the country's small- and medium-scale
industry. The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Financing of:
(1) Working   Capital  Projects   through  FOGAIN  Loans  to
Participating Intermediaries for further relending
under Sub-loans to Investment Enterprises; such Working
Capital Projects to consist in the financing of
permanent working capital requirements of an Investment
Enterprise for the incremental cost of raw materials,
components, spare parts and other production inputs.
(2)  Investment Projects through FOGAIN Loans to Partici-
pating Intermediaries for further relending under
Sub-loans to Investment Enterprises; such Investment
Projects to consist of:
(i) establishment or expansion of productive capacity;
and
(ii) permanent working capital related to any increase
in such productive capacity.
(3) Common Service Facilities Projects through FOGAIN Loans
to Participating Intermediaries for further relending
to groups of Investment Enterprises for the construc-
tion and establishment of common service facilities;
such Investment Projects to consist of maintenance and
repair shops; central warehouse facilities; purchasing
and   distribution  facilities;   training  facilities;
quality control centers; accounting and data processing
centers; food service facilities; and other facilities
agreed upon from time to time between the Bank and the
Borrower as Trustee for FOGAIN.
(4) FOMIN Projects through FOMIN Equity      Investments in
Investment Enterprises; such Investment Projects to
consist of:
(i) the   acquisition  of  fixed   assets  and  related
increases in permanent working capital; and/or
(ii) the increase in permanent working capital require-
ments arising from increases in the cost of raw
.    materials, components, spare parts and other pro-
duction inputs.


﻿- 13 -
(5)  FIDEIN Projects through FIDEIN Loans to support the
infrastructure and urbanization requirements of public
or private industrial parks.
Part B:   Technical Assistance Projects consisting of: (i) tech-
nical assistance to industrial enterprises by the
Borrower's industrial extension agents and specialized
agencies of the Guarantor; (ii) recruitment and train-
ing of extension agents, and of staff of such agencies
and enterprises; (iii) studies; and (iv) such other
technical assistance activities to be agreed upon by
the Bank and the Borrower, including acquisition and
utilization of equipment, materials and services there-
of.
(b) The Borrower as Trustee for the Fideicomisos and in its
own capacity shall carry out the Project and conduct its opera-
tions and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards
and practices, with adequate personnel, and in accordance with
the Operating Regulations and the Project Execution Document and
shall, at all times, make available promptly as needed, such
funds and other resources as shall be required for the purpose.
(c) The Borrower further covenants that in the management
of FOGAIN's operations, it shall take all actions necessary to
maintain the integrity of FOGAIN's equity. To that effect, it
shall take into account, inter alia, that the rates of interest
charged by FOGAIN adequately reflect the cost of funds to FOGAIN
and its operating cost.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carry-
ing out of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ or
cause the Agencies to employ, experts in cases in which the
technical expertise is not available from the staff of the
Borrower or the Agencies. In such cases and whenever the experts
services are to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
"Borrower shall employ experts with qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment, and in accordance with
procedures, satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) transfer to the Fideicomisos' accounts, for purposes of
Part A of the Project and under contractual arrangements satis.-
factory to the Bank, the equivalent in pesos at the time of with-
drawal of each portion of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan


﻿-14-
Account. The Borrower shall not, acting in its own capacity or as
Trustee for the Fideicomisos, change or fail to enforce any pro-
vision of such arrangements; and
(b) use, as Trustee for each of the Fideicomisos, the
amounts accruing to it from the carrying out of Part A of the
Project and corresponding to the portion of FOGAIN Loans, FIDEIN
Loans and FOMIN Equity Investments financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan for purposes similar to those of said Part of the
Project.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower, as Trustee for the applicable Fideicomiso, shall:
(a) ensure, at all times, that the average rate within the
Agreed Interest Rate Structure shall be equal to the average of
the Prevailing Interest Rates in effect during the three calendar
months immediately preceding plus not less than one percentage
point; and
(b) charge at all times interest on (i) sub-loans, at an
annual rate equal to the applicable rate within the Agreed
Interest Rate Structure; and (ii) FIDEIN Loans and on any FOMIN
Equity Investment consisting totally or partially of debt repre-
sented by instruments convertible into equity, at an annual rate
equal to the average of the Prevailing Interest Rates in effect
during the three immediately preceding calendar months (A) plus
at least one percentage point, in the case of FIDEIN Loans and
(B) minus three percentage points, in the case of FOMIN Equity
Investments.
Section 3.05. The Borrower: (a) as Trustee for the applic-
able Fideicomiso shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to ensure that interest on (i) the Loans and debt referred to in
paragraph (b) of the preceding Section; and (ii) sub-loans, shall
be charged at a floating rate to be adjusted quarterly to reflect
fully any change in the average Prevailing Interest Rates in
effect during the immediately preceding three calendar months;
and
(b)  as Trustee for FOGAIN shall carry out a program of
adjustment of the interest rates applicable to loans in the
FOGAIN's portfolio existing as of June 30, 1983, as set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower as Trustee for FOGAIN shall
require that if a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to


﻿- 15 -
a Participating Intermediary in advance of maturity, or if a
sub-loan shall be sold, transferred, assigned -or otherwise dis-
posed of for value by a Participating Intermediary, such Partici-
pating Intermediary shall repay promptly to the Borrower the
amounts of the FOGAIN Loan corresponding to such sub-loan or
parts thereof so repaid in advance or disposed of for value.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower as Trustee for each of the
Fideicomisos undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, a sub-loan or FIDEIN Loan or FOMIN Equity Investment will
be made, or proceeds of the Loan for the financing of a Technical
Assistance Contract will be made available, on terms whereby a
Participating Intermediary or the Borrower, as the case may be,
shall obtain, by written contract with an Investment Enterprise
or with an Agency or by any other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and, when
applicable, of the Participating Intermediary, including, in the
case of any sub-loan or FIDEIN Loan and to the extent that it
shall be appropriate in the case of any FOMIN Equity Investment
or any Technical Assistance Project, the right to:
(i) require the Investment Enterprise or Agency to
carry out and operate the Sub-project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial and managerial stan-
dards and to maintain adequate records;
(ii) require that (A) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
purchased at a reasonable price, account being
taken also of other relevant factors such as time
of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the
goods and availability of maintenance facilities
and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of ser-
vices, of their quality and the competence of the
0                            parties rendering them, provided, however, that
the procurement of goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of a FIDEIN Loan shall be made in
accordance with the provisions set forth therefor
in the Project Execution Document and (B) such
goods and services shall be used exclusively in
the carrying out of the Sub-project in question;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
of the Bank, if the Bank shall so request after
consultation with the Borrower, such goods and the
sites, works, plants and construction included in


﻿-16-
the Sub-project in question, the operation there-
of, and any relevant records and documents;
(iv)  require that the Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
as shall be consistent with sound business prac-
tice; and that such insurance cover marine, tran-
sit and other hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or
installation, and that any indemnity thereunder be
made payable in a currency freely usable by the
Investment. Enterprise to replace or repair such
goods;
(v) obtain all such information as the Borrower or the
Participating   Intermediaries   shall   reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition
of the Investment Enterprises and Agencies; and
(vi)  suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise or Agency to the use of the proceeds of
the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enter-
prise or Agency to.perform any of its obligations
under its contract with the Participating Inter-
mediary or the Borrower as the case may be.
(b)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights, and, in the
case of Sub-loans, cause the Participating Intermediary to exer-
cise its rights, in relation to each Sub-project in such manner
as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower and
the Participating Intermediary; (ii) comply with its obligations
under the FOGAIN Loan Agreement or FIDEIN Loan Agreement or FOMIN
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Agencies, the Sub-
projects, the FOGAIN Loans, the FIDEIN Loans, the sub-loans, and
the FOMIN Equity Investments.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project, to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their


﻿- 17 -
use in the Project; and (ii) furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than one year after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Earrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report on the execution and operation of the Project and its
cost and benefits, and on the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:
(a) establish   and  maintain   in  its  books   a  Separate
Account; and
(b) record in the Separate Account: (i) the amounts trans-
ferred to each of the Fideicomisos for purposes of Part A of the
Project and pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement; and
(ii) all receipts and payments for or in respect of Part B of the
Project, in accordance with sound accounting practices consist-
ently applied.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall at all times maintain such
organizational arrangements as shall be necessary for purposes (o,f
coordinating the carrying out of all the several Parts of tta
Project.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall, in its own capacity and as
Trustee for the Fideicomisos, not later than December 31, 1983:
(i) carry out or cause to be carried out, a study on the basis of
terms of reference and a schedule satisfactory to the Bank, of
the extension agent system of the Guarantor's small- and medium-
scale industry development program; and (ii) review with the Bank
the findings and recommendations of such study.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Coveuants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, in its capacity as Trustee
for the Fideicomisos in respect of Part A of the Project, and in
its own capacity in respect of Part B of the Project, shall main-
tain or cause to be maintained records adequate to record the


﻿- 18 -
progress of the Project and of each Sub-project and to reflect in'
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices the operations and financial condition of the Borrower in
respect of Part B of the Project and of each of the Fideicomisos,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
(b)  The Borrower shall retain or cause to be retained until
one and a half years after the Closing Date, all records (con-
tracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts, and other documents)
evidencing the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures, and shall enable or cause to enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) make or cause to be made annual audits satisfactory to
the Bank of the Fideicomisos' accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements), and of the Separate Account for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent and qualified auditors;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six montlIs after the end of each such year,
(i) certified copies of such financial statements and of the
Separate Account for such year as so audited and (ii) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in Section
4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the
Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of statements
of expenditures have been used for the purpose for which they
were provided; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of the Fideicomisos, the
Separate Account, and the audits thereof, as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any external debt.


﻿- 19 -
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of
the Borrower as security for any external debt, such lien will,
ipso. facto, equally and ratably secure the payment of the princi-
pal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect, at no cost to the Bank, provided, however, that the fore-
going provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such proper-
ty or as security for the payment of debt incurred for the pur-
pose of financing the purchase of such property; or (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and secur-
ing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on
whi.-h it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration and oper-
ations of the Fideicomisos, and the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning such administration and operations.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's represerf-
tatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For    the  purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are speci-
fied:
(a) a change shall have been made in any legal instrument
under which FOGAIN, FOMIN or FIDEIN has been established which
would materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the
Project or the financial condition of FOGAIN, FOMIN or FIDEIN;
(b) a change shall have been made in any of the Operating
Regulations, or in the Project Execution Document or in the
agreed Interest Rate Structure, without the Bank's concurrence
thereon;


﻿- 20 -
(c)  a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of FOGAIN or FOMIN or FIDEIN; and
(d) the Guarantor and the Bank shall have failed to reach
the agreement referred to in Section 3.02 of the Guarantee Agree-
ment.
Section 5.02. For purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions,   the  following   additional  events   are  specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) that the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph
(c) of Section 5.01 of.this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) that the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 \c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) that the technical committees of FOGAIN and FIDEIN have
formally approved modifications in their respective Operating
Regulations, satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)  that the Bank has been furnished with an Interest Rate
Structure satisfactory to the Bank of the interest rates to be
used by FOGAIN in its operations.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, %tithin the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank, namely, that all necessary acts, consents and
approvals to be performed or given by the Guarantor, its poli-
tical subdivisions or agencies or by any agency of any political
subdivision or otherwise to be performed or given in order to
authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the
Borrower to perform, in its own capacity and as Trustee for the
Fideicomisos, all of the covenants, agreements and obligations of


﻿- 21 -
the Borrower in the Loan Agreement contained, together with all
necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been
duly and validly performed or given and no other such acts,
consents and approvals are required to be performed or given for
said purpose.
Section 6.03. The date ?                  / /9L   is hereby
specified for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICL1 VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:              Telex:
INTBAFRAD                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Nacional Financiera S.A.
Isabel la Cat6lica 51
06008 M6xico, D.F.
Mexico
Cable address:              Telex:
NAFIN                    NAFIME 383-1772538 BMXME
Mexico City              Mexico City


﻿- 22 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Mexico City,
Mexico, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By/S
Senior Vice President
Operations
.   NACIONAL FINANCIERA S.A.
By
Authorized Representative
0


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE .1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 1987
through   February 1, 1998                   7,290,000
On August 1, 1998                                 7,330,000
0
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 24 -
Preniums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                        0.20
before maturity
More than three years but not                     0.40
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                       0.73
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                    0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years                          1.00
before maturity


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The word "Sub-projects" is added after the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(2) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (i) the
right of the Borrower to make -withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (ii)
by the date specified in paragraph (d) of Section 2.04 of
the Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted
under paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) of
such Section shall have been received by the Bank in respect
of any portion of the Loan, or .having been so received,
shall have been denied, or (iii) after the Closing Date an
amount of their Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan
Account, or (iv) the Bank shall have received notice from
the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an
amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such applica-
tions or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or
portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice such
amount .or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


﻿-26-
SCHEDULE 3
Adjustment of interest rates on
loans in FOGAIN's portfolio pursuant to
Section 3.05(b) of this Agreement
Quarter Beginning                  Interest Rate Adjustments
FOGAIN Loans made between   FOGAIN Loans made between
9/79 and 7/80               8/80 and 6/83
July 1, 1983:        Increase by 4 points        Increase by 4 points
October 1, 1983:     Increase by 1/6 of differ-  Increase by 1/5 of differ-
ence.between existing rate  ence between existing rate
and July '83 Category       and July '83 Category
Rate.                       Rate.
January 1, 1984:     Increase by 1/5 of differ-  Increase by 1/4 of differ-
ence between existing rate  ence between existing rate
and October '83 Category    and October '83 Category
Rate.                       Rate.
April 1, 1984:       Increase by 1/4 of differ-  Increase by 1/3 of differ-
ence between existing rate  ence between existing rate
and January '"84 Category   and January '84 Category
Rate.                       Rate.
July 1, 1984:        Increase by 1/3 of differ-  Increase by 1/2 of differ-
ence between existing rate  ence between existing rate
and April '84 Category      and Apri! '84 Category-
Rate.                       Rate.
October 1, 1984:     Increase by 1/2 of differ-  Category Rate.
ence between existing rate
and July '84 Category Rate.
January 1, 1985
and thereafter:   Category Rate.               Category Rate.
The Category Rate is the particular rate within the Agreed Interest Rate
Structure applicable at a given time to the category of loan in question, as
specified in section 3.04 (a) of the Loan Agreement.
_.....                                                           ..


﻿0
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
Q                            I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this              oAIday of  1983-.
FOR SECRETARY


