LCLe        LOAN KU~BER 2325 NE
D0C U MEN_P4TS
o                         Guarantee Agreement
(Third Small- and Mediunr-Scale Industry
Development Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                      /5,1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2325 ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                /-           , 1983, between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES (herernafter called the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Nacional Financiera S.A. (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in
various currencies equivalent to one hundred and seventy-five
million dollars ($175,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Sche-
dule 2 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being herein-
after called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guaran-
tor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium,
if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual perform-
ance of all the other obligatibns of the Borrower, all as set
forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inade-
quate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carry-
ing out of the Project, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause
the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet
such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
ovL_ its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
governmental assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its


﻿-3-
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other governmental assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after Its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any of its political subdivi-
sions or of any agency; and the term "agency" means any agency or
instrumentality of the Guarantor or of any political subdivision
of the Guarantor, and shall include any institution or oganiza-
tion which is owned or controlled directly or indirectly, by the
Guarantor or by any political subdivision of the Guarantor, or
the operations of which are conducted primarily in the interest
of, or for the account of, the Guarantor or any political sub-
division of the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank and the Guarantor shall
otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall exchange views with the
Bank, not later than February 1, 1984, on the extent to h.aich the
Prevailing Interest Rate is an adequate index for the interest
rates charged for Sub-loans, FIDEIN Loans and FOMIN Equity
Investments under the Project.   If, either in the Guarantor's or
the Bank's opinion, the Prevailing Interest Rate would not con-
stitute an adequate index, the Guarantor and the Bank shall agree
on alternative measures in line with the prevailing economic con-
ditions in Mexico and in order to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall (a) cause the Central Bank
to have the Special Account audited annually by independent and
qualified auditors appointed by the Guarantor and, promptly after
the audit and not later than six months after the close of the
Central Bank's fiscal year, the Bank shall be furnished with
certified copies of such audit, together with a certified copy of
the auditor's report;


﻿4-
(b)  cause to be furnished to the Bank such other informa-
tion concerning the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request; and
(c)  cause to be furnished to the Bank each month certified
statements of the Special Account, and from time to time such
other information concerning such Special Account and such state-
ments of expenditures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Director General de Credito P'blico of the
Secretarra de Hacienda y Credito Pu'blico of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Secretarfa de Hacienda y Cr6dito Pi'blico
Palacio Nacional Edificio 10 - ler Piso
06066 Mexico, D.F.
Mexico
Telex:
1777313 SHCDME
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Mexico City,
Mexico, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By xs
Senior Vice President
Operations


﻿O
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this AS      day of      \, 1983.
FOR SECRETARY


﻿\/VO rid Ban k
1818 H Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20433, U.S.A.* Telephone: (202) 477-1234
BANK NEWS RELEASE NO. 83/120                        Contact:   Ciro Gamarra
June 24, 1983                                       (202) 477-5320
MTEXICO OBTAINS WORLD BANK LOANS TOTALLING $525 MILLION FOR
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT AND SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES
SLargest Amount Ever Approved to Mexico at Single Meeting
of Board of Directors
*The World Bank has approved two loans to Mexico, totalling $525 million,
to assist an export development program and a small- and medium-scale industry
development project. This is the largest amount ever approved to Mexico by the
Bank"s Executive Directors at one meeting.
The first loan, of $350 million, was approved to the National Foreign
Trade Bank (Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior-BNCE) to assist in the establish-
ment o.f an export development fund. This project will help Mexico in a critical
period to revitalize its non-petroleum exports.
The second loan, of $175 million, was authorized to Nacional Financiera,
S.A. (NAFINSA), Mexico's National Development Bank. The project will support Mexico's
integrated program of assistance to small and medium industry by providing credit
and technical assistance to enterprises for maintaining or expanding production
and employment levels. This is the third project of its type assisted by the
World Bank i. Mexico.
The Export Development project represents part of the World Bank's
Special Action Program to help meet Mexico's critical needs following the
financial crisis of 1982. It will complement the assistance being provided to
bMexico by the International Monetary Fund and other financial institutions.
Both loans were provided from the resources of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), which, together with the International
Development Association (IDA) form the World Bank. The loans will be repaid over
15 years, including three years of grace, at an annual interest rate linked to
the cost of Bank borrowings. The loans also carry an annual commitment charge
of 0.75% on undisbursed balances, and a front-end fee of 0.25% on the amount of
the loans. The loans are guaranteed by the United Mexican States.
.Export Development
The Export Development project assisted by the $350 million loan will
support the government's efforts to expand non-petroleum exports rapidly, which
are a cornerstone of Mexico's strategy for economic recovery. It will assist in
the formulation and implementaticn of a comprehensive export development strategy
and in providing exporters access to increased foreign exchange~ on reasonable terms
for imports of production inputs and equipment during a period of critical foreign
exchange scarcity.
NOTE: Money fi ures are exoressed in U.S. dollar equivalents.            ..


﻿-2-
The loan will be channeled through the Banco Nacional de Comercio
Exterior, the Trust Fund for the Promotion of Export of Manufactured Products
(FOMEX), the Trust Fund for Industrial Equipment (FONEI), the Trust Fund for
Tourism Development (FONATUR), and other government entities providing technical
assistance to exporters.
About $275 million of loan proceeds will be allocated initially to
FOMEX to expand a $100 million Export Development Fund established on an interim
basis to finance imported inputs of Mexican exporters. The,Fund was established
on April 1, 1983, under the amended Capital Goods Industries Development Project,
which was also financed by the Bank. As part of the emergency action to help
Mexico, the Capital Goods project was modified to help initiate a mechanism to
finance urgently needed imported inputs for exporting industries.
About $71 million will be allocated either by BNCE or through FONEI
or FONATUR to provide medium- and long-term subloans for financing fixed invest-
ments by industries to help them maintain, expand or generate export capacity,
and by hotels to help increase revenues from foreign tourism.
The loan also includes about $3.1 million for technical assistance
subloans to exporters, and studies to help improve the government's export
development strategy and to strengthen the agencies related to the export
sector, including the provision of equipment.
The project will make an important contribution to the formulation
and implementation of a comprehensive export development strategy, encompassing
policy orientation towards exports, improvements in administrative procedures,
and improved services to exporters and export promotion activities.
In addition to strengthening the export promotion agencies in the
country, the project is expected to help Mexico lay the basis for achieving
the stated goal of a four-fold increase of non-petroleum exports over the
next five or six years.
An estimated 400 to 600 export enterprises are likely to benefit
from working capital finance and about 120 to 125 firms from credits for fixed
investments under the project. The annual export plans of these firms are
expected to account for between one-quarter and one-third of Mexico's manufactured
exports during the project period.
Based on estimated import requirements for exports, it is expected
that most of the Export Development Fund resources will be disbursed over a
period of about 12 months after loan effectiveness and that resources under
the fixed investment and technical assistance components will be disbursed
within 36 months.
Small- and Medium-Scale Industry
A Third Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Project assisted by the
$175 million loan will continue support for the integrated program of assistance
to small- and medium-scale enterprises (PAI), which was initiated with Bank
help in 1978. The project will also help refocus its activities to respond
to the present economic situation.


﻿-3-
In addition to financing fixed investments, the project will assist
small- and medium-scale enterprises to maintain production and employment levels
by ensuring access to credit and equity resources to finance their substantially
increased permanent working capital requirements.
The loan will be channeled by NAFINSA through the Trust Fund for
Guarantees and Development of Medium and Small Industry (FOGAIN), National
Trust Fund for Industrial Development (FOMIN), and Trust Fund for Industrial
Estates (FIDEIN).
About $150 million will be used by FOGAIN to provide credit through
financial intermediaries to finance fixed assets including equipment and common
service facilities, and working capital requirements. FOMIN will use $18 million
to make minority equity investments and loans convertible into equity, to help
finance fixed investments and permanent working capital.
About $4.6 million will go through FIDEIN to provide credit for
infrastructure works in industrial estates and about $2 million for technical
assistance through NAFINSA and specialized institutions for extension services,
including training.
Altogether, about 3,000 small- and medium-sized firms are expected
to receive finance and benefit from technical assistance programs by FOGAIN,
FOMIN, and NAIINSA, and about 12 industrial estates will be assisted through
FIDEIN.
An estimated new 10,000 jobs will be generated in 1983-86 through
investment finance from the loan. A further 20,000 to 30,000 jobs will be
preserved through helping to provide firms with adequate working capital.
The World Bank had already provided two loans, since 1978, totalling
$147 million, to assist Mexico's program of assistance to small and medium-
sized industry. Although the Bank's assistance to Mexico for industrial develop-
ment has become broader, involving support to larger enterprises with import
substitution or export potential, capital goods industries and industrial
pollution control, the small and medium-scale industry operations remain a
central focus of the assistance strategy.


