Document of                     FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-265 1-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR THE
BARINGO PILOT SEMI-ARID AREAS PROJECT
November 20, 1979
This dK#amt ba a rafbieWd dbidbuHon and may be used by rftipintx ody in tde pudmon"s d
thdr dokhdd dudes. lb emtmb may not otherwise be dwel _ widtit Widi B k uodbaiseioo.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit       -      Kenya Shilling (KSh)
KSh 1.0              -     US$0.133
US$1.0               -     KSh 7.5
(As the Kenya Shilling is officially valued at a fixed rate of
9.66 KShs to the SDR, the US Dollar/KShilling exchange rate is
subject to change. Conversions in this report were made at
US$1.00 to KShs 7.5 which is close to the recent average
exchange rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADS     -     Agricultural Development Services
ASAL    -     Arid and Semi-Arid Lands
DAO     -     District Agricultural Officer
DC      -     District Commissioner
DDC     -     District Development Committee
DDO     -     District Development Officer
RAC     -     East African Community
PCC     -     Project Coordinating Committee
MOA     -     Ministry of Agriculture
MOCD    -     Ministry of Cooperative Development
SAAP    -     Semi Arid Areas Project
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Kenya - July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
K E N Y A
BARINGO PILOT SEMI-ARID AREAS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER   : The Republic of Kenya
AMOUNT     : US$6.5 million equivalent
TERMS      : Standard
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION: The project would be aimed at establishing a field-tested
basis for the rehabilitation and development of the semi-
arid areas of the Baringo District (Rift Valley Province).
Major components would include the development and extension
of suitable manaLgement techniques for water and soil erosion
control; development of improved cultivation methods; improve-
ment of livestock production through better husbandry, range
management, fodder production, water suplies and marketing
facilities; improvement of health, education and road facil-
ities; expansion of Government staff in the area and the
establishment of a project headquarters; provision of a team
of specialists for project planning and implementation and
a Development Ftnd for investments in productive activities
identified during project implementation. Because of its
experimental nature, the direct benefits of the project cannot
be quantified in a meaningful way and, therefore, no rate of
return has been calculated. It is expected that the proposed
investments wouLd increase crop and livestock production and
help to improve the health of the local population. The proj-
ect would also offer significant employment opportunities for
the local population as well as facilitate the transfer of
technical skills and knowledge to Kenyan officials. Project
activities would not only lay the foundations for a larger sub-
sequent developmnent effort in Baringo, but would also develop
solutions which could be applied in similar ecological environ-
ments elsewhere in Kenya. The success or failure of the proj-
ect would depend on the extent to which the local population
supports project activities and voluntarily adopts the tech-
nical solutions proposed during implementation.
This documewnt ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofisW duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ESTIMATED COST:                                        Local   Foreign    Total
…-----US$ Miion------
Soil-Water Conservation              0.4       0.2        0.6
Agronomy and Irrigation              0.3       0.2        0.5
Livestock and Range                  0.7       0.2        0.9
Rural Services                       0.5       0.3        0.8
Project Headquarters                 0.7       0.8        1.5
Specialist Staff                     0.2       1.7        1.9
Development Fund                     0.1       0.2        0.3
Total                           2.9       3.6       6.5
Contingency Allowances
Physical                          0.5       0.5        1.0
Price                             0.6       0.7        1.3
Total Contingencies               1.1       1.2        2.3
Total Project Costs               4.0       4.8        8.8
Project cost Net of
Taxes and Duties                    3.8       4.8        8.6
FINANCING PLAN:                                        Local   Foreign    Total
-------US$ Million------
IDA                                  1.7       4.8        6.5
Government                           2.1        -         2.1
Project Cost Net of
Taxes and Duties                     3.8       4.8        8.6
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:  IDA Fiscal Year                80      81     82      83     84
--------…US$ Million----------
Annual                       0.6    1.2    2.0    1.8    0.9
Cumulative                   0.6    1.8    3.8    5.6    6.5
APPRAISAL
REPORT         : Report No. 2635-KE dated November 12, 1979
MAP            : IBRD 14425



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR THE BARINGO PILOT SEMI-ARID AREAS PROJECT
w   1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of US$6.5
million, on standard IDA terms, to help finance the Baringo Pilot Semi-Arid
Areas Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Kenya Economic Memorandum" (Report No. 2441-KE,
dated March 1.979) has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A summary
of social and economic data is at Annex I. A Basic Economic Report on Kenya
is now under preparation.
Economic Structure and Trends
3.        During the first sixteen years of independence Kenya has had con-
tinuity in leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been to
promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment, encouragement of
both smallhoLder and large-scaLle farming, and the promotion of accelerated
industrialization through incentives for private (including foreign) invest-
ment in modern industry. While the death in 1978 of President Kenyatta, who
had led the nation since independence, initially raised some questions about
the future course of the nation, it is now clear that the country has made a
smooth transLtion to new leadership and that there will be continuity in both
the politicaL and economic spheres.
4.        Kenya is a poor country with an economy still largely dependent on
agriculture. Average per capiLta income in 1978 was US$320 and agriculture
accounted for one-third of GD]? on average during the period 1975-77. Agri-
culture provided about 60% of export earnings in 1977 and remains the major
source of livelihood in rural areas where about 90% of the population live.
5.        There has been sign:Lficant growth and structural change in the
economy since independence. Between 1964 and 1977 total GDP grew at an annual
average rate of 5.8% although there was a sharp drop in the growth rate in
1974 and 1975 caused by droughts and the international oil crisis.   Popula-
tion grew at nearly 3.5% per annum over the same period, and real per capita
income, thus, increased by over one-third between 1964 and 1975, or at an
annual rate of about 2.3%. During the period 1964-77 manufacturing was the



-2-
most rapidly growing of the major sectors; value added in manufacturing grew
at 9% per annum. Agricultural output expanded at 4.2% from 1964-73, but grew
at only 2.3% per annum from 1973-77. over the entire period 1964-77, average
annual growth of agricultural production was 3.6%.
6.        Despite Kenya's impressive post-independence growth record, a number
of problems have emerged which will make it difficult to sustain growth and to
reduce poverty.
7.        The most fundamental problem is the rapid growth of population in
the face of limited arable land.  Of Kenya's total area (583,000 km2), 520,500
km2 is categorized as potentially agricultural, 13% being regarded as high
potential land, 6% medium and 81% low. While pressure on the land was alle-
viated during the years following independence by the opening up of a large
part of the land previously owned by Europeans to settlement by Kenyan small-
holders, most of the high potential land is now densely settled. Furthermore,
with population growing at 3.5% per annum, pressure is mounting. This is
resulting in increased subdivision and landlessness in high-potential areas
and in settlement in semi-arid areas ill-suited to farming.
8.        Rapid population growth is felt most seriously through the increas-
ing pressure on available agricultural land, but it creates other problems as
well. Even if the non-agricultural formal wage sector (which employs less
than 15% of the total labor force) grows very rapidly, it will probably be
unable to absorb all the new labor force entrants because of its small base.
Considerable budgetary pressure has also been created because of the growing
demand for social services. Finally, efforts to improve the distribution of
income are impeded because of the relative lack of access to land and educa-
tion for the children of the poorest sections of the population.
9.        A second problem area has developed in the manufacturing sector.  The
rapid growth of industry in the past has been largely based upon investments
in simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies. To a
lesser extent manufacturing production has also catered to the export market
in neighboring countries, particularly in the now defunct East African Com-
munity (EAC) market. However the scope for further industrialization along
these lines is limited as most of the easy import-substitution possibilities
have been exhausted and the EAC preference for Kenyan goods has been abol-
ished. The past pattern of industrialization has left the industrial sector
increasingly dependent on imported raw materials, components and spare parts
and therefore vulnerable in case of a shortage of foreign exchange. To main-
tain growth it will be necessary to reorient industry toward increased use
of domestic inputs and increased production for export.
10.       An additional problem is the slow growth and lack of diversification
of exports which have consistently grown at a slower pace than GDP. From
1964-74 the volume of exports expanded at an average annual rate of 4.6%.
However, over the past five years export volume has stagnated at the 1974
level. To some extent this is a reflection of production problems in agricul-
ture and industry, but it is also an indicator of the need to direct more
resources into foreign exchange earning activities.



-3-
Economic Performance 1974-78
11.       Kerya's growth performance since 1974 has been especially vulnerable
to swings in the country's international terms of trade. Thus, the growth
rate fell sharply during 1974-75 when the dramatic increase in petroleum and
other import prices required restrictive economic policies, accelerated
rapidly in 1976-77 as the impact of the "coffee boom" following frost damage
in Brazil worked its way through the economy, and began to decelerate in 1978
with the decl.ine in coffee prices toward more normal levels.
12.       Fiscal and monetary policies were, in combination with incomes
policy, reasonably effective in restraining the growth of aggregate demand
during 1974-76, thus protecting the balance of payments and keeping externally-
generated donmestic price increases from getting out of hand. However, through-
out this period there were increasing pressures on the Government to expand
its expenditures emanating primarily from increased school enrollments and
abolition of fees for the first four years of education; concerns about
national security; and the need to replace East African Community (EAC)
Corporations with national entities. With the "coffee boom" of 1976-77, the
Government decided to greatly expand budgetary outlays, both recurrent and
capital, to ensure that the additional revenues would be used for development
purposes.  AS a result, the budget deficit rose from less than 5% of GDP in
1976/77 to an estimated 9% in 1978/79. At the same time, the monetary authori-
ties were doing little to limit the effect of rising foreign exchange reserves
on commercial. bank liquidity and expansion of credit to the private sector.
As a result, domestic credit grew by an average of nearly 30% in 1977 and
1978. The combination of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policy and the
high agricult:ural incomes produced a resurgence of domestic demand and a rapid
rise in import levels. By the latter half of 1977 coffee prices had
passed their peak and begun to decline. As a result the trade deficit rose
sharply in 1978 and the foreign exchange reserves were rapidly depleted.  The
balance on current account deteriorated from +US$58 million in 1977 to -US$650
million in 1978, while reserves fell by US$200 million.
Fourth Five-Year Development E'lan, 1979-83
13.       The emphasis of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan is on restor-
ing growth to the levels that prevailed before 1974, while alleviating poverty
through creation of income earning opportunities and provision of social
services to meet the basic needs of the population. The Plan correctly
identifies the key problems thLat Kenya faces and sets forth a development
strategy appropriate to their solution. It is sharply focussed, explicit in
its recommendations, and shows a sound awareness of constraints on development.
14.       The Fourth Plan reccignizes the strong link between agricultural
growth and poverty alleviation. One of the most significant changes pro-
posed in the Plan is increased access to land through legalizing subdivision
of high-potential large farms. In addition, the Plan proposes that a National
Land Commiss:Lon be established to review ways of encouraging land use inten-
sification and labor absorption.  The Plan also proposes that marketing and
pricing policies pay closer attention to the structure of domestic and inter-
national prices and the marketing system be made more competitive and effi-
cient to improve prices to farmers. Research and extension services are to



- 4 -
be more closely linked to the needs of small farmers. Finally, In a.11di. Lon
to projects to increase larger scale commercial and smallholder production,
a series of integrated rural development projects in semi-arid areas is pro-
rosed to redress the neglect of these areas.
15.       The major thrust of industrial policy will be to effect a transition
from import substitution to a strategy emphasizing industrial effic4ency and
export diversification.  This will involve further rational  ation of tariffs
and elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports over a five-year
period. This policy will be very difficult to carry forward over the next
few years when, because of balance of payments problems, there is likely to
be considerable pressure to increase, rather than reduce, protection.
16.       The Plan proposes no fundamental change in Kenya's traditionally
liberal policy on foreign investment with the important exception that re-
view and approval of projects for which special concessions or Government
participation are being sought will rely more on economic criteria and
will be centralized in the Ministry of Finance. On the whole, the Plan calls
for a more limited role for Government in terms of direct participation and
intervention. However, efforts will be made to restructure industrial in-
vestment incentives to encourage employment and decentralization. Finally,
while there are doubts in Kenya about how dynamic a role the informal sector
can play in the development process, the Plan is more specific in its recom-
mendations for aid to small firms (provision of financial and technical sup-
port and ending of unnecessary licensing and other restrictions) than the
previous Plan.
17.       The Fourth Plan acknowledges the heavy burden rapid populaticn
growth places on the economy and places high priority on the promotion of
family planning. The target for new acceptors during 1979-83 is 700,000,
compared to 280,000 recruited during 1974-78. In order to achieve this, the
number of field educators will be more than tripled (from 430 to over 1,300)
and the number of fixed delivery points doubled (from 315 to 630). Although
Kenya is doing more to promote family planning than most other African coun-
tries, the rate of population growth is projected to remain extremely high
(3.5%) because of strong cultural and traditional factors and even greater
efforts will be required to bring about a significant decline in fertility.
Economic Prospects
18.       In spite of the generally well-conceived policy measures proposed
in the Fourth Plan, it will be very difficult to attain the Plan's targets,
especially the target GDP growth rate of 6.3% per annum. This is largely due
to balance of payments and budgetary problems which are likely to be more
severe and long-lasting than was foreseen at the time of Plan preparation.
The balance of payments position is likely to remain difficult throughout
the Plan period for three reasons. First, the terms of trade are projected to
deteriorate through 1982, largely due to oil price increases and unfavorable
export prospects. Second, there has been a significant increase in the level
of commercial borrowing to finance large expenditures for successors to the
EAC corporations and other large projects. Finally, prompted by growing
political tensions in Eastern Africa and the realization that the country had
spent very little on defense since independence, Kenya carried out a major



program to re-equip its armed forces in 1977-78. The equipment has been
purchased on credit, the repayment of which will have a substantial impact
on the balance of payments throughout the Plan period.
19.       The budgetary situation will also be tighter than foreseen in -he
Plan. First, the balance of payments problem will constrain the rate of
growth of the economy and of revenue. Second, the President has recently
announced several measures which are not included in the Plan but which will
have significant direct budgetary consequences. These measures include:
(a) provision of free milk for students in the first seven years of school;
(b) elimination of school fees for the fifth and sixth years of elementary
school; (c) initiation of a national literacy campaign; and (d) a 10% increase
in employment: in the public and private sectors in exchange for agreed wage
restraint. Finally, the increased military expenditures will also increase
budgetary pressure.
20.       In order to deal with the balance of payments problem, the Govern-
ment has slowed the growth of credit, limited import license approvals, and
in December L978 introduced import deposit regulations. These measures should
have some immiediate impact on import levels. In addition, the Government has
adopted a comprehensive economic program aimed at keeping the loss of foreign
exchange reserves below US$133 million for 1979-80 combined and at gradually
reducing the rate of inflation to less than 10% in 1980/81 (compared to 13.7%
in 1978). The Government's program has been incorporated into a stand-by
arrangement with the International Monetary Fund; the agreement, which is for
a period of two years, involves the upper credit tranches, through the fourth,
including the use of the Special Fund Facility, and will make an amount equiva-
lent to about: US$157 million available to Kenya. In addition, Kenya has been
permitted to purchase the equivalent of US$89 million under the Fund's com-
pensatory financing facility. The first drawing under the stand-by agreement
has already been made and subsequent drawings are scheduled quarterly, ending
March 31, 1981.
External Debt
21.       The recent expansion of Government and Government-guaranteed commer-
cial borrowing has adversely affected the debt service ratio which has risen
from 5% in 1977 to an estimated 11.2% in 1979 including service payments on
a notional 50% share of the debt of the EAC corporations. The debt service
ratio is expected to increase to about 16% in the mid 1980's and to decline
gradually thereafter. Debt service payments to the Bank are 14.9% of total
debt service payments; the IDA share is 0.9%. The Bank's share of total debt
service payments is projected to rise to about 22% by 1985 while IDA's share
will rise to 1%. The Bank is presently holding 22% of Kenya's total debt and
IDA 9%; the Bank's share is expected to rise to 26% and IDA's to 15% by 1985.
The expected rise in Bank exposure is due largely to anticipated repayments of
loans with short maturities. An additional factor, however, is the gradual
switch by other donors from loans to straight grants (including conversion of
some loans to grants). Because of the long-term balance of payments constraint,
Kenya's development program wLll require substantial financing in excess of
public savings and available non-Bank Group external capital combined and we
therefore expect to continue our practice of financing a substantial portion
of total project costs, including some local costs when necessary.



Impact of the De Facto Dissolution of the East African Community (EAC)
22.       The major developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312)
and more recent developments were outlined in a statement to the Executive
Directors at the Board meeting held on January 14, 1979. Dr. Victor Umbricht,
the independent mediator appointed by the Partner States, is continuing his
work on appraising the assets and liabilities of the EAC corporations. The
establishment of national corporations to replace the former EAC corporations
has in some cases required large expenditures (para. 18) but the burden will
hopefully be temporary, as the new corporations are expected to become self-
financing. The closure of the border with Tanzania has had some effect on
trade -- Tanzania was a large customer for Kenyan manufactured goods but
new markets are being developed. As Tanzanian exports to Kenya were small,
replacing these has not been a problem except for specific commodities
(i.e. tobacco and cotton). The border closure has also had a slightly
negative impact on tourism, although Kenya is expected to overcome this by
developing additional beach resorts and game parks within Kenya.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
23.       Hitherto, Kenya has received 33 Bank loans, including three on Third
Window terms, and 27 IDA credits amounting to US$994.1 million, supporting 52
operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans
totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the development of
common services (railways, ports, telecommunications and finance for industry),
operated regionally for the three Partner States of the East African Community.
Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya
and to the East African Community Corporations, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects as of September 30, 1979.
24.       The Bank has assisted the Government in its efforts to restructure
the economy through increased lending in directly productive sectors, par-
ticularly agriculture. While recent sector and economic work has also
focused on the adjustments which Kenya must make to deal with the changed
international economy, the upcoming Basic Economic Report is expected to
comprehensively address the issues of income distribution, population growth,
and appropriate long-term agricultural and industrial policy.
25.       Significant progress has been made in giving the Bank's lending
program a rural focus, and in concentrating on employment and income distri-
bution objectives. Projects approved since July 1978 include an Engineering
Project (Olkaria Geothermal), a Narok Agricultural Development Project, a
Sugar Rehabilitation Project, a Rural Water Supply Project, a First Tele-
communications Project, a Highway Sector Project and a Smallholder Coffee
Improvement Project. A third power project, a fisheries project, a second
integrated agricultural development project and a fourth line of credit to
the Industrial Development Bank have been appraised, as has a second program
loan to help address Kenya's balance of payments difficulties (paras. 18-20).
All of these projects are expected to be ready for consideration by the
Executive Directors later this fiscal year. In addition, a railways project



-7-
has been appraised, while an urban transport project, a fifth education
project, an industrial project for expansion of soda ash production and a
second population project are under preparation.
26.       Overall, project implementation performance is satisfactory.  Pro-
gress on the Group Farm Rehabilitation Project, however, has been slow
due to administrative difficulties and reluctance of group owners to partici-
pate. Kenya has also experienced serious cost overruns, most notably on road
construction projects, but Government has made funds available to complete
these projects. Current cost estimates for the Bura Irrigation Settlement
Project (now in the preliminary stages of implementation) indicate that heavy
cost overruns are likely to be incurred; the financial consequences are under
discussion with the Government and the co-financiers.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
27.       IFC has committed a total of US$42.9 million for four companies in
Kenya: Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism
Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). A credit
line for medium- and small-scale enterprises was extended to the Commercial
Bank of Kenya. As of September 30, 1979, IFC held for its own account US$32.1
million comprising US$24.1 million of loans and US$8.0 million of equity. A
summary of IFC investments in Kenya is included in Annex II.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
Background
28.       Irn spite of the rapid expansion of manufacturing in Kenya, agri-
culture remains the most important sector in the economy. About 90% of the
population is classified as rural and depends on agriculture for a liveli-
hood.  The average per capita annual income of the rural population is esti-
mated at US$96 equivalent, including cash and subsistence. The share of
agriculture in GDP dropped from 40% in 1964 to 28% in 1976 (in constant
prices) largely as a result of rapid expansion in other sectors. It rose
again to 38% in 1977 mostly because of the rise in coffee prices, but declined
marginally with these prices in 1978. Despite Government efforts to develop
the sector, recent growth has remained below the 1964-73 rate of 4.2% per
annum, averaging only 2.3% per annum during 1973-77. This has been partly due
to unfavorable weather conditions.
29.       Kenya's agricultural sector is characterized by a wide variety in
sytems of production which reflect ecological zones, patterns of land holding
and populatiLon distribution. There are about 1.5 million smallholdings of
which 50% are less than 2 ha and occupy only 4% of the cultivable land. About
20% of smalLholder farmers are considered experienced commercial farmers;
another 20% are in transition between commercial and subsistence and the
remainder are at subsistence level. About 80% (53 million ha) of Kenya's



c:ultivable land is arid and semi-arid land (ASAL) with extensive livestock
grazing as the major activity and some subsistence cropping in the semi-arid
or less dry areas.
30.       With litle high potential land remaining uncultivated, the growing
population is creating increasing pressure on lower potential areas, making
action for effective resource conservation of paramount importance. The
Government is presently engaged in an effort to define a strategy for arid and
semi-arid lands and plans to devote increasing resources to these areas in
the future.
Livestock, Fisheries and Crop Production
31.       Livestock and Fisheries:  There are an estimated 10.3 million
head of cattle in Kenya, 1.3 million of them improved dairy cattle. The
annual growth rate of the national herd is estimated at 2%; the take-off
rate at 9%. Disease, poor husbandry techniques and the low potential of
the indigenous zebu are severe constraints on the development of the sub-
sector. Many large farms have successful dipping facilities but only a few
exist at the smallholder level, although most smallholders have cattle and
small stock. The estimated population of sheep and goats is 12 million and
that of poultry about 14 million. Many farmers in subsistence areas also
keep bees. Fish production in Kenya is largely underdeveloped and at the
request of the Government the Bank Group recently appraised a fisheries
project.
32.       Crops:  Maize is the staple crop and dominates the cropping pattern.
Over one million ha. is under maize, about 90% of it on farms of less than
five ha. Coffee, tea and pyrethrum are the principal cash crops grown by
smallholders and cotton is grown only on small farms. The main crops grown
in arid and semi-arid areas are beans, millet and sorghum. There have been
maize surpluses in the last two years but production of other crops has been
constrained by inadequate extension and credit facilities, and poor infra-
structure.
Government Strategy
33.       The Government's Third Development Plan (1974-78) placed great
emphasis on rural development. It particularly focussed attention on
projects of direct relevance to smallholders and on intensified land use.
This emphasis is reiterated in the Fourth Development Plan (1979-83) which
also specifically identifies arid and semi-arid regions as target areas
for priority development projects. The Government proposes to develop
these areas, in line with its policies towards the smallholder in general,
through applying an integrated approach in each specific area. It also
intends to utilize existing institutions in these locations rather than
create new ones. The proposals for the Baringo Pilot Semi-Arid Areas Project
(SAAP) are in accordance with this general policy and approach.



-9-
Government Services
34.       A number of Government institutions are involved in rural develop-
ment. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), through its extension services,
and the Ministry of Cooperative Development (MOCD), through a wide range
of services to cooperative unions and societies, are the main Government
channels of help to the smallholder sector. Technical ministries, such as
the Ministries of Works and Water Development are responsible for development
efforts within their respective fields; while the Ministry of Lands and
Settlement implements policy on the redistribution of land, adjudicates land
claims and issues titles. In addition, a number of statutory bodies provide
credit and processing and marketing facilities to producers of the crops for
which they are responsible.
35.       In general, rural services in arid and semi-arid areas are much
less developed than in the higher potential areas, although this situation
is changing with the Government's new emphasis on ASAL development. The
newly established Arid/Semi-Arid Lands Development Branch of MOA has respons-
ibility for assessing the resources of ASAL areas and defining an overall
strategy for their development. The Range Management Branch of MOA is
responsible Eor advising pastoralists on animal husbandry. Local government
institutions, under District Commissioners, are playing an increasingly active
role.
36.       Agricultural Extension: Agricultural extension work involves
most MOA techncial divisions. MOA headquarters is responsible for overall
policy decisions and administration, but field operations are directed
from the provincial level and are organized and coordinated on a district
basis, under the District Agricultural Officer. It is the Government's
aim to increase extension coverage in key development areas, to provide
better transportation, allowances and housing facilites for extension
officers in remote areas where the population is often sparse and nomadic
or semi-nomadic.
37.       Agricultural Research:  There are 24 research stations in Kenya
involved in crop research, including grasses and fodder, as well as animal
husbandry research.  Considerable research has been done in the past on range
reseeding, crop varieties, and cultural methods for ASAL regions. The main
centre of such research since 1965 has been the Machakos District and the
program is now continuing with European Development Fund support. This
research, however, has been general in scope and results to date need to be
adapted to the needs of specific areas.
38.       District Development Committees (DDCs):  Government's policy of
decentralizing development, planning and implementation depends heavily on
the DDCs. The Committee includes all Government officers stationed in a
district, county council members, local Members of Parliament and selected
citizens. The DDCs are forums for discussing local development matters and
produce local devleopment plans which are incorporated in the national Plan.
The chairman is the District Commissioner, with the District Development
Officer (DDO) and the District Agricultural Officer (DAO) being influential
members.



- 10 -
Previous Bank Group Assistance to Agriculture and Rural Development
39.       Recent Bank Group assistance to Kenya of direct significance to
the proposed project include an Integrated Agricultural Development
Project (IADP I) aimed at assisting smallholder farmers (Credlt 650-KE/Loan
1303-KE), a regional development project for the Narok District (Credit
858-KE) and an irrigation settlement project for the Bura area (Credit
722-KE/Loan 1449-KE). A few agricultural projects are experiencing specific
implementation problems; others are progressing satisfactorily (para 26).
A recent OED audit of the Second Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project
(Credit 344-KE) noted that significant improvements have been made in the
operations of the Agricultural Finance Corporation, an important intermediary
for agricultural credit in the country. IADP I has created a viable framework
for integrated development activities within the smallholder sector. Crop
packages suitable for different climates, soils and farmer preferences have
been developed and lessons learned have been incorporated in the second Inte-
grated Agricultural Development Project. The second IADP project and a
fisheries project are scheduled for consideration during FY80. In addition,
a Rural Access Road Project and a Rural Water Supply Project aim at improving
basic rural services, while two education projects primarily focus on schools
in rural areas.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       In February 1979, as part of a nationwide arid and semi-arid lands
development effort, the Government of Kenya formally requested Bank Group
assistance for a project in the drier parts of the Baringo District. It had
been previously agreed that the proposed project would take the form of a
pilot effort, combining continuing studies of the area with detailed plan-
ning for future development. The project was prepared jointly by the Kenyan
Government and RMEA and was appraised in February-March 1979. Negotiations
were held in Washington in October, 1979. The Kenyan delegation was led by
Mr. Joseph Muliro, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. A
credit and project Summary is presented at the front of this report, and the
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2635-KE of November 1979) is being distributed
separately. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is at Annex III.
The Project Area
41.       The project area covers approximately 4,000 km  of a semi-arid
area in the Baringo District, Rift Valley Province, on the sides and bottom
of the Lake Baringo drainage basin. Activities under the proposed project
would be concentrated on the eastern slopes of the Tugen Hills between
Kipcherere and Sabor, the proposed group ranches in Saimo, Ewalel, Chapchap
and Njemps locations, Nginyang, Kolowa, the Loboi Swamps, and the Perkerra
catchment. The project headquarters would be located at Marigat. (See Map 1,
IBRD 14425.)



- 11 -
42.       The -oiIl  on the hills aad lower slopes in the area, in addition to
being mostly of volcanic origin and often heavily strewn with lava rocks have
severe erosion problems. The vegetation is mainly Acacia thickets with poor
ground cover. The range lands, which have been seriously overgrazed for a
number of years, are poor in quality and are rapidly deteriorating due to poor
management. Rainfed cropping is limited and the majority of the population
rely mainly on livestock for subsistence. The area is also poorly served with
communications, transport, health and educational facilities.
43.       The human population in the proposed project area is between
30,000 - 40,000 with densities varying from 13-14 persons per km2 around
Lake Baringo to five persons per km2 in the north. Population growth is
estimated at: 1-2% per annum, significantly less than the national average.
Considerable sociological data exist on the local population and it is also
known that all ethnic groups in the area have well developed social organiza-
tions based on clan and lineage relationships. Traditional leadership rests
with elders whose opinions and advice are very important within the society.
The cooperation of these influential individuals would be vital for the
successful implementation of the proposed project.
44.       Socio-economic activities in the proposed project areas center
around subsistence animal husbandry. There are an estimated 50,000 head
of cattle and 150,000 small stock in the area. Although these numbers
exceed the carrying capacity of the available range, herdsmen continue to
increase their stock to offset low productivity and losses due to drought
and diseases. Employment opportunities are few: It was estimated that in
1972, about 2,800 persons were permanently employed and 8,000 casually em-
ployed in Baringo. Their average annual cash income was less than KSh 20
per capita.
Project Objectives and Strategy
45.       The proposed project would seek to establish, through an initially
small and experimental effort, a field-tested basis for the rehabilitation
and development of the semi-arid areas of the Baringo District. A variety
of broadly-'known techniques would be introduced in such a manner that the
local population would be lilcely to accept and adopt them. In this connection,
a principal objective would be to test the viability of labor-intensive
techniques in developing arid and semi-arid areas with local labor. The
Baringo area was selected largely because its geographical and sociological
problems are representative of those facing many of Kenya's semi-arid areas.
It is hoped that the experience gained under the proposed project would be
applicable in other similar areas of Kenya.
Project Components
46.       In summary, the project would consist of the following components,
to be implemented over four years:



- 1 -
(i) Development and extension of suitable management techniques
for water and soil conservation through use of contour farms,
trashlines and grass strips. Low cost and labor-intensive
conservation methods would be emphasized alongside simple
mechanized (tractor) methods, where appropriate, in order
to compare the costs and effectiveness of both methods in
different areas. Two small forestry nurseries would be
established to provide seedlings of selected species to be
planted in soil conservation areas.
(ii) Development of improved cultivation methods for dry land and
irrigated production through providing advice to farmers on
land preparation, planting, harvesting, storage and market-
ing. New farmers would be assisted with certain inputs and
technical assistance. The project's tractor unit would assist
selected irrigation schemes with land preparation.
(iii) Improvement of livestock production through better husbandry
and range management. The local population would be encouraged
to establish group ranches. Sixteen new cattle dips would be
constructed and an ecological survey of the tsetse fly undertaken.
The production and sale of hides and skins would be reviewed
and the potential for establishing a local tannery investigated.
A labor-intensive bush clearing and range reseeding program
would be implemented. A charcoal production unit equipped
with two kilns would be established in conjunction with the
bush clearing activities. A range extension unit would be
provided to help in the development of proper range and
livestock management techniques. Vehicles and camping equip-
ment would be provided for the land adjudication teams in the
area to speed up the establishment of group ranches.
(iv) Improvement and development of rural infrastructure, including
health and education services, rural industries and handicrafts
and selected roads and tracks.
(v) Expansion of Government staff in the area and the establishment
of a Project Headquarters with office, transport and housing
facilities.
(vi) Provision of four specialists and short-term consultants for
project implementation; planning studies for future programs
to develop arid and semi-arid areas and monitoring of project
components.
(vii) A Development Fund to be utilized with IDA's agreement for
investments in productive activities identified during
project implementation. Likely investments would include
further expansion of activities outlined under categories
i-iv above as well as new initiatives such as planting tree
crops. (Schedule 1, category 6 of draft Development Credit).



- 13 -
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government ;-tioJJ- pLcf Lde
the project: staff with adequate facilities and housing at Marigat (Section
3.02(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
.oject Organization and Management
47.       The organizational structure of the proposed project has been
designed to utilize existing institutions and to give fina: cial and tech-
nical support to development: at the district level. A Project Coordinating
Committee (PCC) would be established, as a sub-committee of the District
Development Committee (DDC),! to assist in the effective implementation of
the project. Its chairman would be the District Commissioner or his nominee.
All district heads of Ministries involved in the project as well as the Proj-
ect Coordinator and the Project Officer would be members of the PCC. The ser-
vices of other influential :individuals could be obtained when it is thought
useful. It was agreed at negotiations that the PCC would be established no
later than May 1, 1980 (Section 3.01(d) of draft Credit Agreement).
48.       The key project management team is made up of a core Government
technical staff consisting of a Project Coordinator, Soil and Water Officer,
Crops Officer, Range Officer, Livestock Officer, Community Development Officer,
Land Adjudication Officer, Public Health Officer and a Project Accountant.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that this core staff woul2 be
appointed after consultations with IDA (Section 3.01(e)(ii) of draft C.l-dit
Agreement). It was agreed that the qualifications and experience of the
Project Accountant would be satisfactory to IDA (Section 4.01 of drafr  r-edit
Agreement). It would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
that the Project Coordinator and the Project Accountant be employed aid in
post (Section 5.01 of draft Credit Agreement).
49.       An internationally-recruited team of four specialists would assist
the Government staff in implementing the project. The Project Officer would
be the leader of this team which would include specialists in agronomy, soil
and water conservation and livestock. They would be recruited under the
Agricultural Development Service (ADS). The main tasks of the specialists
would be to (i) assist in planning and coordinating the implementation of the
project; (ii) advise government departments and provide their staff with
in-service training; (iii) prepare proposals for full-scale development of the
project area based on findings under this phase of the project; and (iv) study
the practical application of techniques and practices evolved under the
project to other semi-arid areas. It would be a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed credit that the Project Officer be employed and in post (Section
5.01 of draft Credit Agreement).
Planning, Implementation and Monitoring
50.       The GovernLment ccore staff assisted by the specialists would be re-
sponsible for the planning, implementation and evaluation of the project with
respect to components within their individual technical fields. The Project
Coordinator assisted by the Project Officer, would have overall responsibility



- 14 -
for all project operations. The Project Coordinator, assisted by the Proj-
ect Officer, would coordinate the preparation of work plans and budgets and
would submit these, after discussions with the DDC, to the PCC for review and
approval. It was agreed at negotiations that all work plans and budgets
approved by the PCC would be submitted to IDA for its review and comments and
that the Government would revise these annual work plans and budgets to the
extent required to take IDA's comments into account (Section 3.01(c) of draft
Credit Agreement). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the annual
work program for each fiscal year would be submitted to IDA for review before
March 1 of each calendar year, commencing in 1980 (Section 3.01(b) of draft
Credit Agreement).
51.       Project planning would take place at two levels; firstly, detailed
description of activities to be undertaken under the present project; and
secondly, the preparation of a possible second stage of the project should
the first phase prove successful and yield valid results. The larger project
would aim at rehabilitating and developing all the semi-arid areas of Baringo
and neighboring districts. Work plans for the first phase would be flexible
so as to permit modifications as the project progresses and experience is
gained. Monitoring and evaluation techniques to be applied would include use
of aerial surveys.
Staffing
52.       The Government agreed at negotiations to increase the present num-
ber of officials in the project area to a level sufficient for implementation
of the project. In addition to the core Government staff involved with the
project, it is expected that the project would provide approximately 100
skilled and semi-skilled jobs. Their designations and time of employment
were agreed on during negotiations (Section 3.01(e)(ii) and Schedule 4 of
draft Credit Agreement). Furthermore, almost 85,000 man-days each year would
be required to implement labor-intensive work programs. Every effort would
be made to employ as many members of the resident population as possible in
all positions. In addition to the technical specialists, the project would
be further supported by sixteen short-term specialists as consultants for an
estimated 100 man-months. It is expected that the majority of consultants
would be recruited locally. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
the consultants would be appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
53.       The estimated total cost, including taxes, for the project is
US$8.8 million (KShs 66.0 million) with a 55% foreign exchange component
of US$4.8 million (KShs 36.3 million). The project cost, net of taxes, is
estimated at US$8.6 million (KShs 64.5 million). These costs were estimated
at base prices expected in October, 1979, and include reasonable price and
physical contingencies. The proposed IDA credit of US$6.5 million, on stan-
dard terms, would finance about 75% of net project costs, including 100% of
foreign exchange costs and 45% of local currency costs. Local cost financ-
ing is justified in view of the limitations on domestic resources in Kenya
(para 21). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would
provide the required local funds for the project each year in the budget for
the relevant ministries (Section 3.01(e)(i) of draft Credit Agreement).



- 15 -
54.       To initiate a number of start-up activities, for example land
adjudication and housing, as well as to recruit the technical team necessary
to organize t:he project prior to credit effectiveness, the Government re-
quested, and IDA has approved, an amount of US$588,000 under the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF).
Reporting
55.       The Project CoordinaLtor, assisted by the Project Officer, would be
required to produce quarterly reports throughout the project period. Three
annual progress reports would also be produced during the first three years
of the project; the third being intended to serve as the substantive base for
a possible subsequent development project.  These reports would be submitted
to IDA for resview. The Government would at the completion of the project,
prepare a Project Completion IReport to be submitted to IDA not less than six
months after the expected closing date (Section 3.04(c) of draft Credit
Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
56.       Most of the expendiltures under the project would not be suitable
for procurement under international competitive bidding (ICB) because of
the small size of individual contracts. Bids for civil works, totalling
about US$0.8 million, would follow local tendering practices, which are
satisfactory or, where appropriate, would be constructed by force account
of the ministries concerned. Procurement of vehicles and machinery (US$0.5
million) would be by ICB following Bank/IDA guidelines for all orders over
US$100,000 equivalent; orders would be bulked to the maximum extent possible.
All other items would be procuared by local tender. The specialist team would
be employed by the Agricultural Development Service and seconded to the Gov-
ernment; the short-term consultants would be employed directly by Government
on the recommendation of the Project Coordinator and the Project Officer.
The average unit cost of technical assistance, including local costs, is
estimated at US$5,500 per man-month.
57.       Disbursement would be over five years on the following basis:
(a) 100% of total expenditure for the salaries of technical assistance and
cost of studies (US$1.8 million); (b) 100% of the foreign exchange costs
or 85% of lccal expenditures for vehicles, tractors, vehicle operation and
equipment (US$1.5 million); (c) 100% of foreign expenditures or 85% of local
expenditures for civil works, buildings and building maintenance (US$0.90
million), (d) 100% of foreign expenditures or 85% of local expenditures for
veterinary supplies (US$0.10 million), (e) 100% of foreign expenditures or 85%
of local expenditures for agricultural inputs (US$0.10 million), (f) Project
Preparation Facility reimbursement (US$0.59 million), (g) an unallocated
amount representing price contingencies related to above categories and the
Development Fund (US$1.5 million). IDA disbursements under (a) and (b) would
be fully documented; those under (c) (d) and (e) would be made against
statements of expenditures, certified by the Project Coordinator and the
Project Accountant, the documentation for which would not be submitted for
review but would be retained by the Borrower/Project and be available for
inspection by IDA during the course of project supervision missions. During
negotiations, it was agreed that expenditures on account of the livestock,



- 16 -
the soil and water conservation, agronomy and irrigation and rural services
components will not be approved in the annual work plans unless the core
specialists working in these components are in post (Schedule 1, para. 3 of
the draft Credit Agreement).
Accounts and Audit
58.       A project accountant would be employed by the Ministry of Finance
and attached to the Project Coordinator's office (Section 4.01 of draft
Credit Agreement). A second accountant would assist with records of local
expenditures. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (i) Government
departments in the district and the project accountant would maintain satis-
factory accounts; and (ii) auditors acceptable to IDA would audit project
accounts and their reports forwarded to IDA not later than six months after
the end of the financial year to which they relate (Section 4.02(b)(ii) of
draft Credit Agreement). The responsibility for auditing accounts of
Government Ministries rests with the Auditor General. This arrangement is
satisfactory.
Justification
59.       The semi-arid areas of the Baringo District are at present misused
and unproductive and the situation is steadily deteriorating; they make little
contribution to the national economy and are inhabited by people whose incomes
are low and whose living conditions are unacceptably poor. The situation,
however, is reversible but will continue to deteriorate if no remedial meas-
ures are applied. A number of possible technical solutions are well known in
principle; these, however, need to be applied and tested in a manner that
would prove their feasibility and viability in the project area. The develop-
ment of arid and semi-arid regions has emerged as a priority in Kenya's
national development. Should viable solutions evolve from this project, it
would have made a major contribution to the development of the Baringo District
and of Kenya since such solutions could be extended to other similar regions
in the country.
Benefits
60.       The project would seek to establish the technical, sociological and
economic foundations for the future development of the semi-arid areas in
Baringo. Because of the experimental nature of the project, direct benefits
are not quantifiable and, therefore, no rate of return has been calculated.
Increased production, however, is expected once the advantages of proper
land, crop pasture and livetock management are demonstrated to the resident
population. The project is expected to have a positive impact on the ecology
and environment of the area, including an enriched and more productive flora
and fauna, reduced soil erosion, improved water retention and reduced silting
of Lake Baringo. This transformation should yield new employment opportunities
for the local people who are among the lowest income groups in Kenya. Also,
the technical staff from the Government ministries involved with the project
would gain valuable experience in project planning, implementation and
evaluation as well as benefit from the opportunity to improve their technical
abilities through working alongside the project specialists.



- 17 -
Risks
61.       The success or failure of the project would ultimately depend on
whether the solutions and measures evolved are feasible and adaptable in the
local socio-economic environment. If feasible, the measures must be acceptable
to the land tusers; they must not be imposed on them. It is therefore crucial
that the 10CELl population, particularly their leaders, clearly understand and
identify with the objectives of the project. Much would depend on the good
will and abi]lity of the traditional, elected and appointed leaders. If these
individuals use their influence to support and encourage project activities
there would be a good chance of success; without their support project aims
would not be realized. Because the development of semi-arid lands in Baringo,
as well as generally nationwide, is a government priority it is expected that
officials and elected leaders would give active support to the project and
persuade traclitional leaders through the use of various incentives to ensure
their cooperation in all activities.
62.       There are also risks associated with the proposed development of a
labor-intensive work program. The size of the local population is inadequate
to provide all the required man-days. The general health of the population
in the project area is only fair due to poor nourishment; and it is also well
known that pastoralist groups often disdain manual work. If the required
labor is not available, the project scope may have to be reduced or part of
the work mechanized.  Any shortage of labor could affect the prospects for a
larger program. Also even though there would be some payment for labor as
an incentive in the initial stages of the project, it is very unlikely that
all semi-arid areas of Kenya could be rehabilitated using fully paid labor-
intensive mel:hods. It is expected, however, that as direct benefits from
project activities become apparent to the local population, it would be
possible to obtain voluntary labor on the basis of the "Harambee" tradition.
63.       A non-technical problem which may be a potential risk is the threat,
in the northern part of the project area, from armed cattle thieves. Although
the thieves do not pose a direct danger to the project staff, it is possible
that if not c ontained, their activities could hamper project activities. At
present, the Government seems to be in control of the problem and if this
control continues there should be no threat to the project development.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Kenya
and the Association and the Recommendations of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
65.        Features of the draJEt Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are given in Section III of Annex III to this report. It would
be a condition of effectiveness that the Project Coordinator, the Project
Officer and the Project Accountant be appointed and in post (paras 48
and 49).



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 20, 1979



ANNEX I
-19 -
Page I
KNYA -SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
AZEAYA                    RZFERENCZ GROUPS (AtUUSTED AEiRAGES
LAND AREA ATOUSAND SQ.X)                                                  - 40ST R£CE'r IT  STIMrE -)
TOTAL           582.6y-""                                             SAME       SAME    ,NXT HIGHER
ACRICULTURAL     59.4                               MOST RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  lb   1970 lb ESTIMATE lb      REGION Ic  GROUP /d   GRoup le
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                110.0      170.0    320.0            306.1      209.6      467.5
ENERCY C       ONSUtIN PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    143.0      135.0    152.0             80.6      83.9       262.1
POPULTITON ADVITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. tMD-YER (MILLIONS)     8.0        11.3      14.6
URBAN POPFLATION (PERCT OF TOTAL) 7.4         10.2      11.8            17.1       16.2       24.6
POPULATION PROJZCTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    30.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      94.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATIOIN IS IRLACRI)             2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. X1M.                     14.0        19.0     25.0            18.4       49.4       45.3
PER SQ. IM. ArRICULTU1IAL LAND    142.0     191.0    246.0            50.8      252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       46.5        45.8      47.0            44.1       43.1       45.2
15-64 YRS.                        51.0       51.6      50.0            52.9       53.2       51.9
65 YRS. AID ABOVE                  2.5        2.6       3.0             2.8        3.0        2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             3.2         3.4      3.8             2.7        2.4        2.7
RBAN                              5.8        6.6       7.0             5.7        4.6        4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    51.0       50.0      51.0            46.3       42.4       39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    19.0       15.0      14.0            17.2  .   15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..        3.4       3.8             3.1        2.9        2.7
FAKILY PLANNING
ACCEPTCRS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       30.9      48.4
USERS (PERCENT OF MAIED WOMEN)   ..          2.2        ..              ..       12.2       13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FWOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        103.0      102.0      89.0            94.3      98.2        99.6
PER CAP1TA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
RZQUtRl!ENTS)                 10:1.0      98.0      91.0            89.-       93.3       94.7
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)         75.0       71.0      59.6            55.8      52.1        54.3
OP WICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      32.0       29.0      22.8            17.9       13.6       17.4
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    25.0       18.0      14.0            22.3       18.5       11.4
HEALTH
LIFE 1ECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   47.0         52.0      53.0            47.0      49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         126.0/f    119.0        ..              ..      105.4       68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCNT OF
POPUILATION)
TOTAL                              ..        15.0     17.0            20.3      26.3        34.4
URSAN                              ..       100.0    100.0            53.9       58.5       57.9
RURAL                              ..        2.0       4.0            10.1      15.8        21.2
ACCESS 10 EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCNT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       50.0      55.0            22.5       16.0       40.8
URAN                               ..       85.0      98.0            62.5      65.1        71.3
RURAL                              ..       45.0      48.0            13.9       3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        10000.0     7830.0/  8840.04R        17424.7   11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PER NUSING P3150      2320.0/f   1700.0?j 1070. 0,         2506.6    5552.4      1522.1
POPULAT'tON PER HOSPITAL MM
TOTAL                           8:10.0/f    770.0    760.0/i         502.3    1417.1       726.5
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..           201.4     197.3       272.7
nAL                                ..         ..        ..          1403.6    2445.9      1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HSPITAL B5D           ..         ..        ..            23.4      24.8        27.5
HOUSINlG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                        4.7                       4.9        5.3        5.4
URBAN                                        4.7                       4.9       4.9         5.1
RURAL                              ..        4.7        ..             5.5        5.4        5.S
AVERAGE HUMER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..
UtRN                              2.5/f       ..        ..
RURAL.                             ..         ..        ..
ACCESS TO EICTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINCSI
TOTAI                              ..         ..        ..              ..       22.5       28.1
Ut5Ai                              ..         ..        ..              ..      17.8        45.1
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..        ..         9.9



-20-                                           ANNEX I
Pate 2
UNYA Z- 0CtL INDICATORS OATA SHZLT
ARERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AviAGES
- tsT REC-T ISTTMATE) 
SAME        SA&E     YEXT KICHER
1M5T RECENT     G OGAPt1C    tNCOMZ       ICOME
1960 lb     1970 /b EIETMATE /b      ICLON /c  GROUP /d    ;0OU? /c
rDUCATION
ADJUSTED &XROLLMENT RATIOS
?R.fLQ.Yz:   TOTAL                47.0        64.0      105.0            59.0       63.3        82.7
MLLE                 64.0        74.0      112.0            64.2       79.1        87.3
IALE                 30.0        53.0      98.0             44.2       48.4         75.8
SECONDART:   TTL                   2.0         9.0       15.0             9.0       16.7         21.4
WALE                  3.0        12.0       19.0            12.0       22.1        33.0
FLAL1                 2.0         5.0       11.0             4.4       10.2         15.5
VOCATIOUL ENROL. (7 Of SECONDARY)    ..          2.0        2.0             7.0        5.6         9.8
PUPIL-T7EACU PATIO
PlIMAIY                           42.0        34.0      33.0             42.2       41.0        34.1
SECONDARY                         15.0        21.0      24.0             22.9       21.7        23.4
ADLT LITERACS RATE (PERCENT)        20.0/f       30.0      40.0            20.8       31.2         54.0
CONSUMPTION
PAsSLNnEa cARS PER ThOusAND
POPULATION                         8.0         9.0       7.3              4.0        2.a         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         9.0          ..      38.0             44.3       27.2        76.9
TV RcEEIvRS PER TOUsAND
POPULATION                          ..         1.5        3.0             2.9        2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GrNEaAL
INTEREST ) CIRCULATION PF
THOUSAND POPULATION                 13.0         14.0      10.0             5.6        5.3         18.3
C5MMA  UAL ATTENDANcE PER CAPITA  1.0              ..       0.4             0.4        1.1          2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     3300.0      5100.OLI 6100.0
FDMALE (PERCENT)                  34.8        33.6       33.3            31.9       24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             85.8        82.1      79.0             77.6       69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 5.1         7.1        9.0             7.9       10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               41.2        40.6       39.2  -         .0.8       36.9        37.1
MALE                                54.5         53.8      52.3            53.9       52.4         48.6
FE2MLu                              28.2        27.4       26.1            25.6       18.0        20.4
ECNOMHIC DEPLNDENCT RATIO              1.2          1.1       1.2             1.2        1.2          1.4
INCOME OISI3U`BTQLN
PERCENT of PRI VATE ILCON
RMCEIVED BY
EICUST 5 PERCENT Of ROUSSOLDS       ..        20.2/k      ..               ..         ..        15.2
HIGHES? 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        52.6/R       ..              ..         ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT Of HOUSEHOLDS     ..         3.97       ..               ..         ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 P2RCENT OF ROUSEROLDS     ..         11. 777     ..              ..         ..         16.3
POVErTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLLTE POVERTY INCOe
tZVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      122.0           187.6       99.2       241.3
RURAL                               ..          .        9 .0            96.a       78.9       1U6.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOHE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..  _ 125.0             138.4       91.9       179.7
RRL                                                      71.0            71.0       54.8       103.7
ESTLMATED POPULATION BELoW AUSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PIRCE(T)
URA                                 ..          ..      25.O             34.5       44.1        24.8
IUIRAL                              *-          *-      J°.0             48.7       53.9        37.5
..Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjuaced Sroup averages for each indicator are popula ton-veighted geoetrl: xean, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the soet populaed councry in eaeh group. Coverage of councries aa cg the
indicators depends on avallability of data ad Ls not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise aoted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
ad 1971; and for Most Recent Eatiae  between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Africa Souch of Sahara;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);  /a  Lower Middle income
?T2uI-550 per cApita. 1976);  7f  1962;   LI  glaistered, aoc al  practicing inL  he country;   Ah  1978;
/1  1972;   u  Labor force age 15-50 years;   /k  urban only.
scr Raecent Estimate of GMP per capita Ls for 1978.
August, 1979



- 21-                                                                           ANNEX I
or _____           DC_ AOS                                                            rec
Notes:  Although the date  rse  demo fee earees gee...sly Judged the  s.t mathoritativa and reliable, It ah,uld aMlec , beomted theisiis.
t Iflty osqeroble b-osai  of the lack of etandeedised daflaitions ad  ocsepte used by diffeset cutrese is eoletlmg the date. The data are, noetheless,
useful to descibe orders of snitude, indicate trands, gad cbaraoteiase  ctertsi ajor differences betenee  oeastriss.
Theadustd  rop eaceefor eaoh indi.ato  r e   pposlkeio-aigbted geomteio manne, eseludieg the estee   value  of the idiato- uA the  -t.  popm],. ed
conryt  eogop   tue to lash of data  geop averages, of all indicators foe cepital Surplus Oil depeetees  ad' otf itdiatore of Acoess to Water sod Recrata
Disposal, Housing, Intern Distrihution and Povrty for other counstry group. ean ypnjeatiom-weigbtsd gaeetri e -as without emobsion of the estras v-lsee WA
themee poesltedocuais.  Pec   th.2vrg  of oinia mess the hedi-t-M  decade an ave.dlaillby of datea    ie not ualtors  cato                   atb   xrie
in relatieg aversE.. of owe ia.Siato  to smo;e.  These gsrmnsae~ aettya serel -  Somiealtie of '-ineota   valamae wa  eeaeima th7ale 1o 
indicetor et e tiM  a-wi  the o-UaTr  and refermee cmos.
LAS ARMA (thousand sq.he )                                                              Moses to   oet    ael(ecn   fntslto)-ttl   hw   e                             a 
""~  Totsl -efeeeo  coprising land srees ad iml-d wentere..                         Daer ofpol'ttl   hw    drrl   evdb   eaedso Al ~
A=Th ultursl -  It reset estimate of asgicultrsl srea used t~enarily                   percentages of their respeetive popelatione. Ecceta disposal mw  iolud
o~prpesncvently for oops, pastures, market ad kitchen gardens  s to                   the colleoton and diepomal, with or without treateent, of ada m        ret
li   ellow,                                                                        ad cast-e-watr by etcr-borne, ytets, or the see, of pit priife. and s-lar
G"  P   CAPTA (S$)- MT per ospita estimates st current  eket prices,                icnaetelaionvrMsica    Papelation divided by euster of precticing pbWsioieas
esicuL&tednby seen co,nresion  .tod as World Peck Atlas (191'6-78 basis);            -qun'atfi       L f juai-Wal seboo  et university level.
1960, 1970 ,ad 1978 data.                                                                            Bas      PO   - Ptp.lastim divided by matear of preaticicg male
ONSMMR PR  1,PTA- Annual coooomptios of coerls  cnosrrad  cl  gsa eareS, prettisal aereas, ad assistant servea.
-                (coal ~~end lIgnite, pets1run, natucl ges ad hydro-, mclees and ge-                  Pouslalion ver N5pttlelNd - total, arts, ad rural - POpulatiom  (total, often,
thesm], eleotricity) is kilogrem   of co.eI etivelet per cedpis; 1960,                  and rural) divided by their respective  niter_of hopital bade available in
1970, ad 1976 dats.                                                                     Pubio and private general ad epecislined hostpital a.d rehabilitation centers.
Hospitals are atablisadnts pememastly staffed by at least -e phsician.
POPUIATION AND) VrITAL PTA¶'ISTICS                                                        Istabl.isadsnts providing priccipall  custodial care, see wt included. Ru.ral
T.mllos)-As of July 1; 1960, 197, ad                                                     hospitals, howverr, ienlde health and nedical caters not permaeantly steaffed
date                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by s pbyeleia (huh by a andioalasesistast, surems *idwife, atc.) which offer
!to   otlel- Rati   frhie  to tots] ppuletion;                in-patient  -coadaio   ad provide   limited rscge of andiosl fecilitics,
diffeba  dfinti  on~E  or a   ra  aiy off.1 comparability of date                   Adi.-PrHsia   n  - Total aItar of ades-ione to or dinohargee fro
amng  ounit as.  1960  1970  ad 1975 die                                             bopitliiiidedW              mite  of beds.
onllti   to       0    .ur.e  popolati.o projection.sare based c             lflJS
1975 total popisletimo by age ad .eo ad their mertality and fertility            Aes  Pio  o  IW tid (nrscepr houehod)    toal urban  ad rural-
rate .Pojection jaseters for mortality retee cospri- of threeAhueodeniseo      upo  ndvdast    br  livn   qurersa
Ieve-Iassuing IIliq-troecssy at birth iscreuing with Country'sa                    their naia male. A bo-arde  or lodger mW or mw  mt be included in the
per ceit  .c -Ilee, and fceale life ecycteny stahl Uing at                          household for stetieticel psrpo.se.
77.5 per.  The p-rameters for fertility rate also have three levls               Avrs i m iter  fxprsons         m     -;Itotl    s.a    rural - Average ouhr
sosoing deline in fertility according to lacoe leve  and past                     ofprosprro                   ofe,a    ee   cuidonivectional dwellings,
sally olsoaglo peifo-ec. Pooh coutry is then ssigno-d one ofthese                  respectively.  Dreelingp  eaclude cas-poarneant structures ad uncupied pert,.
ci..o citatioas of vortality and fertility trends for projection                Accesa to Electricit  (~elo   e ls      oal,  rs  and rural - Con-
purposes.                                                                           -etionel dweflicg  wtelcriyinivng quress  peroesage of
Stationery posltl I - In a  ttionsry populetion there in no growth                    total, urban, and rural dwelings respectively.
sise te brthvet  inqua  to tie death rate, ad also the age
struture remins  -otaot. Thl, is sohievd only otter fertility rates            EDICtATION
AccUse to the replaenet leve  of unit oct reproduction r-te, then                Adjusted Ecorlleeat tactics
cab genertics of women replaces it-v1f  -ostly.  The stationsry pupi-               Piaishoo?   totl  sal  ad female -Gross total, male ad female enroll-
latica cine wa  e.Ast:aid on the basic of the projected oerecteristics                med   f al ages ~at the primary levl1a  peroentege  of repective priary
of Ztepoplation L.o the year 20000, sod tie rate of d-cl:.n  of fertility             schoo-age populations; misall  includ.es  hildees egd 6-li yeses hut
ratebt to relcee': leve.1.                                                             djusted for diff-ernt lengths of primary eduetico; for codre    ith
Perstationery ppULeti.. is realed - The year when steton..ry poPUltios               solverea  educthos nerollenet map esced 100 perest cinc  .-a Pupils
sloe has been r-h.sd.                                                                 rc below or shov  the officel school age.
Ponuletion Denity                                                                      Iccondr  schoo    ttal,ae d feml  - Cqstdn ana                -o;seodeu
Per Qo. ha. -Mid-ye-  population per square kilomter (100 hectsree) ofeducto.eursat lat  four yeses of approved primary inctrutioo;
total urea                                                                           provides general v-tionel, or t-mher training iootrutiono for pupils
Per sr. ha. acicul1s-1 lad - Computed a  above for agriculturl land                     usuall  of 12 to 17 yewr. of age; correspuadesco-- oresrc g-srally
osly.                                                                                 occluded.
P-V-`ti'_ A. S-t-   15-ct)- Child-e  (0-l4 yo-r), ,orhing-ege                 Vocettona enrollset (peroent of se.ondsrr) - Vccstiostd inotitutloas inoludo
(15-64 peseni, and retired (65 yours andoe)e peroetago  of mid-pos                      tecnial  inustrial, or other progress which operate Independewntly or as
pPurolation; 1960, 19170, and 1977 data.                                                departset  of secondary institutions.
ftpplptl9rG-thOsate    scen..t) - total - Anu1 cr-th ret-o of total mid-                lperil-tece  retic -primry  adscnay-   ota  stdssmrched is
jAsr-pi96uti...ofoi19901R7-6             ad17-r                                          ray   dscndr   eel   iied             b     bra of teecher  Is the  oe
fr    lin  Growth Hate  P .t  urba  - Annusal groetb -aio of urbanpooding levels.
Populations, for 195ulR0I19bi70, and 197 -75.                                        Adult lite.recy   b(ecn)-Literate adlits (slo to red and wile)a
Crude 111rch hate (per ihousand) - Annual live birthe per tihu-md of did-                          t eeige of toal slit popaslatin aged IS yeasoad over.
yea  populain   192     -90   d 1977 data.
hate rDthousad)- Aunioal doatho per thousand of aid-yea                      CGNOUMPIICN
.=9I ifc i(Yl   , 1970, mid 1977 data..Pocs   Cur  (ortoodp fein       asn er cuscmpiemtor 0ccr
Goseproduction Rate -Avorgr ouseb,r of.dnughtrrnacoean it,1  tou                     orsting ls  t      ight peron; ecoldee amiulanoen, h.-r..e ad military
in her ares   reproductiv  period ifccoeT-ace_prsen  see-                            r_hiolo..
opoficfrtuiiity rates; ually fir-pear  -rea-e rodlu  in i96i,                  Raldio peeier  (e  thousad populaion) - All types of recivers for radio
1970, ad 1975.                                                                       bodattognrlplIc pee    ua   of pepulation;  o-u1e  unlicensed
FPaaifly Psuing - Acceptors, A-moa (thousands) - Acmoal ombe- of                        recivers in coutries  -d in yeses ohen reglottrit  of radio seta wa  is
acptors of birth-control devices ad- era-poec of national feasly                     effect; data for recet years eay not be comarble aine acrt coutries
plcngpogran.                                                                    aboiahed licens.ing.
Pamily P      Uanniso p-  rot of marIeco 5-Percentage of maried                  TV Roce ivers t(hper icusa   mItoion) - TR recivers for hr-daut to gener~al
s anl of ohild-bosciijgD- saYo ie bitch-cotrol devices                               public Per tusdp cion;   ~ncldee unlicensd TV recivers In cotrien
toal_ried mimi  in esae ago group.                                                ad in Yeses  ben reistration of TV seel was in effect.
P001 *~~~~~~~~~~                                                 i5ews~~~~~N pejper Ciroulation(P_r thousand usmftics) - lions the ovrage cirooletion
of  dily  enerl imeree  senpeper-, deie       bproia   pbIcatico
ladn o rod P-dnciio pr Cpit (16971-100) - Indec of per eaphin               devted priseily to recrdn.        gnra.re.In is   -idered tobP              diy
annua Production of alfo    sodities. 1'od-tioncelode, seed and                       If it apper.et silstfu1iceeb
fedad is:o   sldar year bnois.  Cueditis cove-r prisary goods                    inmad .oui  tt tdc  oferCapta  c  cr-pae        i   utro  ih
(e.g:. aacaneI inetad of ongur) which ace edible and -.tiai  nutrient                cold during the year, including adalacions to driv-ic class sod mobile
(eg. cffee and ins are  colded). Agg-tat  prduction of each c-try                   units..
is b-od on natioa  ovraeprdue  prIce oights.
Per capita supply u   aoIes(oon f roiost) -pCmotod fro                           L.A2R PORCI
enogy equiv-les  of o_t food ouppiioo avilil  is country per e-pita              Total labor Forc  )thoeadn) - ico....ic-Ily active P.ro..s. including nosed
per dy.  Available supplies comprise iostic productioc, lporto less                 foroes ad unemloyed but  -oiuding ho-seiv-, students, etc. Definitio-
-cPorts, and chiscg en Int.k.  Set suppli-o e-1lde cots], feed, seoda,             in vaious -ountrico ar  not cmporable.
qualities usdi   oo   rcactg    d  uoni   isrbto.Rquire-                         feae         -ret).- Peale labor Corer asPercentaes  of total lebor force
eeterotimated by PAO booed on  hbysiogCal ned, for noral                                  ros)- labor fuor- ic farmng, foretry, bating ad
otvyaidbrainh onoidering  rcroctitemper.tuoc, body -eigiotn,                 fishing as percetage of total labor fo-e
age sdtyeo diotributi-n  of population, nod a11oolug 1C percet for.d,ry(ecnt                              aor force in mining, -on.nrotlon, esnfsturing acd
oaste at  osh. i.  lend,1                                                          eletriciy  wlr and gase  p-erctage of total lAborfre
Per capita apply ofprctei  (grse  per dsy) - Proteic rotent cf Per                 Prlleinht  (percet)  t- te   ale  ad fMale - Participation or
capita not supply of food per day. No~t aupply of food Is defne  s       ~         acticity rates ar computed so total  aic, d female labor forc  so Par-
above. Requiremets for all coutries established by USDA proide for a               cntgsofttl,ml  ad femal  popslation of all ages respectively;
niisasm alloonc  of 6o grsa  of total protein per day sod 20 grsm  of              1960, 17, ad 1975 daIs.  Those ar  11cprteptinrte   eletn
nous].andpule ;otin,of  hic  10gra soul  heeis] prtel.      ae-sc  truture of the population, ad long tine tread. A fro retientes
These  t"d-eds su  Ibeer tha those of 75 gram  of tote], proteis ad                 are fe   national sore..
23  -rm  of animal, protein  s so avrage foe the mirld, proposed by FAQ          Ecosomi  P=enecy Ratio -  Ratio of poulatios under 15 and 65 ad ove  to
In tie Third W-orLi Food S.rve.                                                    the  ao   oo  in age group of 15-64 Yese.
Per c  its  rotei  "uiyrsnaia  and pulse - Protein apply of food
drtinicid lmae  adpls'  ngaoprdy                                                  D~1ELBISTRIDTC
Childu(ge.y1hate (nor%thoad) -Anacal deaths per thouoan d                      arccete  fPrvteinc   (bothp -c ah ad kind) - Reeiveed by richest
.   ,group 1-4 ns  tohildre- Ic Ibis agerop; for est d-1e-                       5 percet, richest 2  pcomt, poorest 20 Parcent, acd pooret 40 perct
oping coutries dati, derived from life tabl-                                          of households.
lIf  Flpeeacoat  l:~jerr~   Avorago nosebr of f-ear  of iifc                EsiaedAslte Poverty Inco eveol (us$ pe   ait)-uba d   oe-
remiin      yIbitrtbh; 119607b976  ad 1977  data.                                     Absolute poverty inalve  sthticoelvl  eo  eiba  iia
infant Wrtr~iaty Rant  (per thouan)- A-Iua  d-ath  of infants under ose                 otritio-ally sdequste diet pluc essential non-food requi_eete is sot
Year of age per thusand lien births,                                                  affordable.
A-os  to tafe Water  Percet of   M-to)- oa,uban, and rual -                           Pslae   eaiePvryIc    ee   UPS nereaita) - sets ad rurl-
ucer of-Peol  (total, urban, sod rua)tllrsnabesesct                                       relaiepert   no_lee   soetiled oevagpropIta
cfwaesupply  L.aoldes treated surface eaters or untreated but                  personal isome of the ~coutry. Urba  level is derived from the rural leve
anotai'ted nate-- ouh ac that from protected borhole:, springs,                     with adjuetact for highoer cot sf l1ivig in urban secan.
and e.-Itor  sl)aspercetages of their repective puielatias.. In                     Estimated Pen-aio  Peo   hnusPvet   aeLvl(jret      raa
auraarsaPublic foutain or  tadPost Incahed net laer. than                     nie-Prctofpultion(ra   drrl   hoaeaslt   nr
20eters from   ic-s  wa  be coniderd as being within reasoonable
area of that boo.,, In rura areas reasonabhle sconess cr010 imply
tbat tin h-uoof. -c asters of- the household Ac ont h-v,  to spend a                                                       toaoic ad Social Date Pivision
disproportiona.te pert of the day Io fetching the family's ester nee ds                                               tomomio MA.lysis ad Projections Departesetc
Anguat 1979



-  22  -ANNEX 
KENYA
Economic Develo-1ent Data Sheet
1977
1972       1973      1974       1975       1976        1977       1978      1979       1990       1993        1990         1   A72  7    1G970-95  1995-90        0rp
A. National Accounts
(Million US$ an 1976 prices)
1.  GDP                                 2883.3   3084.5    321 .4       3237 2    3415.5    3680.8    4169.9    4474.9    4699.1    6166.1    8280.8               5.0          5.8          6.1           100.0
2 . GaIn  from TT                       +180.3   +145.0       443.0      -87.:3      -         255 .?      45.6       10.9       23.7         7. 7      94. 7..                                              6.9
3.  611                                 3063.8   3229.5    3261.4    3199.9    3415.3         3936.5    4215.3    4485.8    4724.8    6173.8    9375.4              5.1         5.6          6.3           106.9
4.  buports                             1429.5   1394.2    1475.6    1177.0    1127.6    1295.1    1807.6    1721.6    1671.9    1944.5    2504.8                  -2.0         1.1          5.2            35.2
5.  Ruports - t olumt3                  1086.7   1145.4    1200.4    1041.6    1142.4    1184.2    1205.9    1239.2    1282.1    1682.5    2188.0                   1.7         4.9          5.4            32.2
6.  ERp-ets- TT  dj-ted                 1267.0   1290.4    1245.4    1004.3   7142.4    1440.0    1251.5    1250.1    1307.8    1690.2    2282.7                   2.6          4.4          6.2            39.1
7.  Resource Gap - TT odjosted           162.5    103.8       230.2      172.7      -14.8    -144.9       556.1      471.5      364.1      254.3      222.1           .           .            .           -39
9.  Tonal Cuesueptlce                   2457.7   2634.5    2519.3    2713.8    2687.1    2933.9    3721.9    3835.5    3918.3    4986.0    6801.0                   3.6         4.3          6.4            79.7
9.  Iceastuecs                           768.6    698.8       972.3      658.8      713.7      857.8    1049.6    1121.8    1170.6    1442.1    1796.6              2.2         4.6          4.5            23.3
10.  NatioalI Sa-ingu                     613.0    478.8       592.9      423.7      630.2      912.4      460.0      639.0      770.8    1163.8    1597.8           8.3        14.2          6.5            24.8
II.  De-tail  seings                      606.1    395.0       742.1      486.1      728.4     1002.6      493.4      650.3      806.5    1187.8    1374.5          10.6        13.3          5.8            27.2
12.  GDP o  cee  002                     2019.9   2368.1    2847.9    3151.4    3415.5    4427.8    5507.9    642.8    9164.3   14079.8   22504.9                   17.0        14.4          9.8             -
B. Sector OUtPUt
(Sh-re of GDP at the 1976 pricen)
1.  M7anuicctcing Indcotry                10.8      11.4       12.0       11.9       13.3       14.1       31.7       31.7        31.6       30.3       2B.4       10.7         4.7          4.7
2.  Ageicolcoro                           36.8      36.1       35.3       35.1       33.9       34.4        14.9       15.4       15.4       16.7       20.1        3.3         7.1         10.0
3.  other                                 52.4      52.5       52.7       53.0       52.8       51.5       53.4       52.9       53.0       52.9       51.5        4.3          5.2          5.5
C. Ptices
E. Export Price Icdec                     51.5      60.6       83.4       92.5      100.0      132.6      129.4      142.0      154.4      201.0      268.6       20.8          6.5          6.0
2.  DPpern Icdc                           44.2    -54.0        80.0       93.9      100.0      109.:      122.8      140.2      150.1       199.7     252.7        19.8         7.2          4.8
3.  Te.-s of Trade                       116.5    112.6       103.7       96.5      100.0      121.5      105.4       101.3     102.9      100.7      106.3
4   GDP DeflatOr (US$)                    70.1      76.8       88.5       97.3      100.0      120.3       132.1     144.0       195.0     228.3      271.8        11.4         8.1          3.6
5. A-ero.e Exchange Rote
(US$/KR)                          2.800    2.857       2.900      2.700      2.390      7.41.         2.59       2.66
D.  Selected Indi-ators                           1965-20   1972-77   1978-85   1985-90
1.  IC03                                             3.0       4.8         4.6        3.9
2.   spoec El-eiSity                                 1.0      -0.34         .07       0.86
3.  A-erage Doc-ntic S-ieus Rote                   19.0      20.0        16.9       19.3
4.  Aoerage Rt-ti-a1  Seings Rote                   18.6      08.6        16.8       19.7
5.  Magrginal Sloi-1us Sa-irgs Ra-e                  0.22      0.38        0.42       0.16
6.   upercs(/GDP                                    29.8      40.9        35.0       30.7
7.  Inoet,-e-ts/GDY                                 20.3      23.3        24.1       22.5
9.  Resource Gap/GDY                                 0.7       2.8         7.1        3.2                  Ac. Aeal
Or. Rote
e.  ftelovuent                                       1970       1975       1976       1977       1978       1970-78
(Thoucfopde)
1.  thoe Froar  Total                                  .      6 400.0        .
2.  Osse E.ploy eeo                                 644.5      891.1      857.5      902.5      911.5         4.4%.
PI,h-A  l r. t -II                                                                                                                 Pro-.
7-  -, illi-)                               1970/71     1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75         1975.76    19'6/77      1977/78
1.  Rccurcont Recenuen                             124.0       141.6       149.        190.4       226.3       269.2       311.1       474.6
2.  Kecorrect Expenditucres                        110.4       124.7       139.6       162.7       207.4       246.4       285.1       471.1
3.  Recourrec Surplos                              +13.5       *12.9        +9.4       +27.7       t1l.9       t22.4       '-29.0      +43.5
4.  Deoclopococ Project
P-ciugo & Other
Miscellaneoc 6eceipts                           0.4         0.4         0.6         0.3         -           -           6.4         2.0
o. pcig   Grants                                    0.          1.8         0.5         3.2         0.2          7.0        10.5        17.2
6. Surplus Acoiloblc for
Eloinacling lReelopount
OEpe-di-tre-                                    14.7        15.1        10.5        31.5        27.4        29.4        45.9        62.7
7.  OcoelopsectEpe-dilc-es                          46.5        51.9        61.8        67.4        94.2       126.3       124.7       236.8
8.  Overoll ceficic                                -31.7       -36.8       -51.3       -35.9       -66.8        -96.9       -78.8     -174.1
9.  Fiocoog of the DefIcit
Et-crnal LPims                                10.9        11.5       24.7         14.5        20.1        43.7        29.8        50.0
"Long-ten Boerrovig                            9.1        15.6        21.3        10.4        15.5        52.8        25.0        90.0
Short-ce.   BOcrou-og                         105.0        0.1         6.8         2.9        12.7        32 5        29.7         5 5
CeoIt                                          0.03        0.02        0.32         -           -           -           -
Ch-gcs in Clsh Bolances
(I.crese -)                                    -2.4         -8.5        +1.5        +5.6       -.6.4       -32.7        -5.8       +28.6
I/ Baced on 1964 pricen.                                                                                                   EAN, CPIA
Oc-oh- 23. 1979



- 23 -
ANNEX I
NENYA
Balance! of Payments and External Assistance
-Q4illion US$)
Actual                                          Preliminary                             Proiected
1972        1973         1974         1975         1976         1977         1978         1979         1980         1985         1990
A.  Summary of Balance of Payments
1.  Exports (Incl. NFS)                                560.0        698.6      1005.5         963.6       1142.4      1569.7        1475.5       1630.0       1818.2       3132.5       5449.6
2.  Imports (Incl. NFS)                                632.0        752.6       1237.3       1128.3       1127.8       1412.4       2090.8       2210.9       2296.6       3556.6       5822.3
3.  Resource Balance                                   -72.0        -54.0       -231.8       -164.7         14.6        157.3       -615.3       -580.9       -478.4       -424.1       -372.7
4.  Net Factor Service Income                          -34.1       -101.9       -101.1       -111.8       -130.4       -170.3        L42.4       -133.8       -180.1       -282.2       -352.9
4.1 Net Interest Payments of whicr:                    -15.7        -16.5        -18.6        -21.4        -27.1        -30.7        -25.8        -76.1       -102.2       -144.0       -118.1
(Interest on Public M & LT LoJns)                (-20.2)      (-22.1)      (-25.0)      (-26.2)      (-30.7)      (-38.A:      (-39.4)      (-52.5)      (-65.6)    (-147.8)    (-193.4)
4.2 Direct Investment Income  (Net)
4.3 Workers Remittance (Net)                  )        -18.4        -85.4        -82.5        -90.4       -103.3       -139.6       -111.6        -57.7        -77.9       -138.2       -234.8
4.4 Other Factor Service Income (2et)
5.  Current Transfers (Net)                             38.1         22.2         19.3         50.0         32.3         71.3        103.1        119.7        133.0        239.9        408.2
6.  Balance on Current Account                         -68.0       -133.7       -313.6       -226.5        -83.4         58.2       -654.6       -594.9       -525.6       -466.5       -317.5
7.  Private Direct Investment                           42.8         89.4        116.5         39.7         55.2         74.4         77.7         87.0         95.8        179.3        288.8
8.  Capital Grants                                      44.4          8.3         22.9         30.6         40.3         40.6             -            -            -            -
Public N & LT Loans
9.  Disbursements 1                                     79.2         86.4         92.8        119.7        188.0        180.8        414.6       454.3         541.3        695.1        941.7
10.  Amortization 17  2/                                -13.7        -15.9        -18.3        -16.0        -30.9        -43.t         -76.9      -96.3        -161.1       -306.3        391.0
11.  Net Disbursement I/                                 65.5         70.5         74.5        103.7        157.1        137.7         337.7      358.0         380.2        388.8        550.7
12.  Use of IMP Resources                                 0.0         -0.6         53.5         51.6         18.9         43.7          7.7        114.4         76.1        -40.0        -30.0
13.  Short-term Capital Transactio.ns                     5.6         15.1         31.1         31.1         17.4          7.7             -            -            -            -            -
14.  Capital Transactions, n.e.i.                       -65.1        -17.6        -14.6        -24.3       -101.3        -45.7          38.2        62.1             -            -            -
15.  Change in Reserves (- = incresse)                  -25.2        -31.4         29.7         -5.9       -104.2       -228..        193.2        -26.6        -26.6        -61.7       -492.0
B.  Grants and Loans Commitments
1.  Official Grants 3t                                  44.4          8.3         22.9         30.6         40.3         40.0
2.  Public M & LT Loons                                101.0         98.1        170.1        396.0        211.9        321.2
2.1  1BRD                                               29.0         34.0         10.4        193.5         31.0         84.0
2.2 IDA                                                 28.0           -          33.5         25.5         14.0         36.0
2.3 Multt,ateral                                           -          1.1          3.6          7.2         10.8         39.3
2.4 Governments                                         24.4         61.4        122.6         74.4         35.3         61.3
of which centrally planned economies               -           0.3          -            -            -            -
2.5 Suppliers                                            2.3          -            -            4.0         56.5          -
2.6 Financial Institutions                              17.3           1.6         -           91.4         64.4        100.7
2.7 Bonds                                                -            -            -            -            -            -
2.8 Public Loans, n.e.i.                                              -      -                  -
3.  other M & LT Loans (where avo:.lable) 4/            33.0         23.2          6.9          3.6          7.5          -
C.  Memorandum  Items
1.  Grant Element of Total Conmitmento 5/               44.8         43.6         66.5         23.0         23.0         36.5
2.  Average Interest (Percent)                           4.3          4.3          2.1          6.9          6.4          5.2
3.  Average Maturity (Years)                            29.2         27.6         36.7         24.6         17.5         25.6
I/  Includes financing of projected balance of payments deficit (L978-1990)on medium/hard blend terms.
2/ Includes repayment on military loans.
5   Excludes technical assistance grants.
4/ Represents a notional 50 percent of loan commitments for EAC projects
5 R Bepresents grant element of loans.                                                                                                                                         EAN, CPIA
October 23, 1979



- 24 -
ANNEX I
KENYA
Debt l/and Creditworthiness
Actual
1972       1973        1974         1975        1976        1977
A. Medium and Lone-term Debt (Disbursed Only)
(US$ Million)
1.  Total Debt OutstandinR (DOD: End of Period) 2/              475.1      549.8        633.2       694.5       820.9        970.5
2.  Including Undisbursed 2/                                    709.2      820.2        990.6      1289.8      1445.2       1765.5
3.  Public Debt Service   3/                                     33.8       38.9         44.6        43.8         63.2        72.5
3.1 Interest                                                     20.2        22.1        25.0        26.2         30.7        38.8
4.  Other M & LT Debt Service                                      ..         ..
B. Debt Burden
1.  Debt Service Ratio                                            6.0         5.6         4.4         4.5          5.5         4.6
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                               1.7        1.6         1.6          1.4         1.9         1.6
3.  Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                        8.1         7.9         7.5          6.0         8.2         7.3
C. Terms
1.  Initerest on Total DOD/Total DOD                              4.3        4.0          3.9         3.8          4.0         4.0
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                   7.1        7.1         7.0         6.3          8.2         7.5
D. Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                      12.5       11.5          7.5        10.6         16.7        12.8
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                             10.4         9.4         6.0         9.2         13.9        10.9
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                             82.7       81.6         80.3        86.6         83.6        76.2
E. E>xposure
1.  IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements                 39.9       49.1         33.0        63.4         45.2        24.9
2.  Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements           48.5        70.7        48.9        70.5         53.0        35.3
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                           19.1        23.6        24.9        33.4         37.9        35.6
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                     30.9        38.2        39.9        48.3         52.0        49.2
5.  EIRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                         21.6        28.7        27.2        34.5         46.7        48.2
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                   23.1        30.6        28.6        36.4         48.4        50.1
Outstanding Dec.  31. 1977
Amount            Percent
(US$ Million)
F. External Debt vDisbursed only)
1.  IBRD                                                                     276.3               28.5
2.  Bank Group                                                               388.2               40.0
3.  Other Multilateral                                                        20.8                2.1
4.  Governments                                                              403.6               41.6
of which centrally planned economies                                     0.1                -
5.  Suppliers                                                                 29.2                 3.0
6.  Financial Institutions                                                    84.6                 8.7
7.  Bonds                                                                     44.1                4.5
8.  Public Debt, n.e.i.                                                         -                  _
9.  Total Public M & LT Debt 1/                                              970.5              100.0
10.  Other M & LT Debt 2/
11.  Total Public Debt (incl. Undisbursed)                                   1751.1               180.4
12.  Total M & LT Debt (incl. Undisbursed)
1/ Includes Kenya's share of a notional 50 percent of EAC debt.
2/ Excludes military debts.
3/ Includes repayment on military loans.
EAN, CPIA
April 4, 1979



- 25 -                        ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of September 30. 1979
US$ Million
Ajlunt (Less Cacellations)
oaRiFr#   __unt (Less_C__7_cellatio-s-
_re____#   Year  Borrower   Purpose                            Bank-   TW    IDA-/  Undisbursed
Seven (7) Loans and twelve (12) Credits fully disbursed        96.0           74.1
224       1970  Kenya       Road Maintenance                                 12.6       1.6
826       1972  Kenya       Nairobi Airport                   29.0                      0.6
932       1973  Kenya       Highways                          29.0                      2.2
946       1973  IDB         DFC I                              5.0                      0.1
468       1974  Kenya       Population                                       12.0       0.4
477       1974  Kenya       Livestock                                        21.5      17.3
993       1974  Kenya       Tea Factories                     10.4                      3.1
1093       1975  Kenya       Group Farm Credit                  7.5                      7.5
537       1975  Kenya       Group Farm Credit                                 7.5       4.0
1105       1975  Kenya       Site and Service                   8.0                      8.0
543       1975  Kenya       Site and Service                                  8.0       0.1
565       1975  Kenya       Agriculture - Forestry                           10.0       1.0
1132       1975  Kenya       Agriculture - Forestry             9.9                      4.9 2/
1133       1975  Kenya       Transportation - Pipeline         20.0                      0.3
1147       1975  TRDC        Hydroelectric Development         59.5                      3.0
1148       1975  IDB         DFC II                            10.0                      0.3
1167       1975  Kenya       Mombasa & Coastal Water Supply  35.0                       15.8
1184       1975  Kenya       Education III                     10.0                      8.8
650       1976  Kenya       Integrated Agri. Development                     10.0       8.8
1303-T     1976  Kenya       Integrated Agri. Development              10.0             10.0
1304-T     1976  Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                      17.0             14.3
651       1976  Kenya       Rural Access Roads                                4.0       2.5
1305       1976  Kenya       Rural Access Roads                 4.0                      4.0
1389       1977  Kenya       South Nyanza Sugar                25.0                     17.9
692       1977  Kenya       Agricultural Credit III                          20.0       7.1
1390-T     1977  Kenya       Agricultural Credit III                    5.0              5.0
1438       1977  IDB         DFC III                           20.0                     16.9
722       1977  Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement                       6.0        4.4
1449       1977  Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement        34.0                     34.0
750       1977  Kenya       Small Scale Industry                             10.0      10.0
1520       1978  NCC         Second Nairobi Water Supply       30.0                     30.0
791       1978  Kenya       Second Urban                                     25.0      25.0
1550       1978  Kenya       Second Urban                      25.0                     25.0
797       1978  Kenya       Education IV                                     23.0      22.8
S-12       1978  KPC         Olkaria Engineering Loan           9.0                      7.0
1636       1978  Kenya       Sugar Rehabilitation              72.0                     72.0
1637 3/    1978  Kenya       Rural Water Supply                20.0                     20.0
858       1978  Kenya       Narok Agricultural Development                   13.0      13.0
1680       1979  Kenya       Telecommunications                20.0                     20.0
1684       1979  Kenya       Highway Sector                    90.0                     90.0
914 3/    1979  Kenya       Smallholder Coffee Improvement                   27.0      27.0
Total                           678.3    32.0 283.7       565.7
of which has been repaid        23.3       -    1.3
Total now outstanding           655.0    32.0 282.6
Amount sold                11.8
of which has been
repaid                    10.2   1.6
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA 1/         653.4    32.0 282.6
TOTAL undisbursed                         391.4    29.3 145.0      565.7
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/   Includes US$3.8 million undisbursed grant participation.
3/   Not yet effective.



-26 -                          ANNEX II
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Guaranteed
by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of September 30, 1979
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year  Borrower  Purpose                   Bank 1/    bndisbursed
…     US$ million-----
Five loans fully disbursed                          93.4
638-EA   1969   EAHC      Harbours                 35.0           0.6
674-EA   1970   EARC      Railways                 42.4           0.4
865-EA   1972   EAHC      Harbours                 26.5           0.9
914-EA   1972   EAPTC    Telecommunications        32.5           4.1
1204-EA   1976   EADB      Development Finance    15.0             5.9
Total                                          244.8          11.9
of which has been repaid                      52.8
Total now outstanding                          192.0
Amount sold                       24.4
of which has been repaid    24.4            0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                      192.0
Total undisbursed                               11.9          11.9
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 27 -                         ANNEX II
C. Proiects in Execution 1/
(As of September 30, 1979)
There are currently 33 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: US$10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Although international tea prices have dropped from the extra-
ordinarily high figures in 1976/77, growers continue to show considerable
interest in tea as a cash crop.  Yields continue to rise, and from 1979/80
onward the appraisal projections are likely to be exceeded. The project
factory buildLng program is behind schedule and, due to cost escalations,
funds from the Bank and Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) loans will
cover only 12 of the 17 factories included in the project. However, the OPEC
Special Fund has agreed to finance the foreign exchange cost of 3 factories
under the project, and CDC has agreed to provide additional financing for the
remaining 2 factories. CDC has also advanced financing for their Fourth Plan
covering factories outside the project, and by June 1980 a total of 15 fac-
tories (12 under the project and 3 others) will be operative. The standard of
Kenya Tea Development Authority's management continues to be high, and insti-
tutional improvements together with strengthened staffing should further
improve performance. An economnic analysis of the project indicates that
despite substantial cost increases the economic rate of return on investments
in new tea factories is over 40%.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock: US$21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow and recruitment of ranches is
very much behind appraisal estimates. In spite of the satisfactory livestock
price structure which was adopted in early 1978, removing the most serious
constraint tc ranch development and viability, recruitment of ranches continues
to be slow. Some progress has been made in organization of the pastoralists
in the range development components. In addition, Government services in
ranch water development planning and in the company ranch sector have been
improved. Only two commercial ranch loans and eight company ranch loans were
approved in 1978/79, and the Agricultural Finance Corporation's disbursements
for coast comipany ranches are being held up pending agreement on satisfactory
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should. be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -                         ANNEX II
security arrangements.  Group ranch loan processing also reaiains slow, ard
unless there is a substantial improvement in extension services in the pastoral
areas, particularly in Masailand, the project goals of adoption of more
commercial and efficient livestock production will be difficult to achieve.
Liie pijject continues to be kept under close review.
Loan No. 1093-KE/Credit No. 537-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project:
US$7.5 million Loan and US$7.5 million Credit of March 26, 1975;
Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Project faces major problems. Few new farms have come under
rehabilitation in the past two years for a variety of reasons: legal, social,
political, and financial. Physical rehabilitation work on participating mixed
farms and coffee estates is satisfactory. Coffee estates are achieving
recoveries in yields, and mixed farms are generally expanding areas cropped
and improving grazing. However, achievement of a satisfactory rate of finan-
cial rehabilitation on most mixed farms is in doubt. The recommendations of
the Large Farm Sector Study (financed under the Project) have prompted Govern-
ment to make a major review of its policies, and although reaching a consensus
has proved difficult, Government expects to take a position on the large farm
sector in the near future. Upon clarification of Government policy, the Bank
and the Government expect to undertake a joint review to see whether the
original project objectives can still be attained. Pending this review, no
further recruitment of mixed farms will take place.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation
Project: US$9.9 million 1/ Loan and US$10.0 million Credit of June 27,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Although the planting program is now progressing fairly satis-
factorily, the total area planted is about 20% below target, largely because
of a slow project start up and unfavorable weather. The building and road
construction programs are also considerably behind schedule. However,
these shortfalls should be substantially reduced during the last two years of
the project. The gazetting of nature reserves and new forest reserves, is
progressing slowly, and ad hoc land use studies for specific areas are being
carried out. Although a study of pulpwood stumpage rates has been completed,
a similar study of rates for sawlogs is still pending. Progress in instituting
a program to improve efficiency of the sawmilling sector is also very slow.
1/   Net of cancellation; an amount of US$0.1 million was cancelled on
July 20, 1979 since items which were to have been financed under
the loan were not procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 29 -                        AMNEX II
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural
Development Project: US$10.0 million Loan and US$10.0 million
Credit oi- July 9, 1976; Effective Date: March 15, 1977;
Closing )ate: December 31, 1981
The changed focus of the project towards assisting large numbers
of subsistence farmers rather than progressive smallholder farmers has led to
a number of difficulties, but the objective of improving the productivity and
incomes of smallholder farmers continues to be met. Late release of credit
funds in the past led to delayed application of farm inputs and expected yield
increases weres therefore not achieved; measures have now been taken to ensure
availability of credit funds at: the appropriate time. Steps are also being
taken to improve the low rates of credit repayment and loanee reparticipation.
The overall balance between nurabers of loanees and infrastructural support--
staff, storaga and transport--at cooperative union level has been improving,
and active efforts continue to be made to improve input supplies and marketing
systems.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million
Loan of April 15, 1977; EEfective Date: November 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Agricultural development has advanced well; land clearance has been
completed in about 40% of the area, and 2,500 ha have been planted. Yields
from outgrowers' cane have been higher than anticipated, probably because of
excellent and well distributed rainfall and heavy fertilizer applications.
'About 20% of the drainage component has been completed, and the benefits can
already be seen. Although several components are slightly behind schedule,
progress is generally satisfactory. Building works have been delayed, and the
first crushing trial of the factory is now expected to take place in December
1979/January 1980. Road construction has also been delayed, and an effective
sugar research program has yet to be established. Proposals for a training
program are now being produced, and the delay in completion of the factory
will allow mcre time for staff training. The standard of management of the
sugar company continues to be good, and coordination among the various agen-
cies involved, in the project is improving.
Loan No. 1390T-KE'Credit No. 692-KE - Third Agricultural Credit
Project: US$5.0 million Loan and US$20.0 million Credit of April 15,
1977; Ef'fective Date: September 14, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Disbursements have been delayed because of a backlog in updating
loan reimbursement requests by the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC).
The lack of consolidated information on AFC's lending trends toward different
categories of' farmers and the current high arrears situation also pose pro-
blems.  However, the disbursement situation is improving, and cumulative
commitments :Ln the smallholder and medium-scale farmer categories now account
for almost a:Ll funds available for on-lending under the project. Consultants
are preparing proposals for the introduction of an improved management



- 30 -                         ANNEX II
accounting and information system. In addition, a review of AFC's salary
structure and organization is nearing completion. Both of these measures
should strengthen AFC's performance.
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement
Project: US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22,
1977; Effective Date: June 27, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Despite a slow start-up, project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily. However, a detailed review of cost estimates indicates
that the Project will experience serious cost overruns; the revised estimate
is about 65% above the appraisal figure, and there seems to be little scope
for reduction. The Government has indicated that it will proceed with the
Project despite the significant burden on its finances. A revised financing
plan is under review by the co-financiers. No supplementary IDA financing is
proposed.
Loan No. 1636-KE - Sugar Rehabilitation Project: US$72.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: September 20, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Progress has been made in equipment procurement, and selection and
appointment of consultants for factory rehabilitation, road works, drainage
and irrigation is in progress. Coordination of project activities has improved
considerably, but a proposal, now under Government consideration, to withdraw
executive power from the Kenya Sugar Authority could have a negative impact on
project implementation if brought into effect.
Credit No. 858-KE - Narok Agricultural Development Project: US$13.0
million Credit of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Early stages of implementation are proceeding satisfactorily,
although slow progress in land adjudication will limit the number of farmers
eligible for loans during the first season. Engineering consultants are being
selected for the roads component, and terms of reference for baseline studies
are under preparation.
Credit No. 914-KE - Smallholder Coffee Improvement; US$27.0 million
Credit of June 11, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project:  US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Physical implementation is about two years behind the appraisal
schedule, basically due to delay by the Ministry of Works in completing the



-31 -                        ANNEX II
tender documentation for certain project institutions. Action has been
proposed to alleviate the problem. The total cost of the project has increased
by about 6% in terms of US DoLlars. Implementation of educational objectives
continues to be satisfactory. The views presented in the project-financed
report of the National Committee on Educational Objectives and Policies have
been incorporated in the Fourith Five-Year Development Plan 1979-83. Evaluation
of the efficiency of educational broadcasting has started, as has the revision
of primary school examinations to make them more work-oriented. However, the
Government continues to be reluctant to finance technical assistance speci-
alists from the loan proceeds, and this may lead to delays in implementation
of the project's educational objectives. The dialogue with the Government
regarding the hiring of required specialists is continuing.
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education: US$23.0 million Credit of June 7,
1978; Effective Date: August 25. 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Physical implementation of the project is proceeding in line with ap-
praisal estimates. Implementation of the project's educational objectives is
also satisfactory. A five-year plan for revision of the Basic Education
Curricula has been prepared by the Kenya Institute of Education, and subject
review panels have started their work. The Kenya Institute of Administration
and the Faculty of Agriculture are also well on their way in the preparation
of courses and the planning of staffing and staff training. Steps are being
taken to recruit specialists needed for the Education Planning, Education
Facilities Znd Examinations Besearch and Development Units ir. the Ministry of
Education.  Final information on the selection of the 30 Craft Training
Centers to be assisted under the project is expected shortly.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply; US$35.0 million
Loan of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Physical execution of the major parts of the project is about nine
months behind schedule, while completion of some of the smaller components
may be as much as 15 months :Late. Progress has now improved but lost time
cannot be recovered. However, operations are expected to begin in the next
few months at one-third to one-half of production capacity, although there is
an estimated cost overrun of about 45% (expressed in US dollars), about 80% of
which is in local currency. Government, however, is committed to project
completion as soon as possibLe and as the project expenditures are now
spread over four years instead of three, the required annual budget appropria-
tions would be manageable. Institution building is proceeding slowly due to
difficulties in recruiting sitaff, and accelerated efforts are needed to
strengthen staffing and training for the Coast Province Water Branch.
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply; US$30.0 million
Loan of March 27, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation started on schedule and is proceeding satisfactorily.
However, completion is now expected to be about nine months behind schedule



- 32 -
ANNEX II
due to difficulties with tender evaluations and delays by the Borrower
(Nairobi City Council) in making contract award decisions. Most supply con-
tracts financed by other donors and the first construction contract being
financed by the Bank have been awarded. The evaluation procedure for water
treatment equipment was abortive and this contract is being retendered. Good
progress is being made on detailed design and tendering for the remaining
contracts. Satisfactory arrangements for construction supervision are now
being finalized. Bid prices to date have been favorable and the present
estimate of total project cost is very close to the appraisal estimate.
Although water supply and sewerage operations are in sound financial condition,
the Borrower has been slow in fulfilling financial covenants regarding external
audits, the engagement of an accounting consultant and the constraint on use
of water and sewerage revenues for other purposes.
Loan No. 1637-KE - Rural Water Supply Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Closing Date: July 1, 1985
This loan is not yet effective. New tariffs have been introduced,
and management consultants are assisting with implementation of the first
phase of the program to strengthen the organization and management of the
Ministry of Water Development (MWD). Key project staff have been appointed
except for the cost and management accountant; recruitment efforts are underway
to fill this post as soon as possible. Preparation for construction of
schemes is about eight months behind schedule, but MWD is planning to revise
the implementation schedule to compensate for delays.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 224-KE - Road Maintenance: US$12.6 million Credit of
December 28, 1970; Effective Date: March 18, 1971; Closing
Date: December 30, 1979
The project was substantially completed in early 1977, about a year
and a half behind schedule. The delay was primarily caused by a slow start
in construction of the regional workshops and camps due to unforeseen diffi-
culties in the location of sites, acquisition of land, and procurement of
steel. The Credit included US$2.2 million for headquarters and field staff-
ing and consultant services, but Government obtained most of these services
through bilateral arrangements. There was consequently a saving of US$1.8
million under the project, which the Government requested be used to purchase
additional workshop equipment and tools. Since this would assist in achiev-
ing the project's goals, IDA authorized using the remaining funds for this
purpose. With this revision, total project costs are expected to be as
appraised.
Loan No. 826-KE - Nairobi Airport: US$29.0 million Loan of June 2. 1972;
Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Construction of the new Nairobi Airport was essentially completed
in December 1977, and it has been open to traffic since March 14, 1978. The
loan is 98% disbursed. The airport is performing up to expectations.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Establishment of a commercial accounting system is now underway. The principal
problem areas are in hiring and training sufficient staff for operation and
maintenance, both of which are constrained by a Kenya-wide shortage of skilled
personnel. A training program has been prepared by UNDP, but its execution
depends greatly on the effectiveness of recruitment efforts. Very little
progress has been made to date, and a further postponement of the Closing Date
to cover the period of implementation of the training program and to permit
completion of disbursements for this component may be required. The project
completion report is under preparation.
Loan No. 932-KE - Fifth Highway Project: US$29.0 million Loan of
September 6, 1973; Effective Date: November 9, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Implementation started 18 months behind schedule due to changes in
design standards by the Ministry of Works and financial constraints. Con-
struction of 593 km of roads has been completed, and work on the Kisiani-
Bondo road iLs continuing. In view of heavy cost overruns, tenders for the
construction of two roads were delayed; agreement was ultimately reached to
delete the Thuchi-Nkubu (51 km) road from the project. The Closing Date,
which was postponed from December 31, 1977 to December 31, 1979, is likely to
be postponed further to allow time for completion of the Kisii-Mogonga road
where construction has recently begun.
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project:
US$20.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 31,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Construction was completed in October 1977 and commercial operations
commenced in January 1978 as originally planned. The final project cost
overrun is only US$9.5 million or 11%, the increase being primarily due to
escalation in construction costs. KPC's long-term financial prospects are
quite satisfactory although there could be cash flow problems in the initial
few years of operation because of the preponderance of short and medium-term
loans in the financing package. About 99% of the loan has been disbursed.
The Closing Date has been postponed to March 31, 1980 to allow time for
completion of procurement of equipment related to the operation of the pipe-
line.
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Progress on the Rural Access Roads Program was reviewed in depth
by all donors and discussed with Government during the annual review meeting
held in June 1979. The project is about 15 months behind schedule but is now
progressing satisfactorily. All eight Bank-financed construction units are
fully equipped and are now operational. By March 31, 1979, 304 km of access
roads had been constructed, of which 16 km were gravelled. Annual output



- 34 -
ANNEX II
averages 41 km per annum for all units, about 4 km below the appraisal
estimate. Output had declined due to shortage of laborers, particularly in
Kiambu District, and poor work organization in Nakuru District. To resolve
these problems, the Ministry of Works will request local governments to supply
more labor to construction units, and will assign a SIDA-financed engineer to
supervise works in the Nakuru area.
Loan No. 1684-KE - Highway Sector Project: US$90.0 million Loan of
April 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 18, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Implementation of the Government's Highway Sector Plan may be delayed
because a critical shortage of funds has caused a reduction in the highway
work program. While this has not yet affected the project appreciably, the
continuation of this trend in FY81 could touch projects included in the Sector
Loan. In general, detailed engineering has been completed for road construc-
tion and upgrading scheduled to start in FY80, and the designs for roads to
start in FY81 are completed or under preparation. The road maintenance
program for FY80 is in line with appraisal estimates except for a 30% reduction
in resealing of paved roads; however, the Ministry of Works is planning to
request funds this year from the loan to help clear the backlog of resealing.
POPULATION SECTOR
Credit No. 468-KB - Population: US$12.0 million Credit of April 1.
1974; Effective Date: July 31, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The four-year population project forms an integral part of Kenya's
Five-Year MCH/FP program, FY1975-79. All of the IDA-financed components
of the project are proceeding satisfactorily. Nearly 99% of the construction
has been completed (only two out of 36 facilities are still in the final
stages of construction), and more than 75% of the equipment and furniture has
been procured. Some delays in furnishing, equipping and staffing of facili-
ties in rural areas are occurring, but arrangements to improve the situation,
including hiring of a hospital secretary or commissioning engineer, are being
explored by the Ministry of Health. All other elements of the project have
been completed. The program components financed by other donors and the
Government are moving ahead and, with a few exceptions, are expected to be
completed as planned.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru Hydroelectric Project: US$59.5 million Loan 1/
of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: January 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Construction of the project was completed satisfactorily in
June 1978 on schedule and within estimated cost. On the basis of contracts
awarded for civil works and electrical and mechanical equipment, present esti-
mates show that the project cost in Kenya shillings is likely to be about 1%
lower than the appraisal estimate. Due to the devaluation of Kenyan currency
in October 1975, however, the project cost saving expressed in US dollar
equivalent will be about 15% of the appraisal estimate. This will result in a
saving in the Bank loan of about US$4.0 million, in spite of the increase made
on June 15, 1977 in the percentage of civil works expenditures to be financed
under the Banlc loan from 60% to 80%. At the request of the Borrower, US$3.5
million of the loan has been cancelled.
Loan No. S-12-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project: US$9.0
million Loan of December 1, 1978; Effective Date: April 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Drilling is proceeding on schedule; specifications for the new drill
rig and accessories have been completed and tenders are being evaluated.
Miscellaneous supplies and equipment have been purchased under International
Shopping procedures.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 946-KE - Industrial Development Bank Project: US$5.0 million
Loan of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 26, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1979
The first Bank loan of US$5.0 million to IDB, which became effec-
tive on March 26, 1974 was fully committed in March 1978, two years behind
schedule. This delay was due to the cancellation prior to disbursement of a
number of prcjects previously approved. As at September 30, 1979 this loan
had been disbursed except for a balance of $3,000. A withdrawal application
for this amount will be submitted shortly.
1/   Net of cancellation; US$3.5 million of the original US$63.0 million Loan
was cancelled on October 19, 1978.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1148-KE - Second Industrial Development Bank Project:
US$10.0 million Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 9,
1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
The second Bank loan of US$10.0 million became effective on October 9,
1975.  The loan was fully committed in August 1978 and US$9.7 million had been
disbursed as at September 30, 1979. The Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: US$20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date: November 10, 1977;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
This loan was declared effective on November 19, 1977. Ten subprojects
have been approved. As at September 30, 1979, US$10.0 million had been
committed and US$3.1 million had been disbursed.
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) continues to make progress in institu-
tional development, particularly as regards financial discipline, project
appraisal procedures and operating performance.  KIE's management is determined
to implement agreed policies to improve profitability, but continued attention
is required in a number of areas; a comprehensive plan of action for reducing
arrears is particularly important. Eight subloans totalling US$244,000 have
been committed, but no funds have been disbursed as yet under the line of
credit. A small amount has been disbursed, however, under the technical
assistance component.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Loan No. 1680-KE - First Telecommunications Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of April 11, 1979; Effective Date: August 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
This loan became effective on August 16, 1979. Initial delays in
procurement of goods are likely to cause about a year's delay in project
completion.
URBAN SECTOR
Loan No. 1105-KE/Credit No. 543-KE - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Loan and US$8.0 million Credit of May 6, 1975; Effective
Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall project execution continues to be satisfactory but there are
mounting delays in implementation. Infrastructure has been completed for the
first 1,000 plots and most beneficiaries have constructed satisfactory houses.
Infrastructure for an additional 2,700 plots is about 30% complete and con-
struction of infrastructure for the remaining 2,300 plots is expected to begin



- 37 -
ANNEX II
soon. Cost recovery continues to be good. One primary school is now
operational, but designs for the remaining schools are behind schedule and
tendering is not expected to talke place before December 1979. One health
center is under construction; however, the Bank does not plan to disburse
against its costs as its design was too expensive and was not approved by the
Bank. The design of the other health center should be submitted for approval
soon. Tenders have been invited for all other community facilities. Technical
assistance components are completed or scheduled for completion in conjunction
with the project. Project costs for the first phase remain close to appraisal
estimates but are expected to eKceed original estimates for the remaining
components because of delays incurred.
Loan No. 1550-KE/Credit No. 791-KE - Second Urban Project: US$25.0
million loan and US$25.0 million Credit of May 5, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress in implementation of physical components of the project is
generally satisfactory. Consultants for detailed design and engineering of
Phase I sites in all three cities (Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu) are making
good progress. Appointment of consultants for Phase II sites has now been
completed and design work is underway. The Housing Development Departments
are operational in all three cities with most key posts filled. Recruitment
of other stafi is underway. Progress in meeting disbursement conditions for
the Nairobi component is slow, and progress on studies included in the project
is also slower than expected. Municipal finance reforms have been delayed
pending Cabinet approval of a paper on the subject.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million Loan
of July 9, 1976; Effective Date:  November 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
After initial delays, project implementation is accelerating.
Officers for the Project Management Unit have been appointed, and six key
Wildlife Planning Unit positioins have been filled. The Ministry of Works has
appointed various consultants for the design and construction of all physical
project components. The draft final report of the Tourism Pricing Study has
been reviewed with Government and consultants in the field, and the final
report is expected to be submiltted soon. The Very Large Herbivores Study is in
progress. Satisfactory agreements have been reached with the Amboseli ranchers
on guaranteed minimum returns, thus meeting the disbursement condition relating
to this component. The anti-poaching units are fully staffed and deployed,
and initial effectiveness of the units appears satisfactory. Draft amendments
to the Wildlife (Conservation and Management) Act of 1976 to fulfill the
requirements of the supplementary letter giving detailed proposals for anti-
poaching operations have been approved by the Ministry of Wildlife and Tourism
and are now in the final stages of processing.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
East African Community
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: December 16, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: April 16, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single buoy tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school building
and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths and
a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities and a
training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in Tanga.
Construction of all major project elements has been completed and a joint
project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of shortage
of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have not
been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of the
lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; and modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has generally improved with increasing throughput; however, port
labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority
and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of ports in both
countries is competent. Some US$34.4 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.6
million of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
674-EA and 865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated
to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified under
the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
For Loan No. 638-EA              (US$ million)
Kenya                            0.7
Tanzania                         0.6
Tot:al                      1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                          1.7
Tanzania                      0.3
Total                     2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third ]Railways Project: US$42.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness: October 30, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to be
used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material. All
three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Railways
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the countries concerned is given below:
(US$ million)
Kenya               2.0
Tanzania            3.8
Uganda              1.9
Total               7.7



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items, except the microwave radio system, have
been completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The
slippage in the project's completion was due to initial delays in procurement
caused by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of
headquarters. About US$28.4 million of the loan has now been disbursed. The
agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977 among the coun-
tries concerned is as follows:
(US$ million)
Kenya                2.4
Tanzania             3.5
Uganda               0.1
Total                6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from
50% as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of March 31, 1978. Some US$9.1 million of
the loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to
US$3.0 million.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN KENYA AS AT
September 30, 1979
Fiscal Year        Obligor                Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968
and 1973        Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels                 5.2      0.7      5.9
1970, 1974,
1977 and 1979  Pan African Paper Mills  Pulp and Paper    17.2           6.3    23.5
1972            Tourism Promotion
Services                  Hotels               2.4      -       2.4
1976            Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                      Textiles             6.3      2.8     9.1
1977            Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                      Capital Market       2.0       -      2.0
Total Gross Commitments                    33.1      9.8    42.9
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                      9.0      1.8    10.8
Total Commitments now held by IFC          24.1      8.0    32.1
Total Undisbursed                           5.0       -       5.0



- 42 -
ANNEX III
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
BARINGO PILOT SEMI-ARID AREAS PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetables of Key Events
(a)  Initial Discussions with Government                March, 1978
(b)  Time Taken to Prepare                              10 months (March 1978 -
January 1979)
(c)  Preparation by                                  : Government of Kenya
Regional Mission in East
Africa
(d)  First IDA Mission                               :  September, 1978
(e) Government Request to IDA to
finance Project                               : February, 1979
(f)  Appraisal Mission Departure                     : February, 1979
(g)  Negotiations                                    : October, 1979
(h)  Planned date of effectiveness                      (March, 1980]
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(1) Project Coordinator, the Project Officer and the Project Accountant to
be appointed and in post (Condition of Effectiveness, para. 48).
(2) Utilization of funds from the Development Fund would be on the basis
of agreement with IDA (para. 46(vii)).
(3) Annual work plans and budget approved by the PCC would be submitted to
IDA for review and comment (para. 50).



IBRD 14425
JUNE 1979
KENYA  
BARINGO SEMI -ARID AREA PROJECT 3
Project Area  e                                        o  /   N
Project Area Boundary            >      t         k                                7
L       Project Headquarters              I
A      Division Headquarters
-          MMain Roads                     (
5COD   Contours ( ii feet)                 T/,         Krulow     r     z             c, 0O
5,000 ft (1,500 meter) Contour   ,       
Rivers                                    Z-
Swamps
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~i
N,    \       (,*0 l                                    sl
K LOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                  N,2
N                                                                1                                              [^   .        us,c
I 5      '0      /  5                                                                                               -,
1,AILES                                       005/
o3/212- nf  5                             0 '1j_'°   ,; ,.'S  X                         X/g/f                                        Tu
0-0
T~ ~ -d ., lh Cl9ibl
,  P.'~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~oN 
di,o,,,ao/,ao bVeo,p tBek  -  -            Ka
ie co,,eneoe,e or Ih ie 1 rdO- s of                                               ° I                               o
i/eerepon t h'suse nd h/i'|ag,cJ<g 9,1t, Oiacn_r
T,tooo -unsda-m/tnge
d,roi,onp/v. nnItepatto'ehe                Kb                                                                                      I e-
Vfnrid noo an dis affj,a/es. mny                 >                fr           w         K,z            el-o      4   
soonptatemt   rY ronY rmdoh,o ement, TO     n                              Ka/itr,, unge/-.  g         rgoo           I     S   
-          Tr                           L



