Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY FILE  COPY
Report No.2635-KE
KENYA
BARINGO PILOT SEMI-ARID AREAS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
November 12, 1979
Eastern Africa Region
Central Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units         -    Kenya Shillings (KSh)
US$1.00                -    KSh 7.5 1/
KSh 1.00               -    US$0.133
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                   British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                         -        3.28 feet
1 hectare (ha)                       -       2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2             -       0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km )             -       0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                      -       2.2 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                          -       0.26 US gallon (gal)
-       0.22 British gallon (imp. gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)                 -       2,205 pounds (lb)
1 long ton                           -       2,240 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
ASAL    -   Arid and Semi-Arid Lands
DC      -   District Commissioner
DDC     -   District Development Committee
EDF     -   European Development Fund
FAO     -   Food and Agriculture Organization
IADP    -   Integrated Agricultural Development Program
MLS     -   Marginal Lands Study
MOA     -   Ministry of Agriculture
PCC     -   Project Coordinating Committee
PMED    -   Projects Management and Evaluation Division
SAAP    -   Semi Arid Areas Project
FISCAL YEAR
Government         -      July 1 to June 30
1/   Since October 1975 the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at
a rate of SDR = KSh 9.66; the rate vis-a-vis the US dollar has
fluctuated since that time.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
BARINGO PILOT SEMI-ARID AREAS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Is  BACKGROUND  .............o ....                                  1
A.  Project Background  .                                      1
B.  Agricultural Sector  ,............                         1
C. Arid and Semi-Arid Lands                                    4
D.  Rural Development Services .....................           6
II.   THE PROJECT AREA .....................        ...     . o. 8
As  General ........... .     ..                     .         8
B.  Agricultural Activities .............14
C. Rural Services ................. ................          17
III.   THE PROJECT ........................................           18
A.  Project Objectives and Strategy ..... .............       18
B.  General Description ........ . . . . . . . . . ......   ..........   ... .  19
C.  Detailed Features          ...............................  20
D.  Project Costs ..     .................................    24
E.  Financing .................................               25
F.  Procurement ........................ . . . . . .  . . .  ..o......  26
G. Accounts and Audits *............................          26
H.  Disbursement .............. .       ..............O........  27
I,  Environmental Impact ........... ..........               28
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...... o ..................       28
V.   JUSTIFICATION. BENEFITS AND RISKS ...................         33
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS   ..                                          36
SUPPORTING TABLES, CHARTS AND MAPS
TABLES
1.   Project Costs Sumamry
2.   Retroactive Financing
3.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4.   Phased Expert Requirements
5.   Illustrative Farm Budget
This report is based on the findings of an IDA Appraisal Mission which
visited Kenya in February-March 1978, composed of Messrs. Argyle (H.Q.),
Ljungman (RMEA), and Lewis (consultant).
I Thn docume ha  ratricied ditribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their dbczd duties Its contents nay not oderwise be dimcked without World Sank authorization.



-2-
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
CHART -  1.   Institutional Organization of the Project
MAPS  - Map 1 - Kenya - The Project Area - IBRD 14425
Map 2 - Kenya - Ecological Zones and Project Location -
IBRD 14370
MATERIAL AVAILABLE IN IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
ANNEXES
Annex I - The Project Area
Table 1   -   Average Rainfall
Table 2   -   Rainfall Probability in Project Area
Table 3   -   Climatic Data for Marigat
Table 4   -   Changes in the Population of Baringo District
Table 5   -   Population of Location
Table 6   -   Estimated Cropped Areas
Table 7   -   Estimated Crop Yields
Table 8   -   Estimated Livestock Population
Table 9   -   Livestock Population by Location
Table 10  -   Runoff Characteristics of Gauged Rivers
Table 11  -   Boreholes in the Project Area
Table 12  -   Courses and Attendance at the Baringo Development
Center
Table 13  -   Adult Literacy Classes in Baringo District, 1977
Annex 2 - Job Descriptions
A. The Core Team
B. Short Term Consultants
C. Outline of Terms of Reference for Aerial Survey
D. Local Support Staff Requirements
Annex 3 - Estimates of ProJect Impact on Agricultural Production
Annex 4 - Possible Approaches to Labor Intensive Programs
Annex 5 - Detailed Project Costs
Table 1   -   Soil and Water Conservation
Table 2   -   Agronomy and Irrigation
Table 3   -   Livestock and Range
Table 4   -   Rural Services
Table 5   -   Project Headquarters
Table 6   -   Specialized Staff, Housing and Survey
and Unallocated SAAP Development Fund
APPENDIX  -  1       -   List of References



KENYA
BARINGO PILOT SEMI-ARID AREAS PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      The Kenyan Government has emphasized in recent years the need to
focus increasing attention on development of the nation's arid and semi-arid
areas. In the higher potential agricultural areas of Kenya, there has, in
general, been a steady increase in production and improvement in services;
in the drier areas, which represent about 80% of Kenya's area and include
about 20% of the population, however, production has declined, services are
poorly developed, and degradation of rangelands and severe soil erosion repre-
sent a serious threat to the environment. The problems of the arid and semi-
arid areas are complex, as the basic problems of relatively unfavorable
climate and soils are compounded by the pressures of a growing population,
which has prompted widespread overstocking of rangelands in these areas.
The Government is currently engaged in an effort to define a strategy for
development of the arid and semi-arid areas and plans to devote increasing
resources to these areas in the future. An interministerial task force has
worked since 1978 to review options for these areas and to coordinate devel-
opment programs in various parts of Kenya. As part of the nationwide arid
and semi-arid lands development effort, the Government in early 1978 requested
Bank Group assistance for a project to develop the drier parts of the Baringo
District. It was agreed that the proposed Project would take the form of a
pilot effort, combining continuing studies of the area with detailed planning
for future development, field testing of alternative agricultural techniques
and methods of soil erosion control and range rehabilitation, and development
of basic services and infrastructure. The objective would be to prepare an
integrated long-term investment program for the Baringo semi-arid areas and to
test techniques and agricultural packages which would be replicable in other
arid and semi-arid areas of Kenya. The Project was prepared jointly by the
Kenya Government and RMEA, and the Government formally requested IDA assist-
ance for the Project in February 1979. A team composed of D.B. Argyle (IDA,
Washington), L.J. Ljungman (RMEA), and J. Lewis (consultant) appraised the
Project in Kenya in February-March, 1979, and this report is based on their
findings. No major changes in Project design were recommended following the
appraisal.
B.  Agricultural Sector
1.02      Kenya, with a total area of 583,000 km2, is a country of great
topographical, climatic and soil contrasts. The altitude varies from sea
level to over 5,000 meters and climatic conditions range from very dry in



2-
marginal areas of the north to high rainfall in the forests of the southwest.
Kenya's Central Plateau includes areas ideally suited for agriculture by soils
and climate; as much as 80% of the country, however, is semi-arid or arid with
low to very low agricultural potential. Kenya's population is estimated at
14.7 million (mid-1979) and is growing at the rate of about 3.5% per year;
about 90% of the population is rural and depends on agriculture for a live-
lihood. There are wide variations in population density, sometimes corre-
sponding more to traditional or colonial settlement patterns than to the
potential of the land. Some areas have as many as 200 inhabitants per km2,
while others, even some high potential areas, have much lower densities. The
densities of the semi-arid and arid areas average only about eight inhabitants
per km2. Kenya's 1977 GDP in current market prices was about K Sh 32.4 bil-
lion, or K Sh 2,879 (US$383) per capita. The average annual per capita income
of the rural population is estimated at K Sh 720 (US$96) including subsistence
and cash.
1.03      Kenya's agricultural sector is characterized by a wide variety in
systems of production which reflect the ecological zones and patterns of land
holding and population distribution. A broad distinction can be made between
the large and medium farm sector (defined as over 20 ha) and the smallholder
sector. There are an estimated 2,000 medium and large holdings and about 1.2
million smallholdings of which about 50% are less than 2 ha and occupy only 4%
of the cultivable land. About 20% of smallholders are considered experienced
commercial farmers and about 20% are in transition between commercial and
subsistence agriculture; the remainder are at subsistence level. Most small-
holdings are farmed by their owner. In the arid and semi-arid areas, exten-
sive livestock grazing is the major economic activity with some subsistence
cropping in the areas with higher rainfall. This proposed Project would
focus on one semi-arid area in the Baringo District.
1.04      The share of agriculture in the GDP dropped from about 40% in 1964
to 28% in 1976 (in constant prices) largely as a result of rapid expansion in
other sectors. It rose again to 38% in 1977, mostly because of the rise in
coffee prices, and declined somewhat with these prices in 1978. Despite
Government efforts to develop the sector, recent growth in agriculture as a
whole has remained below the 1964-73 rate of 4.5%. This is principally due to
unfavorable weather conditions from 1973/74 to 1975/76. Agricultural exports,
always the largest single sectoral contributor to total exports, accounted for
about 60% (K Sh 5,300 million or US$706 million) of total exports (K Sh 8,830
million or US$1,177 million) in 1978. Coffee is Kenya's main export crop, but
other principal earners of foreign exchange are tea, sisal, pyrethrum, dairy
products, animal hides and skins, cotton, wool, nuts and animal feeds. Kenya
still imports significant quantities of agricultural products, notably wheat
and edible oils.
Livestock and Fisheries
1.05      Livestock is a major national resource.  There are an estimated
10.3 million head of cattle in Kenya, of which about 1.3 million are improved
dairy cattle. The growth rate of the national herd is estimated at 2% per



annum; the annual off-take rate at around 9%. Most smallholdings have some
livestock and over half of the livestock in Kenya are concentrated in areas of
high potential, where the cattle are kept for both meat and milk production.
About three quarters of the national herd are kept on smallholdings and
settlements; the remainder are on large farms or are grazed extensively,
often by nomadic pastoralists.
1.06      The estimated population of sheep and goats is 12 million.  Most
smallholders have some small stock and they are an important source of
protein, particularly in marginal areas. Local breeds have low production
potential and veterinary services for small stock are not well developed.
An FAO sheep and goats development program has been under implementation
in Kenya since 1972. The program, which was extended for four years in
1978, has so far provided 4,000 improved breeding stock to farmers and
pastoralists and conducted training for about 700 extension workers.
1.07      Of about 14 million poultry in Kenya, two million are improved
chickens and the rest local breeds. Apiculture was introduced many years
ago and many subsistence farmers in marginal areas keep bees. Honey produc-
tion has considerable potential as a source of human nutrition and as a cash
crop, but is limited at present by lack of equipment. There is little infor-
mation on fishing in Kenya. Traditional marine fishing goes on along the
coast, and inland the rivers and lakes are fished. There is also some fish-
farming. The national catch was estimated at about 40,000 tons for 1977; this
is insufficient to meet demand.
Crops
1.08      Maize is Kenya's staple crop and dominates the cropping pattern
in most areas. Over one million ha is under maize cultivation, with about 90%
on smallholdings less than five ha. The annual harvest varies between 1.3
and 1.8 million tons; the introduction of improved varieties has led to
increasing production and surpluses in the last two years. Smallholders
also grow beans, tea, coffee, pyrethrum, oilseeds, potatoes, fruit and
cotton. Cotton production increased from an average of between 4,000 and
6,000 tons in recent years to an estimated 8,000 tons in 1978 but produc-
tion of other crops has not grown as rapidly, largely because extension
and credit services have been lacking and poor infrastructure makes the
supply of inputs and marketing difficult. The main crops grown in arid
and semi-arid areas are sorghum, millet and beans. Maize is also cultivated
in semi-arid regions but with limited success.
1.09      With little high potential land remaining uncultivated, the growing
population is creating increasing pressure to develop lower potential areas
and forests, making action for effective resource conservation of paramount
importance. To achieve this, the Government is now emphasizing appropriate
soil conservation measures, especially in small farm areas, linked to re-
afforestation, long term development planning for marginal areas, and specific
schemes for ensuring the further intensified development of high potential
land by appropriate farming systems.



- 4-
Government Development Strategy
1.10      The Government's development objectives for agriculture have been
lefi-d as follows:  (a) where appropriate to achieve self-sufficiency in
agricultural products; (b) to increase both the output and productivity of
export commodities; (c) to diversify output to spread the risks of price
fluctuation; and (d) to raise incomes and living standards in the poorer
parts of the country. The reduction of rural-urban disparities and general
inequalities in incomes is a complementary long term objective of the Govern-
ment. The recently-completed fourth Five-Year Development Plan for 1979-83
places renewed emphasis on the alleviation of poverty by offering income
earning possibilities and providing for basic needs in nutrition, health,
education, housing and other social services. It places greater emphasis
on improvement of arid and semi-arid lands than in the past.
Bank/IDA Assistance to Agriculture and Rural Development
1.11      Bank/IDA financed projects in Kenya include:  three agricultural
credit projects (Cr. 105-KE, Cr. 344-KE and Cr. 692-KE/Ln. 1309-TKE), in-
tended largely to assist commercial farmers in higher potential areas, two
livestock projects (Cr. 129-KE and Cr. 477-KE), an Integrated Agricultural
Development Project (IADP I) aimed at assisting small-scale farmers in higher
potential areas (Cr. 650-KE/Ln. 1303-KE), a Smallholder Coffee Improvement
Project (Cr. 914-KE), a Group Farms Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 537-KE/Ln.
1093-KE), a Tea Project (Cr. 933-KE), a regional development project for
Narok District (Cr. 858-KE), and an irrigation project for the Bura area
(Cr. 722-KE/Ln. 1449-KE). A second IADP project and a fisheries project
should be approved during FY1980. In addition, a rural access road project
and a rural water supply project aim at improving basic rural services, while
two education projects have been primarily focused on schools in rural areas.
C. Arid and Semi-Arid Lands
1.12      Nearly 80% of Kenya is classified as arid and semi-arid land,
corresponding to ecological zones IV, V, and VI (Map 2, IBRD 14370). Thirty
of Kenya's 42 administrative divisions contain arid or semi-arid land and in
17 of these it accounts for more than 60% of the land area. Environments in
these areas range from desert to semi-arable and rainfall varies from 200 mm
to 800 mm a year. Agriculture is the main economic activity of these areas
with livestock providing the main source of subsistence and cash income. In
general, the better (semi-arid) areas skirt the higher altitude and higher
potential areas and run in a belt parallel to the coast; these areas can
support livestock and rainfed cropping. The poorer (arid) areas can support
only extensive livestock grazing. About three million Kenyans, or 20% of the
total population, live in arid and semi arid areas which also contain about
37% of the national cattle herd, 65%-70% of the sheep and goats and virtually
all the camels.



1.13      The delicate ecological balance in arid and semi-arid areas makes
them extremely sensitive to misuse. General population pressure in the
higher potential areas of Kenya has resulted in steady encroachment on the
more favored marginal areas; the deterioration of the environment has arisen
mainly from the growth of the local population, and the consequent need
for higher livestock numbers which in turn has led to overgrazing, soil
erosion and a drop in carrying capacity. With periodic droughts expected to
cause severe losses of livestock, individuals perceive a compelling interest
in building herd size as large as possible. A man who needs 30 head of cattle
to provide for his family will normally try to reach a minimum of 60 head so
that if half should die he would still have enough to survive. There are
usually tribal rules, decided by traditional leaders, aimed at controlling
grazing and rotating grazing areas, but faced with the logic of each in-
dividual's need to increase his own herd these constraints have limited
effect. In essence what was a logical system when population was lower has
for the past several decades been breaking down and threatens to lead to
further hardship, if not an ultimate disaster, for a large group of people.
Many arid and semi-arid areas are already suffering from overgrazing and
soil erosion and, due to the need for famine relief, have been a financial
burden to the Government while affording a very poor standard of living to
their inhabitants. Without a dramatic change in land-use patterns, the
prognosis for these areas is for further decline as population continues to
increase.
1.14      In the past, most economic development activity has been in the
higher potential areas; arid and semi-arid areas have not benefitted from
the relatively rapid growth experienced elsewhere in Kenya. Recently, how-
ever, this tendency has been reversed in the face of continued ecological
deterioration in the drier regions (para 1.13), falling productivity and
increasing need for food relief and in conjunction with the overall Government
policy of alleviating poverty. The number of studies and projects undertaken
in arid and semi-arid areas has increased significantly in recent years. In
1978, Government appointed an inter-ministerial task force to define the
issues involved in the integrated development of these areas and to provide a
framework for such development (para 1.01). The principal objectives set out
in the task force's report are "to alleviate poverty ... and to develop the
full production potential of these areas to provide employment opportunities
with income levels and economic security consistent with future national
expectations."
1.15      The Government of Kenya has decided to address the problems of
arid and semi-arid areas on an individual basis (that is, with separate
projects designed for the particular needs of the various areas), and to
utilize the existing institutional framework of administration and technical
services in the Districts (paras. 2.15 through 2.17), rather than creating
new, special purpose agencies for that purpose. The interministerial task
force defined future Government policy on development of arid and semi-arid
lands and formulated basic standards and approaches that would be applicable
for all such areas in Kenya. The proposals for the Baringo Pilot Semi-Arid
Areas Project (SAAP) are in accordance with this general policy and approach.



( !>Z ': Qd about u5.nu oopa?ato t'.'i.d And ou:Varid areas where some
dcvclopment activit:eL  are planned to develop tecclniqueo and policies to
reveroe the 0resat decline and to iiaprove incomeo of the local people.  A
number of muniitiiteral and bilateral agencies are assisting with projects in
these areas, including an EDF-financed project in Machakos District and an
Australia-n Project on drylands in Malindi District in the coastal belt; a
Margival Lands Study (MLS) supported by USAID has been carried out in these
D. Rural Development Services
Government Services
1.16      In general, rural services in the arid and semi-arid areas have
been much less developed than in the higher potential areas, although this
situation is changing with the Government's new emphasis on development of
arid and semi-arid areas. A number of Government institutions are becoming
increasingly active in development of drier regions. The recently established
Arid/Semi Arid Lands Development Branch of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
has particular responsibility for assessing the resources of these areas and
defining an overall strategy for their development. The Range Management
Branc'n of MOA has Range Management Officers with principal responsibility for
advising pastoralists (most of whom are in arid and semi-arid areas) on animal
husbandry.  Technical Ministries such as the Ministries of Works and Water
Development are responsible for development activities within their field
while the Ministry of Lands and Settlement implements policy on the redis-
tribution of land and adjudicates claims and issues titles. Local Government
institutions, under the District Commissioners, are playing an increasingly
active role.
1017      The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) has prime responsibility for
agricultural development and is organized in two departments, Agriculture
and Veterinary Services, and one division, Development Planning. The Depart-
ment of Agriculture implements policy and promotes agricultural production
while the Department of Veterinary Services provides health and breeding
facilities for livestock. The Development Planning Division is a support
unit for both these technical departments and is the main link with the
Ministry of Finance and Planning, taking responsibility for all economic
and planning matters related to agriculture. The divisional structure of
tbe Department of Agriculture was reorganized and simplified in early 1979 to
allow greater allocation of manpower and resources to projects the Government
wishnes to focus on. It now has five technical divisions: (i) Scientific
Research, (ii) Crop Production, (iii) Livestock Production, (iv) Land Develop-
ment and (v) Projects Management and Evaluation (PMED). PMED has overall
responsibility for management and implementation of on-going projects, and
for streamlining MOA technical services.
i.16      Agricultural Extension Services.  Ministry headquarters is respon-
sIble for overall policy decisions and administration but field operations are



-7 -
directed by the Provincial Directors of Agriculture in close liaison with the
Deputy Director of Agriculture and are organized on a district basis under
District Agricultural Officers. Provincial extension services have a high
degree of autonomy within certain limits set by Government policy. There are
approximately 12,000 extension agents for both crop and livestock development
and since 1976, Government policy has been to increase extension coverage in
key development areas, to upgrade the caliber of agents and to improve working
conditions. In particular, better transport facilities are required since
lack of transport has been a severe constraint, especially in arid and semi-
arid areas where population is sparse and often nomadic or semi-nomadic.
1.19      Staff Training.  Senior Agricultural staff are now mainly educated
to degree level at the University of Nairobi. Intermediate staff are trained
to diploma level in Egerton College and junior level staff receive certificate
level training at Embu or Bukura Institutes of Agriculture. In 1972, MOA
initiated a scheme designed to update the training of all extension officers.
and in the same year created the Land and Farm Management Division which
emphasized improvement of farm management standards. Under the new organiza-
tion of the Ministry, this function is continued by PMED. Assisted by the
Fourth Education Project (IDA Credit 797-KE), the Ministry of Education now
intends to expand the number of places in the Faculty of Agriculture from 385
to 690 by 1981, to improve the range of courses it offers, and to increase the
number of places at Bukura and Embu Institutes from a present total of 500
to 800 by 1983. It is also intended to increase the 650 places available at
Egerton College to 1600 by 1983.
1.20      Agricultural Research.  The Scientific Research Division has main
responsibility for agricultural research. Its Director is responsible to
the Director of Agriculture. The Division is directly involved in crop
research, including grasses and fodder, and manages facilities at research
stations which are used for animal husbandry research. There are 24 research
stations in Kenya; work there has so far concentrated on adaptation of im-
proved crop varieties, usually for the priority production of the area where
they were located. This played a significant part in increasing food pro-
duction in the years after Independence but it is now intended that the
Division's future work should concentrate on development of packages involving
all aspects of small farm operation. Research on domestic livestock is
done by the Veterinary Services Department and by the Range Management Branch
of the Livestock Production Division. Facilities at research stations are
often shared with the Scientific Research Division and joint programs are
undertaken. The Veterinary Research Laboratory at Kabete was established in
1910 and for many years all research on animal husbandry was done there.
More recently, laboratories have been set up at Nakuru, Karatina, Eldoret
and Kericho. Simple diagnostic facilities are currently maintained in every
district headquarters. Considerable research has been done in the past
on range reseeding, crop varieties and cultural methods for arid and semi-arid
regions. Since Independence the main center of such research has been the
Machakos District, starting with the Dry Land Research Project in 1965 and
continuing now under _he EDF-supported program (para 1.15). This research,
however, has been e-enral in scope and work remains to be done on adapting the
results to specLrtc areas such as that of the proposed Project.



- 8 -
1.21      The Ministry of Lands and Settlement.  The Ministry of Lands and
Settlement is organized in five departments: Lands, Surveys, Settlement,
Adjudication and Physical Planning. Much of the land in arid and semi-arid
areas is classified as Trust Land and the Adjudication Department is respon-
sible for adjudication of land rights there, the issuing of titles and other
rights. The Surveys Department produces maps and deed plans for land that
has been adjudicated. The activities of this Ministry are central to the
resettling of landless people, for instance, or the establishment of group
ranches which is being promoted in arid and semi-arid areas.
1.22      District Development Committees (DDCs).  Government's policy of
decentralizing development planning and implementation depends heavily on
the DDCs.  The DDC includes all Government officers posted to a district, as
well as County Council Members, local M.P.s, and other citizens selected by
the DDC. The Planning Department of the Ministry of Finance and Planning is
responsible for preparing national development plans and for routine planning
matters, but the Government has long been committed to development plannning
at District level. Until recently, there was no mechanism for achieving
this goal but, following the establishment of the experimental Special Rural
Development Program in six pilot areas in 1967, considerable experience was
gained of the way in which development planning could be effectively decen-
tralized. The first DDCs were established as forums for discussing local
development matters. It was subsequently decided to establish a permanent
DDC in each of the country's 42 districts to produce District Development
Plans to be forwarded to Nairobi and used in formulating the National Devel-
opment Plan. The DDC is chaired by the District Commissioner (D.C.). The
District Development Officer is an influential member of the DDC and acts as
secretary; the District Agricultural Officer also plays a major role on it.
1.23      Other Government Services.  The Ministry of Water Development
has carried out water prospecting activities from time to time in arid and
semi-arid areas and the Ministry of Works (Roads Department) is responsible
for road construction. Generally, however, the drier regions of Kenya have
been poorly provided with services. This is largely explained by the diffi-
culties inherent in operating in such regions. The trend, however, is to
greater involvement on the part of all Ministries in the arid and semi-arid
areas and this can be expected to accelerate with the ever increasing pressure
to develop marginal lands.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. General
2.01      The Project would be implemented in part of Baringo District,
Rift Valley Province (Map 2, IBRD 14370). Baringo Disirict, which lies
in North-Central Kenya, has an area of about 10,700 km and a population
estimated at 178,000. It includes some areas of high potential centered



- 9 -
around Kabarnet, the District headquarters. Most of the District, however,
is semi-arid with relatively low potential for agricultural development.
The Project area would fall entirely within th Ise semi-arid areas and would
include a total area of approximately 4,000 km , or 37% of the District. At
the center of the area is Lake Baringo, a shallow lake covering about 130 km2.
Marigat, the main town, is a small settlement housing the divisional head-
quarters. The Baringo Project area was selected largely because its geo-
graphic and sociological problems are representative of those facing many of
Kenya's semi-arid areas. It is hoped that experience gained through this
Project would therefore be applicable to subsequent development programs in
other arid and semi-arid regions of Kenya. The selection of the area also
reflects the Government's high priority for development of Baringo, one of
Kenya's poorer Districts, which presents a case of severe degradation of
natural resources resulting from poor range management (para. 2.06). Within
the Project area, development activities would focus on areas with particular
development problems and concentrations of population, notably the eastern
slopes of the Tugen Hills and the proposed group ranch (para. 2.10) locations.
2.02      All the semi-arid areas in Baringo District are characterized by
heavy dependence on, and overutilization of, the land. The majority of
the population rely mostly on livestock for subsistence; rainfed cropping
is limited. Livestock production already far exceeds the present carrying
capacity of the rangelands under the present grazing system; in many years
even basic subsistence requirements cannot be met and Government food relief
is necessary. The obvious immediate solution, destocking, would be un-
acceptable to the people and, in any case, would not be feasible unless an
alternative source of subsistence were offered since it would increase the
nutritional deficit of the area. If the census figures are even approximately
correct, it would appear that a family of six people in Baringo will own, on
average, between five and eight cattle, about 10 sheep and between 16 and
23 goats. Other calculations suggest that a family would own the equivalent
of 14 LSU 1!; 20 to 24 LSU is usually considered the minimum requirement for
subsistence. If decisive changes are not brought about, the condition of the
people must deteriorate even further, and they will in all probability become
permanently dependent on famine relief or need to be settled elsewhere. This
solution would pose enormous problems due to the existing pressures in high
potential areas and the limited opportunities for further settlement. Pre-
vious attempts to tackle these problems have met with little success (para
2.03). It is readily acknowledged that the theoretical aspects of what needs
to be done are relatively easy to describe; the problem lies in implementing
the proposals and establishing the practices as a permanent factor of life in
the District.
1/   LSU = Livestock Unit = 454 kg liveweight.



- 10 -
2.03      A number of schemes for controlling grazing in Baringo District were
instituted by the colonial authorities in the past but they were resented by
the people and failed. The West Pokot Grazing Schemes were instituted in 1954
and by 1959 there were six schemes covering 35,000 acres. A four-block four-
month rotational system was used. Shortly after Independence the schemes
broke down, partly because of drought but also because of opposition by
politicians responding to local unpopularity of the schemes under which a
grazing fee was charged. The Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project (Loan
914-KE) includes a smallholder coffee growing area in the southwest of
Baringo District while the Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project
(IADP II, para 4.11) is expected to be implemented in the higher potential
areas of the District above the 1,500 m contour.
Climate, Soils and Topography
2.04      The climate in the Project area is semi-arid and is represented
by Kenya Ecoclimatic Zones IV and V (Map 2, IBRD 14370). This climate is
suitable for productive rangelands but limits crop production potential.
Rainfall depends to a certain extent on altitude and generally varies
from 500 mm to 750 mm a year. While this level of precipitation is fairly
low and can vary considerably from month to month within any given year,
total annual rainfall is relatively reliable in comparison with arid and
semi-arid areas in other parts of Africa. In these areas the constraint
on agriculture is less the amount of rainfall than the fact that so little is
retained by the degraded range. Rain can be expected in all months but the
wettest are from April to August. Maximum average temperatures are high
(over 300C every month) and can rise to over 37 0C.  Humidity is usually
around 70% at 0900 hours, dropping to 40% by 1500 hours.
2.05      The MLS team produced a soil map of the southern part of the Pro-
ject area extending from 0015 to the north end of Lake Baringo.  Five major
soil types were identified: Ferrilsols, Nitosols, Cambisols, Solonchaks and
Fluvisols. The three main soils of the SAAP area are 'HIb,' 'AXI,' and 'LIB.'
To the north and southwest of Lake Baringo, where slopes are rolling to
hilly, most of the soils are shallow with numerous surface stones. To the
west of Baringo District, the terrain is steeply undulated and soils are
deep with stones and boulders commonly occurring on the surface. On the
Loboi swamps and Njemps flats between the two lakes, soils are moderately to
very deep and stratified in some places. The soils of this area are asso-
ciated with problems of alkalinity and salinity and although generally well
drained, there are some areas of impeded drainage. Lake Baringo is the
principal perennial source of water, most rivers and streams in the Project
area being seasonal.
Ecological System
2.06      The vegetation is mainly Acacia thickets and scrub with poor
ground cover and often a dense canopy at one or two meters. Around the
lake there are open areas of mixed forbe associations. The District has
a severe soil erosion problem. The rangelands have been seriously overgrazed



- 11 -
for a number of years; range quality is poor and the trend is towards a
continued decrease in production. Grass production levels are low and the
majority of natural forage is produced by herb and shrub species. The pre-
sent low grazing productivity is largely the result of poor management;
grasses are being eaten out causing large areas of bare soil which result in
high runoff of rain. This increases erosion and substantially lowers the
amount of moisture available for plant growth.  On hills and slopes in the
area, severe erosion is caused by water runoff and in places there is virtu-
ally no top soil left but previous work in the area (para. 2.20) suggests that
many areas of rangeland could be rehabilitated using relatively simple known
techniques.  The once abundant wildlife of the area has been driven away
by poor conditions and competition with man and his animals. There are
flamingoes, however, on Lake Bogoria and the occasional Kudu is sighted in the
hills around the lake.
Sociological and Demographic Features
2.07      The accurate assessment of population and population change over
time is particularly difficult in arid and semi-arid areas and the data
available for Baringo is subject to reserve. However, it is evident that the
human population has increased significantly over the last 40 years and the
data suggest that the present population of 178,000 for Baringo District may
be five times as high as in 1936. The present population of the Project area
is estimated to be between 30,000 and 40,000 people.  The population growth
rate is estimated between 1% and 2%, significantly less than the national   2
average of 3.5%. Population density varirs from 13 or 14 inhabitants per km
around Lake Baringo to five people per km in the north of the area. There
is some movement of population within the Project area, particularly away from
Ewalel and Saimo locations into Njemps and also some in-migration to the
area.
2.08      A considerable body of sociological information on the population
of the Project area has been built up over a number of years. There are
three main ethnic groups: the Tugen, the Njemps and the Pokot. The Tugen,
living in the south and west of the District, are partly agriculturalists
and partly stock raisers as are the Njemps, a Masai-related group living
around Lake Baringo and eastwards to the Laikipia escarpment. The Njemps
have a preference for livestock and also do some fishing in the lake. The
Pokot, who live to the north of the lake, where they recently moved because
of security problems in their homelands further north, were originally semi-
nomadic pastoralists who are now turning to settled agriculture. All three
groups have a well developed social organization based on clan and lineage
relationships. Traditional leadership rests with elders whose opinions and
advice carry great weight within the society. They have the power to make
decisions affecting the group, notably decisions concerning the use of
grazing areas. They can demand the closure of certain areas and select
which areas should be grazed; they have the power to punish transgressors.
The cooperation of these influential individuals would be very important
in any effort to improve range management in the Project area (para. 5.06).



- 12 -
Land Rights
2.09      All land in the Project area is presently held communally and formal
land adjudication has not yet been undertaken in this area (para 2.30), the
different social groups have proprietary rights through past use. Tradition-
ally each group, through its tribal elders, controlled grazing and cropping
but this system has broken down to some extent because of pressure from
population growth and the movement of people into the area. The various
groups do not respect each others' traditional disciplines and, in several
cases, grazing areas set aside by the local population for resting have been
grazed by newly arrived pastoralists. In these circumstances, the various
groups feel unable to control their resources and, without legal tenure, do
not have the confidence to invest in development.
2.10      Group Ranches.  In recent years, the various groups have expressed
interest in the idea of forming group ranches to gain greater control over
their resources.  This has been thoroughly 2discussed and the general principle
accepted by six groups with about 1,170 km of land and 21,000 stock units;
a further six groups are considering the possibility. The fundamental aim
of establishing group ranches is to give a group of people sole, undisputed
right to use a specific area of land for grazing. Development of the group
ranches is being organized by staff of the Range Management Branch of MOA
who have held meetings to explain the concept to the people and have helped
to define boundaries which are typically based on traditional grazing areas
of each community. Neighboring groups are given the opportunity to criticize
and comment before the boundaries are fixed. At 01 Arabel, Ngambo and Mukutan,
boundaries have been decided and representatives elected to the group ranch
committees. Others are in an earlier stage of development.
Socio-Economic Conditions
2.11      Baringo is one of Kenya's poorer Districts; the majority of the
population live at subsistence level and it is not uncommon for production to
fall so low that even subsistence needs cannot be met without supplementary
Government food relief (para. 2.02). Heavy dependence on livestock and
limited crop production make the population vulnerable to periodic nutritional
deficits caused by drought or disease. Employment opportunities are few: it
was estimated that about 2,800 people were in permanent employment and 8,000
in casual employment in 1972. The total of wages earned in that year repre-
sented an annual wage-earned income of less than KSh 20 per capita.
Physical Infrastructure
2.12      Roads and Water Supply.  Baringo District is poorly served by
roads and this is a severe constraint on extension work and other develop-
mental activity. There is a total of about 890 km of classified road in
the District. Of this, only 140 km is classified as National Trunk Road,
265 km is classified as primary road and the balance is made up of secondary
and minor road. At present the most important road in the Project area is
the one running from Kabarnet to Nginyang and Kolowa. A new tourist road
is being constructed to run from the west of Lake Bogoria to Maralal and



- 1 3 -
should be of value to the general development of the area. It will permit
crossing of the Molo river in the wet season. Away from Lake Baringo there is
a serious shortage of water for human and animal consumption. The MLS (para
1.15) estimated that, on average, people walked 1.3 km for water in the :ainy
season and 3.4 km in the dry season.  This survey, however, included part  of
the Tugen Hills where water is more readily available than in the lowlands.
Distances travelled in the Baringo SAAP Project area are probably considerably
greater. There is no storage capacity for the floodwaters of seasonal rivers
and the use of tubewells is not well developed although some hand-dug wells
are sunk into the beds of seasonal rivers during the dry season. Not only are
there insufficient reliable sources to meet local demand, but there are prob-
lems in running and maintaining existing supplies.
2.13      Health Facilities.  The District as a whole is relatively well
provided with health facilities: there are two hospitals with a total of
133 beds, five health centers and 28 dispensaries. This coverage (0.95 beds
per 1,000 people and one health center per 27,000 people) is better than the
national long term targets of 0.8 hospital beds per 1,000 people and one
health center per 50,000. These facilities, however, are mostly concentrated
in the higher potential areas of the District; facilities in the Project area
are limited and where they do exist, tend to be short of basic supplies and
equipment. Malnutrition and communicable diseases, such as malaria, are
common in the Project area and they have a clear debilitating effect on the
population.
2.14      Education Facilities.  The District has a total of 22 primary and
five secondary schools, but, as with health facilities, they are concentrated
mainly in the higher potential areas. It is reported that the semi-nomadic
pastoralists are reluctant to send their children to school and the DDC (para.
1.22) has identified the need to improve boarding facilities in the arid and
semi-arid areas. Facilities for adult education are available in Baringo
District but again these are centered in the high potential areas and have
little impact on the Project area.
Administrative Institutions
2.15      The most important institution relating to the development of the
Baringo SAAP is the District Administration. It is headed by the District
Commissioner (D.C). He is stationed at Kabarnet and has overall responsi-
bility for the security, order and general administration of the District.
The D.C. reports through the Provincial Commissioner at Nakuru to the
Office of the President in Nairobi. He is assisted by District Officers
who have responsibility for the administration of one Division and who,
in turn, supervise Chiefs and Sub-Chiefs at location and sub-location level.
These Chiefs and Sub-Chiefs are the main channel of communication between
the people and the Administration and they have wide-ranging local power
entrusted to them under the Chiefs Act.
2.16      The technical Ministries are represented at District level by
officers who are responsible for matters of general discipline to the D.C.
and for technical matters to the Provincial Heads of their respective



- 14 -
Ministry. All technical Ministries have a District representative at Kar-
barnet and there are a number who also have staff at Marigat. The District
Range Officer, with responsibility for range management throughout the
District, is stationed at Marigat. The DDC serves as a forum for interchange
between these officers and for coordination of their activities. The DDC is
intended to play a principal role in the planning, implementation and evalua-
tion of development projects at District level. In practice, much depends on
the individual D.C. and District Development Officer involved who are respec-
tively chairman and secretary of the committee. The District Development
Officer is recruited and paid by the Office of the President and reports
directly to the D.C. There are also Locational and Divisional Develop-
ment Committees who identify constraints and possible projects in their
jurisdiction and submit recommendations to the DDC.
2.17      The traditional elders are not formally part of any official insti-
tution but they are possibly the single most powerful force in many rural
areas. In some instances the Government-appointed Chief happens also to be a
senior elder and in these cases the relationship between traditional and
Government leadership is harmonious. In other cases, however, there can be
considerable discord betwen elders and the Chiefs and Sub-Chiefs.
B. Agricultural Activities
Livestock
2.18      Livestock forms the basis of the subsistence economy of the arid
and semi-arid parts Baringo District and are managed using traditional methods
found throughout pastoral areas of East Africa. Cattle are kept primarily
for subsistence consumption and as milk is the main subsistence food, the pro-
portion of cows in the herd is large. In times of drought few male calves are
reared and offtake rates are therefore relatively low.  Unproductive and aged
cattle are killed for local consumption. Estimates of the livestock popula-
tion for Baringo District vary significantly; the MLS, for instance, quotes
the cattle population as 250,000 while the Kenya Range Monitoring Unit put it
at 214,500. The Marginal Semi-Arid Lands Pre-Investment Study estimated the
cattle population of the Project area to be 50,000 head and the smallstock
population to be 150,000 head in 1976; these figures were based on information
supplied by the District Range Officer. The discrepancies are acknowledged by
all who have to use these figures and a reliable professional livestock census
of the District is obviously called for. Livestock within the Project area
are mostly indigenous breeds which are well adapted to local conditions. In
highland parts of Baringo District some local cattle have been upgraded
through the use of artificial insemination with semen of exotic breeds and a
few sheep and goats have also been upgraded by crossbreeding.



- 15 -
2.19      Livestock of the area are subject to most of the common East African
diseases, including East Coast Fever, Anaplamosis, Redwater and bovine Trypano-
somiasis. There were three outbreaks of Foot and Mouth Disease in Baringo
District in 1977. There are only six, poorly maintained, dips in the Project
area and animal health and husbandry services are generally lacking. There
are no reliable figures on productivity of livestock in the Project area
but it is likely that mortality is high, inter-calf intervals long and growth
rates and milk yields low. There is only limited official sale of livestock
in Baringo District. Official marketing data for 1977 show a commercial
offtake of less than 1%, but this figure does not include domestic consumption
and unrecorded sales. Data on the sale of skins and hides from the District
for 1977 show total offtake rates of 7.8% for cattle, 16.7% for sheep and
18.4% for goats; these figures probably include hides and skins resulting from
natural death as well as slaughter.
2.20      Range Resources.  The condition of the rangelands in Baringo District
has declined drastically since the early part of the century. The range has
been reduced through constant overgrazing and soil erosion to its present poor
quality thicket and scrub. This situation is the result of overutilization,
by private grazing, of a communal resource. There is no control of livestock
grazing nor any effective attempt made at rotational grazing. There is however
a spontaneous sort of grazing rotation which does not imply the movement of
animals; livestock use what grass and palatable herbs there may be during
the wet season and then live on browse during the dry. The receding flood
plain around the lake is also heavily used during the dry season. There is
some voluntary closing of certain areas to create reserves and prevent over-
grazing but these areas, mostly in Njemps land, are insufficient to have a
significant impact. A considerable amount of work has been done on the
techniques and species needed for range rehabilitation; one conclusion reached
was that while bush clearing was possible, mechnical means were not effective
in the long run and were difficult to justify economically.
2.21      Honey production is an important activity in parts of the Project
area. It is based on a cooperative and refinery at Kibingor. Average pro-
duction per hive was about 6 kg in 1976 but potential production has been esti-
mated at over 25 kg per hive. Farmers are well disposed to adopting improved
production methods.
Crops
2.22      In the arid and semi-arid areas of Baringo, cropping takes second
place to livestock production. Where it is carried out it is usually mixed;
finger millet, beans, sorghum and maize are the common crops. An estimated
12,300 ha are under crops in the District, principally in the higher potential
areas. Most crop production is undertaken by smallholders; the main cropping
undertaken in the Project area is shifting cultivation. There is a single
rainy season which, theoretically, allows sufficient time for thorough land
preparation. Methods of land preparation and crop cultivation are traditional
using the hoe. No systematic soil conservation practices are followed and a
field is usually abandoned after three or four years for a fallow period of



- 16 -
about five years. Dryland cropping is mainly carried out on the slopes of the
Tugen Hills; rainfall and soil data suggest it could be expanded. Recently
some development and extension work has been done in the north of the area
based on Kositei. Results show that while maize will fail in most years,
sorghum varieties can give a good crop and even a useful post-harvest tiller
crop. Cropping, particularly dryland cropping, presents the most promising
single development alternative to livestock.
2.23      Small Scale Irrigation.  There are a number of small scale private
or cooperative irrigation schemes in the Project area, most notably around
the Loboi swamps and on the Ndau river north of Marigat. With the exception
of a private mechanized schme at Kampi ya Samaki which produces melons for
export, schemes in the area use simple traditional furrows for irrigation.
The scheme at Perkerra covers 415 ha but only half of this is presently
cropped, mostly with onions and chillies. There are about 330 tenants on this
scheme with holdings that range from 0.8 ha to 1.6 ha. The mean tenant income
for the whole scheme was KSh 3,845 in 1976/77 but 30% of the tenants earned
less than KSh 1,000.
2.24      Contraints on Cropping.  Although the lowland cropping areas of
Baringo are classified as semi-arid, this is not entirely due to low rainfall.
The total annual amount of rainfall is not a major constraint per se in most
years (para. 2.04). The problem is that most of the area is so eroded and
degraded that only a small proportion of the precipitation is retained in
the ground; most of it runs off down the slopes. Soil fertility has been
reduced by continuous erosion and in parts of the Project area only bare rock
remains. This is not the case everywhere, however, and fertility is not
necessarily reduced beyond redemption. There are indications that soil
fertility can be restored through proper soil and crop husbandry; a privately
initiated reseeding campaign near the former Chemeron reseeding plots has
produced vigorous growth of perennial grasses such as Cenchrus ciliaris and
Eragrostis superba. Irrigated cropping is constrained by scarcity of water;
the irrigated area at Perkerra cannot be expanded for this reason. Illegal
grazing is also a problem and the authorities consider that it may be necessary
to exclude all livestock from the area to overcome this. Proposals for
building a dam or series of dams on the Perkerra would have considerable
environmental effects downstream and this has so far precluded any stabiliza-
tion of the flow of the Perkerra.
Fisheries
2.25      There is a fishing cooperative based at Kampi ya Samaki on the
western shore of Lake Baringo. Although on a national scale it contributes
little to the total catch, it is locally important. The cooperative currently
faces a number of problems, including the gradual silting up of the lake due
to soil erosion in the catchment area and a decrease in the size of fish caught.
Other Occupations and Sources of Income
2.26      Apart from agriculture there are very few sources of income for
the people of the Project area (para 2.11). Some are employed as wage
laborers and drivers on the Perkerra Irigation Scheme and others earn their



- 17 -
living working in the shops and other limited amenities at Marigat. The
commercial irrigation scheme at Kampi ya Samaki employs a handful of laborers
and the two tourist hotels also employ a number of local people.
C. Rural Services
Extension and Research
2.27      The inadequacy of the extension service is the main institutional
constraint on agricultural production in the whole of Baringo District. A
major problem is low morale due to lack of transport, staff, funds and
supervision. This is true even in the high potential areas and in the Project
area, extension services are very limited. A good research basis for develop-
ment within the area has been established. The MLS team (para. 1.15) produced
a soil map of the southern part of the area. A detailed study of the vegeta-
tion in Njemps location was carried out by the UNDP/FAO Range Management
Project in 1967 and the Marginal Semi-Arid Lands Pre-Investment Inventory
report includes a vegetation map of the southwest part of the SAAP rea. Much
research and trial work has been done on bush clearing and range reseeding in
the area and there is a well-documented account and analysis of the technical
procedures which were found to be most suitable; none, however, has been
implemented on a large scale. The grass mixtures best suited to the area have
also been identified.
Storage, Marketing and Processing
2.28      Marketed produce from the Project area is negligible; the area in
fact is a net importer of agricultural produce. Storage facilities are meager
and discussions with farmers on the irrigation schemes suggest that lack of
storage reduces the benefits of their cropping activities. There are no
commercial processing facilities within the Project area except for a fish
factory at Kampi ya Samaki which has a freezing facility.
Agricultural Credit
2.29      There is no formalized agricultural credit facility operating in
the Project area. There is, however, an informal, widespread and important
system of credit based on the loan of livestock. This traditional system
enables a farmer with little or no stock to borrow from kinsmen or friends.
The debt is serviced and repaid by returning progeny of the borrowed stock
to the original owner. This is of obvious advantage to the borrower and also
to the owner of surplus animals since the danger of loss from disease or theft
is reduced.
Land Adjudication
2.30      The Ministry of Lands and Settlement (para 1.21), which is respon-
sible for adjudication of land and issuing title deeds to it, has a District
staff stationed in Baringo. Although they are hampered by lack of staff and



18 -
poor transport facilities, land adjudication in the higher potential areas
of the District is well advanced; the land has been divided into individual
holdings and the farmers have received title. Within the Project area,
however, the land is less productive and adjudication there would be on the
basis of group ranches. The Ministry's policy of concentrating on the higher
potential areas has been recently made more flexible and it is expected that
extra staff will be seconded to the Baringo District to help with adjudication
of the group ranches (para. 2.10).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Strategy
3.01      The central objective of the proposed Project is to establish a
field-tested basis for the rehabilitation and development of the semi-arid
areas of Baringo District. The problem is to introduce and adapt a number
of broadly known techniques in such a manner that the local population
accept and adopt them. The Project is designed as a relatively small pilot
effort, and several components are of an explicitly experimental character.
The Project includes a substantial technical assistance element as the central
task will be to try out a number of technical packages and to plan for and
evaluate a broader development program for the district. It is expected
that the experience gained under this Project will be applicable in other arid
and semi-arid areas of Kenya. The approach proposed is empirical, and Project
components would be developed, tested and subsequently adopted, initially
on a relatively small scale, during the Project implementation period.
3.02      Past experience in Kenya and elsewhere in Africa has shown that a
narrowly defined sectoral approach (for example, designed solely to promote
livestock or a single crop) is often inadequate to achieve development in an
area like Baringo. An integrated approach, taking into account all aspects
of the area's economy and society, is essential to secure the community's
support. Without this support, the demonstration of soil conservation, range
rehabilitation, and grazing management will, by itself, have little impact.
The technical approach is based on the fact that under the present system of
grazing the area is already overpopulated by livestock. Since the human popu-
lation is mainly dependent on livestock, and currently lives at or below sub-
sistence level, it is difficult to convince them of the need to control stock
numbers. The intention is to attempt through development of a combination of
different components to reduce dependence on livestock and at the same time
demonstrate the benefits of proper land, pasture and livestock management.
While the ultimate carrying capacity of the land can be improved and live-
stock production improved, the long term effects of rising population make
other sources of sustenance and income necessary. Dependence on livestock
would be reduced by increasing the amount of cropping, principally cereals,
and creating alternative employment opportunities such as beekeeping, charcoal
production and, possibly, local rural industries and crafts. A further major



- 19 -
objective of the Project would be to test the viability of labor intensive
techniques in developing arid and semi-arid lands using local labor. The
motivation of the people to work on improving their environment would be a
major focus of the Project. If a package for integrated, labor intensive
development of the Project area were successfully defined, it is expected that
this Project would be followed by a further project implemented in a larger
area.
B. General Description
3.03      The Project would be implemented over a four year period.  It would
include the following components:
(a) Development and extension of suitable management techniques
for water and soil erosion control, for development of grazing
and crop areas and for forest nurseries;
(b) Development of improved cultivation methods and testing and
extension of crop varieties for dry land and irrigated pro-
duction through adaptive research and field demonstrations;
(c) Development, implementation and demonstration to livestock
owners of better husbandry, range management, fodder produc-
tion, water supplies and marketing facilities to improve
livestock production in Baringo;
(d) Improvement and development of rural infrastructure including
health and education services, rural industries and handicrafts
and selected roads and tracks;
(e) Provision of Government staff and establishment of a Project
Headquarters in Baringo with appropriate office, transport and
housing facilities;
(f) Provision of four specialists and short-term consultants for
Project implementation; planning studies for future ASAL
programs and monitoring of Project components; and
(g) A Development Fund for investment in certain production activi-
ties to be identified and carried out during the implementation
of the other components of the Project.
Project Implementation
3.04      The Project would be implemented in accordance with detailed
annual work plans (paras 4.03 and 4.05). To ensure its development within
the existing Government framework, the Project would be implemented by Govern-
ment staff supported by the team of technical specialists. Local authorities,
the D.C. and location and sub-location chiefs would be actively involved in
decisions affecting Project implementation.



- 20 -
C. Detailed Features
Soil and Water Conservation
3.05      The Project Soil and Water Conservation activities would be designed
to develop soil and water conservation systems suitable for semi-arid areas
and to provide experience on which a more extensive soil and water program
could be based. The emphasis would be on developing low-cost conservation
methods based on labor intensive techniques. There are many conservation
measures developed by the Land Development Division of MOA which could be used
in the area; these include contour farming, trashlines, and the establishment
of grass strips. Cut-off drains and artificial water ways would be used on
non-cultivated land bunds.
3.06      The majority of the work would be done on the eastern slopes of the
Tugen Hills between Kibingor and Sabor. The labor for this work would be
recruited from the resident population. Project activities would be aimed at
developing the most effective ways of organizing and implementing a soil
conservation program and Project staff would investigate the potential for a
system of management and remuneration which could be used in this and other
semi-arid areas. The tractor unit (para 3.23) would be used to develop simple
mechanized conservation techniques which could be used on the lower slopes of
the Tugen Hills and the Njemps flats. This would allow a comparison of the
costs and effectiveness of simple mechanized and labor intensive methods for
the different areas to be made and develop tractor powered techniques which
might be used if labor were in short supply or proved to be more costly (para
5.07).
3.07      Two small forestry nurseries would be established, one at Kibingor
and the other at Marigat. Each nursery would produce about 300,000 seedlings
of selected species to be planted in soil conservation areas. Seedlings
would also be planted around water courses and dams. A study of the Perkerra
catchment area would be undertaken in coordination with other relevant Govern-
ment organizations and would concentrate on drawing up a plan for the rehabil-
itation and management of the whole catchment. This may result not only
in improvement in the catchment area but better utilization of the Perkerra
Scheme due to more coastant flow.
3.08      The main investments under this component would be for the purchase
and operation of dumper trucks, tractors and motorbikes; for the construction
of the nursery buildings and staff housing and salaries; and for the equipment
and materials needed for the nurseries and for the conservation work.
Agronomy and Irrigation
3.09      The development of dry land and irrigated crop production would
be encouraged in the area to reduce the population's dependence on livestock
as a source of food and thereby help control overstocking. The results of
dry land farming research done elsewhere in Kenya would be used to select crop
species and varieties which might do well in the semi-arid parts of Baringo.
These would be tested in suitably located demonstration plots. A dry land



- 21 -
farming system would be developed and advice would be given to farmers on land
preparation, planting, weeding, harvesting, storage and marketing. Efforts
would be made to increase the amount of land under crops and new farmers
helped with certain inputs and technical assistance.
3.10      There are already a number of small scale irrigation schemes in
swamp lands in the area (para 2.23) and Project activities would help to
stabilize the supply of water and improve canalization on them. The tractor
unit would be used to help selected schemes with land preparation. Project
staff would coordinate their work with staff of other Government projects
working on small-scale irrigation, and would identify and develop new sites
for small scale irrigation schemes. These schemes would use both perennial
and seasonal sources of water.
3.11      Plans would be prepared for the agricultural development of semi-
arid areas during possible future projects. They would include details of
extension packages for dry land and irrigated crop production, the need for
credit and marketing facilities and the integration of crop production with
proper soil and water conservation methods. The specific allocation of
Project funds (Total K Sh 2.8 M) for dryland and irrigated crop development
activities would be determined by the crops officer assisted by the agronomy
specialist (para 4.03); other investments would be for purchase of three
motorcycles and for staff housing and salaries.
Livestock and Range Management
3.12      Poor range management and the high incidence of disease are major
constraints on livestock production in the Project area. To improve animal
health care, assistance would be given for the construction and maintenance
of sixteen new cattle dips. Project personnel would aid the Veterinary
Department staff with the proposed Foot and Mouth Disease vaccination campaign
and with constructing vaccination crushes where necessary. Principal invest-
ments would be for the construction of dips and crushes; for costs of equip-
ment, transport and data analysis for an ecological survey of Tsetse fly in
the area, and for incremental staff salaries.
3.13      Studies of traditional animal husbandry practices, livestock pro-
duction parameters and marketing data would be carried out by Project staff
to recommend improved techniques for increasing the area's carrying capacity.
Livestock owners would be advised on the best management methods to use for
each class of stock and, in association with the Livestock Marketing Branch
of MOA, plans would be prepared for a marketing program. The production,
preparation and sale of hides and skins would also be reviewed and a center
established at Marigat to demonstrate proper preparation methods and assist
with marketing. The potential for establishing a rural tannery would be
investigated. Initially sales of incremental production would be local since
the area is a net importer of agricultural produce.



22 -
3.14      A labor intensive bush clearing and range reseeding program would
be implemented. Substantial research and trial work has been done on bush
clearing and range reseeding in Baringo District, and there exists a well
documented account and analysis of the basic technical procedures which
should be followed. Initially this program would take the form of demonstra-
tion plots located in selected areas to show livestock owners the benefits
of pasture improvement. Subsequent development would take place on a larger
scale, mainly in those areas being adjudicated as group ranches. Project
staff would develop suitable labor intensive methods but the tractor unit
(para 3.23) would also be used to provide a comparison of the cost effective-
ness of labor intensive and mechanical techniques. A charcoal production unit
would be set up in conjunction with the bush clearing activities. This unit
would operate two portable kilns and develop methods of charcoal production to
defray the cost of pasture improvement. The principal investment would be for
purchase of the kilns. Charcoal is in strong demand and good returns can be
expected. A range extension unit would be provided to help in the development
of proper range and livestock management techniques in the area. Vehicles and
camping equipment would be provided for land adjudication teams operating in
the area to speed up the establishment of the group ranches. The principal
investments would be for the equipment and implementation of the ecological
and animal husbandry surveys, staff housing, materials, labor and the purchase
of four-wheel drive vehicles to facilitate land adjudication work, and motor-
cycles for assistants.
3.15      Water facilities would be improved in the range areas and, if
properly planned and operated, would contribute positively to pasture con-
trol. The merits of labor intensive, ox-drawn and mechanized methods of dam
construction and rehabilitation would be compared.  Wells would be dug by
hand, in, or adjacent to, suitable river beds.  The principal investments
for the water supply activities would be in equipment, materials and labor.
3.16      Honey production, already well established in one part of the Dis-
trict, would be encouraged and extension workers would advise bee keepers
on how to operate improved equipment and on husbandry techniques and help with
formation of cooperatives and marketing. The fishing industry on Lake Baringo
would also be studied and recommendations made for the future development of
both commercial and subsistence fishing.  A small poultry production unit
would be established to provide improved but hardy birds. Details of allo-
cation of funds for honey and fishery development would be determined during
implementation. Investments for poultry development would be principally in
buildings, equipment and staff salaries.
3.17      Project staff would work closely with the FAO project in Nakuru
(para 1.06) to develop suitable fodder crops for the area. This would involve
the establishment of trial and demonstration plots for potential fodder
species and the distribution of suitable species to livestock owners. The
increased use of fodder plants would be very important in increasing the
productivity of local stock and helping with the acceptance of range reseeding
and grazing control. The details of investments for this component would be
determined after discussions with FAO staff.



- 23 -
3.18      Detailed plans for the range and livestock components of a possible
further project in the Baringo District would be prepared. These plans, which
would include all the aspects of developments covered in the proposed Project,
would be closely integrated with the other components proposed for the long
term development of the District.
Rural Services
3.19      The objective of this component would be to improve the infrastruc-
ture required to provide key basic services in the Project area. Those
activities that have been identified as most likely to contribute to the
increased productivity and well-being of people in the area are improved
coverage and quality of health services, better maintenance of existing roads
and tracks, better access to basic commodities and improved educational
resources.  By providing improved henl-h facilities and a modest amount of
funds for other services, a good relationship with the population should be
established. This would be important in securing the cooperation necessary
for carrying out the proposed changes under the agriultural components. The
various services would be part of the appropriate Ministry's work program.
3.20      A limited program of labor intensive road and track maintenance
would be undertaken. It would concentrate on those roads and tracks that
would be used in Project implementation and would not entail the construction
of any major new roads. Investments would be for equipment and tools, two
motorcycles, and labor. To provide access to basic commodities in remote
areas, a truck would be purchased and outfitted as a mobile service shop.
Upgrading of schools would be accomplished by the purchase of modest amounts
of educational equipment, school furniture and hoes for school garden plots.
3.21      To increase the coverage and quality of health and medical care,
an integrated rural health program designed to alleviate the major health
problems would be introduced in the area.  Two health centers will be
improved, one at Nginyang and one at Lobi, and three new dispensaries will be
constructed one each at Loruk, Chemolingot and Liminang.  Vehicles will be
provided to extend services into villages beyond the immediate areas of these
facilities. Primary health services at the local level would be developed
through community participation. The Project provides for the training of
20 community health workers. Their training and all health services in
the area would be developed in accordance with the objectives and guidelines
of the Ministry of Health for the nationwide Integrated Rural Health Program
which began in mid-1979. Principal investments would be for construction,
equipment and vehicles, and for staff salaries and transport.
3.22      A small rural crafts center would be built at Marigat to help
develop local skills and organize the supply of raw materials and the sale
of products. It would serve as a means to expand the present scope of hand-
crafts in the area and organize and train community groups to make items
which could be sold outside the Project area. The principal investment would
be in construction and equipment of the center.



- 24
Pro ject Headquarters
3.23      Project Headquarters at Marigat would be provided with offices,
housing and equipment since there are no suitable facilities available.
A rural workshop would be established at Marigat to service the tractors,
vehicles, motorbikes and dumper trucks involved in Project work and to produce
simple tools and equipment needed for the labor intensive programs. Other
articles such as gutters and water storage tanks, would be designed and tried
out there. A woodwork section would d..velop low cost methods of constructing
simple woodwork products which could be used in the area. Locally recruited
people would be trained in the skills required to undertake these tasks at
the workshop. The principal investment would be for civil works and for a
tractor unit to be used, as appropriate, for work on various Project com-
ponents. Assurances were received at negotiations that Government would
make land, water and other facilities promptly available for the development
of the Project headquarters complex.
3.24      Specialist Staff.  Project staff would be assisted by internation-
ally recruited specialist staff (para 4.03) in coordinating the planning of
the Project, preparation of future programs, and monitoring. Short term
consultants (approximately 100 man-months in total) would also be to employed
advise Project staff. Costs include salaries, housing, and cost of aerial
surveys (para 4.06).
The Development Fund
3.25      As the Project design would be flexible to allow for larger scale
development of one component if it proved successful, or introduction of
unforeseen investments, a general fund over and above that allowed for contin-
gencies is considered necessary. Possible uses of this fund could be for such
items as a small tannery to be set up at Marigat, or some other site with a
suitable water supply, or for increased allocation for soil conservation.
It was agreed at negotiations that utilization of this fund would be on the
basis of agreement with IDA supervision missions.
D. Project Costs
3.26      Project costs are estimated at about K Sh 66.0 million (US$8.8 mil-
lion), of which K Sh 36.3 million (US$4.8 million) or 55% would be foreign
exchange.  A summary of Project costs is given below and in detail in Table 1.



- 25 -
Foreigl[
Local Foreign Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
--- KShs million ---  ---- US$ million ----           %
Soil-Water Conservation   3.1        1.0    4.1       0.4      0.2    0.6        25
Agronomy and Irrigation   2.6        1.6    4.2       0.3      0.2    0.5        37
Livestock and Range          5.0      1.9    6.9      0.7      0.2    0.9        27
Rural Services               3.4     2.8    6.2       0.5      0.3    0.8        45
Project Headquarters        5.5      5.9   11.4       0.7      0.8    1.5        52
Specialist Staff             1.6    13.1   14.7       0.2      1.7    1.9       89
Unallocated Devel-
opment Fund               0.8      1.2    2.0       0.1     0.2    0.3        60
Total                    22.0    27.5   49.5        2.9      3.6    6.5       55
Contingency Allowances
Physical                  3.3      4.1    7.4       0.5      0.5    1.0
Price                     4.2      5.2    9.4       0.6     0.7    1.3
Total Contingencies       7.5      9.3   16.8       1.1      1.2    2.3
Total Project Costs    29.5    36.8   66.3          4.0     4.8    8.8
Project costs were estimated at prices expected to prevail in October, 1979.
A physical contingency of 15% was applied to all Project items to reflect
the general uncertainty in the quantities of Project investments. Price con-
tingencies for foreign exchange costs were applied at the rate of 9% in 1980,
8% in 1981 and 7% thereafter for equipment, technical assistance and other
items, and for local costs at 10% per annum for 1980 to 1982 and at 7% for
1983. These rates reflect current estimates of price increases in Kenya and
worldwide. Taxes and duties on Project goods are estimated at K Sh 1.5
million, which represents import taxes and duties on goods which would not be
eligible for exemption from customs, and taxes on fuel and other operating
costs.
E. Financing
3.27       Financing of the Project costs would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:
US$ million   %
IDA                                             6.5         75
Government                                      2.1          25
Total Costs (excluding taxes and
duties)                                       8.6        100
Taxes and Duties                                0.2
Total                                      8.8



26 
3.28      The proposed IDA Credit of US$6.5 million would finance about 75% of
the total Project cost net of taxes. This would represent the foreign exchange
cost of the total Project costs net of taxes and 45% of local costs. The IDA
Credit would be made to Government on standard terms. Government would
finance the remaining local currency costs. It was agreed at negotiations
that Government would provide adequate funds each year in the Budget for the
relevant ministries. The amounts would be based on work plans as approved by
the PCC and discussed with the Baringo DDC and as agreed by IDA (para 4.03).
An advance of US$588,000 has been made to the Government under the Project
Preparation Facility to meet the cost of vehicles, staff housing, equipment
and the advance recruitment of the Project Officer and a consultant sociologist
(Table 2).
F. Procurement
3.29      Most of the expenditures under the Project would not be suitable
for procurement under international competitive bidding because of the small
size of individual purchases. Civil works amounting to about US$0.8 mil-
lion would be built following local tendering practices which are satisfactory,
or, where appropriate, constructed by force account by the Ministries con-
cerned. Procurement of vehicles and machinery (US$0.5 million) would be
by international competitive bidding following Bank/IDA guidelines for all
orders over US$100,000 equivalevnt; orders would be bulked to the maximum
extent possible. Other items would be procured by local tender; overseas
manufacturers and contractors are well represented in Kenya and Government
local procurement procedures for civil works are satisfactory. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the above procurement procedures would
be followed. The four member technical assistance team is expected to be
employed by Agricultural Development Services of RMEA and seconded to the
Government. The short term consultants (para 4.08) would be employed directly
by Government on the recommendation of the Project Coordinator assisted by the
project officer. Where appropriate staff is available within Government
Ministries, they would be made available. The average unit cost of technical
assistance is estimated at US$5,500 per man-month, including local costs.
G. Accounts and Audit
3.30      Project accounts would be maintained by a Project accountant
employed by the Ministry of Finance. He would be attached to the Project
Coordinator's Office at Marigat. He would ensure that adequate Project
accounts were kept by the district or divisional offices of the Ministries
concerned and would coordinate and verify them; after signing by the Ministry
accountant and the Project accountant, these accounts would be forwarded to
the Ministry of Finance in Nairobi for processing. An accountant would be
stationed at Marigat to assist with recordslof local expenditures. Assurances



- 27 -
were obtained at negotiations that (i) the posting of the Project accountant
would be a condition of effectivenesss (ii) satisfactory accounts would be
maintained by each divisional office of the various Ministries involved in the
Project and consolidated accounts by the Project accountant; and (iii) the
accounts would be audited by auditors acceptable to IDA and the auditors'
reports forwarded not later than six months after the end of the financial
year to which they relate. The auditors would specifically review and com-
ment on the procedures used for control of disbursement against statements of
expenditure. The responsibility for auditing Government Ministries' accounts
rests with the Auditor General. This arrangement is satisfactory.
H. Disbursements
3.31      Funds from the Credit Account would be disbursed over five years
on the following basis:
US$ '000
(a) For civil works, buildings and building maintenance;
(i)  by foreign contractors, 100% of foreign expenditures              100
(ii) by force account or local contractors, 85% of local
expenditures                                                      800
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures or 85% of local expenditures for
vehicles, tractors, vehicle operating costs and equipment;              1,500
(c) For Veterinary supplies;
(i) by direct import, 100% of foreign expenditures                      50
(ii) by local procurement, 85% of local expenditures                     50
(d) For Agricultural inputs;
(i) by direct import, 100% of foreign expenditures                      50
(ii) by local procurement, 85% of local expenditures                     50
(e) 100% of total expenditures for technical assistance and studies;    1,800
(f) The Development Fund;                                                      262
(g) Refunding Project Preparation Advance                                      588
(h) An unallocated amount representing part of the price contingencies
related to the above categories and transferable to them as
appropriate;                                                             1,250
Total IDA Credit                   6,500
Funds for activities to be financed from the Development Fund will be disbursed
as per (a) through (e) above. Disbursements against (a)(i), (b), (c)(i), (d)(i),
and (e) would be fully documented. Disbursements against (a)(ii), (c)(ii),



- 28 -
and (d)(ii) would be made against statements of expenditure certified by the
Project Coordinator, the Project Accountant and the Ministry of Finance;
these would be retained by the Borrower and made available to IDA for inspec-
tion in the course of normal Project supervision. It was agreed at negotia-
tions that all expenditures would be in accordance with annual work plans
(para. 4.05). An estimated schedule of IDA disbursements is given in Table 3.
I. Environmental Impact
3.32      A major objective of the Project would be to develop effective
methods to reduce soil erosion and promote better growth of grasses which
would be acceptable to the populations of arid and semi-arid areas of Kenya.
This would have a major positive impact by arresting the present environmental
decline which threatens the ecology of the area and the livelihood of its
population. Medical and veterinary facilities to be provided under the
Project should have a beneficial, if somewhat limited, effect on human and
animal health. Any increase in use of fertilizers and crop sprays would be
insignificant; no adverse effect on the wildlife remaining in the area (para
2.06) is expected from Project activities.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Introduction
4.01      The Project would be organized and managed within the framework of
the existing institutions of the Baringo District Administration (paras 2.15
through 2.17). Government staff assisted by specialists would be responsible
for implementation of Project activities from the time of start up. The
Project provides for a Project Coordinating Committee (para. 4.02) and the
use of short term consultants to assist in effective implementation. It would
be a major focus of the Project to strengthen the institutional basis for
development in Baringo and to train Government staff in all aspects of
project planning, implementation and monitoring. The financial and technical
assistance to development at District level provided for under the Project is
in line with the Government of Kenya's policy of decentralizing responsibility
for development efforts and would be geared to the eventual handover of all
responsibility for the Baringo SAAP Project to local staff.
SAAP Organization and Management
4.02      A Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) would be established to
supervise and coordinate the Project.  This Committee would be a sub-committee
of the DDC (para. 1.22) and be chaired by the D.C. or his nominee. The
Project Coordinator and Project Officer (para 4.03) would be members of the
PCC. The PCC would have many members in common with the DDC, but, unlike the
latter, would deal only with the affairs of the Project area and not of the



- 29 -
entire district. All district heads of Ministries involved in SAAP activities
would be members of the PCC. The services of other influential individuals
could be obtained when it is thought useful. The PCC would meet at Marigat
and Kabarnet. It was agreed at negotiations that the PCC would be established
no later than May 1, 1980.
4.03      The planning, implementation and monitoring of the Baringo SAAP
would be undertaken by Government core staff (para. 4.01) assisted by four
technical specialist, a Project Officer (agriculturalist), an agronomist,
a soil conservation expert and a livestock expert. The Project Coordinator,
assisted by the Project Officer, would have overall responsibility for plan-
ning, guidance and monitoring of day to day Project activities. He would be
responsible for the preparation of annual work plans and budgets to be pre-
sented to the PCC for review and approval (para. 4.04). It would be a condi-
tion of Credit effectiveness that the Project Coordinator and the Project
Accountant be employed and in post. The core staff members consisting of a
Soil and Water Conservation Officer, a Crops Officer, a Range Officer, a
Livestock Officer, a Community Development Officer, a Land Adjudication
Officer, a Public Health Officer and the Project Accountant, assisted by the
specialist staff, would be responsible for the planning, implementation, and
monitoring of Project components within their technical fields. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the core staff would be appointed after
consultation with IDA and that the qualifications and experience of the
Project Accountant would be acceptable to IDA.
4.04      After discussions with the DDC, the PCC would approve all work plans
and budgets submitted by the Project Coordinator. It was agreed at negotia-
tions that all work plans and budgets would be submitted to IDA for review and
comment and that Government would revise these annual work plans and budgets
to the extent required to take IDA's comments into account (para. 3.28). All
aspects of the progress and development of SAAP should be reviewed by the
PCC.
Project Planning and Annual Project Review
4.05      Project planning would take place at two levels.  The first would
be the preparation of work plans for the activities involved in the implemen-
tation of the proposea Baringo Pilot SAAP (para 4.03). These plans would
contain detailed descriptions of the work to be done in each component and
allocate responsibilities for implementation. Plans would be finalized dur-
ing March, i.e. three months prior to the beginning of each fiscal year.
Plans would include proposals for use of unallocated funds. Targets and
provisions within each work plan would be reported on a quarterly basis.
The plan would be reviewed by the PCC in Kabarnet during IDA supervision
missions. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the work program
for each year would be submitted to IDA for review before March 1 each year,
commencing in 1980.
4.06      The second level of planning would involve the preparation of a
possible future phase of SAAP, which would be carried out if the pilot Project
proved successful and yielded valid results. This program should aim to
rehabilitate and develop all the semi-arid areas of Baringo and neighboring



- 30 -
districts. The plan would be based on the resource studies and proven imple-
mentation methods developed during the pilot Project. A basic resource
inventory would be made using aerial survey techniques which are now well
developed in East Africa. The survey would cover the pilot Project area (Map
1 IBRD 14425) and selected parts of the areas to be considered for a future
project. One survey would take place at the start of the implementation
period and another towards the end to assess the effects of Project activities
on the environment.
Staffing
4.07      At negotiations, it was agreed to increase the present level of
establishment at Marigat to ensure that there are sufficient staff to imple-
ment the Project. Assurances were also obtained that housing and adequate
facilities would be made available for the Project Coordinator, Project
Officer and core staff specialists at Marigat. Details of Project staffing
are presented in the Table on the following page.
4.08      The SAAP technical specialists team would be recruited under the
Agricultural Development Service (ADS); it was agreed at negotiations that
the specialists would be appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA. The Project Coordinator, the Project Officer, the Core Staff and the
Specialists would be based at Marigat. It was further agreed that Government
would make adequate housing and facilities available for the Project staff
at Marigat. Expenditures on account of the livestock component, the soil and
water conservation, agronomy and irrigation and rural services components
would not be approved in the annual work plans unless core and specialist
staff working in these components are in post. The Project staff would be
supported by sixteen short-term specialists, employed as consultants, for an
estimated total of 100 man-months. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the consultants would be appointed by the SAAP Project Coordinator,
assisted by the Project Officer, following general guidelines agreed with
IDA during supervision missions. There is a great deal of relevant local
expertise in Kenya, including expatriates, available from within the Govern-
ment and in the private sector. It is important that the short term con-
sultants selected have experience relevant to the conditions in Baringo. It
is therefore proposed that this pool of knowledge and experience that is
already available within the country be used as much as possible and it is
expected that the majority of short term consultants would be recruited
locally.
4.09      Apart from the direct involvement of Government staff with the
Project, approximately 100 local staff would be required to work as technical
assistants, drivers, clerks, secretaries, watchmen, artisans and in other
supporting roles. It is unlikely that all these positions would effectively
be filled by people from within the Project area. Every effort, however,
should be made to employ as many of the local people as possible. Apart from
helping to improve local incomes, it would involve the resident population
with the Project's aims and activities.



SChEDULt 4
ProJe.t StaffLng
Project       Staffing                     posting  Job                         IIS. Sirnnort S-ff
Staff          COmoonent       Function         Location   Year   Croup                                3 Technical  Soil &         Implementa-       Marigat    1980 (1)
1.   Core Team                                                                                            Assistants   Water           tion of co-                  1982 (2
Conser-      ponent sith                   core)
Project                     Planninl          Marigat    1979        R/L                                           vatLon        .d vice and
Coordina-                   and  on-                                  -sitancn
tor                         torting of                                                                                           of Core Teia
Project.                                                                                             and ,;?oci.t -
Chief res-                                                                                           Lot staff.
ponsibility                                                             Astttrt                      RunnLtu, of       Katig4t    1910
for prepara-                                                            Fot  nt                      to, .     f.,.,1i
tion of re-                                                             For,tlr                      tIv,.na,
ports.
2 Tech-      Agronony A    Implerenta-    Marigat   1980 (1)
Soi e                       co ponent                                                              nical         Irrigation      tion of                      1982 (I sore)
Ofater                      SsnotAssistants                                                                                      component
vith advice
Crops                       Agronomy 6        Narigat    1980        J/Z                                                         and as3sit-
officer                     Irrigation                                                                                           ance of Core
Teas and
Range                       Liveatock A       Marigat    1980        J/l                                                         speci&list
officer                     Range                                                                                                staff.
Llvestock                   Livestock A       Karigat    1980        J/I                           4 Technt-   Livestock         Imple'enta-    Martgat   1980 (3)
officer                     Range                                                                  cal Assis-  & RanSe           tion of                     1982 (1 sore)
tants                        component
Community                   Rural Ser-        Marigat    1980        h/J                                                         vith advice
Developsent                 vees                                                                                                *nd assist-
offitcer                                                                                                                         ance of Core
Tess *nd
Land Adjud-                 Livestock         Mariget    1980        C/E                                                         specialist
Ication                     A Agronomy                                                                                            t*ff.
officer
Road         Rural           Supervise        Marigat
7ve:lr                      *,u,, Ser-        mrigac      i;o        R/ J                           oresan      Services         labor-Lnten-
Health                      vices                                                                                                covm  road
officer                                                                                                                          component.
Accountant                  Kaifntain         Marigat    1980        C/N                           Road        RXral             Suwr- '::
Project                                                                iorevroa a
accounts                                                                                            give road co1
and coordi-                                                                                         ponent                       1980
nate accounts
frot  varcous                                                         20 Comu-                      Support staff               10, 1980,
fenistries                                                            nity                          an health                   10 more 1982
ministries                                           Sl~~~~~~                    ~~~~~~~~ealth  program
U.  Soecialist Staff                                                                                   Workers
Project                     Advise and        lirigat    1979                                    2 Mobile                      Run mobile                  1982.
Officer                     assist the                                                           Shop Staff                    chop
Project
Coordinator                                                          I Rural                       Coordtate                   1982
In planning,                                                         Crafts-                       rural crafts
impleaen-                                                            man
ting and
monitoring of                                                        13 Drivers  Project           Support          Hariget   1980
Project imple-                                                                     Headquar-
mentation and                                                                      tes
preparation of
reports.                                                              14 Office                     Support          Martiat   9, 1980.
Staff                                                    S sore 1982
Soil Con-  )                Advise and        Mar1gat    1980
aervatiom   )                assi3t                                                               5 Tractor                     Tractor          Mtarigat   1980
Expert      )               government                                                            Drivers                      VUnit
Agrono-                     staff 1D
mist. Live-)                planning,                                                              16 Rural                     Tradesoen        Marigst   1980
stock       )               Lplecenting.                                                          Workshop
Expert      )              and monitoring                                                          Staff
of components.



- 32 -
4.10      Project investments would require almost 85,000 man-days each year
for labor-intensive work programs. This is the equivalent of approximately
two and a half man-days per year for each person in the area, or two to
four man-weeks for every potentially availabe person between the ages of 15
and 60.
Coordination with Other Projects
4.11      Although the Project is essentially to be run at the district
and divisional level, contact would be maintained with the Arid and Semi-Arid
Land Development Branch of PMED in MOA. This contact would ensure proper
coordination between the Baringo SAAP and all other projects involved in
development in similar ecological zones of Kenya.  It has been ascertained
that there should be little duplication of effort with the EDF project in
Machakos or the project supported by Australian bilateral aid in Malindi
(para 1.15). The Machakos project is primarily concerned with smallholders
and has adopted a watershed development approach based on soil conservation.
The Malindi project is a settlement program. No difficulty is foreseen in
coordination with IADP II (para 2.03) activities in Baringo District since the
two projects have much in common and would both be working through the local
Government structure with the DDC participating in the elaboration of their
respective work programs.
Reporting
4.12      All Project reports would pass through the PCC to the DDC.  The
PCC should also copy all reports to the Semi-Arid and Arid Lands Development
Branch of MOA. The representatives of each Ministry on the PCC should ensure
that senior personnel at provincial and headquarters level are kept informed
of Project progress. The SAAP coordinator would be required to produce brief
quarterly reports throughout the Project period and progress with the imple-
mentation of work plans would be reviewed systematically in these reports.
4.13      An interim report would be prepared at the end of Project year 1.
This report would describe the SAAP staff's preliminary findings, an assess-
ment of the first year's work and details of their approach to future work.
This report should be circulated to all relevant Ministries and agencies
and to IDA and should be used as the basis for discussions on future Project
activity. A similar report should be produced at the end of Project year 2.
At the end of year 3 a substantive report with a description of the Project
area, an evaluation of all the trial implementation activities and proposals
for follow up activities would be prepared. This report should be of suffi-
cient content and scope and depth to provide a basis for final preparation of
a subsequent development project, if the conclusions so warrant. These
reports would be submitted to IDA for review.
Project Completion Report                                                                e
4.14      The Government should prepare a Project completion report summarizing
performance under the Project and evaluating its successes and problems. This
report should be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the expected
closing date, and assurances were obtained at negotiations on this subject.



- 33 -
Project Implementation
4.15      The Project would be implemented over a period of four years begin-
ning in late 1979. Government is anxious to start implementation. The
Project Coordinator, Project Officer, the Project Accountant and a consultant
sociologist would be employed and vehicles and staff housing be provided prior
to Credit effectiveness. These preparatory activities and technical assistance
will be financed under the Project Preparation Facility (para 3.28). The
Project Implementation Schedule is summarized on the following page.
V. JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS
Justification
5.01      The fundamental justification of the Project is that the semi
arid areas of Baringo District are at present misused and unproductive; they
make little contribution to the national economy and are inhabited by people
whose incomes are low and living conditions unacceptably poor. Unless some-
thing is done to redress this, the situation will continue to deteriorate,
probably at an ever increasing rate. The longer the delay in tackling this
problem, the greater it will become and the greater the cost and difficulty
of finding an acceptable solution to it. The possibility of reversing the
present trend undoubtedly exists, but the need is for experience to be gained
in practical measures to exploit it. The solutions may not be easy or low cost
but the alternatives would be even more costly. If viable solutions emerged
from this Project, then it would have made a major contribution to the devel-
opment of Baringo District and of arid and semi-arid areas of Kenya generally;
should it fail to do so, it would still have been of value in defining problems
which Government should then address as a matter of urgency.
Benefits
5.02      The primary benefit of the Project would be the establishment of
the technical, sociological and economic foundations for the future develop-
ment of the semi-arid areas in Baringo. This benefit would be particularly
significant since much of the approach and methodology contained in the plan
should be immediately applicable to neighboring semi-arid areas. Apart from
the development plan itself, the Project would result in benefits in terms of
an increased general development awareness; a demonstration in, and increased
awareness and understanding of, the advantages of proper land, crop, pasture
and livestock management, and the development of techniques and procedures
necessary for creating new employment opportunities for people among the
lowest income group in Kenya.
5.03      Most Project costs are for investigation of techniques and their
subsequent assessment. Relatively little investment is directly aimed at
immediate increases in present production of the Project area. Because



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Fiscal Year                                               1979/80                       1980/81                           1981/82                           1982/83                            1983/84                            1984/85
Quarter                                               1   2   3   4                 1   2    3    4                  1    2    3    4                  1    2      3    4                 1     2    3    4                  1    2      3    4
Project Staffing
Appointment of Project Coordinator,
Project Officer, and
Project Accountant                  ------
Other SAAP Members                        ------
Marigat Staff                                -------------------------
Project Planning
Agreed Terms of Reference Key Staff                  ----
Agreed Annual Programs                                     -----                             -----                             _____
Annual Reports                                                                                                                                             -----
Main Report                                                                                -----                           -----
Final Report                                                                                                                                                                                     -
Government Completion Report                                                                                                                                                                                                      December 1984
Project Implementation
Construction Project Staff Houses                          --------------------------
Dip Construction and Rehabilitation                                                        -------------------_____________
Soil   Conservation--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Range Conservation                                               ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Health                                                                -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Workshop/Stores, etc.                                            --------------------
IDA
Negotiations                                          --
Board Presentation                                        ----
Effectiveness                                                  ----
Completion                                                                                                                                                             December 31, 1983
Closing                                                                                                                                                                                                                         June 30, 1984
t s                                                                                                                                                i,           ,*



- 35 -
of this, it is not very meaningful to quantify benefits expected from the
Project; therefore no rate of return has been calculated. However, in the
best judgement of the mission, there would be likely benefits to a typical
family adopting some or all of the Project proposals. An illustrative Farm
Budget is given in Table 5. What is assumed is a degree of cooperation
between people and groups of people to make improvements in livestock grazing,
animal husbandry and to develop cropping activities. Family incomes are
expected to rise among Project beneficiaries from the present very marginal
subsistence level to about US$100 per year on average. With further improve-
ments over time this could be further increased. Additional employment of
Government staff would be created through the Project and additional income
brought into the area. The labor-intensive works would also bring additional
income to the area depending on the level of payment (para 5.08).
5.04      Technical staff from the Government Ministries involved with the
Project would gain valuable experience and training in project planning,
implementation and evaluation. This experience would be reinforced by in-
creased technical ability gained from working alongside the SAAP specialists
and would establish a valuable manpower resource for the envisaged larger
program.
5.05      The environmental benefits resulting from the Project would include
an enriched and more productive flora and fauna, reduced soil erosion, im-
proved water retention and reduced silting of Lake Baringo.
Risks
5.06      The economic, social and environmental problems facing the area are
considerable and have no obvious simple solution which could be guaranteed
effective in the long term. The success or failure of the Project would
ultimately depend on whether it were possible to develop a system of controlled
land use and to create a social and economic environment where that system
was acceptable to the land users. The system would not work if it had to
be imposed on the people of the area by force and coercion. The system must
be one which is understood and adopted by the people because of a realization
that it offers a solution to their problems. This is not a new concept and
there is nothing innovative about the approach. There is, however, no guar-
antee that a system will be developed which would be both effective in the
long run and acceptable to the people. Much would depend on the good-will and
ability of the traditional, elected and appointed leaders. If these indivi-
duals used their influence to support and encourage Project activities there
would be a good chance of success; without their support the aims of the
Project would not be realized. Because it is widely realized in Kenya that a
solution to the problems of the arid and semi-arid areas is important not only
for those specific areas but for the country as a whole, it is expected that
Government officials and elected leaders would give active support to the
Project and be influential in persuading the traditional leaders of the
Project area to support the Project and cooperate in its activities.
5.07      There are risks associated with the proposed development of a
labor intensive work program. The first is that the population would not



- 36 -
readily provide the number of man-days required. If this was the case,
either the scope of work would have to be reduced or part of the work would
have to be done by mechanized means. Any shortage of labor could affect the
prospects for a larger program. Most of the people living in the semi arid
parts of Baringo are pastoralists and have little tradition of manual labor;
indeed, many pastoral societies have a marked dislike of it and consider it
degrading and disagreeable. A further problem is that the people involved
in the work will for the most part be poorly nourished and in only fair
health, consequently they may be poorly suited to strenuous manual work.
5.08      Payment of labor is another risk factor.  Although almost K Sh 3
million (8% of the Project base costs) has been budgeted for the labor-
intensive program it is very unlikely that all the semi-arid areas of Kenya
could be rehabilitated using fully paid labor intensive methods. While
Project staff would explore all possibilities of obtaining labor on a
voluntary basis, it is probable that it would be necessary, at least
initially, to offer local residents some inducement to provide labor. At
the start of the Project the local people would not have any evidence of
the potential long term effects and advantageous results of their work and
would be very unlikely to provide free "Harambee" labor simply on the verbal
assurance of Project or Government of Kenya staff that it would be "worth it
in the long run".
5.09      A non-technical problem which may be counted as a potential risk
is the threat, in the northern part of the Project area, from armed "Ngoroko"
cattle thieves. Although they are unlikely to pose a direct danger to
SAAP staff it is possible that, if not contained, their activities could
hamper the development of the Project. At the moment the Government seems
to be in control of the problem and if this continues there should be no
threat to Project development.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations the Project Implementation Schedule (para 4.15)
was agreed upon and assurances were obtained on the following issues:
(a) That Government would provide land, water and other facilities
to allow prompt construction of Project housing and buildings at
Marigat (para 3.23);
(b) that utilization of the Development Fund would be on the basis
of agreement with IDA (para 3.25);
(c) That Government would provide relevant funds in the Budget each
year based on the work plans approved by the Baringo PCC and
agreed with IDA (para 3.28);
(d) That the procurement procedures described in para 3.29 would
be followed (para 3.29);



- 37 -
(e) That Government would ensure that adequate accounts were maintained
and that audited accounts would be forwarded to IDA not later than
six months following the end of the financial year (para 3.30);
(f) that all expenditures would be in accordance with annual work
plans (para 3.31);
(g) That the PCC would be established no later than May 1, 1980
(para 4.02);
(h) That Government would exchange views with the Association on the
qualifications and experience of the core staff and that the
qualifications and experience of the Project Accountant would be
acceptable to IDA (para 4.03);
(i) That the annual work plans and budgets approved by the PCC would
be submitted to IDA for review and comment and that Government
would revise these annual work plans and budgets to the extent
required to take IDA's comments into account (para 4.04);
(j) That the work plan for each year would be submitted to IDA for
review before March 1 of each year commencing in 1980 (para 4.05);
(k) That Government Ministries would increase levels of establishment
as required to provide the necessary staff for Project implementa-
tion (para 4.07);
(1) That SAAP specialists would be appointed on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.08);
(m)  That housing and adequate facilities would be made available at
Marigat for the Project Coordinator, Project Officer, Core Staff
and Specialists (para 4.07);
(n) That short-term consultants would be appointed on the basis of
general guidelines agreed with IDA (para 4.08); and
(o) That Government would prepare a Completion Report for submission
to IDA not later than six months after the expected closing
date (para 4.14).
6.02      It would be a condition of effectiveness that the Project Coordinator,
Project Officer and the Project Accountant be employed and in post (para 4.03).
6.03      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the Project would
be suitable for an IDA Credit of US$6.5 million to the Government of Kenya
on standard IDA terms.
October 26, 1979



KENYA
BARINGO PILOT SEMI-ARID AREAS PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
(K Sh '000)
Foreign
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4        Total       Exchange
(%)
Items
Soil and Water Conservation              1,520.0        902.8      902.8       789.8      4,115.4          25
Agronomy and Irrigation                  1,037.1      1,065.4    1,065.4    1,065.4       4,233.3          37
Livestock and Range                      1,869.9      1,765.5    1,661.9    1,615.0       6,912.3          27
Rural Services                             696.7      4,828.0       362.3      362.3      6.249.3          45
Project HQ.                              6,086.4      1,779.5    1,779.5    1,779.5    11,424.8            52
SAAP Specialist Staff & Survey           4,439.8      3,573.1    3,817.1    2,865.7    14,695.7            89
Development Fund                           500.0        500.0       500.0      500.0      2,000.0          60
Total Base Cost                       16,149.9    14,414.3   10,089.0    8,977.7    49,630.9             55
Physical Contingencies (15%)             2,422.5      2,162.1    1,513.4    1,346.7       7,444.7
Sub-Total                             18,572.4    16,576.4   11,602.4   10,324.4    57,075.6
Price Contingencies                        874.8      2,367.1    2,796.2    3,334.9       9,373.0
TOTAL COST                            19,447.2    18.943.5   14,398.6   13,659.3    66,448.6
Rounded Total                         19,000       19,000     14,000      14,000       66,000
Rounded Total US$ million                  2.5          2.5         1.9        1.9          8.8
N6
November 6, 1979



- 39 -
Table 2
KENYA
BARINGO PILOT SEMI-ARID AREAS PROJECT
Prolect Preparation Facility
Fixed Costs                                                         US Dollars
Project Coordinator - air fare                                   Not required
Camping equipment - (10 sets)                                        25,000
Project officer house - Nairobi (6 months)
(pending construction of house in field)                              6,000
Prefabricated housing (8 houses)                                    200,000
Five 4-WD vehicles (team plus sociologist)                           75,000
Three 4-WD vehicles - adjudication (inc. equipment)                  60,000
Sociologist - air fare                                                2,000
Sociologist - hotel Nairobi (4 weeks)                                 2,000
Specialist staff hotel Nairobi (6 weeks x 3 staff)                    9,000
Core Team - air fares (3 @ $2,000)                                    6,000
Subtotal                                                      385,000
Variable Costs
Project Officer, ADS costs (6 months $72,000)                        36,000
Secretarial, telex, telephone                                         4,500
Operating costs, specialist staff (18 vehicles months @ $1,700)  31,000
Operating costs land adjudication vehicles (18 vehicle
months @ $1,700)                                                   31,000
Sociologist consultancy (3 manmonths @ $5,500)                       16,500
Specialist staff, ADS costs (9 manmonths $72,000 per annum)          54,000
Subtotal                                                       173,000
Miscellaneous                                                   30.000
TOTAL                                                          588,000
October 26, 1979



- 40 -
Table 3
KENYA
BARINGO PILOT SEMI-ARID AREAS PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year                          Quarterly            Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                          Disbursements             at end of Quarter
1979/80
September 30, 1979                           --                         --
December 31, 1979                           0.2                        0.2
March 31, 1980                              0.2                        0.4
June 30, 1980                               0.2                        0.6
1980/81
September 30, 1980                          0.3                        0.9
December 31, 1980                           0.3                         1.2
March 31, 1981                              0.3                         1.5
June 30, 1981                               0.3                        1.8
1981/82
September 30, 1981                          0.5                        2.3
December 31, 1981                           0.5                        2.8
March 31, 1982                              0.5                        3.3
June 30, 1982                               0.5                        3.8
1982/83
September 30, 1982                          0.5                        4.3
December 31, 1982                           0.5                        4.8
March 31, 1983                              0.4                        5.2
June 30, 1983                               0.4                        5.6
1983/84
September 30, 1983                          0.3                        5.9
December 31, 1983                           0.2                        6.1
March 31, 1984                              0.2                        6.3
June 30, 1984                               0.2                        6.5
October 26, 1979



- 41 -
Table 4
KENYA
BARINGO PILOT SEMI-ARID AREAS PROJECT
Phased Expert Requirements 1/
Year 1    Year 2      Year 3    Year 4
Specialists                                           (Man-months)
Project Officer                          12         12           12         12
Soil and Water Conservation              10         12           12         12
Agronomy and Irrigation                  10         12           12         12
Livestock and Range Management           10         12           12         12
Consultants
Social Anthropology                       9          3            3         12
Development Sociology                     3          2            3          2
Small Scale Industries                    1         12            3          2
Tsetse Control                            -          4            -          -
Inland Fisheries                          -          1            -          2
Rural Tanneries                           -          1            -          2
Honey Production                          -          1            -          4
Rural Crafts                              -          3            -          -
Charcoal Production                       1          2            3          4
Civil Engineering                         -          3            -          -
Economic Evaluation                       -          -            4          -
Remote Sensing                            -          2            -          2
Hydrology                                 1          1            2          -
Cartography                               -          -            3          -
TOTAL                                    57         82           69         78
Total: 286 man-months
1/   Unless otherwise stated requirements are for one expert or consultant
in each specialty listed.
October 26, 1979



- 42 -
Table 5
KENYA
BARINGO PILOT SEMI-ARID AREAS PROJECT
Illustrative Farm Budget
Without Project        With Project
Livestock
Cattle - Numbers                       20                     20
Offtake                       1.0                    1.5
Liveweight/head (kg)        220                    250
Total Offtake Liveweight  220                      375
Price (KSh/kg)                3                      3
Value (KSh)                          660                   1,125
Milking Cows                  4                      4
Milk Production (kg/Cow)  200                      250
Total Milk (kg)             800                  1,000
Price (KSh/kg)              1.0                    1.0
Value (KSh)                          800                   1,000
Sheep and Goats
Numbers                      60                     60
Offtake                      12                     15
Liveweight/head (kg)         30                     38
Total Offtake liveweight  360                      570
Liveweight Price (KSh/kg)   5                        5
Value (KSh)                       1,800                  2,850
Total Value                  KSh 3,260               KSh 4,975
Less:  Costs                               -                       600
Net  Value                   KSh 3,260               KSh 4,375
Crops
Millet - Area (ha)                      -                      0.5
Yield (kg/ha)                 -                    800
Production (kg)               -                    400
Price (KSh/kg)                -                      1.2
Value (KSh)                                                  480
Beans -  Area (ha)                      -                      0.2
Yield (kg/ha)                 -                    500
Production (kg)               -                    100
Price (KSh/kg)                -                      3.5
Value (KSh)                   -      -                       350
Total Value                   -                              830
Total Net Return                        KSh 3,260               KSh 5,205



KENYA
BARINGO SEMI-ARID AREAS PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL ORGANIZATION
MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC                                                                                                                                                         ER
PLANNING AND                                                                      OFFICE OF                        MINISTRY OFTH
COMMUNITY AFFAIRS                                                                 THE PRESIDENT                      AGRICULTURE                                      TECHNICA
~~~~~.............................................. ....................                                               ......................
*  INTERMINISTERIALMAGENT
CO-OR DI NATI NG                                                    POICA
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CMISOE                                                         Dils               EAUTO
PROVI NCIAL
COMISSRIONE                ASADEV LOMN        OTHER *           PO INCIL             HEADS OF
DISTRICT                                                        DIRR =  AOTHER TECHNICAL
COMMISSIONER        BRANCH             BRANCHES         OAGIUTRE               MINISTRIES
....................    ............. ........................  
*               ~~~~DISTRICT
-                  DEVELOPMENT
i              ~~~~COMMITTEE
iSAAP PROJECT COORDINATING COMMITTEE
ICT                        SAAP|OTHER                                                      DISTRICT                    OTHER DISTRICT
DEVELOPMENT                                                   ..COORDINATOR                  .......      AGRICULTURAL                      TECHNICAL
SAAP                                                          .. DIVISIONAL  OTHER
TECHNICAL    .,,,,,...,.. .......  AGRICULTURAL  .......   DIVISIONAL
.TEAM                                  |.. OFFICERS                                                TECHNICAL
FARMERS GRAZIERS LOCAL POPULATION
Direct Responsibility
.......... Oose Liaison
ASAL = ARid and Semi Arid Lands
SAAP = Semi Arid Areas Project
Note: The members of the County Council and the local M. P. would probably be members
of the Porject Coordinating Committee which could co-opt the services of any other
person if and when necessary.                                                                                                                                       World Bank-20514






IBRD 14425
JUNE 1979
KENYA                 K,
BARINGO SEMI -ARID AREA PROJECT
Project Area?s                
Project Area Boundary
El     Proiect Headquarters          2?
A      Division Headquarters
-    Main Roads
3000-   Contours ( in feet)            Iv T         owa v
-        5,000 ft (l,500 meter) Contour                                                                        To
DD _      R ivers
-Swamps
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N
KILOMETERS                                                           5                                                            02
M LE5So          5           10                                                                                        3
ndO00^!ff<b/  X' ; _  /                             X '      
SOvo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
Th,S .r,p has Oven preVard uy the
Word 8aves ftf ecs,ty s
*ht =osven,tceOf rthet radr bof
the      -hapote r  wh,ch 'S's attaches
he denotntons  d avd th e _   .. 7 
OoDts3mttndariet haovoh',-se tnYvapHe:yrero                                                               J       
dv v-t-npiy, as the p-r of the           a 
.d,-men- Ithetyeittsnm             To,. -1. bY W                                              P-k20     /r9e-  '   
WorldReptnctohb, and Sm a-l,t anl
S]tA~  ETHIVlA        H_'luras-
S-   A
EN    Y A
<         KENYA    1
0.~~~~~~~~,~.
As.
..    .   ...     .. I A






,.  (                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KENYA
S U D A N                        -/                      a                                          BARINGO SEMI-ARID AREA PROJECT
GEOLOGICAL ZONES AND PROJECT LOCATION
f   .  tL' - !&,     .<                      ~~~T H  I O  P I A
A~~~~TN
t),i (4ANA                                                      .                                                         | 0 .MANDERA
u G Au N  A                                                                                
MA~~?5A~~~F   ~~  kOMALI
t~~~~~~~~~~~T /R[b T                                                             
Dritbudo,ret             A                                                1;                                                      W       UTS 
fi N ptonlcpitoI                                   Mos woodIonc/brtshloatd'. -t N.
; tc er o                                            Dyt hcon ovsF coo
00ISy hrb h n<   .                        LGR-  t r-*  _Sw'. htX   g wi
-                                                           ttldsrtvfeo nDT  1                                           lED(dh    :         jtS             *4    Rr



