」


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 962 KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT. dated          12.                ' 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein, (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement., unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Coordinator" means the project coordinator
to be employed by the Borrower and referred to in Schedule 4.to
this Agreement;
(b) "Project Officer" means the Project Officer to be
employed by the Borrower and referred to in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
(c) "Project Coordinating Committee" means the Project
coordinating committee to be established by the Borrower pursuant
to Section 3.01 (d) hereof;
(d) "Project Accountant" means the accountant to be employed
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.01 hereof; and
(e) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated September 25, 1979 and October 29,
1979 between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to six million five hundred thousand dollars ($6,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) As of the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation
Advance, if any, shall be cancelled as of the same date and the
balance of the amount of the Credit allocated to Category (7)
shall be reallocated as of the same date to Category (8) of the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Janu-
ary 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 1990, and ending July
15, 2029, each installment to and including the installment
payable on July 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
in accordance with detailed annual work plans satisfactory to
the Association, with due diligence and efficiency and in confor-
mity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering,
agricultural and sociological practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall submit to the Association for its
review and comments by March 1 of each year during the imple-
mentation of the Project, a detailed annual work plan covering the
fiscal year commencing on July 1 of the same year. Each work
plan so to be submitted shall be prepared by the Project Coordi-
nator in conjunction with the Project Officer, in liaison with the
Baringo District Development Committee and shall be approved by
the Project Coordinating Committee, if the same is existent at the
time. Such annual work plan shall include targets for the soil
conservation, livestock, agriculture and community development
components, works to be carried out, staffing plans and budgets
for the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall revise the annual work plan referred
to in the preceding paragraph to the extent required to take
into account the Association's comments thereon.
(d) The Borrower shall duly establish by May 1, 1980 or such
later date as the Borrower and the Association may agree, as a
sub-committee of the Baringo District Development Committee, a
Project Coordinating Committee responsible for coordination of


﻿-4-
the implementation of the Project, which shall be chaired by the
Baringo District Commissioner or his nominee and shall include
among its members the Project Coordinator and the Project Officer.
(e) Without limitation to the generality of the foregoing
paragraph (a), the Borrower shall: (i) allocate each year in
its national budget allocated to the ministries concerned such
funds as shall be required for the Project on the basis of the
annual work plan referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agree-
ment; and (ii) provide staff for the Project in accordance with
the staffing schedule set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement
and shall exchange views with the Association on the qualifica-
tions and experience of the core staff listed in Part 1 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall (i) employ the special-
ists referred to in Part II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement with
such qualifications and experience as shall be acceptable to the
Association and (ii) assign to said specialists responsibilities
for assisting in coordinating and monitoring the implementation of
the Project, in advising and giving in-service training to the
government staff of the Borrower engaged in the Project, in
preparing proposals for possible future development activities
based on findings under the Project and in studying practical
application of techniques and practices evolved under the Project
to semi-arid areas of the Borrower.
(b) In addition to the specialists to be employed pursuant
to the foregoing paragraph (a), the Borrower shall employ under
the guidance of the Project Coordinator and Project Officer short
term consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
(c) The Borrower shall provide the Project staff with
adequate facilities and housing at Marigat in the Baringo Dis-
trict.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indeminity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-5-
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire, as and when needed, all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to the Project.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall employ and attach to the
Project Coordinator's office at Marigat an accountant (the
Project Accountant) whose qualifications and experience shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) cause the district
and divisional offices of the ministries that are responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof to maintain accounts
adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices, their respective operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project and (ii)
cause the Project Accountant to maintain all the accounts referred
to in subparagraph (a) above in a consolidated form.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have such consolidated accounts,
including all records supporting the statement of expenditures
referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the consoli-
dated accounts for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested including a
separate opinion by said auditor in respect of the said statement
of expenditures showing whether the proceeds of the credit with-
drawn on the basis of such statement of expenditures have been
used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the
consolidated accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Project Coordinator, the Project
Officer and the accountant set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment have been employed.


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. The date               )     o'\) 0  is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Arti-
cle IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date ten years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower for the time being
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi
Kenya
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINANCE                             963-22003
Nairobi                             FOREIN NAIROBI
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works, build-
ings and building
maintenance
(a) by foreign con-        100,000            100% of foreign
tractors (pay-                           expenditures
able in foreign
currency)
(b) by force account       800,000            85% of local
or local con-                            expenditures
tractors (pay-
able in local
currency)
(2) Vehicles, equipment,      1,500,000            100% of foreign
tractors and ve-                              expenditure and
hicle operating cost                          85% of local
expenditures
(3) Veterinary supplies
(a) directly im-            50,000            100% of foreign
ported                                   expenditures
(b) procured locally        50,000            85% of local
expenditures


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Agricultural inputs
(a) Directly im-            50,000            100% of foreign
ported                                   expenditures
(b) Procured locally        50,000            85% of local
expenditures
(5) Technical assis-          1,800,000            100%
tance and studies
(6) Development Fund            262,000            (to be agreed
(Part 7 of the                                in respect of
Project)                                      each activity)
(7) Refunding of Pro-           588,000            100%
ject Preparation
Advance
(8) Unallocated               1,250,000
TOTAL          6,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The Borrower and the Association understand that disbursement
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be made to meet expenditures
specified in the annual work plan referred to in Section 3.01 (a)
of this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
6.   Each request for withdrawal from the Credit on account
of local expenditures under Categories (1) (b), (3) (b) and (4)
(b) shall be accompanied by a statement of expenditures issued by
the Project Accountant and the Project Coordinator certifying
that the expenditures on account of which the withdrawal is
requested have been reasonably made for the Project.
7.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Associa-
tion are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
8.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to


﻿- 12 -
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The central objective of the Project is to establish a
field tested basis for the rehabilitation and development of the
semi-arid areas of the Baringo district. This shall involve the
evolution and development of effective and replicable systems for
project planning and implementation in arid and semi-arid areas
which are consistent with local social institutions and Government
organization.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
1.   Development and extension of suitable management techni-
ques for land use, water and soil erosion control, development of
grazing and crop areas and forest nurseries.
2.   Development of improved cultivation methods and testing
and extension of crop varieties for dry land and irrigated produc-
tion through adaptive research and field demonstrations.
3.   Development, implementation and demonstration to live-
stock owners of better husbandry, range management, fodder produc-
tion, water supplies and marketing facilities to improve livestock
production in Baringo.
4.   Improvement and development of rural infrastructure
including health and education services, rural industries and
handicrafts and selected roads and tracks.
5.   Provision of staff and establishment of Project head-
quarters in Baringo with appropriate office, transport and housing
facilities.
6.   Studies and planning for future arid and semi-arid
land programs.
7.   Investment in certain production activities to be
identified and carried out during the implementation of the other
components of the Project, on the basis of agreement to be reached
between the Borrower and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 1984.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Principle
Contracts for goods and services shall be grouped in a
manner satisfactory to the Association so as to encourage competi-
tion and to permit bulk procurement consistent with appropriate
technical and procurement practices.
B.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Vehicles and machinery estimated to cost more than $100,000
equivalent per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 15 -
C.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part B of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Kenya may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Kenya if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Kenya equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 16 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Other Procedures
1.   Contracts for (i) vehicles and machinery estimated to
cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract and (ii) other items
(except civil works and buildings) will be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
local procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Civil works and buildings may be either (i) procured on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accor-
dance with local procedures satisfactory to the Association or
(ii) rendered by force account by the Borrower; provided, however,
that the Association's prior consent to either of the procedures
shall have been obtained.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for vehicles and machinery
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the Project


﻿- 17 -
Coordinator referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendations for award of the Project Coordinator and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Project Staffing
Project     Staffing               Posting   Job
Staff        Component    Function     Location   Year    Group
I.   Core Team
Project                Planning      Marigat    1979     K/L
Coordina-              and moni-
tor                    toring of
Project.
Chief res-
ponsibility
for prepara-
tion of re-
ports.
Soil &                 Soil & Water Marigat     1980     J/K
Water                  component
Officer
Crops                  Agronomy &    Marigat    1980     J/K
officer                Irrigation
Range                  Livestock &   Marigat    1980     J/K
officer                Range
Livestock              Livestock &   Marigat    1980     J/K
officer                Range
Community              Rural Ser-    Marigat    1980     H/J
Development            vices
officer
Land Adjudi-           Livestock     Marigat    1980     G/H
cation                 & Agronomy
officer
Public                 Rural Ser-    Marigat    1980     H/J
Health                 vices
officer


﻿- 19 -
Project     Staffing               Posting   Job
Staff        Component    Function     Location   Year    Group
Accountant             Maintain      Marigat    1980     G/H
Project
accounts
and coordi-
nate accounts
from various
ministries
II. Specialist Staff
Project                Advise and    Marigat    1979
Officer                assist the
Project
Coordinator
in planning,
implemen-
ting and
monitoring of
Project imple-
mentation and
preparation of
reports.
Soil Con-  )           Advise and    Marigat    1980
servation  )           assist
Expert,    )           government
Agrono-    )           staff in
mist, Live-)           planning,
stock      )           implementing,
Expert     )           and monitoring
of components.
III. Support Staff
3 Technical  Soil &    Implementa-   Marigat    1980 (1)
Assistants   Water     tion of com-             1982 (2
Conser-   ponent with              more)
vation    advice and
assistance
of Core Team
and Special-
ist Staff.


﻿- 20 -
Project     Staffing               Posting   Job
Staff        Component    Function     Location   Year    Group
Assistant              Running of    Marigat    1980
Forester               two small
plantations
14 Other               Support       Marigat    1980
Forestry
staff
2 Tech-     Agro-      Implementa-   Marigat    1980 (1)
nical       nomy &     tion of                  1982 (1 more)
Assistants  Irri-      component
gation     with advice
and assis-
tance of
Core Team
and Special-
ist Staff.
4 Techni-   Live-      Implementa-   Marigat    1980 (3)
cal Assis-  stock      tion of                  1982 (1 more)
tants       &          component
Range      with advice
and assis-
tance of
Core Team
and Special-
ist Staff.
Road        Rural      Supervise     Marigat
Foreman     Services   labor-inten-
sive road
component.
Road        Rural      Supervise
Foreman     Services   labor inten-
sive road
component                1980
20 Commu-              Support staff            1980 (10)
nity                   on health                1982 (10
Health                 program                  more)
Workers


﻿- 21 -
Project     Staffing               Posting   Job
Staff        Component    Function     Location   Year    Group
2 Mobile               Run mobile               1982
Shop Staff             shop
1 Rural                Coordinate               1982
Crafts-                rural crafts
man
15 Drivers Project     Support        Marigat   1980
Head-
quarters
14 Office              Support        Marigat   1980 (9)
Staff                                           1982 (5 more)
5 Tractor              Tractor        Marigat   1980
Drivers                Unit
16 Rural               Tradesmen      Marigat   1980
Workshop
Staff


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   IQ       day of
198 LL.
FOR SECRETARY


