Report No. PID7179
Project Name                     Brazil-Energy Efficiency Project (@)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Energy
Project ID                       BRPE39200
Implementing Agency              ELETROBRAS
Rua da Quitanda 196 - 10o Andar
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Contacts                         Sr. Antonio Pinhel
Tel: 21-514-5032
Fax: 21-233-9676
Sr. Geraldo Pimentel
Tel: 21-514-5038
Fax: 21-263-9776
Date this PID Updated            September 20, 1999
Negotiation Conducted            August 16-18, 1999
Projected Board Presentation     October 5, 1999
Country and Sector Background:
Program Objectives: The objective of the proposed Energy Efficiency (EE)
Program, to be implemented in two phases and which will be supported by two
Adaptable Program Loans (APLs), is to help PROCEL - the Brazilian program
dedicated to reduce electric energy waste - to achieve substantial actions
and investments in EE by private and public participants, with increased
commercial financing. To this end, the program will demonstrate market-based
EE measures to increase the efficiency of energy production and use, and will
lower market barriers to the sustainable replication of these measures by
existing and new participants in the energy market in Brazil. Expected
project benefits include electricity savings of about 1% per year and
postponement of investments in electricity supply of about US$300 million per
year. In addition, the project would contribute to reduce C02 emissions
estimated at about 17 million tons in a ten-year period.
Project Objectives: The objective of the project, Phase I of the program, is
to: (i) demonstrate a first set of selected EE products, services, and
delivery arrangements, and ready them for replication by third parties; and,
(ii) remove barriers to the sustainable capture of "win-win" EE
opportunities in main markets and applications in Brazil, including those
demonstrated as part of the project. If this phase is successful and the
main objectives attained, it will be followed by a second APL that will aim
to extend these efficiency gains to a wider cross-section of the Brazilian
energy market.
Project Description: The project consists of three main interrelated
components:
(a) Demonstration Projects (DP).    Almost 50 DP will be implemented by
ELETROBRAS and power utilities in eight states and BrasUlia. The DP aim to
demonstrate the use of emerging technologies, proper price signals and



service options, and new implementation arrangements to improve the
efficiency of electric energy supply and use. One group of DP will target
selected market segments to demonstrate innovative demand charge and time-of-
day tariffs, load demand limiters, and improvements in bill collection
through metering, improved service conditions, and other commercial actions.
These DPs are expected to improve commercial relationships in the reformed
electricity market; stimulate the interest of utilities in Integrated
Planning (IP) methodologies including market-based Demand-Side Management
(DSM) options; and encourage customer-based EE investments. Projects in the
second group include programs to increase the use of more efficient
appliances and energy equipment, including: compact fluorescent lamps, solar
heaters, refrigerators, irrigation pumps, air conditioners, electric control
systems, reflecting roofs, high efficient motors, motor speed drivers, street
lights, and water pumps.
(b) Core Support Activities (CSA). The CSA are designed to overcome the
information barriers to cost-effective energy measures and improve energy
management information at all levels of the energy supply and use chain. It
includes: (i) information, dissemination and marketing programs, including a
Best Practice Program, i.e., case studies and technical and operational
guidelines for cost-effective EE measures with wide applicability, derived
from DP; a public awareness campaign; and support to energy agencies in the
areas of EE promotion and marketing; (ii) implementation and initialization
of a financial facility to support EE measures by Energy Service Companies
(ESCOs) and consumers, including building a portfolio of EE projects and
readying them for financing by third parties; (iii) marketing the concepts of
independent verification and performance contracts through ESCOs; (iv)
implementation of programs for testing, certification, and labeling of
efficient equipment and appliances, including motors, speed controls,
refrigerators, freezers, solar water heaters, and heat pump water heaters,
including enhancement of testing facilities; and (v) preparation of policies
and incentive regulations for promoting EE, e.g., investment in DSM measures,
innovative electric tariff structures, and EE building codes.
(c) Capacity-Building Module (CBM). The CBM includes the implementation of
institutional enhancement and training programs for the staff of PROCEL,
regulators, energy agencies, utilities, trade allies, end users, ESCOs, and
financial entities; and provision of core support to PROCEL, regulators,
energy agencies, and utilities for the design, management, supervision and
monitoring of EE projects and the evaluation of their environmental,
economic, financial and social benefits.
Project Costs and Financing: It is estimated that the total cost of the
project (Phase I) will be about US$125.5 million, of which US$43.4 million
would be financed by IBRD and US$15 million would be financed by a GEF grant,
and the balance (US$67.1 million) by project participants and third parties.
Project Implementation: ELETROBRAS will be responsible for project
implementation using the structure being currently used for the execution of
PROCEL. A Project Management Unit (PMU) will either coordinate or carry out
the activities in all three components.
Project Sustainability: Sustainability is a major goal of the program and the
measurement of success at achieving that goal is built in starting at the
subproject level. In addition, the project is designed with heavy emphasis
-2 -



on developing DSM solutions and performance-based opportunities to attract
utilities, users, domestic and foreign ESCOs and capital to support the
desired outcome. Methods of support for achieving sustainability include: (i)
emphasis on monitoring and evaluating subproject activity with ex-ante and
ex-post evaluations using internationally accepted protocols and techniques;
and (ii) highly successful approaches demonstrated at the subproject level
will become candidates for case studies and incorporation into the Best
Practice information packaging technique which forms the cornerstone for
information dissemination and marketing of the results of the program. In
addition, the Market Assessment Activity included in the CSA component will
monitor market opportunities and market performance thus contributing to the
adaptation of the project to ensure sustainability.
Environmental Aspects: No adverse environmental effects are expected to
result from the project because it involves modest interventions in the case
of the DP, where electric equipment will be enhanced, modified, or installed,
e.g., modification of illumination systems in streets, industries, commerce,
and homes. On the contrary, savings in power generation would reduce global
warming by decreasing C02 production, and it would improve local air quality
by diminishing emissions of S02, NOx and Particulate Matter produced by
thermal generators using hydrocarbons.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Tel. No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Luis Vaca-Soto
Task Manager
(202) 473-8587
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 24, 1999.
- 3 -



