                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                       Report No:NCO0000262




                  NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION REPORT
                                      (IBRD-45140)




                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 43.4 MILLION


                                         TO THE

           CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. (ELETROBRAS)

                                         FOR AN

                          ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT




                                      June 15, 2007




Finance, Private Sector, and Infrastructure
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective 10/03/2006 )
                       Currency Unit = Real
                            Real 1.00 = US$ 0.4636
                            US$ 1.00 = Real 2.157

                                Fiscal Year
                              July 1 - June 30
                  (Exchange Rate Effective 10/03/2006 )


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


APL     Adaptable Program Loan
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CEPEL   Brazil National Electric Laboratory
CO2     Carbon Dioxide
DP      Demonstration Project
DSM     Demand-side Management
EE      Energy Efficiency
ESCO    Energy Service Company
ESMAP   Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
GEF     Global Environment Facility
GHG     Greenhouse Gas
GOB     Government of Brazil
MME     Brazil Ministry of Mines and Energy
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objectives
PMU     Project Management Unit
PROCEL  Brazil National Electricity Conservation Program
PSR     Project Status Report
UNDP    United Nations Development Programme




                       Vice President: Pamela Cox

                     Country Director: John Briscoe

                      Sector Manager: Susan G. Goldmark

                 Project Team Leader: Todd M. Johnson
                  NCO Team Leader : Xiaoping Wang

                                                  Brazil
                  ENERGY EFFICIENCY (ELETROBRAS)



                                                CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs




 1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design............................................1
 2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation. .......................................6
 3. Assessment of Bank Performance ............................................................................7
 4. Assessment of Borrower Performance......................................................................8
 5. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................9
 Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes...........10
 Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................12
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                   ENERGY
Country:              Brazil                 Project Name:         EFFICIENCY
                                                                   (ELETROBRAS)
Project ID:           P039200                L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-45140
NCO Date:             06/19/2007
Lending Instrument:   APL                    Borrower:             ELETROBRAS
Original Total
                      USD 43.4M              Disbursed Amount:     USD 0.4M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Eletrobras
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process            Date             Process        Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                           Date(s)
Concept Review:      02/13/1997     Effectiveness:        02/07/2001      02/07/2001
Appraisal:           10/15/1998     Closing:              12/31/2003      12/31/2004
Approval:            10/05/1999


C. Ratings Summary
Performance Rating by NCO
Outcomes:                                    Not Applicable
Risk to Development Outcome:                 Not Applicable
Bank Performance:                            Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                        Unsatisfactory



D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                           Original
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                       100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Pollution management and environmental health              Primary




                                             i

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                  At NCO                   At Approval
Vice President:       Pamela Cox                  David de Ferranti
Country Director:     John Briscoe                Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:       Susan G. Goldmark           Danny M. Leipziger
Project Team Leader:  Todd M. Johnson             Luis M. Vaca-Soto
NCO Team Leader:      Todd M. Johnson
NCO Primary Author:   Xiaoping Wang



F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                    Actual
No.     Date ISR
        Archived            DO                  IP               Disbursements
                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     03/10/2000       Satisfactory       Satisfactory                   0.00
  2     07/15/2000       Satisfactory       Satisfactory                   0.00
  3     11/22/2000       Satisfactory       Satisfactory                   0.00
  4     03/02/2001       Satisfactory       Satisfactory                   0.00
  5     09/26/2001       Satisfactory       Satisfactory                   0.43
  6     11/30/2001       Satisfactory       Satisfactory                   0.43
  7     05/29/2002       Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory                 0.74
  8     11/13/2002       Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory                 0.43
  9     05/30/2003       Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory                 0.43
 10     12/10/2003       Satisfactory       Satisfactory                   0.43
 11     05/17/2004       Satisfactory       Satisfactory                   0.43
 12     06/10/2004       Satisfactory       Satisfactory                   0.43
 13     08/23/2004       Satisfactory       Satisfactory                   0.43
 14     06/11/2005       Satisfactory       Satisfactory                   0.43




                                        ii

1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design (drawing from PAD,
briefly describe the country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance,
development objectives, components, costs and funding, implementation arrangements,
risk analysis, and quality at entry):

This Note on Cancelled Operations (NCO) covers only the IBRD-financed components
of the Brazil Energy Efficiency Project (P039200). A GEF funding of US$15 million
was originally associated with the project, but the two projects were effectively "de-
linked" following the cancellation of the IBRD loan for this project in 2004.

Macroeconomic Context

This project was prepared in the context of the economic conditions and structure of the
energy sector in the mid- and late-1990s. As such, a description of the macroeconomic
environment and energy sector is useful to understand the design of the project. Since the
deep recession in 1990, Brazil has adopted a comprehensive package of economic
reforms that has fundamentally transformed its economy. First, trade liberalization was
introduced, including reduction of import tariffs and establishment of the regional trade
agreement Mercosul. Second, in 1994, the Real Plan was introduced which featured
privatization of state-owned industries, lowering of tariffs, and the abolition of Brazil's
unique and counterproductive wage-inflation indexing, which had sent prices on a
seemingly endless upward spiral. The Brazilian Real initially appreciated against the
U.S. dollar as a result of the large amount of capital inflows in late 1994 and 1995, but
then began a gradual depreciation process until January 1999 when an inflation-targeting,
free-floating policy was instituted which effectively meant that the fixed-exchange rate
period was over. In late 2002 the Real reached its historic low of almost R$4 per US$1
in fear of the possible monetary policy change by the then to-be-elected President Lula.
Since then the Real has been getting stronger against the dollar and, since the beginning
of 2005, against most other world currencies as well. One of the striking achievements
during the 1990s was the reduction of inflation rates from nearly 5000 percent in mid-
1994 to 6 percent in 2000. Despite their recent downward trend, real interest rates in
Brazil have been and remain high. The average real interest rate was 21.4 percent in
1997-99, 15.9 percent in 2000-01 and 11.9 percent in 2003-05.

Energy Sector Issues

Up to 1995, Brazil had a centralized, predominantly public sector power system, with
most generation and transmission owned by the Government through its holding
company, Eletrobras and its subsidiaries, and by about a half dozen state companies.
ITAIPU, a joint Brazilian-Paraguayan hydro undertaking, supplied a quarter of the
demand through FURNAS and ELETROSUL. Almost all of the distribution companies
were owned by the individual states.

In 1995, the Government initiated a major power sector reform to establish a competitive,
more efficient private sector-operated system. The reform led to: 1) privatization of 23



                                              1

percent of generation assets and 64 percent of distribution assets; 2) creation of a
National System Operator (ONS) with responsibility for central cost-based dispatch for
the interconnected system; a Wholesale Electricity Market (MAE) and a new federal
electricity regulatory agency (ANEEL). However, after the initial successes, the reform
lost momentum for several reasons. First, there was a lack of commitment and
coordination on the part of the Government, particularly after the financial market crisis
in 1999 when the Government shifted its priorities. Second, there was strong resistance
to the reform by major regional utilities and local political leaders who did not want to
lose control or political influence. Third, there was little foresight to the crisis despite
warnings that the lack of investment, non-completion of market reforms and progressive
depletion of hydro reservoirs were putting the power sector operations at risk.

The Brazilian power system experienced a major supply crisis in 2001 and 2002. As a
result, the country was forced to implement an aggressive energy rationing plan from
June 2001 through February 2002. Brazil's power generation has been dominated by
hydroelectricity which accounts for nearly 90 percent of its total installed capacity. The
immediate cause for the energy crisis was a sequence of years drier than usual. However,
the structural imbalance between supply and demand and the under-investment in new
capacity were believed to be the most important reasons why the system was not able to
withstand low rainfall without the need for severe rationing measures. While the market-
driven power sector reforms triggered a wave of investments in Brazil, the reforms also
led to growing pains within the electricity supply system. There was a lack of incentives,
due to both commercial and regulatory reasons, for distribution companies to sign
contracts with electricity suppliers and there was also a "false sense of security" within
the electricity industry due to the overestimate of inherited supply contracts that were not
backed up with secure physical capacity (see Luiz Maurer et al, ESMAP Report 305/05).

The rationing system consisted of monthly energy consumption targets for almost all
consumers and a set of rules for trading quotas, setting bonuses for overachievers and
penalties for violators. Quotas were assigned to each individual customer group,
amounting to as much as a 35 percent reduction of average consumption in the
corresponding three-month period of the previous year. Penalties for non-compliance
were severe, reflecting the marginal cost of energy in the wholesale market. The system
also allowed the trading of quotas for non-residential consumers. As a result, from June
to December 2001, there was a 20 percent load reduction, compared with the previous
year's consumption level. The quota system effectively minimized the damage of the
crisis by not resorting to blackouts. Another interesting feature was the use of price
signals, which helped to make the program an international best practice on how to
implement rationing. There is also evidence that some of the energy efficiency (EE)
measures adopted by consumers became permanent--one of the positive consequences of
the crisis. Nearly three quarters of the consumers who replaced incandescent bulbs with
compact florescent lamps (CFL) during the rationing continued using CFLs thereafter
according to the market survey by the Brazil National Electricity Conservation Program


                                              2

(PROCEL).

Energy Efficiency in Brazil

In the mid-1990s when this project was conceived, electricity demand in Brazil had been
growing at 6-7 percent per year. In order to meet the demand, 27GW of additional
capacity was projected for the following 8-10 years. Given that most of the attractive
hydropower resources had already been developed, and further expansion of
hydroelectric capacity was hindered by institutional barriers and environmental and social
constraints, the additional capacity was expected to be met primarily through fossil fuels.
Nonetheless, in retrospect, the 2001/2002 energy crisis demonstrated that the
Government's attempt to expand thermal generating capacity did not generate concrete
results due to lack of incentives for private companies to invest and for the distribution
companies to conclude long-term power purchase agreements (PPAs).

The residential and industrial sectors accounted for three quarters of electricity
consumption in Brazil in the late 1990s and their share was growing. Per capita
residential power consumption increased by nearly 50 percent between 1994 and 2000,
only briefly declined during the 2001/2002 crisis, and picked up again after the crisis.
According to the preliminary survey that was conducted in mid-2004 with financial
support from this project, there is significant potential of energy savings in electricity
end-use in the commercial, industrial, water and sewage, government buildings, and
residential sectors, possibly amounting to more than R$ 2.7 billion per year.

Brazil has long had two government programs to promote energy efficiency,
administered separately for electricity and fuels through the two parastatals, Eletrobras
and Petrobras. The PROCEL program for electricity was established in late 1985 and has
been managed by Eletrobras. The CONPET program for efficiency in the consumption
of oil and gas was established in 1991 and is managed by Petrobras. CONPET is mostly
focused on initiatives in the transport sector, and is substantially smaller than PROCEL.
In addition to PROCEL, there are two other programs for electricity efficiency that were
established later in the 1990s. One is the wire-charge on electricity distribution utility
company revenues for energy efficiency which is regulated by ANEEL, the regulator for
the power sector; the other is the RELUZ program for improving efficiency in public
lighting using the resources of Eletrobras. Both programs operate through the distribution
companies and finance projects developed by them. Since established, at least 55 percent
of the wire-charge EE investments have gone for improving the efficiency for public
street lighting because this was an area of importance for the distribution companies as it
would reduce the most expensive peak demand. At the same time, the RELUZ can
finance up to 75 percent of the investments for public lighting projects. Thus public
lighting has been the overwhelming beneficiary of EE programs in Brazil, even though
this segment is responsible for only 3 percent of overall electricity consumption.

Project Rationale

The energy sector environment at the project preparation stage was characterized by


                                              3

    · greater reliance on markets in shaping the structure of the sector;
    · competitive sector participation becoming the norm, with private firms assuming
        greater operational tasks, with the Government playing more of a regulatory role;
    · imported natural gas soon reaching major metropolitan areas and play a more
        important role in the future, thus allowing greater fuel choices for electricity
        generation and end-users;
    · increasingly cost-based energy prices fueling greater customer interest in the more
        efficient use of energy;
    · local capital markets beginning to look at financing energy sector investments;
        and
    · the Government moving from its past function of being the main investment
        player for energy conservation programs in favor of a more market-based
        strategy.

The above-described environment provided a foundation for undertaking EE measures in
Brazil. However, other barriers were still apparent, including, but not limited to: (a) the
lack of public awareness of potential benefits, (b) the lack of credible information on
effective EE measures, and (c) the lack of information, financial, and regulatory support
mechanisms. Furthermore, the Government feared that Brazil's EE efforts might
diminish or lose focus as the deregulation of the energy sector advances. To address this
problem, it was introducing a new regulatory framework, a new institutional structure,
and increased private participation to promote competition and private investments in the
sector. It also was moving to implement market-based EE programs in tandem with
developing new sustainable energy sources. By so doing, it hoped to broaden consumer
choices, improve service quality, and postpone supply-side investments. The
Government requested IBRD assistance for these purposes for which this APL was
recommended.

Project Development Objectives and Components

This project was designed to support the first phase of a two-phased Energy Efficiency
Program in Brazil. The overall development objective of the Program was to increase the
efficiency of energy supply and use in Brazil. Under Phase 1 of the project, it was to: (a)
demonstrate cost-effective measures in the electricity sub-sector through load
management and targeted peak period reductions so as to better utilize existing facilities;
and (b) demonstrate the same to reduce energy use in public, residential, commercial, and
industrial facilities. Upon successful attainment of Phase 1 outcomes, Phase 2 was to
implement a second set of demonstration projects to illustrate new energy-efficient
concepts.

Implementation Arrangements

Policy and Guidance. The Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) was designed to


                                              4

provide the policy framework and the overall guidance to the program. ANEEL would
regulate the concessionaires and other participants, in coordination with regulatory state
agencies, to contribute to the energy efficiency objectives through regulation of DSM
investments, setting of proper electric tariff structures, and other measures.

Project Implementation. ELETROBRAS was proposed to be responsible for project
implementation using the structure in place for executing PROCEL. A project
management unit (PMU) under its direction would either coordinate or carry out the
activities in all three components. Demonstration projects would be implemented by
electricity utilities and PROCEL. For procurement and financial management, PROCEL
would draw upon the technical services of ELETROBRAS and the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP). ELETROBRAS would continue to use its Physical-
Financial Information System introduced in 1996, which provides adequate monitoring of
activities, and meet the requirements for the Loan Administration Change Initiative
(LACI). ELETROBRAS was to on-lend the Bank loan to the other beneficiaries.

Risk Analysis and Quality at Entry

The project was consistent with the government's energy sector strategy and the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy. The project built on the national EE program (PROCEL)
which had already carried out and overseen hundreds of EE projects and had achieved
significant benefits in electric energy savings.

The Bank team identified shortcomings in institutional arrangements and managerial and
technical capacity within Eletrobras as high risk in the project preparation stage.
Nonetheless, the choice of Eletrobras as the implementing agency had clear advantages:
(1) Eletrobras would take advantage of its structure already in place for executing
PROCEL; (2) Eletrobras would continue to use its Physical-Financial Information
System introduced in 1996, which provides adequate monitoring of the activities. The
measures proposed to minimize this risk--creation of a project management unit (PMU)
and implementation of the capacity building component targeting the PMU--were
proven effective in other Bank projects. Sufficient GEF funding was allocated for project
management. However, the departure of some key staff in Eletrobras and constant
changes in Eletrobras' management contributed to the delay in effectiveness and
implementation.

In hindsight the Bank was probably overly optimistic with respect to the demonstration
projects to be financed by the Bank loan. The incentives that the distribution companies
had with respect to energy efficiency were limited to utilities facing near-term supply
constraints, where energy efficiency was the least-cost and fastest option, to loss
reduction (such as with non-paying customers), and to load management measures
whereby consumers could be shifted away from high-cost peak power and in the process
save on peak power capacity and generation. While the energy crisis was not foreseen,
the weakness in demand for energy efficiency by utilities could have been better



                                               5

anticipated, and at least flagged as a potential risk.



2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation.
(main events leading to cancellation, steps taken to resolve problems, exogenous factors,
identification of causes and responsibility if project failed, implications of failure):

Since project approval in October 1999, implementation was hampered by two main
events. First, there was delay in project effectiveness. The project was originally
scheduled to become effective in January 2000 but did not become effective until
February 2001. Institutional changes (downsizing) and changes in personnel in charge of
the project at Eletrobras delayed the compliance with two effectiveness conditions --
staffing the Project Management Unit (PMU) and signing two subsidiary agreements
with project participants in demonstration projects. The delay in project effectiveness led
to project implementation behind schedule.

Second, not long after project effectiveness, in May 2001 the Government declared a
major energy supply crisis which significantly dampened the incentives for distribution
companies to execute the proposed project activities. The crisis was a result of a
prolonged drought, compounded by the country's heavy dependence on hydroelectric
energy, and under-investment in energy supply capacity for a number of years. As a
result of the electricity supply shortages, the Government was forced to institute a power
rationing program from May 2001 to February 2002, which was highly successful in
achieving voluntary (subject to high above-quota tariffs) consumption reductions.
However, this fall in consumption reduced electricity distribution companies' revenues,
with severe negative impacts on their finances. Moreover, it was expected that electricity
consumption would remain 10 percent below the pre-crisis levels in the next 12 month
after the rationing. Because of regulatory lag, distribution tariffs remained depressed and
distribution companies continued to face cash shortfalls. As a result, their attention was
focused on reducing their own costs and had little incentive to promote energy efficiency
initiatives, such as the proposed demonstration activities by this project. In addition,
companies in financial difficulty wanted to avoid borrowing in dollars and increasing
their exposure to foreign exchange risks. Due to the lack of progress in the
implementation of the demonstration projects, in November 2002, Eletrobras requested
partial cancellation of the Bank loan to adjust it to the actual demand for resources to
finance energy demonstration projects. At the time, only two utilities CEMIG and
COELCE were interested in developing energy efficiency demonstration projects with a
total cost of US$2.0 million.

In response to the Government's request, the project was restructured and the
restructuring package was approved by the Board in May 2003. The loan amount was
reduced to US$2.0 million. In November 2003, Eletrobras requested to cancel the




                                               6

remaining loan as the initial interest of the two utilities in the demonstration projects did
not materialize. In March 2004, the remaining US$2 million Bank loan was cancelled.

In addition to the energy crisis described above, the following factors potentially
contributed to the project cancellation:

First, Eletrobras' higher-level management changed several times during the project life.
Some key staff members of Eletrobras who championed the preparation of this project
left the company before project effectiveness, which affected the process and support for
some demonstration projects. At the start of the project implementation, upper
management in Eletrobras did not adequately delegate decision-making to the PMU, and
Eletrobras as a whole was constrained by lack of knowledge of Bank procedures, causing
serious delays in implementation. There was delay in setting up the PMU; once it was set
up, the PMU was perennially understaffed and under-resourced.

Second, the project preparation probably underestimated some of the project risks. A
number of potential project risks were stated in the PAD, and measures were developed
for their mitigation. However, several risks that eventually materialized were listed as
negligible or were not listed at all. The risks of "the lack of interest in demonstration
projects" by utilities were listed as "negligible". However, even before the energy crisis
of 2001-2002, the interest of utilities in demand-side energy efficiency investments was
limited, and it took one year for Eletrobras to sign the required two subsidiary agreements
for project effectiveness. This lack of interest was exacerbated by the energy crisis. Two
other risks that were not considered significant in the PAD were high interest rates and
their affect on EE investments by utilities, and fluctuations in exchange rates between the
Real and the US dollar which also affected the utilities' decision-making and contributed
to the cancellation of the World Bank loan. The energy crisis did not cause the upheaval
in Brazil's credit and foreign exchange markets -- high interest rates and currency risk
already existed at the time the of the project's inception.

Third, high interest rates in Brazil do not favor EE investments. With nominal interest
rates no lower than 16 percent per year during the project life, and with loans to energy
efficiency developers typically costing well above 20 percent, it was difficult to
undertake EE projects and to convince commercial banks to lend money even for highly
profitable projects.

3. Assessment of Bank Performance
(lending process/ensuring Quality at Entry, supervision and implementation assistance
role, compliance with Bank policies, justification for rating):

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The project was consistent with the government's energy sector strategy and the Bank's
country assistance strategy. The project built on the national EE program (PROCEL)



                                               7

which had already carried out and overseen hundreds of EE projects and had achieved
significant benefits in electric energy savings.

The Bank team correctly identified inappropriate institutional arrangements and
managerial and technical capacity as high risk in the project preparation stage even
though there were benefits in the choice of Eletrobras as the implementing agency.
Measures were proposed to minimize this risk: creation of a project management unit
(PMU) and implementation of the capacity building component targeting the PMU which
were proven effective in other Bank projects. Sufficient GEF funding was allocated for
project management. However, the departure of some key staff in Eletrobras and
constant changes in Eletrobras' management partially contributed to the delay in
effectiveness and eventual cancellation of the project.

Two to three missions were typically undertaken every year and PSRs/ISRs and Aide
Memoirs were produced. The Bank team diagnosed the implementation capacity
constraints in the PMU early in the implementation stage and communicated it explicitly
to the Government and to Eletrobras. However, the supervision could have been more
active in assisting the borrower to identify the effective solutions as evidenced by the fact
that in more than four years of implementation, no disbursement was made except that
the borrower paid a US$0.4 million front-end fee. Indeed, implementation progress
ratings were reported "unsatisfactory" for only the period May 2002-May 2003, whereas
there had been no implementation activities under the project between February 2001 and
May 2002.

In hindsight the Bank was probably overly optimistic with respect to the demonstration
projects that were to be financed through the World Bank loan. The incentives that the
distribution companies had with respect to energy efficiency were limited to utilities
facing near-term supply constraints, where energy efficiency was the least-cost and
fastest option, and to load management measures whereby consumers could be shifted
away from high-cost peak power and in the process save on peak power capacity and
generation. While the energy crisis was not foreseen, the weakness in demand for energy
efficiency by utilities could have been better anticipated, and at least flagged as a
potential risk.

4. Assessment of Borrower Performance
(government and implementing agency performance, compliance with covenants,
justification for rating):

Rating: Unsatisfactory
The project, over its course, saw the departure of numerous key staff and multiple
changes in project leadership within Eletrobras, the occurrence of the energy crisis in
2001/2002, and the change of government in 2003. From the beginning, the staffing of
the PMU was insufficient to implement the project as planned. The decision process in



                                              8

Eletrobras and the allocation of approval responsibilities did not allow for making
decisions in a timely manner. Between 2000 and 2003, the Bank Supervision reports
continuously rated institutional arrangements and managerial and technical capacity as
"high risk." Not until December 2003 was this risk factor downgraded from high to
modest. Until then, Eletrobras failed to take prompt corrective measures in a timely
fashion that were agreed with the Bank. In addition, personnel changes in Eletrobras
affected negatively staffing the PMU in a timely manner which was one of the
effectiveness conditions.

5. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

There are two main lessons from the project that should be used in subsequent World
Bank energy efficiency projects.

(1) Demand-side management (DSM) programs can be successful only if the underlying
incentives of the regulatory framework are in place and correct. Electricity utilities will
not have an automatic incentive to invest in energy efficiency measures ­ although they
may have incentives to shift demand or to delay investments in new capacity, also
depending on the regulatory framework ­ because this will lower their sales and revenues.
Consumers, on the other hand, do have an incentive to improve energy efficiency, but
often lack sufficient information on specific cost-effective measures and the means to
finance investments. For these reasons, standards and labeling programs like the one
supported by the GEF-financed project can be very important for improving energy
efficiency by setting minimum efficiency standards for energy-consuming equipment.
By the same token, providing better information to energy consumers can help them
make more informed choices about their energy consumption. The project improved the
information for consumers about the benefits of energy efficiency, and through the
standards program -- that was applied to selected appliances -- reduced the energy
consumption of specific equipment relative to what would have been the case otherwise.

(2) The rationing program that was put in place in 2002 to deal with severe cuts in
electricity supply was effective in reducing consumption, but also resulted in large
financial losses to the distribution utilities that have been being made up through utility
bills since the crisis. Throughout the crisis, utilities in Brazil had some incentive to
reduce their losses -- from non-payment and theft -- through energy efficiency measures,
such as improved street lighting from non-paying municipalities and improved lighting
and energy efficiency appliances in poor residential neighborhoods. Other energy
efficiency measures -- among paying customers -- was much more limited since it
reduced utility revenue, and during the rationing program, demand was being reduced
largely without investment in permanent energy efficiency measures.




                                                9

Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

            Names                       Title                 Unit        Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Sati Achath                 Consultant                    LCSFW
Amarquaye Armar             Lead Energy Specialist        EWDEN
Jordan E. Blackman          Consultant                    LCSFE
Jose Augusto Carvalho       Consultant                    LEGLA
Nelson De Franco            Consultant                    LCSFE
Howard S. Geller            Consultant                    LCSFE
Orville F. Grimes           Consultant                    LCSEN
Charles Guinn               Consultant                    EASEG
Winston C. Hay              Consultant                    AFTEG
Vladimir T. Jadrijevic      Consultant                    LCSPT
Eric Martinot               Sr Environmental Spec.        GEF
Herman J. Nissenbaum        Consultant                    LCSPS
Arturo S. Rivera            Sr Energy Spec.               EASEG
Romelia Schneider           Procurement Analyst           LCSPT
Luis M. Vaca-Soto           Consultant                    LCSFE          Former task team leader
Julius A. Wilberg           Consultant                    AFTEG

Supervision/ICR
Susan G. Goldmark           Sector Manager                LCSFE
Todd M. Johnson             Sr Energy Spec.               LCSFE          Task team leader
Patrick Kann                Junior Professional Associate LCSFR
Jayme Porto Carreiro        Consultant                    LCSFE          Former task team leader
Xiaoping Wang               Energy Spec.                  LCSFE          NCO author
Sabastien Pascual           Junior Professional Associate LCSFE
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle
                                       No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
              FY95                                                                  1.36
              FY96                                                                 59.56
              FY97                                                                 46.14
              FY98                                                                 71.76
              FY99                                                                 42.32
              FY00                                                                 26.54


                                            10

             FY01                           0.00
             FY02                           0.00
             FY03                           0.00
             FY04                           0.00
             FY05                           0.00
             FY06                           0.00
             FY07                           0.00
                    Total:         247.68
Supervision/NCO
             FY95                           0.00
             FY96                           0.00
             FY97                           0.00
             FY98                           0.00
             FY99                           0.00
             FY00                          59.48
             FY01                          43.34
             FY02                          54.96
             FY03                         102.10
             FY04                          74.70
             FY05                          31.53
             FY06                          97.28
             FY07                          36.15
                    Total:         499.54




                             11

Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents




                                    12

