Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19644-BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$43.4 MILLION
AND A
GRANT FROM THE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRI 1.I MILLION (US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
CENTRAIS ELtTRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. (ELETROBRAS)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR AN
ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM
September 14, 1999
Finance, Private Sector, and Infrastructure
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 4, 1999)
Currency Unit = Brazilian Reais
R$1.00 = US$0.83
US$1.00 = R$1.20
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALURE            Agency for Economic Cooperation between the European Union and Latin America in
the Energy Sector
ANEEL            National Regulatory Body for the Electricity Sector
APL              Adaptable Program Loan
BNDES            National Bank of Economic and Social Development
BNDESPAR         National Bank of Economic and Social Development - Equity Participations
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CBM              Capacity Building Module
CEMIG            Power Utility of the State of Minas Gerais
CEPEL            Center of Electric Research
CESP             Power Utility of the State of Sao Paulo
CIDA             Canadian International Development Agency
COELBA           Power Utility of the State of Bahia
COPPE            Center of Engineering Studies - University of Rio de Janeiro
COPEL            Power Utility of the State of Parana
CPFL             Power Utility of the State of Sao Paulo
CSA              Core Support Activities
DNAEE            National Department of Water and Electric Energy
DNDE             National Department of Energy Development
DP               Demonstration Project
DSM              Demand Side Management
EU               European Union
EE               Energy Efficiency
ELETROBRAS    Federal Electric Utility Holding Company
ELETRONORTE  ELETROBRAS' subsidiary for the North of Brazil
ELETROPAULO  Power Utility of the State of Sao Paulo
ESCO             Energy Service Company
ESMAP            Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
Vice President: David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director: Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Team Leader: Luis M. Vaca-Soto



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GEF              Global Environment Facility
GOB              Government of Brazil
GWh              Giga Watt hours
IBAM             Brazilian Association of Municipalities
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
ICT              Institute of Science and Technology
IERR             Internal Economic Rate of Return
IFRR             Internal Financial Rate of Return
IP               Integrated Planning
kW               kilowatt
kWh              kilowatt hour
LACI             Loan Administration Change Initiative
MME              Ministry of Mines and Energy
MC               Market Change
MW               Megawatt
NCB              National Competitive Bidding
NGO              Non-Governmental Organization
NPV              Net Present Value
PAD              Project Appraisal Document
PID              Project Information Document
PIU              Project Implementation Unit
PMU              Project Management Unit
PROCEL           National Energy Efficiency Program
PRODEEM          National Program for Energy Development of States and Municipalities
RGR              Global Reversion Reserve
SEAIN            Secretary of International Affairs - Ministry of Budget and Planning
SINTREL          National Electric Power Transmission System
SOE              Statement of Expenses
TA               Technical Assistance
TOR              Terms of Reference
TWh              Tera Watt hours
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Page iii
BRAZIL
Energy Efficiency Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A.   Program  and Project Development and Global Objectives .............................................2
1. Program  objective and key performance indicators .........................................................2
2. Project objective and key performance indicators ...........................................................2
B. Strategic Context ................................................................3
1(a): Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ........3
(b): GEF Operational Strategy/Program   Goal Addressed by the Program ......................... .                    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ................................................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ...............                   ....................5
C. Project Description Summary (Phase I) and Performance Triggers for
Subsequent Loans ...............................................................6
1. Project components ................................................................6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .........................................8
3. Benefits and target population ................................................................8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ...............................................................9
D. Project Rationale .............                                                  ,.9
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ...............................................9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank, GEF, and/or other development agencies. 10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .............................................. 10
4. Indications of Government/Borrower commitment and ownership ................................I 11
5. Value added of Bank and GEF support in this project ..................................................  11
E. Summary Project Analysis ................................................... 11
1. Economic ..................................................                                                       11
2. Financial Assessment ..................................................                                           12
3. Technical Assessment .................................................. 12
4. Institutional Assessment ..................................................                                       12
5. Social Assessment ..................................................                                              12
6. Environmental assessment ..................................................                                       13
7. Participatory approach .................... ,13
F. Sustainability and Risks .................... 13
1. Sustainability ...................                                                                                13
2. Critical risks ....................           ....                                                  .. 14
3. Possible controversial aspects ...................                                                                15
G. Main Loan and Grant Conditions ........                                       ........... 15
1. Effectiveness conditions ...................                                                                      15
2. Other ................... 15
H. Readiness for Implementation ....................... 16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ...................................,,,.,.,.,                                             . 16



Page iv
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary .....................................................                                                     17
Annex 2:  Project Description  ..................................................... 21
Annex 3: Program Letter .....................................................                                                            35
Annex 4: Project Justification, Incremental Costs, and Benefit-Cost Analysis ................... 40
Annex 5:  Institutional and Financial Assessment .................................................                                 .... 49
Annex 6:  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ... . ......................................... 56
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements                                         ................................. 56
Table B:  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review                                            .................................. 57
Table C:  Allocation of Grant and Loan Proceeds ..................................................... 59
Annex  7:  Processing Budget and  Schedule .....................                                   ................................ 60
Annex  8: Main Documents in Project File .....................................................                                           61
Annex  9:  Statement of Loans and Credits ...................                                   .................................. 62
Annex  10:  Organizational Structure ..................................................... 66
Annex 11: Brazil at a Glance ...................................................... 67



Brazil
Energy Efficiency Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Brazil
Date: September 14, 1999                                Team Leader: Luis M. Vaca-Soto
Country Manager/Director: Gobind T. Nankani             Sector Manager/Director: Damy Leipziger
ProjectID: BR-PE-39200             Sector: Energy/PY    Program Objective Category: EA
Project ID Supplement D: BR-GE-47309                    Focal area: GEF Program No. 5
Lending Instruments: Adaptable Program Lending/ GEF Grant   Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [I]  Yes  [XI No
Pr_o   Finac       a a      _
APL   r                   Indicative Financing Plan           Estimated Implementation Period   I    Borrower
___                             ~~~~~~~    ~~(Bank FY ___   ____
D.   01 i   T GEF 1   Others  ,  Total  . Comrnitment I   Closing
---  _Date
A ;Loan 1 43.4   35 i 15.0             L125.5  i       2000         .   2004            ELETROBRAS
APL2   Loan            4)40.0   32 1_5°.__   79.5  1 124.5  .,_ 2004              2007                TBD
Total      .   183.4    33' 20.0        146.6      250.0   _                I       i
Project Financing Data                         Lj Loan           Credit             Guarantee Lx  GEF Grant
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$ m/SDR m): WB Loan US$43.4 m, GEF Grant US$15 m. equivalent
Proposed Terms:                To be defined          Multi-currency         i   Single currency
Grace period (years):  5                   Standard Variable          Fixed             LIBOR-based
Years to matarity:  15
Comnitment fee:  3/4 %
Front-end fee:  1%
Financing plan (US$ million):
Source                                                                T        Local    Foreign         Total
IBRD                                                                        24.3    I    19.1            43.4
GEF Grant                                                                   8.0           77.0           15.0
ELETROBRAS and other _        nts inpo..ct                             :    44.0          23.1           67.1
Total                ,1   76.3           49.2     1    125.5
Borrower: ELETROBRAS
Guarantor: Govermment of Brazil (GOB)
Responsible agency: ELETROBRAS
Estimated disbursements (FYAJS$ m):          I    Year    1 2000  !   2001           2002       2003  1  2004
Bank Loan                                        Anual        3.0   l    8.0         13.0       15.0       4.4
Cumulative     3.0.                   2 0  4 0   39.0      43.4
GEF Grant                                    L  Annual        1.0_ +_ 2.0             4.0    16.0          2.0
Cumulative      1.0   i    3.0         7.0    1  13.0   i   15.0
Project implementation period: 48 months. Expected effectiveness date: January 2000. Expected closing date: December 2003.



2
A: Program and Project Development and Global Objectives
1. Program Objectives and Key Performance Indicators (see Annex I for key performance indicators):
The objective of the Energy Efficiency (EE) Program, the basis of the recommended Adaptable Program Loan
(APL) and GEF Grant, is to increase the efficiency of energy production and use in Brazil.
Expected project benefits include electricity savings of about 1% per year and postponement of investments in
electricity supply of about US$300 million per year. In addition, the project would contribute to reduced CO2
emissions estimated at about 17 million tons in a ten-year period.
Phase I: Demonstration and Capacity Building
The EE project will demonstrate a first set of selected EE products, services, and delivery arrangements among a
select group of Brazilian institutions, and make them ready for replication by third parties. It also will remove
barriers to the effective capture of successful energy efficiency opportunities in the country's main markets.
Phase H: Dissemination and Mainstreaniing
If Phase I is successful, a second APL will extend these efficiency gains to a wider cross-section of the Brazilian
energy market in years 2004-2007. It would also set up a market-based delivery system to support EE activities in
the long term.
2. Project Objectives and Key Performance Indicators:
Phase I: The objective of the Phase I of the EE program is to: (a) demonstrate cost-effective measures in the
electricity sub-sector through load management and targeted peak period reductions so as to better utilize existing
facilities; (b) demonstrate the same to reduce energy use in public, residential, commercial and industrial facilities;
(c) enhance standards and labeling programs; and (d) set up a market-based support structure for energy service
companies (ESCOs).
The milestones to be met before commitment of Phase 11 include the concrete demonstration of the success of the
EE measures, and the generation of a critical mass for their replication. Discrete evidence of their clearly positive
impact would have to be greatest in this initial stage in order to convince a larger array of potential participating
institutions of their benefits. In addition, there would have to be the creation and initiation of a financial facility
(at least, 15 projects financed by it), and the selection of a qualified financial intermediary committed to participate
in Phase II.
Phase II: If evaluation indicates that these milestones have been successfully attained, they would be followed by:
(a) the dissemination and replication of "best practice" cost-effective measures in other Brazilian states and
sectors; (b) the implementation of a second set of demonstration projects to illustrate new energy-efficient
concepts; (c) the expanded use of ESCOs for delivering energy-efficient products and services; and (d) the
enlistment of a qualified financial intermediary to operate the financial facility which would be established in
Phase I for supporting user-based EE measures.
The objectives of the second phase are to expand the number of participants, achieve greater efficiency in the
preparation and execution of EE measures, and develop an even more effective infrastructure for their long term
support when the sustainability ofthe program becomes critical.



3
B: Strategic Context
l(a). Sector-related CountryAssistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS Progress Report discussed on June 2, 1998
The EE program supports the strategic goal of increasing the efficiency of the energy market in order to help the
Government attain its development objectives, as well as advance its environmental agenda. The CAS indicated
that the GOB's energy sector aims are to enhance competition, encourage private sector participation, diversify
fuel sources, protect the environment, and support programs and technologies aimed at the efficient supply and use
of energy. The proposed project particularly aims at the last mentioned by demonstrating and making available a
broader set of effective and environmentally sound EE measures than those now available to energy suppliers,
users, and service providers. It is consequently fully supportive of CAS objectives.
l(b). GEF Operational Strategy/Program GoalAddressed by the Program:
The strategic goal of the proposed EE program, namely the removal of barriers to EE and energy conservation, is
fully consistent with GEF Operational Program No. 5 aims. The objective of Program No. 5 is the dissemination
of least-economic cost energy-efficient technologies and the promotion of the efficient use of energy. EE program
would reduce the risk of climate change by mitigating greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, which would help meet
the Kyoto Protocol's call for intensified national efforts to improve energy efficiency in various sectors.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Issues
The main sector issues are: (i) the potential imbalance between Brazil's financial resources and large investment
needed to expand power supply, reduce shortage risks, improve service quality, and service underpopulated rural
areas; (ii) future rapid growth of thermal-based generation capacity, with associated environmental issues; and
(iii) the inefficient supply and use of energy.
Background
Hydroelectric power plants provide close to 90% of Brazil's 60,000 MW of installed capacity in the electricity
sector. Electricity demand has been growing at about 6-7% per year, while inefficient supply and usage of energy
cause much waste. Recent blackouts and brownouts have demonstrated strains in the supply system. In order to
meet demand, about 27,000 MW of installed capacity should be added to the system over the next 8-10 years.
This would entail investments of close to US$38 billion, including US$20 billion alone for additional generation.
Considering that most of the attractive hydropower resources have already been developed, a major effort is
necessary to limit the otherwise huge increase in primary fossil energy supply required to sustain the growth of
Brazil's economy, as well as to mitigate the serious environmental consequences of expanded energy
consumption. Studies have forecast CO2 emissions from electricity generation growing from about 27 million
tons in 1999 to an accumulated value of 2,174 million tons by 2018, if unchecked.
The sector environment is marked by:
*  inflation has been brought down to single digit figures;
*  greater reliance upon markets in shaping the structure of the sector;
*  competitive sector participation is becoming the norm, with private firms assuming greater operational tasks,
while the Government plays more of a regulatory role;
* imported natural gas will soon start reaching major metropolitan areas and will play a more important role in
the future, thus allowing greater fuel choices for electricity generation and end-users;



4
*  the availability of natural gas will permit the creation of a new industry competing for customers and
improving quality of service;
*  increasingly cost-based energy prices are fueling greater customer interest in the more efficient use of energy;
*  local capital markets are now a possibility to tap for financing sector investments; and
* the Government is moving from its past function of being the main investment player for energy
conservation programs in favor of a more market-based strategy.
Barriers
Historically, EE measures in Brazil were long deterred by the instability of the economy and protracted subsidized
energy (especially electricity) prices. But the more recent stabilization of the economy - except for the very recent
disruption - has provided a foundation for such cost reduction investments, as EE projects would be. Further,
energy prices have moved toward cost-based pricing, to which the GOB is committed in order to implement and
sustain privatization. It also facilitates the mobilization of capital for possible sector investments. Concession
contracts with private utilities include tariff adjustment provisions. On average, electricity tariffs more than
doubled since the implementation of the Brazilian economic stabilization plan (US$34 to US$72 per MWh,
excluding taxes). Tariffs for most industrial, commercial and residential customers are at, or above, international
levels, save for some large industrial customers and low-income customers who receive discounted/baseline
tariffs. These fictors have improved the enabling environment for EE activity. However, other barriers still
hamper its expansion:
a Lack ofpublic awareness ofpotential benefits. Brazilian customers are unaware of energy savings measures,
how much they can save, and how profitable an investment in EE could be. Purchasers of home equipment, for
example, do not know the annual energy cost of such equipment relative to its purchase cost or the most efficient
models available. While some EE testing, certification and labeling of electric equipment exist, in many cases it is
encumbered by having to be included in a comprehensive customer-focused dealer-accepted program. Also, tariff
structures and/or bill collection by distribution companies have to be improved in order to provide all customers
with the proper price signals for making judicious energy investments.
b. Lack of credible information on effective EE measures. EE development suffers from both the lack of credible
case studies documenting the financial benefits of EE investments and the means to disseminate such information
to decision-makers. While many EE investments are being made, the types of measures and systems needed to
verify and disseminate their results have to be substantially enhanced. Regarding demand-side management
(DSM) measures, utilities have refrained from EE activity for fear of revenue losses resulting from reduced energy
consumption. Also, electric equipment customers have lacked data on enhanced testing, certification and labeling
programs.
c. Lack of supporting mechanisms. EE activities are underdeveloped in Brazil. This is partly because of obstacles
in the development of ESCOs, engineering or consultant firms that act as market intermediaries introducing
efficiency improvements. Customers have been skeptical about them and uncertain as to how to gauge individual
ESCOs' merits. In addition, private participants in EE activities have not had access to the kind of financing
available for energy supply projects. Banking requirements for small EE projects have been considered exorbitant
(e.g., high collateral) and long-term money unavailable. Financial agencies moreover are unfamiliar with this type
of activity, and third party financing (other than what is being done through the Government's PROCEL
program) is almost non-existent.
New developments. New market-based approach.
In recent years, the Government has adopted several measures, among other sector reforms, to increase efficiency
in the production and use of energy. There had long been an energy efficiency activity (PROCEL), which the
authorities transformed into the national program for implementing EE policies in 1991. It then expanded
PROCEL's scope and placed it under the national sector holding company (ELETROBRAS). Its objective is to
attain growing electricity savings of 130 TWh by 2015, equivalent to a reduction of 13 % in that year's demand,
and the postponement of some 25,000 MW of new generating capacity. The PROCEL program has carried out
and overseen hundreds of EE projects that are credited with producing significant savings in electrical energy use
and is recognized as one of the leading energy conservation programs throughout LDCs. PROCEL's aims include



5
incorporating a growing number of utilities, ESCOs and consumers in EE activities. It seeks to do this by
demonstrating EE projects through market-based delivery mechanisms, showing how to increase the efficiency of
electricity supply, distribution and use, evaluating these activities, demonstrating their results and stimulating their
replication.
Legislation promulgated in 1994 permits open access to all electricity concessionaires (generators and distributors)
and auto-producers and assigns priority to projects aimed to increase efficiency of energy use. A February 1995
law established a new regime for awarding concession contracts for public services and public works, and
introduced competition in the wholesale market by allowing large consumers to contract supply with any
generating company. More recent legislation allocated part of the resources collected by a national fund the
Global Reversion Reserve (RGR) to EE investments of utilities, states, and municipalities. These measures have
created a better environment for private sector investments and implementation of measures to increase EE and
reduce energy waste.
Now, the Govermnent will take additional actions to improve the efficiency of the utilization of energy (among
other measures) to meet energy needs, while also seeking beneficial environmental effects. It considers this timely
in the wake of recent and anticipated sector changes, e.g., widespread privatization. Given the latter, state-owned
utilities, in order to better compete with privately owned ones, are now striving to retain their customers and also
improve their finances through better capacity utilization. In addition, the Government is now causing all new
concession contracts to require that at least one percent of total revenues be used for efficiency improvements,
subject to the review of the regulatory agency, the National Agency of Energy and Electricity - ANEEL.
However, the Government fears that Brazil's EE efforts might diminish or lose focus as the deregulation of the
energy sector advances. To address this problem, it is introducing a new regulatory framework, a new institutional
structure, and increased private participation to promote competition and private investments in the sector. It also
is moving to implement market-based EE programs in tandem with developing new sustainable energy sources.
By so doing, it hopes to broaden consumer choices, improve service quality, postpone supply-side investments,
and reduce GHG emissions. It requested IBRD/GEF assistance for these purposes, for which the proposed APL
and GEF Grant are recommended.
3. Sector Issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
To address the issues discussed in para. 2, the project would strive to: (i) raise public awareness on the advantages
of EE measures; (ii) provide credible, verifiable practical information on EE measures to suppliers, consumers,
and energy service providers; (iii) implement core support activities such as training of ESCOs and performance
contracts concerning their activities; (iv) create a financial facility that would catalyze EE measures by third
parties for the future; and (vi) demonstrate selected energy efficiency products, services and delivery
arrangements.
The principal strategic choice made was, rather than to pursue a "command/control" approach, to focus instead on
market-based EE measures and on removing barriers for the efficient use of energy. The key ingredients of this
were: (i) addressing the entire electric market--i.e., the whole chain of production, delivery, commercialization,
and use--not only energy supply; (ii) choosing EE measures to be demonstrated based on their relevancy and
future sustainability prospects in the market; (iii) building on existing EE activities and institutions and gradually
expanding them; (iv) establishing a strategy with a structure to enable sustainable replication of EE measures after
the end of the program; (v) integrating EE policies and programs into sector restructuring and privatization
activity; and (vi) building a flexible and learning organizational structure for implementing these measures in
order to facilitate continuous refocusing of EE activities as conditions change and experience indicates. The
strategy also calls -instead of an "open ended" approach - for intense supervision and monitoring and evaluating
progress by use of objective criteria in order to pennit phasing out the program if the experience is unsuccessful or
expand it in Phase II if it is successful.



6
C: Project Description Summary (Phase 1) and Performance Triggers for Subsequent Loans
Phase 1 (2000-2004) aims at demonstrating the benefits to be obtained from an initial set of energy efficient
products, services and delivery arrangements, in which various Brazilian institutions invest. It also encompasses
supporting activities focusing mainly on reducing market barriers to broader application of EE measures, and the
preparation of a framework (primarily for on-going promotion and financing) of long term EE activities with an
expanded role for ESCOs. Phase II is expected to expand the number and participants such activities on a firmer,
more sustainable basis.
General preconditions for moving to Phase II are:
*  Successful attainment of the agreed planned results for the initial phase
*  Successful installation of enabling conditions for the next phase
*  Agreed detailed plan of action for the second phase
*  Preparation of second phase sub-projects completed
* Demonstrated implementation capacity to carry out the second phase
*  Government's approval of major decisions in the first phase and the implementation plan for the next phase.
Key Performance Indicators to be met before commitment of APL2 and contingent GEF funding (ref. Annex I)
are:
* EE measures demonstrated are successful in improving electric service quality, providing service options to
customers, and postponing investments in expansion of electric supply capacity for about US$1.2 billion in
four years.
* Increased public awareness and use of EE products, services, and/or actions by public authorities, utilities,
and consumers (30% of PROCEL's brand recognition).
-  Increased number and type of EE products and services are available (sales of Class A equipment are 10% of
total).
• Financial Facility is established, operated by a qualified financial entity, and demonstrated ability to assess,
appraise, and find necessary funding for qualified EE market-based subprojects (15 projects).
•  Qualified financial entity that will on-lend the Bank funds in commercial terms, is selected for Phase II and
Letter of Intention, operational guidelines, and manual for selection of EE subprojects and participants are
received. To further stimulate private participation, lFC's involvement in Phase II will be pursued.
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description andAnnex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
The project consists of three main interrelated components: (i) Demonstration Projects (DP) involving new EE
technologies, proper price signals, and delivery service options; (ii) Core Support Activities (CSA) to facilitate
future replication of EE measures; and (iii) a Capacity-Building Module (CBM) to enhance policy, regulatory, and
implementation functions. It will be implemented by ELETROBRAS with the participation of power utilities,
energy agencies, and ESCOs.



7
The recommended Bank loan and GEF Grant would jointly finance the project in the pattern shown below.
Component               lCategory                Costs (1)          Bank/GEF Financing
US$M     % of        US$M           % of
lTotal W                    Component
A. Demonstration       !Physical, institution-    90.2  1  72    ! 43.4 IBRDI      52
Projects______  __ u~~__!bilding__    3.3 GEF    |___                                       1
B. Core Support         Policy, institution-    j 20.2  l  16     7.2 GEF          36
_____          ____  ibuildin g                          _ 
C. Capacity-building   hInstitution-building,   ! 15.1  3  12    1  4.5 GEF    i   30
lproiect management   I               l _
Total                 125.5    100   I 43.4 IBRD   !       47
___________________________________  il _____ .15.0 GEF (2)
(1)    Including contingencies and loan front-end fee.
(2)    GEF suppaot will focus on removal of baniers during Phase I. Under the phased approach of the program, an additional US$5.0
million will be available to support activities of Phase II, conditional on satisfactory achievement of the performance milestones
for Phase IL
A. Demonstration Projects.
About 50 DP, which have been evaluated by the Bank, will be implemented by ELETROBRAS and power
utilities, in eight states and Brasilia. The DP will demonstrate the use of emerging technologies, proper price
signals and service options, and new implementation arrangements to improve the efficiency of electric energy
supply and use. One group of these will target selected market segments to demonstrate innovative demand
charge and time-of-day tariffs, load demand limiters, and improvements in bill collection through metering,
improved service conditions, and other commercial actions. These DP are expected to improve commercial
relationships in the reformed electricity market; stimulate the interest of utilities in Integrated Planning (IP)
methodologies that include Demand-Side Management (DSM) options; and encourage customer-based EE
investments. A second group of these projects would increase the use of more efficient appliances and energy
equipment, including: compact fluorescent lamps, solar heaters, refrigerators, irrigation pumps, air conditioners,
electric control systems, reflecting roofs, high efficient motors, motor speed drivers, motor optimization programs,
street lights, and water pumps. Projects in this group will be implemented in commercial buildings, industries,
fanrs, residential customers, and public facilities, including offices, hospitals, and schools. In addition, the DP
will stimulate development of ESCOs.
GEF grant of US$3.3 million would support: (a) transitory financial incentives to energy users to facilitate
demonstration of innovative technologies and delivery arrangements in three DP (US$2.1 million), and (b)
monitoring and evaluation studies that will contribute to the preparation of "best practice" case studies (US$1.2
million).
B. Core Support Activities.
This component is designed to facilitate replication of the DP and other sound EE projects. It includes:
(i) information, dissemination, and marketing programs, including a Best Practice Program, i.e., case studies and
technical and operational guidelines for cost-effective EE measures with wide applicability, derived from DP; a
public awareness campaign; and support to energy agencies in the areas of promotion and marketing. The best
practice program will also draw on the results of ESMAP efforts to develop pilot projects concerning improved
energy use in Bahia State industries.
(ii) implementation and initialization of a financial facility to support EE measures by ESCOs and consumers,
including building a portfolio of EE projects and preparing them for commercial financing by third parties. The
envisioned facility would develop and disseminate commercial and financial instruments for these purposes, based
on a detailed study to be conducted under this component, including partial credit guarantees and other adequate
financial instruments that would reduce the mitigate the perceived risk by the banking community. The facility



8
would be capitalized by PROCEL and GEF contingent to the approval of the second APL, and would be operated
by a qualified financial institution to be selected during Phase I.
(iii) demonstration of the independent verification and performance contract concepts through ESCOs.
Independent verification entails a third party evaluating actual savings achieved by EE projects. The savings are
shared by the ESCO and the energy user under the provisions of their performance contract;
(iv) an assessment of actual market acceptance of energy efficiency equipment and measures;
(v) implementation of programs for testing, certification, and labeling of efficient equipment and appliances,
including enhancement of testing facilities; and
(vi) preparation of policies, incentives and regulations for promoting EE, e.g., investment in DSM measures,
innovative electric tariff structures, and EE-minded building codes.
GEF grant resources of US$7.2 million would finance the incremental costs of the CSA in the areas detailed in
Annex 2. Under this component as well, annual progress evaluations will take place to help redirect project
activities as necessary. There will also be an assessment of the position of the PROCEL's place in the future
institutional structure of the energy sector.
C. Capacity-BuildingModule.
This component is designed to reinforce the institutional capacity of public energy agencies, regulators and other
relevant stakeholders in the EE market to facilitate the implementation of EE policies and projects. It will finance:
(a) institutional enhancement and training programs for the staff of PROCEL, regulators, energy agencies, utilities,
industrial and commercial associations, end users, ESCOs, and financial entities;
(b) support to PROCEL, regulators, energy agencies, and utilities for the design, management, supervision and
monitoring of EE projects; and
(c) the evaluation of the environmental, economic, financial and social benefits of the EE project.
GEF grant resources of US$4.5 million would finance the incremental costs of these activities, as detailed in
Annex 2.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Complementing current institutional reforms and the privatization of the energy sector, the project will help
develop a market-based system for promoting EE products and services. Its policy effects would include
improving EE in the energy market, reducing the emission of GHG through increased efficiency in energy
consumption, and stimulating greater reliance on non-utility actors to provide EE products and services.
Supporting GOB policy actions include: expanded government encouragement of implementation of EE projects
by utilities, states and municipalities; requirement for privatized utilities to implement EE measures, including
measures to reduce end users' consumption; continuation of PROCEL; and a legislative proposal to give ANEEL
the authority to set minimum energy consumption standards for certain equipment and appliances.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project's expected benefits are significant additional energy savings-estimated at about 4,600 GWh/year in
year seven-and associated reductions in C02 emissions, estimated at about 21 million tons over a ten year period
(ref. Annex 4). Electricity savings are projected to be about one percent of expected consumption per year. The
project will also produce other environmental benefits associated with energy conservation, such as contributing to
a reduction in the diseases caused by air pollution and acid rain's negative impacts on agriculture and ecosystems.
This is particularly important as annual CO2 emissions from thermal power generation are expected to grow ten-
fold, if unchecked, by year 2014. In addition, the project will have substantial public finance benefits by enabling
the Government to help defer large investments in supply facilities. Furthermore, the project will help reduce
consumer expenses. The benefits of Phase I activities would accrue to all residents of the areas of DP and the



9
special programs; all parts of the country would benefit from Phase II operations. It is estimated that about 30
million people will benefit, directly or indirectly, from the project.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangementsfor Phase I
Policy and Guidance. The Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) will provide the policy framework and the
overall guidance to the program. ANEEL will regulate the concessionaires and other participants, in coordination
with regulatory state agencies, to contribute to the energy efficiency objectives through regulation of DSM
investments, setting of proper electric tariff structures, and other measures.
Project Implementation. ELETROBRAS will be responsible for project implementation using the structure in
place for executing PROCEL. A project management unit (PMU) under its direction will either coordinate or
carry out the activities in all three components. DP would be implemented by electricity utilities and PROCEL
(Annex 2). Many of the projects to be supported would make use of ESCOs, which would assume some or all of
the risks related to the efficiency improvements involved. PROCEL, drawing on its experience, will support the
expansion and consolidation of ESCOs through technical guidance, information exchange, and financial support to
the recently created ESCO industry association. Through the GEF grant, PROCEL will expand training,
marketing, and communication, including a Best Practices information program. Procurement of goods and
services will be carried out in accordance with Bank's guidelines. For procurement and financial management,
PROCEL will draw upon the technical services of ELETROBRAS and the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP). ELETROBRAS will continue to use its Physical-Financial Information System introduced
in 1996, which provides adequate monitoring of activities, and meet the requirements for the Loan Administration
Change Initiative (LACI).
ELETROBRAS will on-lend the Bank loan to the other beneficiaries with the same financial tenns and conditions
plus an annual administration fee equivalent to about 1% of the amounts disbursed and outstanding. Each
beneficiary will bear the foreign exchange risk for its sub-loans. ELETROBRAS will retain US$16.7 million of
the US$20 million GEF grant to fund the CSA and CBM, and will pass on as a grant the remaining US$3.3
million to other participants to support the implementation of the DP.
ELETROBRAS will report progress on the implementation of the physical and institutional components of the
project through quarterly Project Management Reports. Accounting reporting will follow standard procedures and
accounting practices. ELETROBRAS will provide, within six months of the end of each fiscal year an audit
report, prepared by external auditors satisfictory to the Bank, on special accounts, project accounts, and SOEs.
Annual progress evaluations will help to redirect project activities as necessary. A mid-term review will be carried
out to evaluate progress of Phase I, prospects of implementation of Phase II and the schedule for its preparation. A
Steering Committee integrated by high level ELETROBRAS managers will provide strategic guidance to the
project to increase penetration of EE measures, based on the market assessment and project evaluations activities
carried out under the project. An Advisory Group composed of key participants, regulators, EE experts, and
NGOs will be invited to periodic workshops to discuss project progress and provide feedback on key activities.
(Project Organizational Structure is included in Annex 10). An International Seminar will be organized by
PROCEL in the year 2002 to interchange experiences on EE matters.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
One alternative rejected was to continue meeting energy needs solely through the expansion of the energy supply
system. Investment needs in the power sector for this alternative are estimated at about $6 billion to $7 billion per
year, which would be difficult to mobilize. It was considered preferable to seek to postpone a part of these
investments through EE measures.
A simple credit line to support EE investments was likewise discarded. Similar initiatives in Brazil and elsewhere
have failed because they did not address the removal of market barriers.



10
A single long-term investment operation was rejected as well. The EE program will necessitate the participation
and support of many organizations to obtain comprehensive benefits. Achieving this will require progressive,
flexible mobilization arrangements, which the APL project design would afford more readily than a more
traditional investment loan.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andlor other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Sector issue          Project                                        I Latest PSR Ratings
!  (Bank-financed
- ____________--_____ ________________--__ --____ -____________ --I projects only)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~   L~ P   i, D O
Bank-financed                       l_l
Energy Efficiency     Jamaica - Demand Side Management Project (*)       S         S
Mexico - High Efficiency Light Project (*)     I HS   I  HS
China - Energy Conservation Project (*)                     S
Tlhailand - Electricity Efficiency Project     !  S    j   S
Sustainable Power     Brazil - Biomass Power Pilot Project (in
Generation. Private    preparation)*
participation.        Brazil - Renewable Energy - Rural Electrification
Project (in preparation) (*)
Brazil - Power Market Development Project
(in preparation)
Electrification of Rural Hungary - Second Industrial Energy and          S         S
Areas with Private    Conservation (PCR, 1994)
Participation.                                                       ,
Industrial Energy                             I                           I
Conservation          I__
Other development Agencies             _                             i
UNDP/GEF              1Brazil - Biomass Power Pilot Project          |
CIDA - ALURE          IBrazil - Cooperative agreements for technology    l
itransfer                                      __       j
(*) Supported by GEF.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons derived from other recent energy projects in Brazil are:
(i) the linkage of the effectiveness of loans and loan disbursements to the adoption of macroeconomic or sectoral
measures, e.g., financial rehabilitation was not effective in past operations in Brazil and undermined the credibility
of the financial covenants. The current approach is to work in parallel, but separately, on macroeconomic/sectoral
and project issues. As an example to this end, the Bank is financing technical assistance activities for power sector
restructuring;
(ii) electric tariff levels had been the main issue in past power sector projects. The experience under the latter
contributed to the developments that nullified this issue. Current tariffs, together with sectoT privatization and
restructuring plus the recent creation of a new independent regulatory body for the power sub-sector, provide a
suitable environment for the market change programs and DP; and
(iii) there is a trade-off between good implementation by the stronger companies in the well-developed regions
and the greater needs on the part of the poorer companies in other regions. The proposed project includes the
participation of leading utilities, energy agencies, states, and municipalities in various geographical areas,
including some of the poorest rural areas of the country.



11
Lessons learned from ongoing DSM projects in Thailand, Mexico, and Jamaica are that pricing and regulatory
reforms are necessary, but not sufficient, to maximrize and capture EE potential; and that key market barriers must
be addressed in a sustainable way. Lessons learned from the application of EE measures in Brazil and more
developed countries have been incorporated in the project design, with the help of experienced specialists
collaborating with PROCEL (including experts provided by ESMAP and the Bank).
The expansion of EE activities in Brazil, as shown elsewhere, entails a learning process requiring the participation
of different actors that receive the correct signals--market and regulatory--over an appropriate period of time to
prepare them for mainstreaming energy efficiency measures. This and the need to build collaboration and
consensus, has been addressed by a phased approach. In it, the first phase focuses on demonstrating early
successes, while simultaneously preparing the groundwork and the machinery for later substantial investments and
more permanent EE-measure management in the second phase. This approach also permits an exit strategy, if
conditions are not satisfactory.
4. Indications of Government/Borrower commitment and ownership:
The GOB has manifested support for EE activities as part of its energy sector strategy, and its past actions
charging ELETROBRAS and PROCEL with program operations, plus their steady funding. This is strengthen by
its program letter supporting the proposed project (ref. Annex 3). These commitments remain in place, as
evidenced by: (a) ANEEL's and new concessionaires' requirements to invest in EE works; (b), the likelihood that
ELETROBRAS will remain in charge of PROCEL; (c) the Government's continued allocation of RGR funds for
such activities; and (d) the Government's intentions to have a financial facility created for long term support of
energy efficiency measures.
5. Value added of Bank and GEF support in this project:
The experience of the Bank and GEF in such programs-and the "best practices" techniques-would be helpful in:
(a) facilitating the demonstration of a significant number of delivery mechanisms and efficient technologies; (b)
building support for replication of EE measures; and (c) developing capacity on implementation and regulation of
EE measures on the energy supply and demand sides. The IBRD's broad perspectives would encourage a
comprehensive view of the project's concepts and design for their implementation. Its expertise in monitoring and
evaluation would help the GOB see that all phases ofthe EE program are properly linked and integrated.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$49.8 million; ERR= 31.6% [ ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[ ] Other
The direct economic benefits of the EE program will depend on the initiatives and zeal of the participating
agencies in utilizing the information and additional resources they would have access to for the anticipated
investments in efficiency measures, products and services. Significant energy savings are projected to accrue
from: (a) demonstration projects; (b) energy conservation investments by energy users; (c) industrial and
commercial firms' medium-cost EE undertakings stimulated by various ESCO promotional tactics; and (d) the
operation of more efficient appliances through the strengthening of testing, certification and labeling activity. The
resulting savings have been estimated to total 20.8 TWh in ten years, together with 19.2 million tons of CO2 over
the same period. .
The proposed DP have economic rates of return (ERR) in the range of 18-50%, with an overall ERR of 31.6%.
Gross benefits are US$121.4 million; total costs, US$71.6 million; and net benefits, US$49.8 million.
Analyses were performed to assess the economic sensitivity of the project to various changes in parameters: (a)
Benefit failure, defined as any situation that reduces the benefits of the DP, such as lower than expected energy



12
savings or lower energy prices. The ERR would fall below a discount rate of 12% only if overall DP benefits fall
by more than 40%; (b) Investment cost overrun. Investment costs would have to be 22% higher for the ERR to
fall below 12%; (c) Higher operating costs (including labor and material costs, and maintenance) Operation and
maintenance costs would have to increase by over 700% for the ERR to fall below the 12% discount rate.
2. Financial Assessment (see Annex 5): NPV=US$12.2 million; FRR= 13.2%
All DP have a positive net present value (NPV) and financial rate of return in the range of 10-35%. In the case of
utility-based DP, these results are based on investment costs, the benefits derived from electricity sales, and the
postponement of supply facility investments. Consumer- based project benefits derive from reduced energy
expenses. Overall gross benefits are US$93.4 million; total costs, US$81.2 million; and net benefits S$12.2
million. The financial rate of return (FRR) is 13.2%. Considering replications, FRR would increase to 17.0%.
Fiscal impact is positive as a result oftaxes and duties paid for by the participants in the project.
3. Technical Assessment:
Installations in the demonstration and scale-up phases will use standard and well-proven technologies and
methods. Some of these are already in use in Brazil, with all goods and services available internationally.
4. Institutional Assessment:
PROCEL is implemented by a 110-person staff that includes a group of highly qualified experts that have been
exposed to EE international practices with the support of ESMAP and the Bank. It has taken many innovative
steps to overcome market barriers, e.g., disseminating useful information to manufacturers and consumers,
stimulating the former to compete in developing energy efficient products. A recent Bank-supervised sector study
recommended that PROCEL continue to focus on its role as technical adviser, catalyst and managing entity for
energy conservation activity, and should also monitor targets for such activity set by individual electric companies
in collaboration with ANEEL.
ELETROBRAS, incorporated in June 1962, is an internationally well recognized company jointly owned by the
GOB (58% of its common share capital) and BNDESPAR (15%) that is responsible for implementing Brazilian
electric power policies. To support the Government in helping define the future structure of ELETROBRAS and
the power sector, the Bank is financing an ongoing technical assistance program under a separate project.
ELETROBRAS' future role in the sector is still to be defined but, in the medium term, is likely to keep the
management of PROCEL, as well as its responsibilities in administering the funds of the RGR and their partial
allocation to the financing of EE activities. ELETROBRAS performed well in past Bank projects, whose
problems were mainly caused by inadequate government tariff regulations.
ELETROBRAS already has in place a physical and financial control system to track the implementation of its
funded projects. ELETROBRAS has agreed to upgrade this system and to implement: (a) a project analysis data
base for measuring actual costs and benefits (energy savings, peak load reductions and other); and (b) a market
assessment activity system for monitoring market responses (such as demand characteristics, equipment
availability and energy use patterns).
ANEEL was created in 1996 and started functioning in the last quarter of 1997. ANEEL's responsibilities are to
regulate and supervise production, transmission, distribution, and commercialization of electric energy in Brazil,
including EE programs implemented by power sector concessionaires and permissionaires. To fulfill this last
obligation, ANEEL relies on the technical advice of PROCEL's implementing unit. Even being a relatively new
institution, ANEEL is playing a key and positive role in the restructuring and operation of the electric sector.
5. Social Assessment:
The project is expected to have a positive net social impact. Street lighting, energy efficient measures in low-
income housing, and, to some extent, lighting retrofits in schools and hospitals, will directly benefit low-income
families. The proposed project poses no resettlement, land acquisition or social development issues.



13
6. Envwronmental assessment: Environmental Category  [ ] A    [] B    [XI C
No adverse environmental effects are expected to result from the project. There would only be modest
interventions in the case of the PD, where electric equipment will be enhanced, modified, or installed. To the
contrary, savings in power generation would help reduce "global warming" by reducing CO2 production. This will
happen because, at the margin, the economic dispatching of the generation system will reduce the production of
electricity by thermal units using hydrocarbons. Moreover, one subproject involves replacing inefficient
refrigerators with efficient ones, with the old ones to be recycled and the refrigerant recaptured in the process.
Others include the replacement of fluorescent lamps, ballasts, and fixtures, whose waste products private
companies will be encouraged to recycle in an environmentally acceptable way. The technology to accomplish
this is well developed and in use in the US and Europe. The CSA and CBM components should have no
significant effect on the environment.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if participatory
approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
The collaborative nature of the project makes a participatory approach among the executing agencies inherent in
the planning and execution of its activities. The information dissemination provisions will facilitate this
participation and extend it to the creation of the long term framework, enhancing ownership and sustainability.
Extensive consultations have already been carried out at EE national seminars and workshops. Local groups
consulted include the National Institute of Energy Efficiency(INEE), academia (Universities of Sao Paulo, Rio de
Janeiro and Campinas), trade associations (FIB, FIBA, FIESP), energy agencies (States of Bahia and Sao Paulo),
ESCOs, and banks (BNDES, FINEP, and private banks), as well as NGOs.
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
In the short term, the primary beneficiaries and affected groups are the people living in the areas of demonstration
projects and the special programs, including poor urban and rural dwellers. In the long term, all the country will
benefit from the replication of EE measures.
b. Other key stakeholders:
With USAID support, several courses have been presented covering DSM program design, ESCO activities, and
reduction of electricity transmission and distribution losses. USAID is proposing to offer advanced courses for
ESCOs focused on financial, business and marketing issues. A peer exchange program between U.S. and
Brazilian officials involving the use of ESCOs services will be implemented though USAID.
An international program sponsored by the European Community, ALURE, is supporting efficiency actions in
energy markets in Brazil, including energy policy, institutional reforms, finance, legal and regulatory frameworks,
and training of energy staff at federal, state, and municipal levels.
A cooperative agreement between PROCEL and the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA),
includes support in the areas of evaluation of EE measures, electric motors, public buildings, water and sewage
facilities, and marketing.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The technical environment is inherently sustainable, being composed of standardized, readily available goods and
services. Moreover, the sustainability of the DP to be financed is expected to be high, given the fact that many of
them involve upgrading and modernizing existing facilities.
The project is designed with heavy emphasis on developing DSM solutions and performance-based opportunities
to attract utilities, users, and domestic and foreign ESCOs and capital to support the desired outcome. Methods of
support for achieving sustainability include: (i) emphasis on monitoring and evaluating subproject activity with
ex-ante and ex-post evaluations using internationally accepted protocols and techniques; and (ii) highly successful
approaches demonstrated at the subproject level will become candidates for case studies and incorporation into the
Best Practice information packaging technique which forms the cornerstone for information dissemination and



14
marketing of the results of the program, verification and feedback of the dissemination efforts. In addition, the
Market Assessment activity included in the CSA component will keep track of market opportunities and market
performance on a global way, thus contributing to the adaptation of the program and projects to ensure
sustainability.
Conceivably, not many ESCOs might develop and some could fail and go out of business, thereby reducing the
prospects for sustaining EE investments. The provisions for developing performance contracts (providing ESCOs
with some share of the benefits of derived energy savings), together with energy savings verifications, spreading
"best practice" cases, and creating a financial facility should help reduce this risk.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                     Risk   Risk Minimization Measure
_  Rating
Annex 1, cell    l Discontinuity of PROCEL j  N   GEF/Bank technical and financial support to future
"from Outputs to j                      j          reinforcements of EE activities. Supervision/Mid-term
Objective"   -_ D              -                  Review               S    En
, Discontinued         !  N    j Continuity of PROCEL, StateEnergy Agencies, and
| dissemination of EE             ESCOs
_   projects and programs    !_i
i No energy sector reform   L  M   Bank technical and financial support to the MME.
Reduced social and         N     Continued activity of PROCEL, energy agencies and
political support to EE          ESCOs. Educational programs.
measures at national and
state level and low
I customers' acceptance  _        I
Unsuccessful           I  S      Marketing of commercial EE instruments (verification
development of ESCOs             protocols and performance contracts), dissemination of
best practice experiences, and creation of a financial
!_______  ,____________________  I__ _ _-  facility.
No critical mass of EE    M    I Activity of ESCOs in the market
_  activities             ___    _
Ineffectiveness of        M    ! Remedial measures in Phase LT
financia facility
Annex 1, cell    Scarce counterpart         N     Satisfactory financial arrangements among the participants
"from            funding                          as part of project preparation and implementation. RGR
Components to                                     resources for EE
Outputs'        i_                        _      !_-___                   _
Inappropriate institutional !  H  Creation of a project management unit Implementation of
anrangements and                 capacity building components, including core support to
managerial and technical         PROCEL, agencies, and regulators
capacity                       ',
Lack of commitment of      N    I Subsidiary Loan Agreements signed according to agreed
other participants and          | schedule.
partners                         Stress in the electric system is pressing for EE measures.
Current activity of participants, and variety of markets,
,  technologies and delivery mechanisms to be piloted and
i  I    ! demonstrated.
' Bad design of project    M    I Participation of experienced national and international
components                       consultants under cooperative agreements with energy
Less than expected  ~      agencies and bilateral agencies
t Legssthan expected   ! M       Detailed review of financial estimations by international
O   financial rate of return      consultants                              _____
Overall Risk    !                        !MS
Rating                                       S ,__
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



15
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No controversial aspects are foreseen.
G: Main Loan and Grant Conditions
Agreements reached during negotiations:
(a) Program letter;
(b) final project implementation timetable, procurement schedule;
(c) performance indicators for monitoring project progress;
(d) performance indicators for implementation of Phase II (triggers);
(e) detailed TOR for reporting system (LACI), including mid-term review;
(f) organization, staffing and functions of the Project Management Unit (PMU);
(g) choice of loan currency and interest rate;
(h) terms and conditions of the subsidiary agreements to be signed between ELETROBRAS and each
participant and conditions for participation in the project:
X  procurement arrangements
* arrangements for transferring and disbursing Bank and GEF funds
* setting up of a project implementation unit (PIU) with satisfactory structure and functions
*  securing counterpart funds
-  establishing procedures for PMU support for DP detailed preparation, monitoring and evaluation
*  compliance with environmental safeguards.
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(a) the PMU is set up and operating.
(b) at least two subsidiary agreements have been signed with DP participants and the respective PIUs are set up
and operating.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(a)    ELETROBRAS:
(a) take all measures within its power to generate resources sufficient to cover its operational expenses,
including depreciation, as well as debt service and other financial obligations;
(b) provide the Bank with PROCEL's two-year business plan, by November 30, 1999 and annually
thereafter, and implement the plan taking into account the Bank's comments;
(c) provide the Bank with quarterly reports and a mid-term review report of the project, based on TOR
satisfactory for the Bank, and take necessary measures based on the report's recommendations and the
Bank's views;
(d) maintain the PMU with functions and resources acceptable to the Bank and competent staff, including
external consultants, in adequate numbers to coordinate project implementation.
(b)   Conditionsfor disbursement of the Bank Loan and the GEF grantfor each participant in
the project:
(a) a subsidiary agreement has been signed between ELETROBRAS and the participant; and
(b) the participant has set up a PIU.



16
E Readiness for Implementation
X] The engnerg desig documes for th first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementatio.L [I Not applicablce '. 
m The proc=ment documents for te fist year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementadon.
X  The Project Implementation Plan has bee appised and found to be realisdc and of satsfactory quality.
[XI Fiancial management system has been established and is functioning.
r I The following items are lacg and are discussed under loan conditions (Section 0):
L. Comp1ionce wvith Bank Policies
EXI This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
T ] The following exceptions o Bank policies are recommended for approval: the project complies with all
othe. applicable Bank polic;es.
Task Team Lead rrask Manager. L is M. Vaca-Soto
Sector Man 44tor
County  aager/Director: GobindNankani



17                                                               Annex 1
PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Narrative Summary                    Key Performance Indicators                            Monitoring and    Critical Assumptions and
Supervision       Risks
GOALS                                                                                                         Goal to Mission
Sector-related CAS Goal
Increase the efficiency of the energy  *  Market sustainability indicators (regulatory framework,    *  PROCEL  *  Macroeconomic stability.
market to help balance Brazil's         private participation, commercial financing)           reports         *  Social and political support
environmental agenda with its economic   n  Reduction of C02 emissions (21 million tons in a ten year  *  Independent  to EE measures and
development goals                       period)                                                market             reduction of GHG
*  Energy savings (1% per year)                           performance        emissions.
*  Postponement of investments in electricity supply (US$  evaluations
300 million per year)
GEF Operational Program:             End-of-Program (APL Phase II) Indicators                                 Purpose to Goal
Removal of Barriers to Energy        *  EE measures are successful in reducing CO2 emissions,    *  PROCEL     0  Electric power and other
Efficiency and Energy Conservation      saving energy, and postponing investments in expansion  reports           energy products and
(Program No. 5)                         of electric supply capacity                         *  Independent        services priced at economic
*  Electric utilities are investing about US$70 million per  market          costs
APL Program Purpose:                    year in market-based DSM measures                      performance    *  Adequate regulatory
To eliminate the remaining market    *  ESCOs are signing contracts with utilities and public,  evaluations       environment for EE
barriers (i.e., lack of financing; lack of  commercial, and industrial consumers: about 200                       measures
credible demonstrations; lack of        contracts (accumulated), half of them under performance
commercial information) to the          contracts
accelerated commercial introduction of a  a  Public buildings are retrofitted: 20% of total,
broad range of energy-efficient (EE)    accumulated
equipment and technologies in Brazil.  *  Best Practice cases are completed: 15 cases per year in
the last year
APL Phase I: Demonstrate a first set of   *  EE products are tested, labeled and certified: 12 types of
promising EE measures and preparing     products in the last year
the enabling environment for increased
private participation in Phase II.
APL Phase II: Demonstration of a
second set of EE measures in other
geographic areas and market segments
and support increased participation of the
private sector



18                                                               Annex 1
Project Development Objective (Phase  Outcome/Impact Indicators                                               Objective to Purpose
I of the Program)                    To be met before commitment of APL2:
To demonstrate market-based energy-  *  EE measures demonstrated are successful in improving  *  PROCEL       *  Electric power and other
efficient (EE) products, services, and  electric service quality, providing service options to  reports           energy products and
delivery arrangements.                  customers, and postponing investments in expansion of    *  Annual        services priced at economic
electric supply capacity of about US$1.2 billion in four  reviews        costs
years                                              *  Independent    *  Adequate regulatory
*  Increased public awareness and use of EE products,     market            environment for EE
services, and/or actions by public authorities, utilities, and  performance  measures, including tariff
consumers 30% of PROCEL's brand recognition           evaluation         structures
*  Increased number and type of EE products and services                 *  Increased interest and
are available: 10% of equipment sales are class A                        participation of utilities in
*  Financial Facility is established, operated by a qualified               DSM programs
financial entity, and demonstrated ability to assess,                 *  Increased participation of
appraise, and find necessary funding for qualified EE                    manufacturers in testing,
market-based subprojects, based on agreed operational                    labeling, and certification
practices and eligibility criteria: 15 projects                          programs
*  Qualified financial entity is selected for Phase II and
Letter of Intention, operational guidelines, and manual for
selection of EE subprojects and participants are received
*  80% of funds for Phase I are committed



19                                                              Annex 1
Project and Global Outputs (Phase I)   Output indicators                                                        Outputs to Objectives
1. A first set of already selected EE  1. 20% (100%) of selected EE activities started by March 2000  *  Borrower's   a  Continuity of PROCEL
activities, including EE products, services,   (January 2001) and completed and evaluated by December  quarterly  *  Continuity of energy
and delivery arrangements, is implemented   2001 (July 2003)                                       progress         sector reform
and evaluated                                                                                      reports, and   *  Wide social and political
2. A second set of EE activities, to be  2. Activities are selected and pre-evaluated by July 2002 based  final report  support to EE measures
carried-out during Phase II, is selected  on agreed criteria of relevancy, replicability, and sustainability  on    and reduction of
3. Organization and programs exists to  3.1 Best Practice Program is organized and is operating as  investments     emissions at national and
make credible information available on new   designed by February 2001 to disseminate and market EE  and            state level
EE products, services, and delivery    information in a form which facilitates their use and is    performance   *  Critical mass of EE
mechanisms, while screening out everything  understandable to utilities, consumers, ESCOs, energy  of projects      activities
other than best practice               agencies, regulators, and other participants in the EE market  and
3.2. Public Buildings Light Program launched by December   programs
2000, supported by the Best Practice Program            *  Annual
4. EE regulations, financial and commercial 4.1. Incentive regulations are enacted one year after approval  reviews and
instruments, and training programs are  of the new EE law, currently under discussion in the Congress  final report
established or strengthened to support  4.2. Financial facility to support ESCOs is designed and   by
incipient ESCOs and other participants in   launched by September 2001 and a portfolio of ESCO-based  independent
the EE market                          projects is designed, assessed, and ready for financing by third  market
parties by September 2003                                  performance
4.3. A strengthened testing, labeling and certification program  evaluators
is operating by December 2000
4.4. Standard Perfonnance Contracts and Verification
Protocols adapted to the Brazilian market and disseminated by
March 2000
4.5 20% (100%) of training programs designed by March 2000
(July 2001) and completed by December 2001 (June 2003)
5. Global market performance information and evaluation
5. The market for EE products and services  systems implemented and operating by December 2000
is working better through improved
information and market procedures, with a
system to evaluate global market
performance                            6.1 Project management unit fully established and counterpart
6. An enhanced program management unit  staff selected and mobilized by the fourth quarter of 1999
exists with capacity to learn by doing and    6.2 Enhanced Program Monitoring and Information systems are
adapt the EE program based on evaluation   in place by July 2000.
of market performance of EE activities and
participants



20                                                             Annex 1
Project Components: (see Annex  Inputs                                                                 Components to Outputs
2 for detailed description)
Demonstration Projects            US$90.2 million (includes US$3.3 million from   *  Borrower's quarterly  *  Appropriate counterpart funding
GEF)                                         progress report        *  Appropriate institutional
*  Procurement records       arrangements and managerial
*  Bank's disbursement       and technical capacity of all
data                      participants
Core Support Activities                                                      *  Audit reports          *  Commitment of other
*  if ormation Dissemination and  *  US$20.2 million (includes US$7.2 million from   *  Borrower's annual  participants and partners
Marketing                      GEF)                                         financial statements   a  Customers' acceptance
*  Financial Facility and Portfolio
Building
*  Testing, Labeling and Standard
*  Market Assessment
Capacity building module
*  Project Management, planning  *  US$15.1 million (includes US$4.5 million from
of Phase nI, and Monitoring    GEF)
and Evaluation program
*  Support to Energy Agencies
*  Training of ESCOs and other
participants                                                .



21                                      Annex 2
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
L.    The Energy Efficiency Program
Introduction
The proposed EE Project, to be financed with an APL and GEF grant, is the first of the two projects under the
EE Program, designed to support PROCEL, the ongoing Brazilian national program aimed to reduce energy
waste and mitigate GHG emissions. PROCEL is managed by ELETROBRAS under the guidance of the
Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) and its objective is to reach the long-term electricity savings goals
established by the GOB, consisting in annual savings of 130 TWh by the year 2015, equivalent to a reduction of
13% in the demand projected for that year without conservation, and the postponement of about 25,000 MW of
new generating capacity. PROCEL estimates that its actions resulted in electric energy savings amounting
about 2 TWh per year in 1996.
Brazil now faces a new macro-economic and sectoral environment: inflation has been brought down (although
recently set back); greater reliance upon markets is shaping the structure of the energy sector; competitive sector
participation is becoming the norm while the Government is playing the role of regulator, delegating operational
aspects to the private sector; imported natural gas will soon start reaching major metropolitan areas and will play a
more important role in the future, thus allowing greater fuel choices for both electricity generation and end-users;
natural gas availability will enable the creation of a new industry competing for customers and improving quality
of service; cost-based electricity prices resulting from sector reforms is increasing customer interest in the more
efficient use of electricity, and local capital markets are now a possibility to tap into to finance EE projects
Under the project, PROCEL aims to incorporate a growing number of utilities, ESCOs, industrial, commercial
and residential users, and other participants in EE effort. To this end, PROCEL objectives are to: (i)
demonstrate how to implement EE projects through market based delivery mechanisms focused on end-use
consumers; (ii) demonstrate how to increase the efficiency of electricity supply and distribution in a
competitive market through EE measures, including load management; (iii) disseminate the results and
achieve replication in other utilities and end-users; and (iv) introduce credible evaluation and monitoring
systems.
A Phased Approach
To achieve PROCEL objectives, the EE Program is structured in two phases: Phase I. demonstration and
capacity building, to demonstrate energy efficient products, services, and implement core support and capacity-
building activities to reduce barriers for the implementation of EE measures; and Phase II: dissemination and
mainstreaming, to increase dissemination of credible information on successful EE stories and increase the
number and type of EE activities and their geographic and market coverage. Implementation of the Phase II, to
be supported by a second project, would depend on the success of Phase I, based on the achievement of the key
performance indicators included in the logical framework of the Project.
The implementation of the EE Program in two phases supported by APL and GEF funding is consistent with the
griduated response strategy for Bank assistance adopted in the CAS, with lending being responsive to
continuing progress of key variables while permitting more flexible risk management through the monitoring of
key indicators, including those related to the energy sector enabling environment. This approach would help
ensure that Bank assistance achieves its intended development impact.
II.    Program Phases
The nature of the Adaptable Program Framework requires the need to devise a strategic program along a path
marked by agreed phases and milestones to move forward, thus allowing to learn from experience and
adapting the program as new market opportunities arise. What are constant are the overreaching objectives of



22                                   Annex 2
the program. The Government has articulated those long-term objectives on the program letter attached in
Annex 3.
Phase I of the EE Program
Phase I is the demonstration and capacity building phase of the proposed program. It consists of three main
interrelated components: (i) DP involving new EE technologies, proper price signals, and delivery service
options; (ii) CSA to facilitate future replication of EE measures; and (iii) a CBM to enhance policy, regulatory,
and implementation functions. This phase will entail strong participation of power utilities and a learning
experience for other participants, in particular incipient ESCOs.
The output of the first phase will include: (i) completion of demonstration projects among seven electricity
utilities and state and federal Governments; (ii) documentation of a first set of best practice cases; (iii) tested new
measures, including special programs (i.e., Green Lights, testing, certification, labeling programs), commercial
instruments (i.e., perfornance contracting and independent verification), the design of an EE financial facility,
and incentive regulations on the energy supply-side and demand-side; (iv) trained EE participants, including
utilities, energy agencies, consumers, and ESCOs; and (v) detailed design of the second APL.
Phase I demonstration projects will be implemented through seven electricity distribution utilities working in
conjunction with household, industrial and commercial customers; state and federal public facilities including
buildings, hospitals and schools; and commercial facilities including supermarkets and cornmercial centers.
Core support and capacity building activities will be coordinated by the PMU at PROCEL and implemented
through the delivery mechanisms described below.
Phase 11 of the EE Program
Phase II is the dissemination and mainstreaming phase of the proposed program. It will take stock and build
upon the preparatory activity of Phase I. Under Phase II the focus will shift to increasing EE activities by
disseminating the best practice cases and special programs prepared in Phase I, expanding to market niches in
other sectors and states, and attracting private financing sources. While the exact nature of the projects will
depend on the results of Phase I, it will include: (i) marketing the best practice cases and support programs
developed during the first phase and preparation of new cases; (ii) implementation of new demonstration
projects and support programs on promising areas identified during the first phase; and (iii) replication of
demonstration projects by existing and new participants to open new EE markets in new geographic areas or
reinforce existing ones. This activity will expand ESCO-projects supported by the Financial Facility created
in Phase I.
III.   Project Components
A.    Demonstration Projects (DP)
All participant power utilities and state and federal agencies have developed work plans with different product
lines as shown on table 1. These work plans have been reviewed during project preparation but may change
as experience is gained and new opportunities develop. The selection of product lines has been made based
upon relevancy, replication potential, capacity of implementing participants, and diversity of project mix.
The DP include: (i) proper electricity price signals and service options; and (ii) delivery mechanisms for
disemination of emerging technologies. Projects in the first group will target selected electricity energy
markets to test and demonstrate innovative demand charge and time-of-day-tariffs, load demand limiters,
options in service conditions, and other commercial actions, such as improvements in bill collection through
global metering in problem geographic areas. These demonstration projects are expected to benchmark
commercial practices in a reformed electricity market to increase the efficient use of electric facilities;
stimulate the interest of utilities in the use of market-based demand-side management options; and encourage
customer-based EE investments.



23                                   Annex 2
Projects in the second group will test delivery
mechanisms to increase the use of more efficient  ESCOs: A market-based EE delivery system:
appliances, equipment, and operational practices.   An ESCO provides customers-which can be
The initial efforts will include: compact fluorescent   energy suppliers or consumers-a service that
lamps, solar heaters, refrigerators, air conditioning,  produces energy savings, and is paid through a
electric control systems, reflecting roof painting,  share of the savings achieved. A perfornance
high  efficient motors,  speed  drivers,  motor   contract and the financing structure of the
optimization programs, street lighting, and water  investments, e.g., off-balance sheet for the
pumping. Demonstration projects in this group will  customer or leasing, is what makes an ESCO
be implemented in commercial buildings, industries,  quite different from other contractors. Further,
residential customers, and public facilities, including   the possibility  of securitizing  a string  of
offices, hospitals, and schools.                 receivables from  low  risk  investments to
This project component will provide information to   creditworthy customers opens the possibility for
develop the Best Practices Information Program and  tapping into domestic capital markets. Public
will include implementation arrangements that will  lighting and buildings will constitute the bulk of
stimulate development of ESCOs (see project  demonstration cases to structure performance
component B below).                              contracts.
As table I of this annex shows, the demonstration
projects will be implemented in eight states-Minas Gerais, Parana, Bahia, Sao Paulo, Amazonas, Rio de
Janeiro, Mato Grosso, and Brasilia-through regional electricity companies, energy agencies, and energy
authorities of the participant States. Detailed descriptions, implementation arrangements, and evaluations of
each demonstration projects are available in the project files.
Description of Demonstration Projects
1. State of Minas Gerais
CEMIG, the integrated electric utility of the State of Minas Gerais, is one of the leaders in promoting the
efficient use of energy among consumers. CEMIG will implement eight demonstration projects:
(a) Comprehensive DSM Project in the City of Juiz de Fora (Investment: $3.1 million including $0.32
million GEF). Juiz de Fora is a medium size city with 135,000 electricity consumers. The project includes:
(i) installation of about 15,000 compact fluorescent lamps in the residential sector; (ii) installation of about
6,000 demand controls of electric showers; (iii) lighting retrofits (about 5,700 lighting fixtures) in
commercial buildings; (iv) replacement of about 10,000 mercury vapor street lights with high pressure
sodium vapor (HPS) street lights; (v) demonstration of solar water heaters; and (vi) efficiency
improvements in motors systems, including installation of about 600 high efficiency motors. ESCOs will
participate in the project.
(b) Implementation of Time-of-Use Yellow Tariff (Investment: $5.9 million). Residential customers using
more than 200 kWh/month and commercial customers consuming more than 500 kWh/month will have
special metering equipment installed in order to allow application of the new tariff. This activity will cover
25,000 consumers and the equipment involved will include: 1,000 microprocessors/data collectors installed
on 1,000 transformers, 25,000 sensors installed on participants' meters, 2,000 repeater stations, 100
interface devices, and 200 stationary monitors.
(c) Process Optimization in Industrial Consumers (Investment: $1.3 million). The project involves an
engineering analysis of the critical equipment inside industrial plants to determine the corrective measures
to be taken at the end-use application point to optimize the interface utility-consumer with ESCO's
participation. Proposed measures include properly sized and installed uninterrupted power supply systems
(UPS) of the type often used in large, critical computer operations.
(d) DSM Project in the rural area of the Vale do Jeguitinhonha (Investment: $0.2 million). The project,
which comprises 300 farms in an area of about 3,000 hectares, will involve the substitution of 600



24                                  Annex 2
inefficient incandescent lamps (60W) by Compact
Fluorescent Lamps (CFLs) (13W lamp and 5W ballast), and   Tariff  Instruments-Yellow   Tariff
installation of about 300 demand limiters.            System   &   Consumer  behavior:
Residential customers using more than
(e) DSM in Critical Areas (Investment: $7.1 million). The   200 kWh per month and commercial
project is comprised of three main components:  (i) a   customers consuming more than 500
residential lighting program including the replacement of  kWh per month will have a special
about 4,000 inefficient incandescent lamps (60W) by CFLs   metering system installed and a special
(13W  lamp and 5W  ballast) in clients with energy  tariff  ("yellow   tariff ')  charging
consumption lower than 100 kWh/month; (ii) a demand   differentially  energy   consumption
limiter program including about 1,500 clients with electric  during  peak  and  off-peak periods.
showers and energy consumption in the range of 100-200   CEMIG's target is to achieve a peak
kWh/month; and (iii) a street lighting component including   demand reduction of 250 W/consumer
the replacement of 30,000 mercury vapor lamps (400   (a total of 62.5 MW) and a 1%
W/unit) by HPS lamps (250 W/unit) and 35,000 mercury  reduction in energy consumption during
vapor lamps (250 W/unit) byHPS lamnps (150 W/unit).   the peak period (2,118 MWh/year). The
energy consumption during the peak
(f) Monitoring of Commercial Losses (Investment:  $1.9  period represents 15%  of the total
million). The project involves the installation of about 100   energy consumption in the CEMIG area.
mobile monitoring sets equipped with three phase meters,
300 current transformers, 7 data acquisition equipment and 7 phase angle meters, to be installed in the
secondary side of distribution transformers in areas with high values of commercial losses.
(g) Promotion of High Efficiency Motor Systems (Investment: $0.9 million including $0.35 million GEF).
This project will develop and test the "Motors Optimization Service" (MOS) concept in the industrial sector
of Minas Gerais through two interrelated components to address the barriers of high first cost, lack of public
awareness, and lack of technical expertise in the Brazilian market. The main components of the project are:
(a) implementation of the MOS program, and (b) a rebate program for about 1,600 high efficiency motors
and 50 Adjustable Speed Drivers (ASDs).
(h) Promotion of Solar Water Pre-Heaters (Investment: $0.3 million, including 0.12 million GEF). This
project is part of a regional program involving three States. Project target in Minas Gerais is to install 300
solar water pre-heaters in Juiz de Fora to replace/complement electric showers and reduce peak demand and
energy consumption in overloaded areas; develop a testing, certification, and labeling system; and help
commercialization of solar heaters in the marketplace.
2. State of ParanA
COPEL, the integrated electric utility in Parana, will implement two demonstration projects:
(a) Time-of-Use - Yellow Tariff Project (Investment: US$6.0 million). Residential and commercial
customers using more than 300 kWb/month but with a power demand lower than 50 kW in the areas of
Curitiba, Paranagua, Cascavel, Foz de Iguacui, Maringa and Apucarana. Special metering equipment will be
installed in order to allow application of the new tariff. This activity will cover 25,000 consumers and the
equipment involved will include: 1,000 microprocessors/data collectors installed on 1,000 transformers,
25,000 sensors installed on participants' meters, 2,000 repeater stations, 100 interface devices, and 200
stationary monitors
(b) New Street Lighting Technologies (Investment: US$0.3 million, including US$0.1 million of GEF).
The project consists of installing about 1,000 dimnmable electronic ballasts and 1,000 programnimable
controllers along with high pressure sodium vapor lamps.



25                                 Annex 2
3. State of Bahia
The electricity distribution utility, COELBA, and the Secretariat of Energy of the State of Bahia will
implement five demonstration projects:
(a) Residential Lighting in Vitoria da Conquista (Investment: $2.2 million, including US$0.01 million
GEF). This activity will involve the supply and installation of approximately 137,000 compact fluorescent
lamps (CFL) in the southwest part of the State of Bahia in homes with monthly consumption of electricity
equal to or less than 140 kWh/month. The new lamps will consume approximately 18 watts (13W lamp and
5W ballast) and replace incandescent lamps that consume 60 watts each.
(b) Pilot Project for EnerMv-Efficient Hotels (Investment: US$0.5 million, including US$0.06 million
GEF). COELBA has selected four hotels in Porto Seguro and one hotel in Vitoria da Conquista to
demonstrate EE measures and test a combination of utility financing and rebate program involving "utility
buy-down" with ESCO's participation.
(c) Promotion of Solar Water Pre-Heaters (Investment: US$0.5 million, including US$0.2 million GEF).
This project is part of a regional program involving three States. Project target in Bahia is to install 500
solar water pre-heaters in Vitoria de Conquista to replace/complement electric showers and reduce peak
demand and energy consumption in overloaded areas; develop a testing, certification, and labeling system;
and help commercialization of solar heaters in the marketplace.
(d) Reflective Roof Painting (Investment: US$0.1 million, with US$0.06 million GEF). This project is
part of a program that will demonstrate reflective roof painting in four major cities of Brazil.
Approximately 10,000 square meters of roof area will be painted in Salvador, targeting supermarkets and
factories that are air-conditioned.
(e) Conserving Energy in Public Buildings and Hospitals (Investment: US$8.4 million). The project
involves retrofitting 28 public buildings and 12 hospitals to improve the efficiency of energy use, and
testing mechanisms for financing state and municipal buildings retrofits with ESCO's participation.
4. State of Amazonas
ELETRONORTE, an integrated electricity company in north Brazil, will implement one demonstration
project (a) and PROCEL will demonstrate another (b):
(a) DSM Project in the Suburban Area of the City of Manaus (Investment: $14.0 million). The
demonstration project will complement other DSM efforts in the region and consists of providing regular
connections and improving service quality to about 34,000 low-income customers in the suburban area of
the city of Manaus.
(b) Reflective Roof Paintin (Investment: US$0.1 million, with US$0.06 million GEF). This project is
part of a program that will demonstrate reflective roof painting in four major cities of Brazil.
Approximately 10,000 square meters of roof area will be painted in Manaus, targeting supermarkets and
factories that are air-conditioned.
5. State of Sao Paulo
The electric utilities of Sao Paulo will implement 13 demonstration projects.
(a) Street Lighting Project in Area A (Investment: US$9.1 million). The project includes substitution of
about 57,000 mercury vapor lamps (215 and 360 W) by high pressure sodium vapor lamps (150 and 250 W)
in the areas of Vale do Paraiba, Baixada Santista, Mogi das Cruzes, Sorocaba and Osasco.



26                                   Annex 2
(b) Street Lighting Project in Area B (investment: US$11.2 million). The project includes substitution of
about 70,000 mercury vapor lamps (424 W) by high pressure sodium vapor lamps (275 W) in the areas
Araraquara, Baur4, Campinas, Riberao Preto, and S. Jose do Rio Preto.
(c) Street Lighting Project in Area C (Investment: US$7.3 million). The project includes substitution of
about 45,000 mercury vapor lamps (271 and 424 W) by high pressure sodium vapor lamps (170 and 275 W)
in the areas of Votuporanga, Itahhaem, Rio Claro and Atibaia.
(d) Pilot High Efficiency Refrigerator Rebate Project (Investment: US$1.2 million, including US$0.4
million of GEF). The project includes replacing about 12,000 low efficiency refrigerators with higher
efficiency models, as a way to reduce peak demand in overloaded distribution facilities; complement the
testing, certification and labeling program (see Core Support Activities below); encourage manufacturing
and sales of energy efficient appliances; and test CFC recovery and recycling from old refrigerators.
(e) Pilot High Efficiency Refrigerator Financing Project (Investment: US$2.6 million, including US$0.4
million of GEF). The project includes providing financial support for replacing about 4,000 low efficiency
refrigerators with higher efficiency models in the Itaquera region of metropolitan Sao Paulo. As in the
project above, the goals are to reduce peak demand in overloaded distribution facilities; complement the
testing, certification and labeling program; encourage manufacturing and sales of energy efficient
appliances; and test CFC recovery and recycling from old refrigerators. In addition, the project will test
recycling of steel and copper of the old models.
(f) Energv-Efficient Popular Housing Pilot Project (Investment US$0.6 million, including US$0.2 million
GEF). The project, to be implemented in the city of Rio Claro, will demonstrate EE measures in about 300
housing units, to be built by the municipality, each of 50 square meters in floor area. The EE measures
include special architectural design that maximizes thermal comfort by the use of natural ventilation and
lighting; hard-wired compact or circular fluorescent lamps; solar water heating; painting roofs with a highly
reflective roof coating; tree planting to provide shading; and installation of high efficiency refrigerators.
(g) Promotion of Solar Water Pre-Heaters (investment: US$0.5 million, including US$0.2 million GEF).
This project is part of a regional program involving three States. Project target in Sao Paulo is to install 500
solar water pre-heaters in Campinas to replace/complement electric showers and reduce peak demand and
energy consumption in overloaded areas; develop a testing, certification, and labeling system; and help
commercialization of solar heaters in the marketplace.
(h) Lighting Retrofits in Public Buildings and Hospitals (Investment: $1.5 million, including US$0.2
million GEF). The project is part of a multistate program and consists of lighting retrofits of 8 prominent
public buildings and hospitals in main cities of Sao Paulo, with ESCO's participation, testing the
performance contract concept.
(i) Increasing EE in Schools (Investment: US$1.3 million, including US$0.2 million GEF). This
component consists of lighting retrofits of 80 large public schools in the State of Sao Paulo with ESCO's
participation, testing the performance contract concept.
6. Federal District - Brasilia
CEB, the local utility of Brasilia, together with the Institute of Science and Technology (ICT), will
implement two demonstration projects:
(a) Lighting Retrofits in Public Buildings and Hospitals (Investment: $1.1 million, including US$0.2 GEF).
The project is part of a multistate program and consists of lighting retrofits of 7 prominent public buildings
and hospitals in Brasilia, including the building of IBAM (the national association of municipalities), with
ESCO's participation, testing the performance contract concept.



27                                  Annex 2
(b) Increasing EE in Schools (Investment: US$0.8 million, including US$0.1 million GEF). This
component consists of lighting retrofits of 50 large public schools in Brasilia with ESCO's participation,
testing the performance contract concept.
7. State of Rio de Janeiro
PROCEL will implement one demonstration project in Rio de Janeiro:
(a) Reflective Roof Painting (Investment: US$0.1 million, with US$0.06 million GEF). This project is
part of a program that will demonstrate reflective roof painting in four major cities of Brazil.
Approximately 10,000 square meters of roof area will be painted in Rio de Janeiro, targeting supermarkets
and factories that are air-conditioned.
8. State of Mato Grosso
PROCEL will implement one demonstration project in Cuiaba:
(a) Reflective Roof Painting (Investment: US$0.1 million, with US$0.06 million GEF). This project is
part of a program that will demonstrate reflective roof painting in four major cities of Brazil.
Approximately 10,000 square meters of roof area will be painted in Cuiaba, targeting supermarkets and
factories that are air-conditioned.



28                                  Annex 2
Table 1: Summary of Demonstration Projects
Location/Participant              Demonstration Projects            Number  Investment
of       Cost*
Projects  US$ million
Minas Gerais: CEMIG          DSM  in Jequitinhonha Valley, Juiz de Fora,   8          20.7
Triangulo Mineiro, and Industrial Consumers;            (0.8)
Special Tariffs, Monitoring of Commercial
Losses; and Efficient Motors and Adjustable
Speed Drivers
Parana: COPEL                Street Lighting; Special Tariffs              2          6.3
_(0.1)
Bahia:    COELBA/State  of DSM in Vitoria da Conquista and Porto Seguro;   5          11.7
Bahia                        Reflective  Roofs;  Retrofitting  of  Public            (0.3)
Buildings and Hospitals
Amazonas: ELETRONORTE    Service Options; Reduction of Commercial          2          14.1
Losses; Roof Painting                                   (0.1)
Sao Paulo: Zone A -          Street  Lighting;  Retrofitting  of  Public   4          13.1
BANDEIRANTES                 Buildings, Hospitals, and Schools; Efficient            (0.5)
Refrigerators
Sao Paulo: Zone B - CPFL     Street  Lighting;  Retrofitting  of  Public   4          12.3
Buildings, Hospitals, and Schools; Solar Water          (0.3)
Heaters
Sao Paulo: Zone C - CESP     Street  Lighting;  Retrofitting  of  Public   5          9.9
Buildings, Hospitals, and Schools; Efficient            (0.7)
Refrigerators; Popular Housing
Brasilia: CEB                Retrofitting of Public Buildings, Hospitals, and  2      1.9
Schools                                                 (0.3)
Rio de Janeiro: PROCEL       Reflective Roof Painting                       1         0.1
(0.07)
Mato Grosso: PROCEL          Reflective Roof Painting                      1          0.1
(0.07)
Total                                                                      34         90.2
(3.3)
* In parenthesis: GEF participation (rounded).
B.    Core Support Activities (CSA).
CSA are designed to facilitate the replication of financially sound EE projects. To do so it focuses its efforts
on overcoming information barriers, thus improving energy management information at customer level;
reducing transaction costs to private sources of financing, thus leveraging and minimizing public financing;
providing credible market assessments, thus allowing for a realignment of EE programs and measures to
reflect market realities; and strengthening the testing, certification and labeling program for electrical
equipment, thus providing broader choices to consumers.



29                                  Annex 2
The components under CSA, to be implemented by PROCEL with the support of universities, national
laboratories, international donors, and NGOs, include:
(a) Information Dissemination and Marketing. (US$8.9 million, including US$3.4 million GEF).
Preparation and initial marketing of Best Practice
experiences, i.e., case studies and technical and   Information Barriers. A major issue hampering
operational guidelines for cost-effective EE measures  the replication of win-win EE measures by
with wide applicability, derived from  DP (project  consumers, their development by ESCOs and
component A) as well as from existing cases, including  their financing by the local capital market has
improvement  of  operational  practices  without  been the lack of credible information from
investments. Specifically, the project would support  relevant real projects in similar circumstances.
dissemination of best practices and technical guides to   Brazilian EE development suffers from both the
business management, and the financial community.  lack of credible case studies documenting the
This sub-component also includes the implementation   financial benefits of an investment and the means
of a "Green Light" Program  aimed at improving  to disseminate such information to industrial and
illumination of commercial and public sector premises.  commercial decision makers. The project will
A  detailed Project Implementation Plan has been   address this barrier by disseminating-through
prepared by PROCEL and consultants, including criteria   Best Practices and Green Lights-credible and
for selection of case studies, number of annual cases,  financially attractive cases to be targeted to
and energy savings targets in the industrial and   decision makers in the industrial and commercial
commercial sectors.                               sectors.
(b) EE Financial Facility and Portfolio Building.
(US$5.2 million, including US$1.6 million GEF).  Financing of ESCO-based EE Projects.  In
Implementation of an EE Financial Facility to (a)  general, consumer-based EE projects are small, in
develop and disseminate commercial and financial  the range of US$100,000 to US$1 million by
instruments to implement, finance, and guarantee   project.  There are at least three key factors
ESCO-based EE projects; and (b) prepare a portfolio of  needed to make these projects happen:  (i) a
ESCO-based EE projects for financing by third parties.   market with attractive savings potential, and
The structure, operation, and facility manager selection   hence attractive upstream returns for investors.
will be based upon a detailed review of feasible options   Market assessments show that this is the case in
provided by international consultants. The Facility will  Brazil; (ii) capable service providers to supply the
be capitalized by existing funds from PROCEL, and  technical know-how.  This element is in its
expanded by funds from public and/or private sources.  infancy in Brazil and the project will demonstrate
The GEF Grant will support the design of the facility,  delivery systems and support ESCO development;
its initial operation, the portfolio-building activity and   and (iii) a financing system with the market
its  capitalization,  including  different  financial  know-how, availability and basic infrastructure in
instruments such as partial credit guarantees.  The   place to make funds accessible to creditworthy
design of the fund will focus on encouraging the   projects. This element is barely developed in
development of private sector third party financing of  Brazil. The project will support the financing of
ESCO projects by allocating risks to those parties best  EE projects by reducing transaction costs related
able to manage them and by improving the availability  to lack of market knowledge and credit risk
and terms and conditions of private sector financing to   assessment experience, and  by  aggregating
EE projects. Use of GEF funds to capitalize the facility  projects in portfolio to spread their risk.
will be contingent to approval of milestones to move to
the second APL.
(c) Testing, Certification and Labeling Program. (US$3.4 million, including US$1.3 million GEF).
Implementation of programs for testing, certification and labeling of equipment and appliances, including
motors, lamps, lighting ballasts, refrigerators, freezers, air conditioners, and solar and -heat pump water
heaters. While some EE testing, certification and labeling of electric equipment does exist it is not combined
into a comprehensive customer-focused dealer-accepted programn. Specifically, the project would support: (i)
establishing and extending testing facilities and certification centers with support of the National Electric
Laboratory (CEPEL) and universities; (ii) support of "customer friendly" equipment and appliances labeling



30                                  Annex 2
programs; (iii) implementation of the labeling programs with participation of manufacturers and dealers; and
(iv) adoption of voluntary or mandatory minimum efficiency standards on various categories of products,
including refrigerators and freezers, motors, air conditioners, and lighting products.
(d) Market Assessment Program. (US$2.7 million, including US$0.9 million GEF). PROCEL will undertake
a wide range of research activities to improve the evaluation of its EE programs and evaluate their impact in
the energy market. These activities will gauge the response of service providers and customers to EE
programs and measures, thus allowing for the programs' realignment, as demanded by the market. TORs
have been developed by PROCEL to carry out third party market assessments on a periodic basis. These
assessments include: (1) Commercial and Public Buildinas Sector Survey. The survey will determine (i)
electricity use, electricity intensity, and electricity intensity trends; (ii) the saturation and use of different types
of equipment--different lighting products, air conditioning equipment, motors, pumps, etc.; (iii) the prevalence
of energy management practices such as lighting and air conditioning control, careful sizing of equipment,
and efficiency consideration in equipment purchases; and (iv) the awareness and attitudes of energy managers
or building owners/occupants towards EE measures; (2) Industrial Sector Survev. The survey will examine:
(i) electricity use, electricity intensity, and electricity intensity trends; (ii) the saturation of different processes
and key process features; (iii) the prevalence of EE measures such as high efficiency motors, variable speed
motor drives, cogeneration systems, or high efficiency lighting; and (iv) the prevalence of energy
management practices such as peak demand limitation, careful sizing of equipment, consideration of EE in
equipment purchases, tracking and monitoring of electricity use, establishing energy savings targets, and
training plant staff, (3) Conservation Potential. Researchers from COPPEIUFRJ have developed models for
assessing the technical, economic, and market potential for electricity savings in Brazil. These models are
disaggregated by industrial sector, region, income group, etc. Research will continue during 1999-2002 to
refine these models and modify key assumptions; (4) Global Market Evaluation. A number of market-related
research projects will be carried out in the coming years in order to help PROCEL analyze its overall energy
savings impacts as well as the impacts of individual subprograms and projects; (5) Social and Environmental
Impacts. Researchers from COPPE/UFRJ will continue to assess the social and environmental impacts of
PROCEL's overall efforts as well as the particular projects funded by the World Bank and GEF.
Table 2: Core Support Activities
Core Support Activities                         Description                    Investment*
(US$ million)
Information Dissemination  Implementation of Best Practice Program                  8.9
and Marketing                                                                       (3.4)
Financial Facility and  Implementation of EE Financial Facility and preparation of  5.2
Portfolio Building      portfolio of ESCO-based projects for financing by third parties  (1.6)
Testing, Certification and   Enhancement of program  for testing, certification, and  3.4
Labeling Program        labeling of equipment and appliances, including motors,    (1.3)
lighting products, refrigerators, freezers, air conditioners, and
solar and heat pump water heaters
Market Assessment       Assessment of market penetration of EE equipment and        2.7
Program                 measures                                                   (0.9)
Total                                                                      20.2
(7.2)
* In parenthesis: GEF participation.



31                                   Annex 2
C. Capacity Building Module (CBM).
This component is designed to reinforce the institutional capacity of public energy agencies, regulators, and
other participants in the EE market to implement EE measures. The main sub-components are Training and
Educational Programs, Support to Federal and State Energy Agencies and Regulators, and Support to the
PMU. First, regulatory-based training with state and federal regulators including preparation of policies and
incentive regulations to promote EE among electricity utilities e.g., distributive generation, innovative
electricity tariff structures, EE building codes, procurement of ESCO services by state and federal agencies.
Second, development and delivering training courses
for a wide range of partners. Third, support to the
Building  Capacity  in  the  Public  Sector.  PMU at PROCEL to monitor and coordinate the
Federal and State Governments account for close   project.
to 20% of electricity demand, almost equal to the
non-ferrous industrial sector. As the electricity   Specifically, the project would support:  (a) the
supply and distribution system is privatized and   enhancement of analytical capacity in existing state
brought up to market standards, there is also a   energy conservation units to properly assess the
need to bring up to these standards both public  environmental and financial benefits of energy
energy consumers and regulators. As part of its  conservation projects; (b) assistance to the GOB, and
tasks, PROCEL has entered into agreements with  to the Federal and State regulators in developing
international  donors  to  prepare  twining   effective policies, regulation  and  standards for
arrangements to help upgrade EE municipalities   promoting energy conservation in an expanding
public buildings. During the implementation of  market system; (c) development of technical and
the EE Project these arrangements will be   operational guidelines  for energy  conservation
expanded to include regulators at Federal and   measures with wide applicability, using the result of
State levels.                               case studies from energy conservation programs; and
(d) assistance to the PMU in monitoring the project.
Main activities under CBM are:
(a) Training and Education (Investment: US$3.8 million, including US$1.3 million GEF).
(i) Technical Training: (a) T&D Loss Reduction. Courses on reducing commercial and technical losses for
utility staff throughout Brazil; (b) ESCO Support. Training to ESCOs and individuals and companies
considering entering the ESCO business; (c) Energy Management Training. PROCEL will sponsor a series
of short courses on basic energy management techniques for building and facility managers, architects, and
other interested parties; (d) End-Use EE Programs. PROCEL will continue training utility staff as well as
consultants and other interested individuals on end-use EE programs; and (e) Regulatory Issues. PROCEL
will sponsor courses on regulatory issues, including ANEEL rules, cost recovery and financial incentives
for utility EE programs, and tariff design.
(ii) Management and Administrative Training. (a) Bidding and Procurement Procedures. This course will
cover the procedures for acquiring goods and materials and for contracting services in accordance with
World Bank rules as well as RGR rules, for the relevant staff in PROCEL, utilities, and state agencies that
are participating in the project; (b) Project Management. This course will be for project managers in
PROCEL, participating utilities, and state agencies on physical and financial control systems and the new
project analysis data system.
(iii) PROCEL in Public and Private Schools. Under this activity, the following actions will be taken: (i)
agreements with state and municipal school systems and other relevant organizations to implement this
training activity; (ii) "Training for the trainers" to be provided by PROCEL to utility staff who will be
responsible for training teachers; (iii) training teachers in participating schools; (iv) preparation and
distribution of educational materials, including developing of short "topics" related to EE for insertion in
school books sponsored by and widely distributed to public schools in Brazil by the Ministry of Education;
and (v) planning, oversight, and evaluation of the activity.



32                                   Annex 2
(iv) PROCEL in Technical Schools and Universities. PROCEL will develop: (a) courses on efficient
electricity use for technical schools (secondary schools that train electricians and other technicians); and (b)
university-level courses on electricity conservation and a supporting book for engineering students.
(b) Support to Federal and State Energy Agencies and Regulatory Organizations (Investment: $ 5.8 million,
including US$2.2 million GEF).
(i) Support to Federal Agencies. Activities include financing EE specialists in ANEEL who will develop
and advocate federal policies that will support EE efforts as the restructuring of Brazil's electricity sector
unfolds.
(ii) Support to State Agencies. The main activities that will be carried out by the state energy agencies in
Bahia, Sao Paulo, and Rio Grande do Sul under this project include: (i) supervision and evaluation of the
projects to be carried out with financing from the World Bank (Phase I of the loan); (ii) preparation of new
state projects for Phase II of the World Bank loan; (iii) analysis of energy use, EE potential, and the costs
and benefits of EE improvements in each state; (iv) involvement in planning and review of utility EE
programs; (v) development of financing mechanisms for EE projects and other support for ESCOs; and (vi)
development of tariff designs, building codes, efficiency standards, and other policies that will stimulate
greater EE.
(c) Support to Project Management. Evaluation and Information Systems (Investment: US$ 5.5 million,
including US$1.0 million GEF).
(i) Support to Project Management. Activities include consultants to support: (i) Project Implementation
Unit to supervise implementation of the World Bank loan and GEF grant at the administrative level; (ii)
project monitoring, management, and technical assistance to be provided to partner organizations; and (iii) a
"private sector liaison" to mnaximize the involvement of ESCOs, manufacturers, and industry associations in
the project, and the dissemination of results and replication.
(ii) Information Systems. Support of consultants, acquisition of hardware and software, and training
activities to: (i) develop and put in use a comprehensive data base on electricity use, end-use equipment,
and consumer behavior; (ii) implement a project analysis data base (PADB); and (iii) upgrade physical-
financial control systems.
Table 3: Capacity-building Module
Capacity-building Activity              Description of Components                 Investment*
(US$ million)
Training and Education        Development and delivery of training courses on EE         3.8
matters, including performance contracting, transmission  (1.3)
and distribution loss reduction, energy management,
demand side management, integrated planning, and
regulatory issues.
Support to Federal and State  Support to  regulators  and  agencies  on  incentive       5.8
energy agencies               regulations for EE projects, EE program  design and       (2.2)
evaluation, etc.
Project Management            Support to PMU on monitoring and effectiveness of          5.5
project.                                                 (1.0)
Total                                                                                   15.1
* In parenthesis: GEF participation.



33                                 Annex 2
IV.   Project Implementation Arrangements
ELETROBRAS would be responsible for implementation of the World Bank loan and the GEF grant.
ELETROBRAS is administering PROCEL, which now has a staff of 110 full- and part-time staff, and an
annual budget that now exceeds $5 million for administration and $60 million in commitments for EE
programs. PROCEL has carried out or coordinated hundreds of EE projects in Brazil that over 1993-96
resulted in an estimated 1.4% savings in total consumption of electrical energy per year. It is also recognized
as one of the leading energy conservation programs in developing countries.
ELETROBRAS, through a PMU within PROCEL, will either coordinate or carry out itself the activities in all
three components: DP, CAS, and CBM. DP would be implemented directly by electricity utilities with the
participation of states and municipalities, and industrial and commercial users, with guidance from PROCEL.
A first group of DP projects and their implementing agencies has been selected, using the criteria of likely
project success, replication potential, and diversity of project mix. In each of the DP areas PROCEL is
building on experience it has already acquired. Many of the projects to be supported make use of ESCOs,
generally small engineering or consulting firms which act as market intermediaries to introduce efficiency
improvements, and which assume part or all of the risk of doing so. PROCEL will support the expansion and
consolidation of ESCOs through technical guidance, information exchange, and financial support to the
recently created ESCO industry association. Through the GEF grant, PROCEL will also significantly expand
training, marketing, and communication, including a Best Practices information program, over the 1999-2002
period. For support in procurement and financial management, PROCEL will draw upon the technical
services of UNDP and ELETROBRAS, and will continue to use its Physical-Financial Information System,
introduced in 1996, which provides adequate monitoring of activities. A Special Account will be operated by
UNDP. Annual evaluations of progress will help to redirect project activities as necessary, as well as consider
the part of PROCEL in the future institutional structure of the energy sector, as a consequence of the ongoing
power sector reform.
Phase II
The Phase I experience will be critical in determining suitable arrangements for implementing Phase II. The
energy sector study financed under the Hydrocarbon Transport and Processing Project (Ln. 3376-BR) has
recommended that PROCEL continue to focus on its role as technical adviser, catalyst, and managing entity,
and should monitor energy conservation targets set by each energy company in collaboration with ANEEL.
Meanwhile the operational guidelines and manual for selection of subprojects and participants by the financial
entity to be selected to implement Phase II will be prepared, based on the criteria agreed with PROCEL.
V.    Summary of Project Costs
Phase I
Proiect Comiponents                      Loa           Frin   I Total
.._  US$ thousands        __ .__
Demonstration Projects                                  43,100_        26,400        69,500-
Core Support Activities                                  9,900    .     5,400   !  15,300
Capacity Building Module                                 5,100          6,300        11,400
Total Base Cost                                         58,100         38,100        96,200
Duties and Taxes                                        13,600               -       13,600
Physical Contingencies                            1      6,300           4,200   1  10,500
Price Contingencies                                      3,100           2,100        5,200
Total Project Cost                                      81,100         44,400       125,500



34                                Annex 2
VI. Summary of Project Financing
Phase I
In US$ Thousands
Project Components         IBRD          GEF    I        Local             Total
Demonstration Projects     38,400        2,900    1      28,200           69,500
Core Support Activities       -          6,300           9,000             15,300
Capacity Building Module      -          3,900           7,500             11,400
38,400       13,100          44,700            96,200
TOTAL BASE COST                                        "-'9,0
Duties and Taxes              -            -             13,600      i     13,600
Physical Contingencies  i  3,300   l    1,400            5,800             10,500
Price Contingencies     1   1,700         500            3,000             5,200
Total Project Cost      I  43,400        15,000   1      67,100           125,500



35
Annex 3
PROGRAM LETTER
Avison' ii006 IMI                                              l1r01,99
Re; Energy Efficiency Policy of Brazil
Mr. Director,
As part of the discussions with the World Bank related to the promotion of energy
efficiency and reduicion of elnergy waste in Brazil, I am pleased to share witb you the
Brazilian Government's policy and actions in these matters.
Summary Policy Position
We consider that.hinproving Brazil's economic efficiency in providing goods and
services is of critical importance as we expaind our prodtction and our participationi in
the global economy. At the same time, we remaln ever mindful of the effects tbat
economic growth can have on the environment. In keeping with this goal, our
strategy is to improve the efficiency of the production, delivery, and itihzation of all
forms of energy, as well as to find new, diversified souces of energy, to inaet
Brazil"s future needs. We, expect that improving energy eiciency and reducing waste
will have a desired, beneficial impact on the enviotimeat while achieving economic
benefir&
t Gobind Nankani
Director
Brazil Department
Latin America and the Caribbearn Region
The World Baak
IaI&H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433



36
Annex 3
Pg. 2 - Aviso nt  006  IMME, t I January 1999
We are able to reaffirm this commitmeat even as major structural changes are
occtrring in many sectors of thie Brazilian economy. Tlese chaniges are supported by
the Government to encourage pTivate investnent, increase competition, and set prices
based cn market value. Some of the significant areas of change in the energy Setor
are higlhlighted in the discussion that follows.
On-Going Structural Changes
Cbanges in the cloctrical sector have come swiftly and the results are already
significant. Privatizatioii of the sector has been very successfuil to date, resulting in a
growing percentage of ownership by private investors. This trend supports the
Government's policy on efficiency in at least two ways: (i) state-owned utilities are
striving to improve their financial atractiveness througlh a betr utilization of
existing capacity; and (ii) privately-owned utilities have realized the value of
promoting efficient production and ise of encrgy to inerease their finaneial benefits
and improve service quality
To facilitate efficiency investment by utilities there is a provision that has been
included in aTl new concession contracts requiring that a 1% minimuim of total
revenues be used for efficiency improvements (114% to be applied to end uses). The
coinpanies are required to submit their investment programns to the regulatory agency
on an annual basis.
The availability of imported natural gas and new legislation a"ilowing open access to
transrnission lines will inicrease the diversity in the Brazilian en1ergy mix, will
enhance opportunities for independenlt power producers and industrial co-generators,
and will encourage competition. Moreover, a movement away frorn rate of return-
based tariffs toward market-based tariffs is resulting in maore realistic prices for
electricity, a basic requirement for creating and maintaining a viable energy
efficiency industry. Incipient ESCGO are expected to take advantage of this
opportunity.
To regulate the restuctured power sector and its energy efficiency aetivities, a new
autonomous fed6al regulatory agency, ANEEL, has been mi operation since tile end
of 1997.



37
Annex 3
P. 3 - Aviso 11I 06  fMhvEE I I Jaway 1999
Present and Future Role of PROCEL
PROCEL is the Government's natiopal progrm for implementins its energy
efficiency policies, especially in the pbvwer sub-seetor. Created in 1985 and
restructured in 1991, PROCEL is directed by the Ministry of Mines and Enetgy and
administered by ELETROBRAS.
As a key element of its energy strategy, the Government has suppoited, through
PROCEL. the implementation of programs and actions aimed at improving the
efficiency of production, delivery comrnmercialization, and use of enrgy in the
InaTket place. These activities have souglht to increase awareness of the economic
and environmental benefits of energy efficiency measures, disseminate information
on "best practiccs' and energy perfonnance of equipment, and implement a core
siupport system to encourage public and private investments in energy efficiency.
In support of this strategy, PROCEL is continuitng to develop different ways to efeca
the desired changes in the energy markeL. Among many, three important examples
may be singled out;
Load Manageincut Programs
As privatizrtion increases, tutilities wi1l be faced with pressure to retain customers and
provide them with a higher level of vahle-added service. Load manageiient offers an
opportun(ty to add services of better value to oustomers ivhiil at tlhe same time
improving financial results through greater ese of existing facilities.
Energy Service Companies
ESCOs are an efective way to enhance private capital investment in energy
effLciency. Often the investments are paid off via performance contracts wtsrecby tbe
savings resulting from the investment are dedicated to amortizing the investment.
PROCEL has a major effort underway tO SuLpport aaid develop an ESCO inidustry in
Brazil PROCEL is also working with individual states and municipalities to help
develop the efficiency potential in their facilities that, in tum, would create a natural
market for ESCOs to work in.



38
Annex 3
PgA-4Avisonm  006  /NM h1lJ.nuaryI1999
Efficientcy labeJs and best practices
Despite the best efforts of utilities and.:SCOs to develop an energy efficiency
industry, baiers remain fir its widespread acceptance. PROCEL is taking many
innovative measures to overcome these barriers   For example, inforination
dissemination through efficienoy labels on products and "best practices" derived from
successfuil projects7 will allow consumers and inaneafacturers to compare benchmarks
and take actions. PROCEL also has an outstandinig progran ia place that involves
manufacturers compeitng to develop highly efficient products to achieve a desired
annual award, which they cart then use in their marketing efforts. Once these batriers
are substantially reduced, it will be easier to move to the uldiamate goal of higher
efficiency codes and standards.
In frltherance of its mission, PROCEL is now in partnership with agencies of the
U-S-A, the European Union and the 'Government of Canada to restructure and focus
its efforts, reinfome its evalutation capabilities, anid make it a mnore effective, dynamic
organtization.
Tkc Energy Efficiency Program
We are requesting a loan from the World Bank and a grnt forn the Global
Emivironmental Facility (GEF) in order to take advantage of their international
experience, and to further our efforts and to ensure the most efficient use of thie local
resources available. Bank and GEF support will be used to implement and expand
the Energy Efficiency Program. This Program will demonstrate new and different
energy products, services, and delivery mechianisms and, on the GEF side, improve
their evaliation, facilitaW dissemination of 'best practice'F results) and encourage
replication by others.
Given the newness of somne of the conccpts and the incipient developmeat of a
market-basod cnergy service itdustry in Brazil, we are planning to proceed in two
phases duiring the program. The first phase, lasting about four years, will focus On; (a)
demnstrating cost-effective measures in the electricity suib-sector throughi load
management and targeted peak period reductions, to beter utilize existing facilities.
These actions will help ensure system reliability in the near future, (b) demonstrating
cost-effective measures to reduce energy use in commercial buildings, indostrial
applications and other uises; (c) enhancing standards and lableling programs, (d)
setting up a market-based support structure for energy service companies; and (e)
inplementing a broad-oeacting monitoring and evaluation systern to measure the



39
Annex 3
Pg. 5 - Aviso ng 006   M1AE, II January 1999
degree of success in attainiing the progran's goals and objectives, as expressed by tfe
relevant benchmarks. Thlis evaluation system will provide fiedback for redirecting
PROCEL's efforts, as needed, and prepare the second phase of the Einergy Efficienoy
program, due to begin in 2002 and continue 'throuigh 2005.
On the basis of the enhanced information bse developed in the first phase, the
second phase will foous on: (a) dissemination and replicatioai on a larger-seale of
'best practice"lcost-effective measures in other states and swoetrs; (b) implementation
of a second set of inmdel projects to demonstrate new/additional energy efflcient
eCncepts; (c) expanded use of ESCOs in delivering energy efficient products and
servimes; and (d) participation of a qualified financial entity to intermediate the
second Bsnk Loan under the program and to operate the financial facility designed
during Phase 1, aimed to support ESCO-based energy efficiency measures.
Conclusion
We remain fully committed to promoting the efricient an  ennvironmernaEly
sustainable supply and use of energy as a comerstone of our strategy of economnic
expansion. In furtherance of its energy policies, the Govenmient appreiates the
support of the World Batik and the 0EV to implement the proposed innovative
Energy Efficiency Progran
Yours truly,
Rodolpho Touriaho Neto
Minister of Mines and Energy



40
Annex 4
PROJECT JUSTIFICATION, INCREMENTAL COSTS, AND BENEFIT-COST ANALYSIS
Introduction
This annex summarizes: (i) current conditions of the electricity sector in Brazil and the role of the proposed
project to support the GOB's strategy to increase EE; (ii) barriers to EE measures and the strategy to remove
them; (iii) expected benefits of the project; (iv) economic analysis; and (v) incremental cost analysis.
Section IV includes the economic and risk analysis of the project. Section V focuses on the incremental
costs and benefits from the GEF's point of view.
I.    Overview
A Sector in Transition
The '90s have witnessed radical structural changes in Brazil's economy and its energy sector. Regional
changes have also taken place, leading gradually to the creation of a regional energy market and the
diversification of energy sources. Two common denominators to these changes are, first, the increasing
role of the private sector as investor and operator, and the new role of the state as regulator while
providing targeted interventions on those areas where society will benefit but there are still mnarket
barriers hampering private sector participation. Second, environmental concerns for climate warming are
becoming a key issue at a time when attention is being focused on cleaner fuels and more efficient use of
energy to reduce GHG emissions.
In the Brazilian electricity sector, out of 60,000 MW of installed capacity, close to 90% is currently
comprised by hydroelectric power plants. Electricity demand has been growing at about 6-7% per year
since the reactivation of the economy. In order to meet demand, about 27,000 MW of installed capacity
should be added to the system over the next 8-10 years, with associated investments close to US$38
billion, of which US$20 billion alone are for additional generation. Considering that most of the
attractive hydropower resources have been developed, a major focused effort is necessary to limit the
otherwise huge increase in primary fossil energy supply required to sustain the growth of Brazil's
economy and to mitigate the serious environmental consequences of expanded energy consumption.
Simulations carried out by PROCEL during project preparation show CO2 emissions from electricity
generation growing from about 27 million tons in 1999 to an accumulated value of 2174 million tons by
2018, if left unchecked.
In the past, just as in the rest of the sector, the Government has been the main investment source and
player behind energy conservation programs with PROCEL playing a central role. However, as in the rest
of the economy, the Goverrnent is now moving to a market driven EE strategy. The objective of the
proposed project is to support this strategy.
The Project: World Bank and GEF Support
In order to support the GOB strategy, the project will provide for transitional mechanisms to facilitate
implementation of a number of demonstration projects that, on the one hand, will save energy and/or help
postpone investments in energy supply facilities and, on the other hand, will affirm the benchmarks or
working parameters that will encourage future replications. Second, the project will provide core support
to the implementation of EE market-based measures by utilities and consumers, including informnation
dissemination of best practice cases, public awareness programs, new financial instruments and
contractual arrangements, labels and standards, all sustained by market and customer research activities.



41
Annex 4
Third, the project will support capacity-building activities targeted to state and federal regulators and
energy agencies, energy service providers, and trade associations.
The proposed EE project will be financed within an AP framework constituted of a Bank loan and a GEF
grant. The Bank loan would partially finance the demonstration projects. The GEF grant would support
the core support and capacity-building activities that will encourage the sustainable implementation of EE
measures, including those demonstrated with Bank support. The GEF grant is required to support the
incremental costs of removing market barriers and is justified by the global environmental benefits
accruing from the project.
HI.    Barriers to Overcome
The major historical barriers to EE measures in Brazil have been an unstable economy and subsidized
energy (especially electricity) prices. The stabilization of the Brazilian economy over the past several
years, has provided the essential foundation for cost reduction investments, such as EE projects. The
movement of energy prices toward cost-based pricing and electricity tariffs reflecting peak and off-peak
costs provides a growing incentive for EE investments. Indeed, electric tariffs have increased from $34
per MWh to $72 per MWh, without taxes, since the application of the stabilization plan. In addition, at a
time of increasing risks of supply shortages, the GOB is promoting the efficient use of energy, especially
electricity. All these factors provide an enabling environment to overcome remaining barriers to increase
EE. The remaining barriers still hampering the development of EE activities in Brazil include the
following:
Lack of public awareness on the potential benefit of EE measures
Brazilian customers in all sectors are unaware of energy savings measures, how much they can save, and
how profitable an investment in EE is; for example, purchasers of home equipment do not know the
annual energy cost of such equipment relative to its purchase cost or the most efficient models available.
While some EE testing, certification and labeling of electric equipment exist, in many cases it has to be
included in a comprehensive customer-focused dealer-accepted program. In other cases, tariff structures
and/or bill collection by distribution companies do not provide customers with the proper price signal to
make energy investments.
Lack of credible information on effective EE measures
The decision to make an EE investment to reduce costs usually is based upon credible information from
relevant real projects in similar circumstances. Brazilian EE development suffers from both the lack of
credible case studies documenting the financial benefits of an investment and the means to disseminate
such information to decision makers in the public and the private sectors, including utilities, industries,
and commercial institutions. While many EE investments are being made in Brazil, the types of measures
and the systems to verify and disseminate the results should be substantially enhanced and expanded. For
example, in the case of DSM measures, where utilities could lose revenues and profits when consumers
reduce their energy consumption, utilities will not tend to support EE programs, even if such programs
enhance overall economic efficiency. Demonstration of market-based DSM measures that allow
postponement of investments and are economically convenient for utilities will help to reduce this barrier
and disseminate information on win-win EE measures. Also, enhanced testing, certification and labeling
programs will provide customers with credible information on electric equipment, and foster competition
among manufacturers.



42
Annex 4
Lack of supporting mechanisms to allow implementation of EE measures
The EE industry is underdeveloped in Brazil. ESCO development has been retarded by skeptical
customers, absence of successful performance contracts to use as models for replication, and lack of
means to judge the quality of individual ESCOs. In addition, private participants in EE activities have no
access to financing in the terms equivalent to those available for supply-side projects. For small EE
projects, requirements are exorbitant (e.g., high collateral requirements), and longer term financing is not
available. Financial agencies are unfamiliar with this type of projects. Third party financing of EE
projects, other than what is being done through ELETROBRAS/PROCEL financing for utility, state, and
municipal projects via the RGR, is almost non-existent in Brazil.
Strategy to Remove Barriers
To remove some of the remaining barriers, the EE Program has been structured as follows: (a) Phase I
would focus on the demonstration of projects involving new technologies and delivery systems, while
supporting capacity-building to enhance policy, regulatory, and implementation functions. This phase
will entail strong participation of power utilities and a learning experience for other participants, in
particular incipient ESCOs; and (b) using the outputs of the first phase, a second phase wiU focus on the
dissemination and replication--supported by a second project included in the APL. It will focus on
increasing EE activities by disseminating best practice cases and special programs, expanding market
niches in other sectors and states, and attracting private financing sources. It will consist of: (i)
marketing the best practice cases and support programs developed during the first phase and preparation
of new cases; (ii) implementation of new demonstration projects and support programs on promising areas
identified during the first phase; and (iii) replication of demonstration projects by existing and new
participants to open new markets in new geographic areas or reinforce existing ones. This activity will
include ESCO-projects supported by the Financial Facility created in Phase I.
][.   Benefits
The EE program will result in significant energy savings in Brazil and associated reductions in GHG
emissions through the demonstration of EE practices and the establishment of core support activities to
stimulate the implementation of EE measures by utilities and consumers. These benefits will be further
expanded during the dissemination and replication phase of the EE program, in particular due to the
creation of a sustainable EE industry, i.e. companies that provide cost-effective energy saving services to
energy users, called ESCOs.
In addition, the EE program will improve the allocation of resources by helping defer investments in
energy supply facilities and by expanding the service and price options available to consumers as a result
of the competition among energy suppliers to retain customers in a new market-based energy sector.
Energy Savings
Direct EE program benefits include energy savings by: (a) the demonstration projects; (b) energy users
(industrial, commercial sectors and utilities) undertaking incipient low-cost energy conservation
investments as a result of the information dissemination program; (c) industrial and commercial users
undertaking medium-cost EE projects through ESCOs as a result of a combination of demonstration
performance contracting, availability of new financial instruments, reduced transaction costs, and the
dissemination of best practices; and (d) the operation of more efficient appliances as a result of the
strengthening of the testing, certification and labeling program. Estimated amount of total energy savings
is 20.8 TWh in a ten-year period, as indicated in Table I below. The contribution of the demonstration
projects is estimated at 2.4 TWh and 18.4 TWh would be saved by the core support and capacity-building



43
Annex 4
activities. The project will contribute to the Government's goal to achieve annual electricity savings of 130
TWh by year 2015.
Global Environmental Benefits
Based on the experience of similar best practice, information, testing and labeling programs, reduction of
emissions derived from project implementation for a period of ten years is estimated at 19.2 million tons
of CO2. The set of demonstration projects is expected to yield accumulated energy savings corresponding to
a reduction of 2.2 million tons of CO2 emissions. The core support and capacity-building activities would be
responsible for saving 17 million tons of CO2.
Table 1: Project Benefits
Project Components                               Energy Savings         CO2 Reduction
TWh                 Million tons
DP                                                  2.4                      2.2
CSA and CBM                                        18.4                     17.0
Total                                              20.8                     19.2
IV.   Benefit-Cost and Risk Analysis
Benefit-cost analysis has been carried out for all the demonstration projects. Their economic internal
rates of return (EIRR) range from 18-50%, with the overall EIRR of the project estimated at 31.6%.
Financial internal rates of return (FIRR) for the same investments are in the range of 10-35%, with an
overall FIRR of 13.2%.
Table 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Present Value of Flows (million US$)
Economic Analysis       Financial Analysis
Gross Benefits           121.4                   93.4
Total Costs              71.6                    81.2
Net Benefits             49.8                    12.2
IRR (%)                  31.6                    13.2
Risk Analysis. Based on the economic cost-benefit tables that were prepared for the subprojects and for
the project as whole, analyses were performed to assess the economic sensitivity of the project to various
changes in parameters:
(a)    Benefit failure. This is defined as any situation that reduces the benefits of the project, such as
lower than expected energy savings or lower energy prices. For moderate reductions in overall project
benefits (10-25%), the EIRR of the overall project remains above 24%. Only if overall subproject
benefits fall by more than 35%, would the EIRR fall below a discount rate of 12%.
Carbon dioxide conversion based upon avoided thermal generation's composite factor of 916.4 tons of C02/GWh, reflecting marginal
dispatch of thermal generation and 10% T&D losses



44
Annex 4
(b)    Cost overrun. Investment costs would have to be higher by about 22% for the EIRR to faWl below
12%. This analysis is also based on the unreasonable assumption that there is no learning lesson by the
company (e.g., all planned investments continue to be made in the failed subproject). Relaxing this
assumption would allow investment funds to flow to successful components.
(c)    Higher operating costs. Poor implementation of projects could result in higher labor and
materials costs, and more frequent maintenance. For the analysis, poor implementation is assumed to
result in higher operation and maintenance costs of the energy conservation equipment. Higher
operating costs do not have a large impact on the EIRR of the project, as it is mostly capital-intensive.
Operation and maintenance costs must increase by over 700% for the EIRR to fall below the discount
rate of 12%.
Performance Contracting
One of the delivery systems to be introduced in this project will be the design and implementation of
projects through performance contracting, where payments to the ESCO will be made on the basis of an
agreed share of the energy savings achieved by the projects (see Annex 2). Failure to accomplish the
energy savings of the project due to poor implementation will result in reduced payments to the ESCO
and reduced benefits to the host enterprise. Contracting problems or bad collection of bills will adversely
affect the cash flow of the ESCO, but will not affect the financial benefits to the host enterprise or the
economic benefits to the country, since the energy savings could still occur. Indeed, over the longer term,
contractual or accounts receivable problems could force ESCOs out of business, which would reduce
energy conservation investments and adversely affect the true replication of EE measures. To reduce this
risk the CSA and CBM of the project will support development and use of standard performance
contracts, independent verification of savings, and best practice cases.
V.    GEF - Incremental Cost Analysis
Implementing the above strategy would require incurring incremental costs defined as the difference
between the economic cost of the Baseline Situation and the GEF Altemative that will lead to global
environmental benefits. This difference is proposed to be supported by a GEF grant. Below, there is a
presentation of the Baseline Scenario, the GEF Alternative, and the Incremental Cost.
Baseline Scenario
In the absence of an alternative, Brazil's EE efforts will probably remain at its current state or, given the
current ongoing reforms in the sector, it may lose focus and its funding may start to decline as the
deregulation of the energy sector advances. Under the baseline case, it would probably take longer to
advance the demonstration of emerging technologies and market driven EE delivery mechanisms.
Investments in EE would most likely remain in Government hands, through the use of subsidized loans to
state governments and qualifying enterprises.
Emerging technologies and their application would not be part of the mainstream as the industrial sector
modernizes its infrastructure to compete in the MERCOSUR area and worldwide.  Information
dissemination on EE financing and practices would remain hampered if no structured demonstration of
best practices and monitoring of savings are achieved. Institutional capacity to implement innovative EE
measures would remain fragmented and, most likely, at a central level. Participation of private investors
and ESCOs would be retarded if commercial instruments, like performance contracting, were not
introduced in the EE market.
PROCEL was launched in 1985. Historically, its level of activity has averaged investments in EE of
US$4 million per year until 1994. The new focus on the role of EE to reduce energy waste, postpone



45
Annex 4
supply side investments, the risk of energy shortages, and the support from multilateral and bilateral
agencies is helping to increase the annual budget for EE activities. This has opened a window of
opportunity to substantially enhance and expand current EE activities by reducing or eliminating
remaining market barriers.  However, this effort could be derailed in the absence of credible
demonstration of market driven EE mechanisms that would mirror the market transformation of the
economy and the sector. For these reasons, a conservative baseline option would have to consider the
level of activity that existed until 1994, before the new EE strategy was designed as an integrated
approach expecting future support from the Bank, GEF, and other donors. However, to take into account
the current investment for EE activities, including the proposed financial support from the Bank, the
amount corresponding to the estimated cost of the proposed project is considered in the Incremental Cost
and Benefits Matrix attached to this Annex, even though its sustainability could be questionable in the
absence of GEF, Bank and other donors' interventions. This baseline option includes the activity of
incipient ESCOs and current investments in high efficiency lamps and appliances by private users, as well
as the current level of local technical assistance and institutional support to EE activities, based on the
operational budget of PROCEL and EE agencies. The alternative is defined as the baseline plus the
participation of GEF and other donors to support the removal of existing barriers.
The estimated cost of the Baseline Scenario is $102.5 million. The estimated cost by main activities is as
follows:
Demonstration Projects. In order to take into account the current budget for EE activities, including the
proposed financial support from the Bank, the demonstration projects are considered as part of the
Baseline situation. The estimated budget by project is included in Annex 2. Under the baseline scenario,
total cost is estimated at about US$86 9 million.
Core Support Activities. Under the Baseline Scenario: (a) information dissemination and marketing of
best practices would remain fragmented; (b) financial instrunents to fund EE measures would continue
limited and underutilized; (c) testing, certification, and labeling of energy equipment would remain at
their current limited levels; and (d) credible market assessments and evaluation systems to track market
penetration and effectiveness of EE measures would stay underdeveloped. Under the baseline scenario,
total cost is estimated at about US$8.5 million.
Capacity Building Module. Under the baseline scenario, institutional capacity would not be adequate to
design and implement the regulations and programs required to support changes in the EE market. Total
expenditures under the Baseline Scenario are estimated to be about US$7. 1 million.
GEF Alternative
The proposed alternative will demonstrate the viability of delivering EE projects through traditional and
alternative service providers, including electricity utilities, ESCOs, appliance retailers, manufacturers, and
energy state agencies, using performance contracting, pricing and regulatory instruments, and new
financing tools. Further, the project will introduce a countrywide EE information system designed to
provide plant and financial managers, and energy consumers with credible best practices for various
technologies and contractual arrangements. Finally, th; project will also focus on reinforcing regulatory
and normative tools to catalyze EE projects. These activities are aimed at overcoming the major barriers
to EE investments in Brazil.
Demonstration Projects. This component will demonstrate both the uses of efficient technologies,
financed by the Bank and delivery systems to be financed by GEF, including performance contracting,
rebates and tariff options. A series of EE investments involving different delivery systems, that is,
rebates, tariff options, and performance contracting, wilU be designed, implemented, and evaluated and the
results widely disseminated. Three sectors are targeted for initial demonstration projects: commercial



46
Annex 4
customers, large industrial customers; and public facilities including offices, schools, and hospitals. The
demonstrations will be competitively chosen using selection criteria based upon likely project success,
replication potential, capacity of implementing participant, and diversity of project mix. The incremental
costs of demonstrating and marketing the different delivery systems are the costs associated with
introducing those concepts in Brazil and showing, in particular, that they are attractive to the private
sector. The total cost of the GEF Alternative to demonstrate both pilot projects and their respective
market-based delivery systems is US$90.2 million.
Core Support Activifies. While the demonstration projects, and respective delivery systems, would
introduce new ways to implement efficiency projects, there is a need to develop a platform to facilitate
replication in other sectors of the economy while attracting private sector capital. To do so, four core
activities are geared to:
*  facilitate the replication of financially successful best practices through information dissemination to
decision makers. The incremental costs associated with this component include the preparation of a
core number of Best Practice cases and technical guides, introduction of marketing and
dissemination systems, evaluation of program results and training of staff at PROCEL and
monitoring contractors to prepare the case studies.
reduce high initial transaction costs and perceived risks to the local financing community, so that
they can channel funds into the energy service industry. The incremental costs associated to this
activity include assessment of factors impeding the flows of private capital and selection of
instruments to mitigate these factors, training of banking community on evaluation of EE projects,
preparation of pre-investment portfolios for consideration by the banking cormmunity, and
developing and implementing verification protocols.
-  strengthen the labeling and standard program to promote the use of efficient appliances among
energy users. The incremental costs associated with this component include: (a) expanding testing
facilities, and (b) monitoring of implementation and effectiveness.
•  develop a marketing approach to EE programs and measures. Incremental costs associated to this
activity will include taking periodical market assessments that would gauge the market's response to
different programs and allow their realignment as required and evaluation systems to monitor market
penetration and effectiveness of EE measures. This activity is critical to the development of credible
monitoring mechanisms.
Under the GEF Alternative, total cost of support core activities will amount to US$20.2 million.
Capacity Building Module. The GEF alternative includes support to enhance the institutional capacity
and knowledge at federal and state regulatory agencies to effect EE policies in a reformed energy sector.
This is particularly important at a time when federal and state regulators will be responsible for regulating
how proceeds of the privatization of the electricity distribution concessions-amounting to about US$50
million/year at its peak-will be allocated among cost-effective end-user EE projects. Further, and to
influence future technical staff, a targeted educational program will be launched at the level of the
technical schools. The incremental costs associated with this component include: (a) training state
regulators on EE related regulations; (b) monitoring its implementation and effectiveness; (c) targeted
training material to be developed for technical schools; and (d) project implementation support to the
PMO for management and monitoring of the project. Total cost under the GEF alternative is estimated at
US$15.1 million.



47
Annex 4
Conclusion
Total cost of the project under the GEF alternative is US$125.5 million, as compared to a baseline case of
US$102.5 million. Incremental features are estimated at US$23 million, of which the GEF is financing
US$20 million, and CIDA and ALURE US$3 million. Benefits of the proposed alternative are the
emission savings resulting from project implementation and replication of EE measures expected to be
caused by the market transformation and capacity-building activities. Energy savings derived from
implementation of the GEF alternative for a period of ten years is estimated to be equivalent to 19.2
million tons of CO2 at a cost of about US$1.2 per ton of CO2.
The Incremental Cost and Benefits matrix attached summarizes the costs and benefits of the Alternative
compared with the Baseline situation.



48
Annex 4
Attachment
Incremental Costs and Benefits Matrix
Baseline               | Alternative          IEncrement
GCurrent barriers        Barriers reduced or    I Reduced or
GloBale nvfironmental                              eliminated             eliminated barriers
Benefit
CO2 emissions increasing  Reduced CO2 emissions  Reduced C02
as currently forecasted  compared with         emissions (17.0
I forecasted          ,million tons)
Current EE measures     Increased number of    Additional viable EE
viable EE measures    measures able to be
replicated in other
I___________  ,________ _                      ,countries
Domestic Benefit          } Use of electricity as  Reduction in the use of ,18.4 TWh saved
currently forecasted    energy compared with
forecasted
Current level of electric   Improved level of  Better energy
, services              , energy services       services
Costs                             US$ million           US$ million           US$ million
Ongoing EE investments (*)
plus:
A. Demonstration projects            86.9                  90.2                    3.3
B. Core Support activities   1        8.5                  20.2                    11.7
C. Capacity Building                  7.1                  15.1                    8.0
Module
Total Costs                       102.5                125.5                    23.0
CIDA/ALURE contributions                                    3.0                    3.0
GEF Incremental Costs                                                             20.0 (**)
*) Ongoing EE investments in the baseline include counterpart funds of ELETROBRAS and participating
utilities and other partners mobilized by PROCEL, as well as current customer contribution to EE
investments.
**) Including both Phases of the EE Program



49
Annex 5
INSTITUTIONAL AND FINANCIAL ASSESSMENT
A. Institutional and Financial Profile of the Brazilian Power Sector
ELETROBRAS was established in 1961 as a holding company for electrical utilities owned by the Federal
Government, mainly to finance the development of capital-intensive hydropower projects. In 1973,
important reforms were introduced in the legislation for the power sector, reinforcing the centralized
characteristics of the model, and confirming the role of ELETROBRAS as the national coordinator of the
power system planning and operation. In spite of the important achievements reached by this model in the
past, an inadequate regulatory system, lack of competition, and political pressures resulted in increasing
problems for the sector, in particular, inefficiency in system expansion and electricity pricing, raising
operating costs, and difficulties to finance increasing investment requirements.  Based on the new
Constitution approved in 1988, major reforms have been introduced in the institutional and regulatory
framework of the power sector in the last years, aiming the decentralization of the sector, facilitating private
participation, and enhancing competition.
Under the National Program for Privatization (PND), coordinated by the National Development Bank
(BNDES), several power utilities were privatized in the period 1995 to mid-1998, such as: ESCELSA, in the
state of Espirito Santo (1995), LIGHT and CERJ in the state of Rio de Janeiro (1996), COELBA in the state
of Bahia (1997). In agreement with the government of several states, ELETROBRAS is also participating in
the administration and preparing the privatization of CEMAT, ENERSUL, COSERN, ENERGIPE, CEAL,
CERON, CEPISA, and CELPA. These utilities, as well as the large regional subsidiaries of ELETROBRAS,
(FURNAS, ELETROSUL, CHESF and ELETRONORTE) are also included in the mentioned PND.
Additionally, the government of the state of Sao Paulo has initiated the privatization of CESP, CPFL and
ELETROPAULO.
Until now, ELETROBRAS has been a combination of a holding company of electric power utilities, a
bank/leasing company, and a development institution for the power sector of Brazil. New power sector
legislation has mandated the restructuring of ELETROBRAS by the spin-off of ELETRONORTE, CHESF,
ELETROSUL and FURNAS where new power utilities will be created and their shares distributed to the
existing shareholders of ELETROBRAS. Through year 2002, about twenty new entities for power
generation and transmission would be operating in the interconnected power system, under the supervision of
ANEEL, the regulatory body for the electric power sector.
Under the new scenario of increased privatization of the sector, the financial success of ELETROBRAS will
depend upon its ability to attract capital to participate with equity and financing in those economically
efficient projects where risks for private sector participation need to be reduced. In addition, ELETROBRAS
will continue implementing programs of national interest such as PROCEL, and research for technical
development and indicative planning. ELETROBRAS profits will comprise both proceeds from the
reversion fund created by the Federal Treasury to be used in the service expansion and improvement and an
appropriate return on the outstanding balance of the funds used to finance the projects, less the costs of
borrowings.
B. ELETROBRAS' Financial Situation
Financial Model and Assumptions. Financial corporate models developed by ELETROBRAS to analyze the
Brazilian power sector are not being used anymore, as the structure of the sector is changing and moving
rapidly to private operation. Therefore, a financial model for the future operation of ELETROBRAS was
developed during project preparation to provide corporate income statement, cash flow and balance sheet in
nominal terms for an 8-year period, with 1995-97 as the historical period. Theoretical procedures used by
the model are consistent with International Accounting Standards (LAS) and the requirements of Brazilian



50
Annex 5
authorities. However, due to the difficulty in defining detailed future scenarios for privatization, the model
has been utilized only to analyze ELETROBRAS finances in the last years and to visualize the effects of
some general trends for sector restructuring and privatization. Detailed financial projections are available in
project files.
Present Financial Situation. Total assets of the companies operating in the Brazilian power sector in 1996
amounted to about US$170 billion, with 50% being equity. The annual revenue was US$35 billion.
ELETROBRAS assets in 1996 were US$79 billion, with equity about US$65 billion. In financial terms, this
means that: (a) ELETROBRAS stands for about 50% of the power sector resources; and (b) most of the
foreign sector debt does not belong to ELETROBRAS, as it corresponds to its subsidiaries and other utilities.
Over the last three years, the financial situation of ELETROBRAS has been sound and it is expected to
continue being an efficient company through the restructuring period, in spite of size reduction.
ELETROBRAS' revenues increased from US$2.2 billion in 1995 to US$4.7 billion in 1997, with its net
income growing from US$0.8 billion to US$3.7 billion. Operation and maintenance expenses account for
less than 40% of the revenues, which is a good operating efficiency indicator. Capital expenditures have
increased from US$2.3 billion to US$7.7 billion in the same period, being mostly funded by internal fund
generation. Consequently, debt service coverage is higher than usually found in power utilities and
ELETROBRAS has capacity to absorb new debts. ELETROBRAS' long-tenn liabilities are less than 25%
of its equity, showing good performance (as usually up to 70%  is accepted).  In short, presently
ELETROBRAS' financial situation is very sound and creditworthy.
Future Financial Scenarios.  Considering that by the end of year 2002 the Brazilian power sector
restructuring should be finished, two scenarios have been envisaged for ELETROBRAS future operation.
The base case considers that the goal was achieved and by the end of year 2002 ELETROBRAS would be
reduced to 20% of its present size. The second scenario assumes that the proposed restructuring is not fully
accomplished and the reduction was only 50%. The base case postulates that most of current assets of
ELETROBRAS were transferred to the new entities, maintaining only its functions related to the global
supervision of the operation of the interconnected system (load dispatching and energy accounting will be in
charge of and Independent System Operator - ISO), ownership of EHV transmission lines and supervision of
international operations. In both cases, it was assumed that current ELETROBRAS liability was also
proportionally transferred, under the spin-off strategy explained below. Details of main assumptions are
available in project files.
Financial Projections under Base Scenario. The Brazilian power sector, as mentioned before, is shifting
toward increased private participation. The role of ELETROBRAS could change over the future, as
privatization is progressing. Therefore, financial projections under the base-case scenario are indicative and
will undergo some change as the restructuring evolves. The projections are considered realistic due to the
fact that ELETROBRAS: (i) has been able to operate satisfactorily during periods of high inflation; (ii) has
shown skills and experience to coordinate large and sophisticated projects, as well as a large numbers of
small projects consistently; and (iii) has maintained financial discipline, strictly controlled working capital,
correctly assessed credit risk and plowed back a substantial portion of earnings into financing sector
expansion.
ELETROBRAS current revenues are about US$3.7 billion. Consequently the management of the proposed
US$250 million EE program does not represent any risk and it should not either adversely affect the expected
ELETROBRAS finances. The base case projections show that ELETROBRAS, in spite of the reduction of
its activities, will be able to establish an acceptable profit trend, meet all debt service commitments, keep a
reasonable equity base, earn an adequate return on total funds invested, and improve its financial ratios.
Sensitivity studies and Monte Carlo simulations available in project files show that under reasonable
confidence limits, ELETROBRAS should be able to maintain a good financial structure and earn an
acceptable return on its investments.



51
Annex 5
Income Statement
About 80%  of ELETROBRAS' operating
revenue comes from loans granted to power               Figure5.1:IncomeStatement
utilities of the sector.  The remainder of
revenue corresponds mostly to earnings from   4 5000                         - ea
its participation in equities of electric power  : 4000                           Revenues
600    I. I                    exvenses
companies.  On the other hand, operating        20°00   lOerating
expenses consist mainly of financial charges   1 Ioo                              Expenses
paid on loans (almost 50%) and functioning         0                              Net Income
expenses (personnel, material and other), as       14'        5P
depreciation  of fixed  assets  owned  by
ELETROBRAS is irrelevant.  It has been
assumed that the spin-off operations will affect
its revenues after 1999. By year 2003, revenues
will drop to US$1.2 billion, about 31% of the         F        5
observed 1997 level.  Net income will also            Figure 5.2: Source of Funds
follow the same trend, going down from US$3.0
billion in 1997 to US$0.7 billion in year 2003.  25000 l
A moderate growth of ELETROBRAS has been         20000                     U Internal Sources
assumed  after  the  restructuring  period, I     15000                     & Transfer of
considering the normal growth of the operating   10000 _o                    Assets
and  supervisory  activities required  by  its    0sooo                    U Borrowings and
holdings in Itaipui, nuclear plants, remaining      0                        oerExternal
transmission  assets, and  administration  of                               Sources
special programs. As can be observed in Figure |   &            '9   ' 
5.1, operating income (revenue less operating |_l
expenses) and net income (operating income less taxes and social charges) will be substantially reduced after
1999, but its financial ratios (Fig. 5.6) would remain favorable in spite of its size reduction. The indicated
favorable financial performance of ELETROBRAS could be undone if a strategy is adopted by the
Government for confining ELETROBRAS' activities to an increasing number of social or political
unprofitable projects. This seems unlikely as the Brazilian policy is shifting towards more market-based
strategies.
Funds Statement
Currently about 41% of ELETROBRAS'
available funds come from internal sources (net
income and dividends received).   External                   Figure 5.3: Use of Funds
sources account for the remainder 59%/o, coming
from the RGR created by the federal government    25000            _     
to finance expenses for the expansion and   I    20000                         0 Capital
improvement of electricity services (52%) and                                    Expenditures
borrowings (7%/o). As shown in Figures 5.2 and  |   15000         _              Reduction of
5.3, the spin-off operation would reduce long     10000Lablte
term  and  permanent assets  (e.g., equity          5000                       U Transfer of
investments in electric power companies). This  |                                Shares
will be compensated by a reduction of liabilities     0
and   stockholders  equity.      Therefore,  lt  o 
ELETROBRAS'  shareholders  will  receive  |                       ' '
shares in an amount equivalent to the net value
of each spun-off subsidiary. A total amount of



52
Annex 5
about US$56 billion is assumed to be transferred. As a result, ELETROBRAS' assets would be reduced to
about US$16 billion by the end of year 2002, i.e., to 18.5% of its current value. It has been assumed that the
spin-off process will be carried out over the 1999-2002 period.
In terms of the use of funds, in the past years most of ELETROBRAS' resources were used to finance capital
expenditures, particularly participation in equity of electric companies, which increased about 14% per year.
Debt service has been low, as ELETROBRAS' indebtedness is small because most of the lending flow
needed by the sector has being going directly to electric power utilities. Other applications included
acquisition of plant and equipment, remuneration of stockholders, and surplus to pay other liabilities. Under
the assumed spin-off operation, the funds available from the selling of assets will be received by the
ELETROBRAS' shareholders.
Balance Sheet
Figure 5.4: Liability & Equity
As a result of its restructuring, the assets, liability and
equity of ELETROBRAS would be drastically reduced        100000
over the period 1999-2003. Equity reduction is due to the  80000
transfer of about US$55  billion  of shares from      '   60000   l                   ablfty
ELETROBRAS  to new  companies to  be created.         _  40000                     E Equity]
Therefore, equity would be reduced from US$67.0 at the  E  20000
end of 1997 to US$11.9 billion by the end of year 2002       0
(see Figure 5.4). Long term liabilities would be also
reduced from the current value of US$16.2 billion, to      NO  .o .9P
US$4.2 billion, in the same period, as about 25% of the
capital of ELETROBRAS comes from borrowings.
Therefore, total assets and liability plus equity would be
reduced from US$86.9 billion to US$16.0 billion by the
end of year 2002 (see Figure 5.4).
On the other hand, total net fixed assets, which amounted  Figure 5.5: Evolution of Assets
to US$78.9 billion by the end of 1997, would be reduced  |                                   l
to US$13.9 billion by the end of year 2002.  This        100000                              l
reduction in book values is consistent with the total    80000
transfer assumed of ELETROBRAS' subsidiary shares to  {   60000                     fi uent
ELETROBRAS' shareholders, amounting to about US$55       40000  _                     Fixed
billion. Current assets, which usually are correlated with      2000
the level of commercial activities, would also be reduced.   0
Consequently, total assets would drop from  US$86.9          0
billion in 1997 to US$ US$16.0 billion by the end of year
2002. This means a reduction of about 82% in a period of
four years (see Figure 5.5).



53
Annex 5
Figure 5.6: Evolution of Financial Ratios
120                                                   - Operatig Income (% of
20                                                      Return on Capital
Fso                                                    -       1Debt Service Coverage
S 60- l | l | | | 100 ~~- Internal Sources(% of
1995    1997     1999    2001      2003
Financial Ratios
As shown in Figure 5.6, the forecasted financial ratios of ELETROBRAS are robust, even during the
transition years. Past operating income has been acceptable in recent years (higher than 30% of revenue),
and it is expected to improve over the projection period because operating expenses would be reduced by a
higher percentage than revenues. Net income, as a percentage of revenues, has improved in the last three
years, reaching an impressive level of almost 78% in 1997. Future values are expected to range between
60% and 79%, higher than the value of 30% widely accepted for this type of institutions. ELETROBRAS
has had a low rate of return on average invested capital, in spite of its increase from 1.6% in 1995 to 4.8% in
1997. With the proposed restructuring and adopted assumptions, it could improve to 8% by year 2002.
ELETROBRAS' indebtedness is low (about 20% of total capitalization) and its debt service coverage is high.
Intemal resources constitute about 2 times the long-term debt service. Due to asset transfer and reduction of
liabilities, this indicator would still improve. Currently, total capital expenditures are almost totally financed
by internal resources and this situation is expected to continue over the period. ELETROBRAS currently
presents a current ratio between 2 and 3, higher than the accepted range of 1.2% to 1.5% and forecasted
values show the same level.
C. Financial Management, Control and Technical Assistance
Financial Management and Control. State agencies and utilities under the coordination and supervision of
PROCEL will implement the demonstration projects included in the proposed operation. Brazil is lacking
adequate financial services to fund energy conservation projects. A low risk strategy of pursuing a variety of
demonstration projects increases the importance of PROCEL's proper financial management, especially for
assessment of default risks, credit extension, cash-flow management, and control of accounts receivable.



54
Annex 5
Considering the current strength of ELETROBRAS in this area, it is expected that PROCEL, with the aid of
technical assistance, will be able to:
(i) Assess the creditworthiness of implementing agencies; (ii) accurately record and supervise a large number
of transactions and manage an extensive and diverse portfolio of lenders and debtors, including physical
project implementation, contract pricing and cost recovery; (iii) evaluate the effectiveness of individual
energy-efficiency projects to decide if they can be replicated and if dissemination of results could lead to
sustainable programs on a national scale; and (iii) fulfill monitoring and reporting requirements of project
sponsors, particularly the World Bank and Brazilian authorities.  PROCEL has had experience in
coordinating these types of projects and working with these institutions implementing many projects over the
past decade.
PROCEL's primary mechanism for transferring grants and loans to local utilities and other executive
agencies is PROCECON, whereby ELETROBRAS and PROCEL sign general agreements with the
implementing agencies and fund individual projects by approving specific task orders. In addition, a
cooperation agreement enables UNDP to administer some specific funds and contracts on behalf of PROCEL
and perform procurement functions.
Existing qualification and monitoring procedures from these mechanisms will be strengthened and used to
supervise the proposed World Bank loan and GEF grant, particularly in the following three areas:
Project Management. ELETROBRAS has agreed to create a special Project Management Unit to supervise
the implementation of the proposed EE project, consisting of a senior project manager supported by
Monitoring and Evaluation, Marketing and Dissemination, Procurement, Accounting, and Project
Coordination units.
Information and Monitoring Systems. ELETROBRAS and PROCEL already have in place a physical and
financial control system to track the implementation of their funded projects. ELETROBRAS has agreed to
upgrade this system and to implement: (a) a project analysis data base for measuring actual costs and
benefits (energy savings, peak load reductions and other); and (b) a market assessment activity system for
monitoring market responses (demand characteristics, equipment available, energy use pattern and other).
Technical Training. PROCEL is preparing a program to support the project implementation by training its
own staff and the staff from local utilities and agencies participating in the program. Training will be
primarily focused on the operation of the information and monitoring systems and World Bank procurement
procedures.
Technical Assistance. PROCEL is currently receiving technical assistance in project evaluation from
Brazilian universities and international institutions (e.g., Canadian technical assistance funded by CIDA).
The proposed GEF grant includes technical assistance to assist PROCEL to enhance the financial systems
which are essential to: (a) operate and control project implementation; (b) provide basic training and
guidance to the financial personnel; (c) further improve the financial planning function; and (d) further
enhance financial policy and appropriate procedures. Further supported under the project management
components of the GEF grant, where necessary, the technical assistance will include: (1) improvement of the
financial models and refine the forecasts to reflect available resources, corporate capacity, financial
constraints and sustainable growth; (2) assessment of the corporate structure of potential fund recipients,
business environment, project inventory and resources and determination of: (a) appropriate financial
structure; (b) critical success factors (debtors control and collection, contract pricing, cost control, corporate
growth, etc.); (c) generic accounting structure (code of accounts and general ledger, payroll, a/c receivable,
trade creditors etc.) and management information needed to address these factors; (d) cash management and
security; and (e) integrated budgetary and cost control mechanisms; (3) preparation, design, supply,
installation and commissioning of enhancements to the financial systems software, computer hardware and



55
Annex 5
training; and (4) review and amend the terms and conditions of the standard business contracts to reflect the
ELETROBRAS/PROCEL financial policies.



56
Annex 6
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ASSESSMENT
A. Procurement
Summaries of project costs by procurement arrangements, thresholds for procurement arrangements and
prior review, and allocations of Grant and Loan Proceeds by expenditure category are presented in Tables A,
B, and C below. Further explanations of the procurement plans agreed for each project component are
provided below and are available in the project files. All procurement of works, goods, and services will be
carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Bank's standard bidding documents will be used for
ICB; model bidding documents agreed between the Bank and SEAIN will be used for all NCB. Procurement
plans have been prepared by each participant and are available in the project file. Independent consultants
will perform procurement audits under TOR satisfactory to the Bank. The Borrower is being assisted by
UNDP in procurement matters under an ongoing contract that is not financed by the Bank nor GEF.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(In US$ million equivalent)
Total Cost /a
Procurement Method      Consulting
Expenditure Category    ICB      NCB      Other/b    Services    NBF /c
1. Works
Demonstration Projects             8.2      23.9                   0.5           32.6
(6.7)    (4.9)                               (11.6)
Core Support Activities                      5.8                                 5.8
(0.0)                               (0.0)
Capacity Building Module           0.1       0.7                                 0.8
(0.0)                               (0.0)
2. Goods
Demonstration Projects   29.3      8.8      10.6                   1.5           50.2
(21.0)    (4.1)    (8.4)                               (33.5)
Core Support Activities  2.0       1.5      0.1                                  3.6
(1.5)    (0.7)     (0. 1)                              (2.3)
Capacity Building Module           1.4      0.2                                  1.6
(0.4)    (0.1)                                (0.5)
3. Consultant Services
Demonstration Projects                                  1.6        0.5           2.1
(1.2)                   (1.2)
Core Support Activities                                 8.8        2.0           10.8
(4.9)                   (4.9)
Capacity Building Module                                9.7        3.0           12.7
(4.0)                   (4.0)
Total                    31.3     20.0      41.3       20.1        7.5          120.2
(22.5)    (11.9)    (13.5)    (10.1)                   (58.0)
Notes:
/a Excludes interest during construction and loan front-end fees. Figures in parenthesis are the amounts
to be financed by the Bank loan/GEF grant.
/b Includes international and national shopping and procurement of small works.
/c NBF = Not Bank-Financed (consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other
miscellaneous items).



57
Annex 6
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure        Contract Value   Procurement   Contracts Subject to Prior Review
Category           (Threshold)     Method
(US$'000)
1. Works                     >5,000         ICB                      All
350-5,000       NCB                   First two
<350 (a)      Shopping                First two
2. Goods                      >350           ICB                     All
100-350 (a)      NCB                   First two
<100         Shopping               First two
3. Consultant Services         -            QCBS                     All
<100          LCS                   First two
<100           SFB                  First two
<100       Individuals                 All
(a) Prior review above US$350,000.00
Demonstration Project Component
Procurement is for works, goods, and consultant services using both the GEF grant and the IBRD loan, and
conducted by project participants. Most of project participants and UNDP have experience with procurement
using Bank guidelines. As demonstration projects are, in general, of small size, it is difficult to organize
packages large enough for International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Indeed, all works will be contracted by
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) and national and international shopping. However, if there are any
work contracts costing more than US$5 million, ICB will be used. In the case of goods to be used by several
participants, they will be purchased together, when possible, in order to increase the package size and
through ICB, e.g., compact fluorescent lamps and public lighting fixtures. In total, US$29.3 million value is
planned to be procured through ICB, US$17.0 million through NCB, and US$34.5 million through national
and international shopping procedures. Local suppliers of equipment and materials with a local aggregate
value of at least 50% of the price of the goods will be given margin of preference of 15% or the applicable
import duties, whichever is lower. In the case of works, no margin of preference will be applied. Small
consulting service contracts for monitoring and evaluating the demonstration projects, totaling about US$1.6
million, will be awarded through Least Cost Selection (LCS), Selection under a Fixed Budget (SFB), and
individual consultant procedures.
Core Support Activities
Procurement for the Core Support Activities is mainly for consultancy services with some complementary
contracts for works and goods. Procurement for consultants will be carried out according to Quality and
Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures for the main contracts, and LCS, SFB, and individual consultant
procedures for small energy audits and similar repetitive works for a total of US$8.8 million. The main
contracts include those aimed to support the development and implementation of the following programs and
projects: (a) Best Practice program, to prepare and disseminate case studies and technical guides of
commercially focused EE applications; (b) Green Lights program, to improve efficiency in illumination of
commercial and public buildings; (c) Financial Facility, to support ESCO development, use of performance
contracting, and preparation of a portfolio of ESCO-based projects ready for financing by third parties; and



58
Annex 6
(d) Market Assessment, to evaluate degree of success of PROCEL EE efforts and guide future PROCEL
initiatives.
These contracts will be the main instruments for transfer of international know-how to PROCEL and all
participants in the EE project by supporting long-term twinning-type arrangement with advisors and trainers
with a wide range of practical experience. In general, these relationships are expected to extend for the
duration of the project. In addition, individual consultants will be hired to provide hands-on operational
advice and support for project implementation.
The Core Support component includes procurement of laboratory equipment to install or upgrade testing
facilities for a wide range of EE equipment, including domestic appliances and solar water heaters, to support
preparation of standards, and certification and labeling programs. This equipment is planned to be procured
through ICB procedures for an amount of about US$2.0 million.
Complementary small contracts for supplying of goods and services, such as printed material and
dissemination activities, are planned to be procured through NCB and shopping procedures for a total
amount of about US$6.4 million.
Capacity building Module (CBM)
Procurement for the CBM will include consultancy services, with complementary small contracts for works
and goods. Services will be provided by international and local EE specialists and trainers for a total amount
of about US$9.7 million. Services will include training and education to a broad segment of project
participants, and direct support to regulatory agencies, energy agencies, and PROCEL. Procurement will be
carried out according to QCBS procedures for the main contracts, and LCS, SFB, and individual consultant
procedures for small contracts. Main activities include: (a) development of EE policies by Federal and State
regulatory bodies; (b) enhancing of energy saving strategies by energy agencies and utilities; (c) enhancing
management and technical expertise of PROCEL and its systems for collecting, storing, and managing EE-
related data; (d) upgrading of physical and financial project control systems; (e) improving evaluation of
social and environmental impacts; (f) enhancing global market assessment, research and surveys of EE
activities; and (g) preparation of Phase II of the EE programn. Related programs performed by international
energy agencies and funded by donors will also support these activities.
Complementary small contracts for about US$2.6 million are planned to be awarded through NCB and
shopping. They include small contracts for provision of a wide range of educational materials and
equipment, and preparation and arrangement of courses, seminars, site visits, and workshops over the course
of the project
B. Disbursement
Table C presents the planned allocation of grant and loan proceeds. For expenditures pertaining to goods
contracts valued at less than US$350,000, consultancy contracts valued at less than US$100,000 for firms
and US$50,000 for individuals and all training, reimbursement will be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures. To facilitate disbursements, two Special Accounts, one for GEF funds with authorized
allocations of US$4.0 million, and other for IBRD funds with authorized allocations of US$6.0 million will
be established at ELETROBRAS-PROCEL. Part of the IBRD funds will be allocated in Subsidiary
Special Accounts to be established at main participating utilities and agencies. Applications for
replenishment will be submitted monthly or when the amounts withdrawn equal 50 % of the initial deposit,
whichever comes sooner.



59
Annex 6
Table C: Allocation of Grant and Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Categozy             Amount in                Financing Percentage
US$ million
GEF Grant
1. Works                                       1.6      100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local
____   ___ ___ _   __ ____ _     ep eLn    tures_       _  _ _
2. Goods                                       3.3      100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 80% of local
_____________________________                 10.1    dxpenditures for other items procured locall
3.          Services                               10.1  100%
Total GEF Grant                         15.0
IBRD Loan                   _______
4. Works under Part A                         10.0      100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local
_____      ________ _ _                              _expenditures
5. Goods under Part A                         32.966    100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 80% of local
expenditures for other items  ocured locally
6. Front-end Fee                               0.434
Total IBRD Loan                        43.4



60
Annex 7
PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
A. Project Budget (US$000)                             Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Bank                                                    256.3                229.9
GEF                                                     140.2                140.2
Total                                                   396.5                370.1
B. Project Schedule                                    Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                 14                   24
First Bank mission (Identification)                      03/11/97            03/11/97
GEF Council Work Program Approval                         07/97               07/97
Appraisal Mission Departure                             04/13/97             10/15/98
GEF CEO endorsement                                     04/20/98             05/18/99
Negotiations                                            08/31/98             08/16/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                           03/31/99             01/31/00
Prepared by: ELETROBRAS and participant utilities and agencies.
Assistance before project inception: ESMAP:  $90,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Luis M. Vaca-Soto (Task Manager, LCSFE); Jose A.
Carvalho (Senior Counsel, LEGLA); Arturo S. Rivera (Senior Energy Specialist, EMTEG); Orville F.
Grimes (Projects Adviser, LCOQE); Amarquaye Armar (Senior energy Planner); Winston Hay (Senior
Power Engineer); Vladimir Jadrijevic (Senior Procurement Specialist, LCOPR), and Nelson de Franco
(Brazil - Energy Team Leader, LCSFE). The following consultants also worked on the project: Earle Taylor
(Energy Efficiency and Demand Side Management); Heman L. Campero (Economic and Financial
Analysis); Howard Geller (Energy Conservation); Charles R. Guinn (Strategy and Policy Analysis); Walter
Scott (Power Distribution); Herman J. Nissenbaum (Operational Support); Julius Wilberg (Financial
Analysis); and Eric Martinot (Project Design). Contributors to project preparation were Romelia Schneider
(Procurement Analyst, LCSFE), and Jordan Blackman and Sati Achath (Consultants). Peer reviewers were
Robert P. Taylor (Senior Energy Economist, EASEG) and Srinivasan Padmanabhan (Energy Specialist,
EASEG). The GEF external reviewer was Stephen Wiel (Energy Efficiency Scientist - Berkeley National
Laboratory - USA). Katherine K. Scalzulli, Olga Bagci, Elizabeth Walden Tambor, and Maria Antonieta
Gonzalez assisted in the production of the report.



61
Annex 8
Brazil: Energy Efficiency Project
Main Documents in the Project File (*)
Project Concept Notes (PCN). World Bank
Project Concept Document (PCD). World Bank
The Emerging ESCO Industry in Brazil. Instituto Nacional de Eficiencia Energetica, American Council for
an Energy Efficient Economy.
Power Sector of Brazil - Ten-Year Expansion Plan: 1998/2007- ELETROBRAS
Annual Financial Report 1997- ELETROBRAS
Project Assessment of Global Environmental Impacts of PROCEL. PROCEL - ELETROBRAS
Legislation for Conservation of Electric Energy in Brazil. PROCEL - ELETROBRAS
Energy Conservation and GHG Emissions in Brazil. National Institute of Energy Efficiency - Brazil
National Program Against Energy Waste. PROCEL - ELETROBRAS
Comments on the PROCEL proposals for DSM in Brazil. Eastern Electricity, U.K
Creating Energy Efficiency Markets - Alternative Institutional and Financing Implementation Arrangements.
World Bank
Restructuring of the Brazilian Power Sector - Energy Efficiency and Research and Development. Coopers
and Lybrand
Future of PROCEL and DSM Programns in Brazil in the Context of Utility Sector Restructuring.
ACEEE/PROCEL
Draft Energy Efficiency Law - National Policy on Energy Efficiency
Brazil Energy Efficiency Project - Core Support Projects -PROCEL - ELETROBRAS
Brazil Energy Efficiency Project - Demand-Side Management Options/Marketing Report - CEMIG
Brazil Energy Efficiency Project - TOR for Consultants. PROCEL - ELETROBRAS
Brazil Energy Efficiency Project-Best-Practice-Energy Efficiency Infonnation Program. PROCEL -
ELETROBRAS
Brazil Energy Efficiency Project - Project Proposal. PROCEL - ELETROBRAS
Brazil Energy Efficiency Project - Institutional, Financial, and Cost-Benefit Analysis. World Bank
(*) Including electronic files.



62
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Brazil
Operations Portfolio
As of 12-Jul-99
Original Amount in US$ Millions
Fiscal
Project ID    Year              Borrower                   Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellat  Undisbu
ions       rsed
Number of Closed Projects: 198
Active Projects
BR-PE-43874     1999   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL             DISEASE SURVEILLANCE        100.00        0.00         0.00      96.52
BR-PE-48869     1999   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR    SALVADOR URBAN TRANS            150.00        0.00         0.00     150.00
BR-PE-50763     1999   GOV. OF BRAZIL                   FUNDESCOLA 2                202.03        0.00         0.00     202.03
BP.-PE-54120    1999   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL            AIDS 2                       165.00        0.00         0.00     144.73
BR-PE-55388     1999   FEDERAL GOVT OF BRAZIL           ANIMALiPLANT DIS. CO         44.00        0.00         0.00      44.00
BR-PE-58129     1999   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT               EMER. FIRE PREVENTIO         15.00        0.00         0.00      15.00
BR-PE-35728     1998   STATE OF BAHIA                   BAHIA WTR RESOURCES          51.00        0.00         0.00      39.36
BR-PE-38895     1998   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL             FED.WTR MGT                 198.00        0.00         0.00     171.58
BR-PE-38947     1998   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL             SC. & TECH 3                155.00        0.00         0.00     137.67
BR-PE-40033     1998   THE STATE OF MINAS GERAIS    MG STATE PRIV.                  170.00        0.00         0.00     170.00
BR-PE-42565     1998   STATE OF PARAIBA                 PARAIBA R.POVERTY            60.00        0.00         0.00      45.26
BR-PE-43420    1998   FED. REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL          WATER S.MOD.2                150.00        0.00         0.00     150.00
BR-PE-43421     1998   STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO          RJ M.TRANSIT PRJ.           186.00        0.00         0.00     186.00
BR-PE-48357     1998   REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL               CEN.BANK TAL                 20.00        0.00         0.00      16.83
BR-PE-50762     1998   GOV. OF BRAZIL                   FUNDESCOLAI                  62.50        0.00         0.00      27.13
BR-PE-51701     1998   STATE OF MARANHAO               MARANHAO R.POVERTY            80.00        0.00         0.00      59.52
BR-PE-57910     1998   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL             PENSION REFORM LIL            5.00        0.00         0.00       5.00
BR-PE-6474      1998   STATE OF SAO PAULO              LAND MGT 3(SP)                55.00        0.00         0.00      55.00
BR-PE-6549      1998   TBG                              GAS SCTR DEV PROJECT        130.00        0.00         0.00     130.00
BR-PE-6559      1998   THE STATE OF SAO PAULO           (BF-R)SP.TSP                 45.00        0.00         0.00      45.00
BR-PE-34578     1997   RIO GRANDE DO SUL                RGS HWY MGT                  70.000       0.0          0.00      65.90
BR-PE-38896     1997   STATE OF RGN                    R.POVERTY(RGN)                24.00        0.00         0.00      14.77
BR-PE-42566     1997   STATE OF PERNAMBUCO              R.POVERTY(PE)                39.00        0.00         0.00      13.51
BR-PE-43868     1997   STATE OF RGS                    RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY         100.00        0.00         0.00      88.48
BR-PE-43871     1997   STATE OF PIAUI                   (PIAUI)R.POVERTY             30.00        0.00         0.00       8.76
BR-PE-43873     1997   FED.REP.OF BRAZIL               AG TECH DEV.                  60.00        0.00         0.00      46.96
BR-PE-46052     1997                                    CEARA WTR PILOT               9.60        0.00         0.00       7.46
BR-PE-48870     1997   THE STATE OF MATO GROSSO        MT STATE PRIV.                45.00        0.00         0.00      20.09
BR-PE-6475      1997   FED. REP. OF BRAZIL             LAND RFM PILOT                90.00        0.00         0.00      58.34
BR-PE-6532      1997   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT               FED HWY DECENTR             300.00        0.00         0.00     252.19
BR-PE-6562      1997   STATE OF BAHIIA                  BAHIA MUN.DV                100.00        0.00         0.00      92.79
BR-PE-37828     1996   STATE OF PARANA                  (PR)R.POVERTY               175.00        0.00         0.00     138.07
BR-PE-40028     1996   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR    RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG            350.00        0.00        50.00      37.42
BR-PE-6512      1996   CVRD                             ENV/CONS(CVRD)               50.00        0.00         0.00      20.75
BR-PE-6554      1996   FED. REP. OF BRAZIL             HLTH SCTR REFORM             300.00        0.00         0.00     224.52
BR-PE-35717     1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                  RURAL POV. (BAHIA)           105.00        0.00         0.00      42.13
BR-PE-38882     1995   FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL           RECIFE M.TSP                102.00        0.00         0.00      71.95
BR-PE-38864     1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                   RURAL POV.- CEARA            70,00        0.00         0.00      19.31
BR-?E-38885     1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                  RURAL POV.-SERGIPE            36.00        0.00         0.00        9.57
BR-PE-6436      1995   STATE OF CEARA         ZIL       CEARA UR.DV/WATER CO        140.00        0.00         0.00      57.34
BR-PE-6564      1995   FED REPUBLIC/BRAZIL              BELO H M.TSP                 99.00        0.00         0.00      41.15
BR-PE-6522      1994   ST.OF ESPIRITO SANTO             ESP.SANTO WATER             154.00        0.00         4.00       72.97
BR-?E-6524      1994   ST.OF MINAS GERAIS              MINAS MNC.DEVELOPMT          150.00        0.00         5.00      29.44
BR-PE-6543      1994   GOVERNMENT                      M. GERAIS BASIC EDUC         150.00        0.00         0.00      20.31
BR-PE-6555      1994   STATE GOVTS                      STE HWY MGT II              220.00        0.00        36.00       3.74
BR-PE-6558      1994   REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL               PARANA BASIC EDUC            96.00        0.00         0.00       17.44
BR-PE-6541      1993   S.PAULO/PARANA STS.             WTR Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)         245.00        0.00         9.30      25.61
BR-PE-6547      1993   FED.REP.OF BRAZIL               METRO TRANSP. RIO            128.50        0.00         0.00         .29
BR-PE-6368      1992   GOVERNMENT                      WATER SECTOR MODERNI         250.00        0.00         0.00       1.24
BR-PE-6454      1992   GOB                              RONDONIA NTRL RES. M        167.00        0.00         0.00      27.60
BR-PE-6505      1992   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL            MATO GROSSO NAT RES          205.00        0.00         0.00      53.09
BR-P-E-6414     1989   COMGAS, SAO PAULO               NTRL GAS DIST                 94.00        0.00         0.00         .04
Total                                                                             6,197.63        0.00       104.30   3,473.86



63
Annex 9
Active Projects       Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed  TIBRD and IDA):              2,619.45           18,377.82           20,997.27
of which has been repaid:                216.08           13,689.98           13,906.06
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               5,877.24            4,747.22           10,624.46
Amount sold                      :                0.00               45.83               45.83
Of which repaid              :                 0.00               45.83               45.83
Total Uindisbursed               :            3,473.86               59.38            3,533.24
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Jun-99.



64
Annex 9
Brazil
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbuned Portfolio
As of3l-Jul-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Commifted                             Disbursed
IFC                                   IFC
FY Approval                 Company             Loan    Equity    Quasl    Partic    Loan       Equity    Quasi    Partic
1973/78/83                 CODEMIN                      0.00      4.34      0.00      0.00     0.00      4.34      0.00      0.00
1975/96                    ONiteno NE                  22.50      0.00      0.00      0.00    22.50      0.00      0.00      0.00
1980187197                 Ipiranga                     40.00     6.32      0.00    150.00    40.00      6.32      0.00    150.00
1980/88                    OPP                          0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
19g0192                    DENPASA                      0.00      1.00      .12       0.00     0.00      1.03      .05       0.00
19S1                       Brasilpar                    0.00       .04      0.00      0.00     0.00       .04      0.00      0.00
1982184/86                 PISA                         0.00      3.90      0.00      0.00     0.00      3.90      0.00      0.00
1987/92/96                 MBR                          7.02      0.00     10.00      6.23     7.02      0.00     10.00      6.23
1987/96                    Perdigao                    26.25     10.00      0.00     12.00    26.25     10.00      0.00     12.00
1987/96/97                 Duratex                      19.00     0.00      3.00     72.17     19.00     0.00      3.00     72.17
1987/97                    SP Alpargatas               25.00      0.00      5.00      0.00    25.00      0.00      5.00      0.00
1989/95                    Politeno Ind.                13.15     0.00      0.00      0.00     13.15     0.00      0.00      0.00
1990                       ENGEPOL                        .88     0.00      0.00      0.00      .88      0.00      0.00      0.00
1990                       Ripasa                        1.43     5.00      0.00      0.00      1.43     5.00      0.00      0.00
1990/91/92                 Bahia Sul                    7.14     20.97      0.00      0.00     7.14     20.97      0.00      0.00
1991                       Bradesco-AL                  26.03     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1991                       Bradesco-Bahia               3.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     3.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1991                       Bradesco-Eucatex             7.50      0.00      0.00      0.00     7.50      0.00      0.00      0.00
1991                       Bradesco-Petrofl             7.50      0.00      0.00      0.00     7.50      0.00      0.00      0.00
1991                       Bradesco-Romi                 1.19      .40      0.00      0.00      1.19      .40      0.00      0.00
1991                       Rhodia-Ster                   5.71     5.95      0.00      0.00     5.71      5.95      0.00      0.00
1992                       CRP-Caderi                   0.00      1.93      0.00      0.00     0.00       .68      0.00      0.00
1992/93                    TRIKEM                        0.00    12.86      0.00      0.00     0.00     12.86      0.00      0.00
1993                       BACELL                        6.00    15.70      0.00     16.20      6.00    15.70      0.00     16.20
1993                       Macedo Alimentos             14.50     0.00      0.00      0.00     14.50     0.00      0.00      0.00
1993                       Votorantim                   11.71     0.00      0.00      .86      11.71     0.00      0.00      .86
1993196                    CEVAL                         0.00    20.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     20.00      0.00      0.00
1994                       GAVEA                        9.38      0.00      5.50      0.00     9.38      0.00      5.50      0.00
1994                       GP Capital                   0.00     14.04      0.00      0.00      0.00    14.00      0.00      0.00
1994                       ParaPigmentos               30.00      0.00      9.00     31.03    25.50      0.00      9.00     25.78
1994                       Portobello                   12.14     5.00      0.00      0.00     12.14     5.00      0.00      0.00
1994/95/97                 Sadia                        44.00    10.00      9.33    178.65    44.00     10.00      9.33    178.65
1994/96                    CHAPECO                     25.00      0.00      0.00      5.00    25.00      0.00      0.00      5.00
1994/96                    S.A.I.C.C.                    0.00     7.85      6.87      0.00     0.00      7.70      6.87      0.00
1995                       Bradesco-Hering               7.50     0.00      0.00      0.00      7.50     0.00      0.00      0.00
1995                       Brahma - BRA                 25.00     0.00      0.00     49.20    25.00      0.00      0.00     49.20
1995                       Cambuhy/MC                   16.88     0.00      0.00      0.00     16.88     0.00      0.00      0.00
1995                       Lojas Americana              24.00     0.00      5.00     12.00    24.00      0.00      5.00     12.00
1995                       LATASA-Brazil                13.00     0.00      0.00      2.00     13.00     0.00      0.00      2.00
1995                       Rhodiaco/PTA                20.00      0.00      0.00     18.00    20.00      0.00      0.00     18.00
1995/96/98                 Globocabo                   32.09     27.97      0.00    103.25    32.09     27.97      0.00    103.25
1996                       Banco Bradesco               40.00     0.00      0.00     54.36     15.23     0.00      0.00     22.84
1996                       Mallory                      7.27      0.00      0.00      0.00      7.27     0.00      0.00      0.00
1996                       TIGRE                       23.08      0.00      5.00     17.09    23.08      0.00      5.00     17.09
1996/97                    Lightel                     25.00     18.17      0.00      0.00    25.00    I.17       0.00      0.00
1997                      Bompreco                      25.00     0.00      5.00      0.00    25.00      0.00      5.00      0.00
1997                       Copesul                     37.50      0.00      0.00    167.14    37.50      0.00      0.00    167.14
1997                       Guilmana-Amorimn            28.92      0.00      0.00     81.42    28.92      0.00      0.00     81.42
1997                      Rodovia                      35.00      0.00      0.00     79.50    33.07      0.00      0.00     75.13
1997                       Samarco                      16.20     0.00      0.00     13.33     16.20     0.00      0.00     13.33
1997                       Sucorrico                    15.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     15.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
1997                      Wemnbley                      0.00     10.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     10.00      0.00      0.00
1997/93                    Cotenuinas                   15.00     4.00      0.00     18.18     15.00     4.00      0.00     18.18
1998                       Arteb                       20.00      7.00      0.00     20.00    20.00      7.00      0.00     20.00
1998                       BSC                          14.00     0.00      0.00      7.50     14.00     0.00      0.00      7.50
1998                       DixieToga                     0.00    15.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     15.00     0.00      0.00
1998                       Empesca                       5.00     0.00     10.00      0.00      5.00     0.00     10.00      0.00
1998                       Fosfertil                    20.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
1998                       Fras-le                      10.00    10.00      0.00      0.00     10.00     6.70      0.00      0.00
1998                       Icatu Equity                  0.00    30.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      .28      0.00      0.00
1998                       Randon                        7.00     0.00      3.00      0.00      7.00      0.00     3.00      0.00
1998                       Saraiva                      15.00     3.00      0.00      0.00     15.00      3.00     0.00      0.00



65
Annex 9
Comndtted                                 Disbured
IFC                                       IFC
FY Approval                   Company              Loan      Equity     Quasi    Partic      Loan      Equity     Quasi    Partic
1998                         Tecon Rio Grande                7.50       0.00      5.50      18.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
1999                         Eliane                         32.00       0.00     13.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
1999                         Vulcabras                      20.00       0.00      0.00       0.00     20.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
1999                         Wiest                           9.00       0.00      8.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:                             931.97    270.44    103.32   1,133.11     806.24    236.01      76.75   1,073.97
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan     Euitv    Qguas       Partic
1996                         AGUAS LIMEIRA                  17.00       1.00      0.00     23.00
1999                         AUTOBAN                        35.00       0.00      0.00      46.00
1999                         CIBRASEC                        0.00       7.50      0.00       0.00
1997                         CTBC                           35.00       0.00      0.00     150.00
1998                         FRAS-LE                         0.00       0.00      0.00      15.00
1998                         FSA                            35.00       0.00     10.00      45.00
1996                         GLOBOCABO II                    0.00       0.00      0.00     38.00
1999                         INNOVA                         20.00       5.00      0.00     160.00
1999                         INNOVATIVE HS                   0.00       0.00      6.25       0.00
1997                         IPIRANGA EXPANS.                0.00       0.00      5.00       0.00
1998                         IPIRANGA-RI 2                   0.00        .09      0.00       0.00
1999                         JOSAPAR                        13.00       0.00      7.00       0.00
1999                         MBRLTDP                        20.00       0.00      5.00     115.00
1996                         OXITENO/ETHYLO                  0.00       5.00      0.00       0.00
2000                         PURAS                           4.00       0.00      1.00       0.00
1998                         RANDON                          0.00       0.00      0.00      15.00
1997                         SP ALPARGATAS II                0.00       0.00      0.00      30.00
1998                         UNIBANCO                       40.00       0.00      0.00    250.00
Total Pending Commitment:                    219.00      18.59     34.25    887.00



66
Annex 10
Energy Efficiency Project
Organizational Structure
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
|MExecutive Secretariat                       &
Advisory Group  ELETROBRAS  ~            ~DSsemrinationmUitte
Prcu n UMonitoring &
n Evaluation Unit
I   Project Managers
.mpemetn AgMarketing &e
Dissemination Unit 
|LP-rocurement Unit   |Poject Monitoring and
,'~~~~~~~11 Accounting Unit
PNUD) Coordinator I
.     Technical Suport 
Project Coordination
(Demonstration Projects and_    TehiaSupr           l
Speoial P rograms)
Project Managers
(PROCEL)
| Project Managers |
|(Implementing Agencies)|



67
Annex 11
Brazil at a glance                                                           9/16/98
Latin   Upper-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                         America   middle-
Brazil  & Carib.  Income      Development dlamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (mNlions)                     163.5       494      571                 Lffe expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                 4,720     3,880     4,520
GNP (Atlas method US$ billions)                    771.9     1,917     2,584
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                       1.A       1.7       1.5     GNP                            Gross
Labor force {%)                                      1.7       2.3       1.9     p                \ _
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                            capita      N       O      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national povesY lne) V  17
Urban population (% of total population)             80         74       73
Life expectancy at birth (yearsJ                     67         70       70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             34         32       30
Child malnutrition (% of chikiren under 5)             7                                  Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                72        73       79
Ilifteracy (% ofpopuation age 15+)                    17        13       15
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschoolage population)  112       111      107        -Brazil
Mae                                                 ..        ..        ..        -    Upper-di e-incomne group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1996     1997
Economic ratfos'
GDP (US$ billons)                         152.7   268.1      774.9    820.3
Gross domestic investmentVGDP              23.1    19.1       20.7      22.8                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           7.0      8.8       7.1       6.2
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 20.7    21.6       18.6      20.6
Gross national savings/GDP                 19.2    17.1       17.3      18.6
Current account balance/GDP                 -4.3    -1.9      -3.1      -4.1     Domestic                   Inetmn
Interest payments/GDP                       1.1      2.4       1.1       1.1     Savings                    Investment
Total debVGDP                              21.8    40.7       23.1      23.6    Saving
Total debt servicelexports                 37.9    46.8       41.7      45.2       
Present value of debtVGDP                     ..      ..      21.8
Present value of debt/exports                ..       ..    280.8
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997  1998-02
(average annual gowth)-
GDP                                2.9      1.9      2.8       3.2       3.5
GNP per capita                     0.2      0.0      1.8       1.9       2.0              Upper-tkddle-lncorne group
Exports of goods and services     10.3      5.4      6.1       1.8       5.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986       1996     1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agricuture                                 13.0    11.2       14.4      12.7    15
Industry                                   39.7    45.2       36.4      37.8    10 -
Manufacturing                             30A      33.0      22.9     23.4      s .
Services                                   47.3    43.7       49.2      49.5                                  ,
Private consumption                        68.8    67.8       62.2      61.9     s9    94   95   9s   0
General qovemment consumption              10.5    10.7       19.2      17.5        GD     I                GDP
Imports of goods and services               9.4      6.4       9.2       8.5                                           1
(average annual growth)                 1976-86  1987-97      1996     1997     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                 3.7      2.5       2.2       2.4    40
Industrv                                    2.7      0.1       3.0       3.8
Manufacturing                              2.3    -0.2        2.9      3.8    20--
Services                                    2.9      3.1       3.1       3.5
Private consumption                         2.5      3.4       4.6       4.5     093   94  es   9    97
General govemment consumption               2.1     -1.6       9.8       8.0
Gross domestic investment                  -2.1      1.2      -0.2       6.2    20
Imports of'goods and services              -3.3    12.1        5.9      13.9           -Exports   "_-trrports
Gross national product                      2.4      1.5       3.2       3.3
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates. 1/ Poverty estimate is from 1990.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-orouD averaae. If data are missino. the diamond will
be incomplete.



68
Annex 11
Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986      1996     1997      Inflation (I
Domestic prices                                                                2 500
(% change)                                                                      250
Consumer prices                                    147.1      15.8      6.9    2,5W I 
Implicit GDP deflator                      47.6   145.3       17.2      7.8    15001
Govemment finance                                                                6    -
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               0
Current revenue                              ..   22.3        31.3     32.1             S2  93   94   95   9    s7
Current budget balance                       ..   -5.0        -1.2     -1.6            - GDP deflator   C R
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..   -13.3       -5.9     -6.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1976    1986      1996      1997     Export and irriport levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                               22,394    47,747   52,986    5s,ow
Coffee                                      ..   2,360     2,095    3,094
Otherfood                                   ..   1,562     4,458    5,729    soo 00
Manufactures                                ..  11,839    29,676   32,732
Total imports (cif)                          ..  14,044    53,301   61,358
Food                                        ..      ..    3,279    3,290    25,000       L
Fuel and energy                             ..  3,541      3,459    3,220
Capital goods                               ..  3,464    20,188   26,232         o
91  92  93  94  95  99  97
Export price index (1995=100)                ..      68       100        96
Import price index (1995=100J                 ..     85       103        95              a Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..      80        97       101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               i976    1986    1996      1997     Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                10,848   23,870    51,853   56,827     2
Imports of goods and services            14,687   16,576    64,958   74,158      T
Resource balance                         -3,839    7,294   -13,105  -17,331     0
91  92   9
Net current transfers                        -3     -26      2,899    2,220     2
Current account balance                  -6,561   -4,991   -24,347  -33,439
Financing items (net)                     9,233    -319    33,364   25,629
Changes in net reserves                  -2,672    5,310    -9,017    7,810     1
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millbns)     6,542    5,907    60,089   51,729
Conversion rate (DEC, locaYUS$)         3.88E-12  4.97E-9      1.0      1.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                  Cormositton of total debt, 1996 (USS nillions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     33,340  109,026   179,047  193,598
IBRD                                    1,172    7,546     5,876    5,743                    A: 5,876  C:63
IDA                                         0       0         0         0          G                      3,550
Total debt service                        4,278   11,616    25,091   30,000                                 9E 16,803
IBRD                                      130    1,164     1,638    1,428
IDA                                         0       0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             6      30        80
Official creditors                        384    1,152      -514   -1,786
Private creditors                       5,215    -444    14,514   17,238
Foreign direct investment               1,555     320      9,889
Portfolio equity                            0       0      3,981                                  F 117,311
World Bank program
Commitments                               486    1,620      858    1,104      A- tsRO                     E- eilateral
Disbursements                             173    1,619     1,500    1,416   |B -DA    D-Cthermultilateral   F-Private
Principal repayments                       45     608      1,222    1,049     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                  128    1,011      278       368
Interest pavments                          85     556       416       380
Net transfers                              43     455       -138      -12
Development Economics                                                                                           9/16/98



