Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 021843
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Energy Efficiency Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
and
CENTRAIS ELÉTRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. - ELETROBRÁS
Dated December 5, 2000
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 021843
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 5, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), acting as an implementing 
agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as 
participants of the GEF, and CENTRAIS ELÉTRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. - 
ELETROBRÁS (the Recipient).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 
1991 of the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to 
assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby 
environmentally sound and sustainable economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements 
continued in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 
24, 1994, of the Executive Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, 
established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the Bank as trustee of the 
GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2);
(C)
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved 
on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank (Resolution No. 98-2);
(D)
the Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil (Brazil) 
has delivered to the Bank the letter, dated January 11, 1998, describing 
its program to promote energy efficiency and reduction of energy waste in 
Brazil (the Program), and has requested that the GEF support the Program;
(E)
Brazil and the Recipient, having satisfied themselves as to 
the feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement (the Project), which forms part of the first phase of the 
Program, have requested assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust 
Page  2
Fund for funding the Project, and said request having been approved in 
accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment of 
the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under Resolution 
94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds carried over from the first 
replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 94-2;
(F)
pursuant to the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Bank and the Recipient (the Loan Agreement), the Bank has agreed to 
make a loan to the Recipient in the amount of $43,400,000 (forty-three 
million four hundred thousand Dollars) for the financing of the Project;
(G)
Brazil, through its Minister of Mines and Energy, has 
requested that the grant provided in Article II of this Agreement (the 
GEF 
Trust Fund Grant) be made to the Recipient; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient, in 
support of the first phase of the Program, upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions 
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans of 
the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through December 2, 1997), with 
the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Section 2.01, paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 14, 15, 
16, 17, 18 and 21, and Sections 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.06;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (i), (l), (m), 
(n),(o) and (p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 
9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
the second sentence of Section 10.01, and Section 
10.03; 
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01, 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 
2.01 to read as follows: "the term ‘Special Drawing 
Rights’ and the symbol ‘SDR’ mean special drawing 
rights as valued by the International Monetary Fund 
in 
accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, other than in Sections 5.01 (a) and 6.02 
(f) thereof, means the Bank acting as an implementing 
agency of the GEF;
Page  3
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, 
the account opened by the Bank on its books in the 
name of the Recipient to which the amount of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant is credited;
(vii)
a new paragraph (q) is added to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions, as follows: "(q) an extraordinary 
situation shall have arisen in which any further 
disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would 
exceed the resources available for disbursement from 
the 
GEF."; and
(viii)paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 is modified to read as 
follows:
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank 
and the Recipient, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish 
to the Bank a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the 
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and 
to be derived from 
it, the performance by the Recipient and the 
Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Global Environment 
Facility Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context 
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions 
and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ANEEL" means Agência Nacional de Energia Elétrica, the 
regulatory body for the electric power sector of the federative Republic 
of Brazil;
(b)
"Beneficiary" means any of the electric power companies 
listed or referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, which may be 
considered eligible by the Bank and the Recipient to carry out a 
Demonstration Subproject;
(c)
"Demonstration Subprojects" means any of the projects, 
already approved by the Bank or to be approved by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 3.03 (c) of this Agreement, which will be carried out by the 
Recipient or a Beneficiary under Part A of the Project;
(d)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(e)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(f)
"PIU" means any of the Beneficiaries’ Project implementation 
units referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (ii) (C) of this Agreement;
(g)
"PMU" means the Recipient’s Project management unit referred 
to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(h)
"PROCEL" means Programa de Conservação de Energia Elétrica, 
the Recipient’s national energy efficiency program;
Page  4
(i)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(k)
"Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means any of the agreements 
referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement; and
(l)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the agreements 
referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of the Loan Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the 
Project implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to any of 
the Beneficiaries.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, 
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a 
grant in an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million one 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be 
withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if 
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, 
and shall cause, through the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreements, the Beneficiaries to carry out their 
respective Demonstration Subprojects under Part A of the Project, all 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall 
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall enter into an agreement, 
satisfactory to the Bank (the Subsidiary Grant Agreement), with each 
Beneficiary providing for: (i) the transfer by the Recipient, on a grant 
basis, to such Beneficiary of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated to finance the Demonstration Subprojects under the 
responsibility of such Beneficiary; (ii) the obligation of such 
Beneficiary to (A) carry out such Demonstration Subprojects as set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, including all the environmental 
safeguards required under the laws of the Federative Republic of Brazil, 
(B) provide the counterpart funds required to finance such Demonstration 
Subprojects, and (C) maintain a unit responsible for the implementation 
of such Demonstration Subprojects (the PIU), such unit to have a 
structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank and the Recipient, and 
to have qualified staff in adequate numbers as required to carry out its 
responsibilities; and (iii) the procedures for the monitoring and 
evaluation of such Subprojects by the Recipient, through the PMU.
Page  5
(b)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Grant Agreements in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to accomplish the 
objectives of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreements or any provision thereof.
(c)
The Recipient may replace, with the prior approval of the 
Bank, any Demonstration Subproject already approved by the Bank by 
another Demonstration Subproject, or include new Demonstration 
Subprojects under Part A of the Project. For this purpose, the Recipient 
shall submit to the Bank an appraisal, satisfactory to the Bank, of any 
such Demonstration Subproject, and shall provide to the Bank any 
information on any such Demonstration Subproject as the Bank may request.
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall establish and maintain, during 
the execution of the Project, a unit (the PMU) responsible for Project 
coordination and management, such unit to have a structure and functions 
satisfactory to the Bank and the Recipient, and to have qualified staff 
in adequate numbers as required to carry out its responsibilities.
Section 3.05. The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators set forth in Annex 1 to the Project Appraisal Document of the 
Bank for the Project, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, on or about December 31, 2001, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by January 31, 2002, or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section, and, thereafter, take all such action which shall have 
been agreed upon with the Bank, during such review, as necessary to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, such action to be taken in the manner and within the 
timetable agreed upon during such review.
Section 3.06. The Recipient shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank, not later than November 30 of each year 
during the execution of the Project, PROCEL’s business plan for the 
period of two years after the date of such plan; and
(b)
implement each such plan, after taking into account the 
Bank’s comments thereon.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six months before the Closing Date 
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial 
Page  6
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and 
financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) and the records and accounts 
for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the 
Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, for such year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion 
on such statements and a report of such 
audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and 
the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as 
the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Recipient shall prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, not later 
than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project management 
report for such period, which:
(a) 
(i) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (ii) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant during the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report;
Page  7
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (ii) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that the 
Bank shall have suspended, in whole or in part, the right of the 
Recipient to make withdrawals under the Loan Agreement because of 
non-compliance by the Recipient with any of its obligations under such 
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Arbitration
Section 6.01. Any dispute arising out of or relating to this 
Agreement which is not settled by agreement of the parties shall be 
finally settled by arbitration in accordance with the UNCITRAL 
Arbitration Rules in force on the date of this Agreement.  The place of 
arbitration shall be Washington, D.C., United States of America.
ARTICLE VII
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan 
Agreement, except only the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been 
fulfilled.
(b)
At least two Subsidiary Grant Agreements have been entered 
into between the respective parties thereto, and the PIU of the 
Beneficiaries parties to such Subsidiary Grant Agreements have been 
established and are operating as provided in Section 3.03 (a) (ii) (C) of 
this Agreement.
Section 7.02. The date March 5, 2001 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this 
Agreement have fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 8.01. The President of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  8
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Recipient:
Centrais Elétricas Brasileiras S.A. - ELETROBRÁS
Av. Presidente Vargas, 409 - 13 andar
20071-003 Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil
With copy to:
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 as an implementing agency of the Global Environment 
  Facility
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CENTRAIS ELÉTRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. - ELETROBRÁS
By /s/ Marco Aurélio Palhas de Carvalho
Authorized Representative
By /s/ José Alexandre Nogueira de Resende
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
A. General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the 
amounts of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
   1,200,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods
   2,400,000
100% of foreign
Page  9
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants’
   7,500,000
100%
services and 
training
TOTAL
  11,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of Brazil for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of Brazil; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of Brazil or for goods or services supplied from the territory 
of Brazil.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and 
(b)
expenditures under a Demonstration Subproject to be carried 
out by a Beneficiary, unless the Subsidiary Grant Agreement between the 
Recipient and such Beneficiary has been entered into, and the PIU of such 
Beneficiary has been established and is operating as provided in Section 
3.03 (a) (ii) (C) of this Agreement.
3.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not 
consistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank for deposit into 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account an amount equal to the amount so used or 
the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
B. Special 
Account
1.
The Recipient shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit 
account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Except as the Bank may 
otherwise specify by notice to the Recipient, all withdrawals from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the 
Special Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, after the Bank has 
received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of amounts 
to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the amount so 
requested; and (ii) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on 
Page  10
the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required 
to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, 
that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said 
report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the 
equivalent of $4,000,000.  Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account; or
(c)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
4.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient 
to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank 
shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into 
the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Recipient of its 
determination.
5.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with 
the provisions of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to demonstrate a first set 
of selected energy efficiency products, services and delivery 
arrangements, and make them ready for replication by third parties; and 
(b) to remove market barriers to the sustainable capture of successful 
energy efficiency opportunities in main markets in Brazil.
Page  11
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Demonstration Subprojects
Carrying out of projects which: (a) will target selected electric 
power market segments to test and demonstrate innovative demand charge 
and time-of-day tariffs, load demand limiters, options in service 
conditions, and other commercial actions, such as improvements in bill 
collection through global metering; and/or (b) will test delivery 
mechanisms to increase the use of more efficient electrical appliances 
and equipment, and to improve operational practices in the electric power 
sector, such as compact fluorescent lamps, solar heaters, refrigerators, 
air conditioning equipment, electric control systems, reflecting roof 
painting, high efficient motors, speed controls, motor optimization 
programs, street lighting, and water pumping. 
Part B:
Core Support Activities
1.
Preparation and marketing of case studies and technical and 
operational guidelines for cost-effective energy efficiency measures with 
wide applicability, derived from the Demonstration Subprojects and other 
similar projects.
2.
Establishment and operation of a financial facility which will: (a) 
develop and disseminate commercial and financial instruments to support 
implementation of energy efficiency projects of energy service companies; 
and (b) prepare a portfolio of such projects for financing by such 
financial facility or other financial institutions.
3.
Carrying out of a program for testing, certification and labeling 
of electrical equipment and appliances, such as motors, speed controls, 
refrigerators, freezers, and solar and heat pump water heaters.
4. 
Carrying out of an assessment of market penetration of energy 
efficiency equipment and measures.
Part C:
Capacity-building
1.
Carrying out of institutional enhancement and training programs for 
the staff of PROCEL, ANEEL, state energy agencies, electric power 
companies, electricity consumers, energy efficiency companies, and 
financial institutions.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to PROCEL, ANEEL, state energy 
agencies, and electric power companies for the design, management, 
supervision and monitoring of energy efficiency projects, and the 
evaluation of their environmental, economic, financial and social 
benefits.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
Page  12
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
In the procurement of goods pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Part B, 
the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Federative Republic of Brazil. For purposes of the Guidelines, the term 
custom duties and other import taxes includes the Freight Surcharge for 
the Renewal of the Merchant Marine (Adicional ao Frete para a Renovação 
da Marinha Mercante - AFRMM), established by Decree Law 1.142 of December 
30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 1987, of the Federative Republic of 
Brazil, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion 
of the Bank, may substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 
1988.
3.
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract for goods or works 
estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in 
accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under 
paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount of $2,500,000 equivalent, and works estimated 
to cost less than $5,000,000 per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines. In the procurement of goods and works under this Part 
C.1, bidding documents in a standardized form for the Project shall be 
used. Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement 
of goods and works under this Part B.1:
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been 
determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on 
price and, whenever appropriate, to also take into account factors 
similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, 
provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such 
quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall 
be advertised for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide 
circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for 
joint-ventures (consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be 
approved in advance by the Bank in each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of 
acceptance of bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; 
and
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, 
issue any change order under a contract which would increase or decrease 
by more than 15% the quantity of goods (and related services) without any 
change in the unit prices or other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount of $800,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures, at the option of the Recipient, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Page  13
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount of $4,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to Part 
B.1 of this Section, and the first two contracts for goods and for works 
to be awarded pursuant to Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods and for 
works to be awarded pursuant to Parts C.2 and C.3 of this Section, 
respectively, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor, 
as the case may be, the Recipient shall provide to 
the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of the contract, the Recipient 
shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
Page  14
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget or Least-Cost Selection
Services for monitoring and evaluation of Demonstration 
Subprojects, energy audits, training, education, dissemination 
activities, and operational advice and technical support to regulatory 
agencies, energy agencies, Beneficiaries and PROCEL, estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 
3.5 (selection under a fixed budget) or paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 
(least-cost selection) of the Consultant Guidelines, at the option of the 
Recipient.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms pursuant to Part B of this Section, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 
2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for the employment 
of consulting firms pursuant to Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply, provided, however, that the terms of 
reference for the respective assignments shall be subject to the Bank’s 
prior review and approval.
SCHEDULE 4
Beneficiaries
Page  15
(a)
Companhia Energética de Minas Gerais S.A. - CEMIG;
(b)
Companhia Paranaense de Energia - COPEL;
(c)
Companhia de Eletricidade da Bahia - COELBA;
(d)
Centrais Elétricas do Norte do Brasil S.A. - ELETRONORTE;
(e)
Companhia Hidro Elétrica do São Francisco - CHESF;
(f)
Companhia Paulista de Força e Luz - CPFL;
(g)
Elektro Eletricidade e Serviços S.A.;
(h)
Eletropaulo Metropolitana Eletricidade de São Paulo S.A.;
(i)
Empresa Bandeirante de Energia S.A.;
(j)
Companhia Energética de Brasília - CEB; and
(k)
any other electric power company, acceptable to the Bank, 
which may carry out a replacement or additional Demonstration Subproject, 
as provided in Section 3.03 (c) of this Agreement.
