Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4514-BR
Loan Agreement
(Energy Efficiency Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CENTRAIS ELÉTRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. - ELETROBRÁS
Dated December 5, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4514-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 5, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CENTRAIS ELÉTRICAS 
BRASILEIRAS S.A - ELETROBRÁS (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) has 
delivered to the Bank the letter, dated January 11, 1999, describing the 
Guarantor’s program to promote energy efficiency and reduction of energy 
waste in Brazil (the Program), and has requested that the Bank support 
the Program;
(B)
the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to 
the feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement (the Project), which Project forms part of the first phase 
of the Program, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project;
(C)
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor 
and the Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to 
guarantee the payment obligations of the Borrower in respect of the loan 
provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan);
(D)
by an agreement (the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement) of even 
date herewith between the Bank and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower, as a grant, an amount equivalent to 
eleven million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
11,100,000) to partially finance the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower, in support of the first 
Page  2
phase of the Program, upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through December 2, 1997), with the modifications 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified 
to read as follows:
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank 
and the Borrower, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to 
the 
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall 
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation 
of the 
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be  derived from it, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of 
their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"ANEEL" means 
Agência Nacional de Energia Elétrica, the 
Guarantor’s regulatory body for the electric power sector;
(b)
"Beneficiary" means any of the electric power companies 
listed or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, which may be 
considered eligible by the Bank and the Borrower to carry out a 
Demonstration Subproject;
(c)
"Demonstration Subprojects" means any of the projects, 
already approved by the Bank or to be approved by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 3.03 (c) of this Agreement, which will be carried out by the 
Borrower or a Beneficiary under Part A of the Project;
(d)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth 
in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(e)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(f)
"PIU" means any of the Beneficiaries’ Project implementation 
units referred to in Section 3.03 (a) (ii) (C) of this Agreement;
(g)
"PMU" means the Borrower’s Project management unit referred 
to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(h)
"PROCEL" means Programa de Conservação de Energia Elétrica, 
the Borrower’s national energy efficiency program;
(i)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(k)
"Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means any of the agreements 
referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement; 
and
(l)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the agreements 
Page  3
referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the 
Project implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to any of 
the Beneficiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to forty-three million four hundred thousand Dollars ($43,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and works required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect 
of interest and other charges on the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.  The Bank 
shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such payment.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but 
excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, 
the London interbank offered rate for six-month 
deposits in Dollars for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the 
Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) 
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, 
for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated 
by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or portions 
thereof 
made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
Page  4
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly 
upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, 
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a 
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the 
expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower or the Guarantor notifies 
the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, 
and shall cause, through the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreements, the Beneficiaries to carry out their 
respective Demonstration Subprojects under Part A of the Project, all 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03 (a) The Borrower shall enter into an agreement, 
satisfactory to the Bank (the Subsidiary Loan Agreement), with each 
Beneficiary providing for: (i) the relending by the Borrower to such 
Beneficiary of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to finance the 
Demonstration Subprojects under the responsibility of such Beneficiary, 
such relending to be made under the same financial terms and conditions 
of the Loan, provided that the Borrower may charge an additional fee in 
equivalent to 2% per annum of the amounts disbursed and outstanding from 
time to time; (ii) the obligation of such Beneficiary to: (A) carry out 
such Demonstration Subprojects as set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement, including all the environmental safeguards required under the 
laws of the Guarantor; (B) provide the counterpart funds required to 
finance such Demonstration Subprojects; and (C) maintain a unit 
responsible for the implementation of such Demonstration Subprojects (the 
PIU), such unit to have a structure and functions satisfactory to the 
Bank and the Borrower, and to have qualified staff in adequate numbers as 
required to carry out its responsibilities; and (iii) the procedures for 
the monitoring and evaluation of such Subprojects by the Borrower, 
through the PMU.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
objectives of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
(c)
The Borrower may replace, with the prior approval of the 
Bank, any Demonstration Subproject already approved by the Bank by 
Page  5
another Demonstration Subproject, or include new Demonstration 
Subprojects under Part A of the Project. For this purpose, the Borrower 
shall submit to the Bank an appraisal, satisfactory to the Bank, of any 
such Demonstration Subproject, and shall provide to the Bank any 
information on any such Demonstration Subproject as the Bank may request.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall establish and maintain, during the 
execution of the Project, a unit (the PMU) responsible for Project 
coordination and management, such unit to have a structure and functions 
satisfactory to the Bank and to the Borrower, and to have qualified staff 
in adequate numbers as required to carry out its responsibilities.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators set forth in Annex 1 to the Project Appraisal Document of the 
Bank for the Project, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, on or about December 31, 2001, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by January 31, 2002, or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section, and, thereafter, take all such action which shall have 
been agreed upon with the Bank, during such review, as necessary to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, such action to be taken in the manner and within the 
timetable agreed upon during such review.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank, not later than November 30 of each year 
during the execution of the Project PROCEL’s business plan for the period 
of two years after the date of such plan; and
(b)
implement each such plan, after taking into account the 
Bank’s comments thereon.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six months before the Closing Date 
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and 
financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses 
Page  6
and related statements) and the records and accounts 
for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the 
Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year: (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, for such year as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion 
on such statements and a report of such 
audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and 
the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as 
the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, not later 
than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project management 
report for such period, which:
(a) 
(i)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds 
for the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the Project 
for the six-month period following the period covered by said report; and 
(ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i)
describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report; and (ii) explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as 
at the end of the period covered by said report.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)
take all measures within its power to generate resources 
Page  7
from its revenues sufficient to cover, at all times, its operational 
expenses, including depreciation, as well as its debt service and other 
financial obligations incurred in the course of its operations; and
(b)
without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, furnish to the Bank, whenever requested by the Bank, 
any information, which is not of a confidential nature, necessary to 
monitor the current and expected financial performance of the Borrower 
and its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall:
(a)
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff;
(b)
at all times operate and maintain its machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and environmental practices; and
(c)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that the 
Bank shall have suspended in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals under the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement because of 
non-compliance by the Borrower with any of its obligations under such 
Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that the 
Bank shall have suspended in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals under the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement because of 
non-compliance by the Borrower with any of its obligations under such 
Agreement, and such event shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the 
Guarantor.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement, except only the effectiveness of this 
Agreement, have been fulfilled.
(b)
The PMU has been established and is operating as provided in 
Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
(c)
At least two Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been entered 
into between the respective parties thereto, and the PIUs of the 
Beneficiaries parties to such Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been 
established and are operating as provided in Section 3.03 (a) (ii) (C) of 
this Agreement.
Page  8
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, 
that this Agreement has been validly registered with the Central Bank of 
Brazil.
Section 7.03. The date March 5, 2001 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Centrais Elétricas Brasileiras S.A. - ELETROBRÁS
Av. Presidente Vargas, 409 - 13 andar
20071-003 Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil
With copy to:
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CENTRAIS ELÉTRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A -   ELETROBRÁS
By /s/ Marco Aurélio Palhas de Carvalho
Authorized Representative
By /s/ José Alexandre Nogueira de Resende
Authorized Representative
Page  9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works under 
10,000,000
100% of foreign
Part A of the
expenditures and
Project
80% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods under
32,966,000
100% of foreign
Part A of the
expenditures, 100%
Project
of local expen-
ditures (ex-factory
cost) and 80% of 
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(3)
Fee
   434,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
TOTAL
43,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and 
(b)
expenditures under a Demonstration Subproject to be carried 
out by a Beneficiary, unless the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the 
Borrower and such Beneficiary has been entered into, and the PIU of such 
Beneficiary has been established and is operating as provided in Section 
3.03 (a) (ii) (C) of this Agreement.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit 
account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Except as the Bank may 
otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals from the 
Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  Payments out of the 
Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  For 
each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
Page  10
payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, after the Bank has 
received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited 
into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account shall 
be supported by a Project Management Report.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount 
of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the 
lesser of: (i) the amount so requested; and (ii) the amount which the 
Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying 
said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added 
to the amount indicated by said report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed $6,000,000.  Each such deposit into the Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or 
more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
4.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in 
its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
5.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
Page  11
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to demonstrate a first set 
of selected energy efficiency products, services and delivery 
arrangements, and make them ready for replication by third parties; and 
(b) to remove market barriers to the sustainable capture of successful 
energy efficiency opportunities in main markets in Brazil.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Demonstration Subprojects
Carrying out of projects which: (a) will target selected electric 
power market segments to test and demonstrate innovative demand charge 
and time-of-day tariffs, load demand limiters, options in service 
conditions, and other commercial actions, such as improvements in bill 
collection through global metering; and/or (b) will test delivery 
mechanisms to increase the use of more efficient electrical appliances 
and equipment, and to improve operational practices in the electric power 
sector, such as compact fluorescent lamps, solar heaters, refrigerators, 
air conditioning equipment, electric control systems, reflecting roof 
painting, high efficient motors, speed controls, motor optimization 
programs, street lighting, and water pumping. 
Part B:
Core Support Activities
1.
Preparation and marketing of case studies and technical and 
operational guidelines for cost-effective energy efficiency measures with 
wide applicability, derived from the Demonstration Subprojects and other 
similar projects.
2.
Establishment and operation of a financial facility which will: (a) 
develop and disseminate commercial and financial instruments to support 
implementation of energy efficiency projects of energy service companies; 
and (b) prepare a portfolio of such projects for financing by such 
financial facility or other financial institutions.
3.
Carrying out of a program for testing, certification and labeling 
of electrical equipment and appliances, such as motors, speed controls, 
refrigerators, freezers, and solar and heat pump water heaters.
4.
Carrying out of an assessment of market penetration of energy 
efficiency equipment and measures.
Part C:
Capacity-building
1. 
Carrying out of institutional enhancement and training programs for 
the staff of PROCEL, ANEEL, state energy agencies, electric power 
companies, electricity consumers, energy efficiency companies, and 
financial institutions.
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to PROCEL, ANEEL, state energy 
agencies, and electric power companies for the design, management, 
supervision and monitoring of energy efficiency projects, and the 
evaluation of their environmental, economic, financial and social 
benefits.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Page  12
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in
Date Payment Due
Dollars)* 
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 2005
through November 15, 2014
2,170,000
__________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be 
repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Schedule, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
In the procurement of goods pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Part B, 
the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Guarantor. For purposes of the Guidelines, the term custom duties and 
other import taxes includes the Guarantor's Freight Surcharge for the 
Renewal of the Merchant Marine (Adicional ao Frete para a Renovação da 
Marinha Mercante - AFRMM), established by Decree Law 1.142 of December 
30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or 
charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may substitute it, in 
Page  13
whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
3.
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract for goods or works 
estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in 
accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under 
paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods, estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount of $5,000,000, and works estimated to 
cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 
3.4 of the Guidelines. In the procurement of goods and works under this 
Part C.1, bidding documents in a standardized form for the Project shall 
be used. Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement 
of goods and works under this Part B.1:
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been 
determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on 
price and, whenever appropriate, to also take into account factors 
similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, 
provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such 
quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall 
be advertised for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide 
circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for 
joint-ventures (consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be 
approved in advance by the Bank in each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of 
acceptance of bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; 
and
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, 
issue any change order under a contract which would increase or decrease 
by more than 15% the quantity of goods (and related services) without any 
change in the unit prices or other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount of $8,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures, at the option of the Borrower, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount of $4,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Page  14
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to Part 
B.1 of this Schedule, and the first two contracts for goods and for works 
to be awarded pursuant to Part C.1 of this Schedule, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods and for 
works to be awarded pursuant to Parts C.2 and C.3 of this Schedule, 
respectively, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor, 
as the case may be, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of the contract, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Beneficiaries
(a)
Companhia Energética de Minas Gerais S.A. - CEMIG;
(b)
Companhia Paranaense de Energia - COPEL;
(c)
Companhia de Eletricidade da Bahia - COELBA;
(d)
Centrais Elétricas do Norte do Brasil S.A. - ELETRONORTE;
(e)
Companhia Hidro Elétrica do São Francisco - CHESF;
(f)
Companhia Paulista de Força e Luz - CPFL;
(g)
Elektro Eletricidade e Serviços S.A.;
(h)
Eletropaulo Metropolitana Eletricidade de São Paulo S.A.;
(i)
Empresa Bandeirante de Energia S.A.;
(j)
Companhia Energética de Brasília - CEB; and
(k)
any other electric power company, acceptable to the Bank, 
which may carry out a replacement or additional Demonstration Subproject, 
as provided in Section 3.03 (c) of this Agreement.
