FILE         COPY                      Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-1901-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
AND LOAN
FOR THE
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
IN
CAMEROON
August 20, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     -   CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1              =   CFAF 225 1/
CFAF 1,000        =   US$4.44
CFAF 1,000,000    =   US$4,444
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
1/   Floating exchange rate.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
AND LOAN FOR
THE SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT IN CAMEROON
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the United Republic of Cameroon for the equivalent of
US$10.0 million on standard IDA terms and a proposed loan to the National
Ports Authority of Cameroon (NPA) with the guarantee of the United Republic
of Cameroon, for the equivalent of US$15.0 million, both to help finance
the Second Douala Port Project. The proceeds of the credit would be relent
to NPA for twenty years, including four and a half years of grace, with
interest at 8.9 percent per annum. The loan would have a term of twenty
years, including four and a half years of grace, with interest at 8.9 percent
per annum. The African Development Bank (AfDB); the Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa (BADEA); the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), the
European Economic Community (EEC); and the Canadian and French aid agencies
would participate in the financing of the project with loans and grants
amounting to about US$71.0 million. The Government of Cameroon and NPA would
provide the balance of about US$24.4 million. Annex III contains the finan-
cing plan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The report, "The Recent Economic Development of Cameroon" (No.
72-247), was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 27, 1972
and another report, "Proposals for a Medium-Term Public Development Program.
A Special Study Cameroon" (No. 1097a-CM) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 11, 1976.
Economic Potential
3.        Cameroon has a eopulation of about 6.5 million (mid-1975) and cov-
ers an area of 475,000 km , about the size of France. The country's natural
resources are varied, but not always easily accessible. Soils and climatic
conditions permit cultivation of a wider range of crops than is commonly
found in West Africa, and the forest areas of the southeast contain large
untapped timber resources. The north holds promising potential for live-
stock development.
4.        While the main opportunities for development in Cameroon lie in
the expansion of agricultural production, including forestry, the country
has the potential to increase production of import substitutes needed for
a growing domestic market, and to process alumina and agricultural and for-
estry products for export. A bauxite project is in the early stages of
preparation, and offshore oil and gas exploration is being carried out but
has so far yielded no significant results.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
5.        Commerce, transportation and transit services are other important
economic activities. Cameroon's main economic centers are separated by
vast underpopulated areas. The country moreover serves as a main export
route for landlocked Chad. As a result, large investments in port and in-
land transport infrastructure are essential to promoting agriculture, for-
estry and industry, and strengthening Cameroon's role as a regional trade
center.
Past Performance
6.        During the first decade of independence (1960-1970), the Govern-
ment's primary objective was to unify the nation and to ease serious inter-
nal political and social tensions. Output of agriculture and industry grew
rapidly and, along with high world prices for cocoa and coffee, resulted in
a 7 percent per annum real growth rate. Gross investment averaged about 14
percent of GDP, slightly over half in the public sector, with the largest
part devoted to the transportation network, the most immediate development
constraint. A major effort was also directed at expanding education and
diversifying agriculture. Significant increases in fiscal revenues combined
with stringent expenditure controls produced sizeable budget surpluses that
made it possible to accumulate reserves and to finance a large part (up to
40 percent) of public investment out of local revenues. However, this pol-
icy also imposed excessive restraint on much needed current expenditure in
such areas as road maintenance, public health, and education.
7.         During the period 1971-1975, growth of real GDP slowed to less
than 3 percent per annum or little more than population growth. This was
caused by factors largely outside Cameroon's control such as: (i) low ex-
port prices for cocoa and coffee during 1971 and 1972, and several years
of drought in the north; (ii) a drastic decline in private domestic and
foreign investment triggered primarily by the relative stagnation of the
agricultural sector and by the completion of the most obvious import sub-
stitution projects during the preceding decade; (iii) a drop in 1974-1975
in world demand for both cocoa and timber; and finally (iv) rapidly rising
import prices.
8.         The Government reacted to these developments by stepping up pub-
lic investments, which has increased by 50 percent to reach annual averages
of about IUS$190 million in constant 1974 dollars during the Third Develop-
ment Plan (1972-1976). At the same time, greater emphasis has been placed
on agricultural output. Within a public investment program averaging 9 per-
cent of GDP, rural development has comprised about 18 percent, transport
and communications 42 percent, energy 6 percent, and education 9 percent.
Since nearly 3/4 of public investment has been in sectors where its con-
tribution to domestic output is both indirect and delayed, the immediate
impact of this substantial investment effort on economic growth has re-
mained limited. In addition, physical realizations have been in many
cases less than projected due largely to substantial cost increases and
the subsequent need to reduce the scope of projects or defer them.
9.        The balance of payments has not been a major constraint until
recent years; however, imports increased rapidly in 1974 and 1975 as a re-
sult of worldwide inflation and the heavy public development expenditure,



especially in capital goods. At the same time agricultural exports declined,
particularly exports of timber, causing sizeable current account deficits.
Together with a decline in private capital inflows this resulted in a fall
in reserves from a level equal to 66 days of import requirements in 1970 to
17 days in mid-1975.
Prospects and Development Strategy
10.       Cameroon's development effort over the next five years will be
carried out under the Fourth Plan (1977-1981). The last economic mission
reviewed its recommendations on the level and composition of public invest-
ment with the Government in November, 1975, and agreed on overall priorities.
It is anticipated that growth of GDP will be 5 to 6 percent per annum in real
terms, slightly lower than achieved during the 1960s. This will compel the
Government to maintain a high volume of public investment and further expand
and diversify the country's production base so as to come back to more satis-
factory rates of growth in the early 1980s. Increased and improved exploita-
tion of forestry resources is expected to contribute substantially towards
economic development over the next decade.
11.       To meet these challenges, the Government must strengthen its ability
to choose, prepare, and implement projects, particularly in the rural and
transport sectors. Some progress is being made in this direction. Special
planning units are gradually being established within the technical ministries.
A Government-owned consulting firm (the Societe d'Etudes pour le Developpement
de l'Afrique) was created under the Planning Ministry to accelerate project
preparation. Commercially-oriented public corporations are also serving to
strengthen the project implementation capacity of the public sector. Neverthe-
less, further improvements are needed, particularly in the management of public
corporations and in strengthening and coordinating rural development institu-
tions.
12.       Completing the overall transport infrastructure program already
underway will absorb a high proportion of future public investment. If the
Government succeeds in its present efforts to accelerate preparation and im-
plementation of projects in the other sectors, particularly for rural devel-
opment, future total public investment is likely to exceed US$270 million
annually in constant 1974 dollars, and US$400 million in current dollars,
during the Fourth Development Plan (1977-1981).
13.       This is about the maximum Cameroon can possibly hope to finance.
Budgetary revenues already reach 17 percent of GDP and cannot be expected
to increase much faster than the economy as a whole. At the same time sur-
pluses of the stabilization funds are likely to stagnate or even decline,
considering the depressed price outlook for most export crops. Current
expenditures, on the contrary, will expand as a result of recent increases
in public investments in transport, education and health. Furthermore,
public debt charges will grow rapidly, absorbing an increasing share of
public savings, particularly concerning public enterprises. Consequently,
in the next five years, public savings after debt service will probably not



-xceed US$100 milLien, or some 25 oercent of total public investment, as
compared with 38 percent annually over the past few years. Cameroon will thus
have to rely on external financing lor the bulk of its public investment. An
increasing reliance on foreign borrowing during a period of relatively slow
economic growth, and unfavorable terms of trade, will require careful for-
eign debt management. On the reasonable expectation, however, that at least
50 percent of foreign public capital inflow will be on concessionary terms,
the foreign debt service ratio could be maintained below 10 percent by 1980.
14.       Cameroon's proven ability to make effective use of external re-
sources, and the Government's dedication to development are reasons for
added external support. To avoid further rapid buildup of debt service,
lenders, including the Bank Group, should provide a large part of their as-
sistance on concessionary terms. They should also be prepared to finance
a high proportion of project costs, including when necessary, a part of
local costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
15.       The Bank Group's commitments in Cameroon now amount to US$220
million and cover seventeen projects: six in agriculture, six in transpor-
tation, three in education, one in public utilities, and one small- and
medium-scale enterprise project.    Transportation represents the largest
share (50 percent) of our past commitments followed by agriculture (30
percent). Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA
credits as of July 31, 1976 and includes notes on ongoing projects.
Although delays and setbacks have been occasionally encountered in the
execution of projects, the Government has consistently shown willingness
to collaborate with the Bank in finding solutions to such problems.
16.       For the future, the Bank Group's strategy is to support the Gov-
ernment in its effort to increase agricultural production, including export-
oriented crops, in the process creating productive employment in rural
areas, to upgrade and improve the operation and maintenance of the coun-
try's infrastructure, to stimulate investment by local entrepreneurs and
increase employment in urban areas, and to increase the efficiency of
Cameroon's institutions.
17.       In agriculture, we have been able to help the Government further
diversify production by financing its oil palm and rubber plantations in
the east and west, and rice irrigation and livestock in the north. The
cocoa project approved in September 1974 is helping to modernize cocoa
growing by smallholders and to raise rural productivity in an area south
and west of the capital. The rubber project approved in June 1975 will
develop the southwest coastal region. Identification work for rural de-
velopment projects in populated but poor regions, mainly the north and the
western highlands, is underway. Besides promoting much needed foodstuff



- 5 -
production, increased Bank Group lending for agriculture will support the
Government's effort to focus on rural development in order to improve in-
come distribution and better balanced regional development.
18.       Recognizing the crucial importance of transportation to economic
growth in Cameroon and in neighboring countries, the Government has devoted
the largest portion of public investment to this sector. The Bank Group,
together with bilateral institutions, has substantially helped develop ade-
quate transport facilities. The Second Highway Project of 1973 has been
designed to help complete the country's basic trunk road system. The proj-
ect has encountered severe cost overruns partly alleviated by a recently
approved Supplementary Credit. The Second Railway Project of 1974 has
focused on track improvement and expansion of the equipment needed to main-
tain and augment the railway's overall carrying capacity. Given projected
sharp traffic increases and the backlog of required investments, substantial
capital outlays are still necessary particularly for the proposed expansion of
the port of Douala, which is presented in this report, and some related
facilities such as a railway station and marshalling yard to be built outside
the port area. An engineering loan, approved in May 1976, will help complete
the engineering of this station and marshalling yard. Improvement of the
Douala-Yaounde transport corridor will also require substantial investment. A
study, financed by the Bank and scheduled to be completed in FY77, will help
determine an economically optimal investment strategy for this corridor.
Future road investments will mainly be for road maintenance and feeder roads
to provide links to local markets and facilitate exploitation of Cameroon's
forests. In other sectors, the Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project
approved in 1975 will focus mainly on developing local entrepreneurship. A
Third Education Project, approved in April 1976, places special emphasis on
rural education and training.
19.       In all our projects, we will include, as needed, training, technical
assistance, and other provisions necessary for strengthening institutions and
improving sector policies. In addition, through our economic work we will
continue to advise the authorities, at their request, on development questions
in general, and on particular matters such as economic management, problems of
urban migration, and manpower development.
20.       Our lending to Cameroon has been closely coordinated with other
donors; ten of our seventeen projects included joint or parallel financing.
Seven multilateral or bilateral development agencies will join us in financ-
ing the proposed Second Douala Port Project.
21.       During the second half of the sixties, overall disbursements of
foreign aid to Cameroon amounted to about US$40-45 million a year. While
at the beginning of this period 65 percent of aid funds were grants, the
proportion of loans slowly increased as grants declined. A major part of
external assistance was provided by France and was concentrated in infra-
structure and productive sectors. The aid-giving agencies of the EEC
(European Development Fund and European Investment Bank) directed their
lending mainly to agriculture, with infrastructure in second place. Bank



Group disbursements were small during this period. From 1972 to 1974 for-
eign aid disbursements increased to about US$60 million with one-third as
grants. The Bank Group's share of these inflows amounted to about 25
percent. Public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31, 1974
amounted to US$295 million and is projected to reach US$1.5 billion in
1981. Public debt service as a proportion of export earnings amounted
to 4.5 percent in 1975 and is projected to reach 9.5 percent in 1981. At
that time disbursements may be over US$400 million with only 9 percent con-
sisting of grants. At present IBRD debt, outstanding and disbursed, amounts
to about 13 percent of all public debt and 10 percent of public debt ser-
vice. IDA credits, outstanding and disbursed, amount to about 13 percent of
public debt outstanding and 0.1 percent of public debt service. The Bank
Group is expected to account for about 25 percent of total public debt and
14 percent of public debt service in 1980.
22.        In October 1974, Cameroon became IFC's 100th member.    IFC's first
operation in Cameroon, a US$450,000 underwriting to bring domestic share-
holders into a previously wholly foreign-owned shoe manufacturing company,
was approved in May 1975. IFC will soon submit to the Executive Directors
a proposed investment of almost US$900,000 in a foreign-owned rubber estate,
with the intention of diversifying the enterprise and to facilitate partici-
pation by domestic shareholders.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
23.       Adequate transportation is a vital factor in Cameroon's economic
growth due to the country's large size and its dependence on exports and
imports. Moreover, its location on the Gulf of Guinea makes it an important
gateway for the land-locked neighbors Chad and the Central African Republic
(CAR).
24.       By and large, the basic transport network in Cameroon is adequate
for the present needs of the economy, but with projected Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) growth of 5 to 6 percent during the next decade, pressures on
the system will increase, especially in areas where development potential is
still untapped. In recent years, the need to remedy the lack of basic tran-
sport infrastructure through difficult terrain and over long distances has
caused the transport sector (including communications) to absorb some 42
percent of total public investment. The critical issues now are to remedy
some of the remaining deficiencies in the existing transport systems and to
properly maintain them without allocating a disproportionate share of the
country's limited resources for this purpose.



-7-
The Transport System
25.       Douala is the focal point of Cameroon's transport system.    Its
port handles nearly 90 percent of the country's external trade, and a sig-
nificant share of the external trade of Chad and C.A.R. It is the starting
point for the two main axes of road and rail transport to West Cameroon, and
to Yaounde and the north respectively.
26.       Douala port has three main forms of traffic:   bulk (alumina,
clinker, petroleum), timber and general cargo, including other agricultural
exports. The general cargo and timber berths are currently over-utilized.
With forecast increases in both import and export traffic, particularly of
timber, congestion would rapidly occur. The proposed Second Douala Port
Project would help improve the operation of the port, and provide the ca-
pacity necessary for timber and general cargo until at least 1985.
27.       The railway system comprises two lines.    The one serving West
Cameroon is of minor economic importance. The other, the Transcameroon
system, comprises the old central line from Douala to Yaounde (300 km),
which carries the bulk of the railway's traffic, and the recently completed
extension to Ngaoundere (600 km), which at present carries little traffic
except timber from Belabo (300 km from Yaounde). The marshalling yard at
Douala is operating at capacity and is in a poor location; new facilities will
be necessary to handle future traffic growth and improve railway operating
efficiency, and are under study.
28.       The road system between Douala and West Cameroon competes with
the old railway line and serves local markets. Between Douala and Yaounde
it largely complements the railway with roads feeding into the railway
system. Growing traffic congestion in this corridor has led to an ongoing
study of alternative investment policies. In the north, an extensive road
system continues the Transcameroon route towards Chad, and has adequate
capacity to serve local market requirements for many years.
Transport Planning and Coordination
29.       The Ministry of Transport is formally responsible for transport
planning, but the Ministry of Economy and Planning has considerable influ-
ence on sector investment priorities. The Ministry of Equipment, respon-
sible for roads, acts largely as an executing agency. These Ministries
are not adequately staffed, and the overall long-term development strategy
and system of project preparation and evaluation have not been firmly es-
tablished. Although this situation has not led to a significant misallo-
cation of resources in the past, current transport problems - such as the
choice between road and rail investment in the Douala-Yaounde corridor,
road upgrading versus network expansion, and the inter-relationship between
transport investment and regional development as well as the possible estab-
lishment of a separate highway authority - require a marked strengthening
of the machinery for policy-making and coordination within the sector, and
the expeditious implementation of studies and preinvestment work in a number
of areas.



- 8 -
30.       Past attempts to reinforce the organization and machinery of
planning have not been very successful, but there are now indications of
growing Government awareness of departmental weaknesses. A UNDP-financed
expert has been recently appointed as an advisor to the Ministry of Trans-
port. Steps are also being taken to recruit experts in transport planning
and coordination provided for under the Second Highway Project (Loan 935/
Credit 429 CM). Besides playing a major role in reinforcing the staff of
the ministries concerned, these experts will assure on-the-job training
for their Cameroonian counterparts. Beyond this assistance, however, the
planning capability of the Ministries of Planning and of Transport will
still need to be further strengthened, and their respective planning roles
reviewed and an agreed work program established. Accordingly, during nego-
tiations the Bank has reached agreement with the Government on the steps
needed to assure this, and on a timetable for an appropriate plan which
would include determination of staff requirements, including the possibil-
ity of further technical assistance; the training to be provided both in
Cameroon and, if necessary, abroad; definition of any consulting studies
necessary; and financing requirements for implementation of the plan (Sec-
tion 3.05 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Government Objectives and Achievements
31.       During the Third Plan (1972-1976), public investments in the trans-
oort sector in 1974/75 prices are estimated at over CFAF 80 billion (out of
total public investment expenditures of about CFAF 200 billion). The primary
objectives have been to substantially improve the transport links between
Yaouride and the north, and to take the initial steps to improve east/west
communications in the country. The Government has been largely successful
in these efforts.
32.       Investments envisaged during the Fourth Plan (1977-1981) include
expansion of the Douala Port and of transport capacity in the Douala-
Yaounde corridor. One-third of the road program is devoted to completion
of ongoing projects; greater emphasis will be placed on road maintenance
and secondary road development.
33.       These investments are essential to achieving the Government's
Fourth Plan and longer-term objectives. However, the strategy and espe-
cially the transport implications are yet to be fully developed. While
the tendency to concentrate transport investment on the Douala-Yaounde
corridor is currently appropriate, the long-term transport needs of the
region to the south of the corridor may require development of port facil-
ities in the Kribi area in the mid-1980s. Accordingly, towards the end
of the 1970s, when the studies now underway or planned on the Douala-
Yaounde corridor, forestry road development, and the Kribi master plan
are expected to be completed, steps should be taken to produce a systema-
tic long-term program for transport investment in the southern part of
Cameroon as a whole. Discussion with the Government on this issue has
already been initiated, and will be one of the subjects to be critically
examined by the transport economist technical assistant assigned to the
Ministry of Transport.



-     -
34.       The Government has been slow in establishing the appropriate
strategy, policy, and institutions for utilization of forestry resources.
However, in recognition of the importance of sound forestry policies to
the successful development of roads, of the proposed port project, and
indeed of almost the entire transport investment program, the Government
and the Bank have recently agreed on the terms of reference for technical
experts to assist the Ministry of Agriculture in the formulation of forestry
policy and legislation. The Government has contacted consultants to provide
these experts.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
35.       A report entitled "Cameroon - Appraisal of Second Douala Port
Project" (No. 1123-CAM dated August 17, 1976) is being circulated separately.
A loan/credit and project summary is provided in Annex III of this report.
The project is based on information prepared by consultants 1/, the National
Ports Authority of Cameroon (NPA), Regie des Chemins de Fer du Cameroun
(Regifercam), and Bank missions. Negotiations for the credit and loan were
held in Washington from June 21 to June 25 with a Cameroonian delegation
headed by Mr. Eric Dikoko Quan, Charge d'Affaires, of the Embassy of the
United Republic of Cameroon in Washington, and in Douala from July 5 to
July 10 with a Cameroonian delegation headed by Mr. Assiga Ahanda, Director
of Programming in the Ministry of the Economy and the Plan.
Background and Purpose
36.       The proposed project would be the second port project financed by
the Bank Group in Cameroon. A first Douala Port Project was financed by
the Association (Credit 229-CM, US$1.5 million in 1971) and has been satis-
factorily completed. This project increased port capacity to meet require-
ments pending completion of studies that analyzed the most suitable long-term
development for Douala, which is now the subject of the proposed Second Port
Project.
37.       Douala is Cameroon's principal city and major port, lying at the
head of the Wouri estuary about 30 km from the open sea. The other ports
are of much less importance and serve limited hinterlands, whereas Douala
is a focal point for both the road and rail systems of the country. Douala
possesses the basic infrastructure needed for a port, but the limited depth
of water in the long entrance channel is a handicap to port development in
view of the trend towards deeper drafts of vessels; moreover, there is very
1/   Organisation Controle Conception Realisation (OCCR); Deutsche Sozietat
Beratender Ingenieure (DSBI); Societe Grenobloise d'Etudes et d'Appli-
cation Hydraulique (SOGREAH); Ecocentre.



- 10 -
limited room for expansion because the port is largely hemmed in by the city.
The feasibility study carried out as part of the First Port Project analyzed
the costs and benefits of development at various sites along the Wouri, and
concluded that because of the high additional infrastructure costs which
would be associated with the development at other sites, expansion of Douala
is the most economic means of providing the increased port capacity now
required.
Project Description
38.       The proposed project would satisfactorily overcome the two major
obstacles to development of the port of Douala, namely, the limited channel
depth and space for growth, to cover requirements at least for the next
decade. Under the project, the entrance channel to the port would be dredged,
and some of the dredged material used in reclamation. Road and rail access to
the port would be improved. The existing port would be rehabilitated and
restructured to permit seaward expansion, and to provide facilities for log
exports and a deepwater berth for containers and general cargo. Fishing
'berths and cold storage facilities would be provided upstream.
Cost Estimates and Financing
39.       This extensive development and restructuring of the port area
which is necessary to ensure adequate general cargo and timber capacity for
the next decade, would be undertaken in conformity with development plans for
both the city and the railway. The project is estimated to cost about US$120
million equivalent net of taxes, of which about US$71 million is foreign
costs. These costs include price and physical contingencies, and are based
on consultants' estimates and on the lowest evaluated bid for the main civil
works contract.
40.       The Government of Cameroon and NPA have asked the Bank to assist in
financing the project. They have also invited other donors to participate,
and the financing plan is approximately as follows in US$ equivalent: Bank
Loan US$15.0 million, IDA Credit US$10.0 million, Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) US$29.0 million, African Development Bank (AfDB)
US$12.4 million, Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) US$10.0
million, Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) US$8.0 million, French Fonds
d'Aide et de Cooperation/Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (FAC/CCCE)
US$6.6 million, Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED) US$4.9 million. The
balance of about US$24.4 million equivalent would be met by the Government and
NPA.
The Borrower
41.       NPA is the authority for administrating all Cameroonian coastal
and river ports, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport and
Communications. NPA was established on April 16, 1972 with the cooperation
of the Assocation under the terms of the First Douala Port Project.



- 11 -
42.       NPA's organization and administration have been reviewed, and
although found to be generally satisfactory, there is a weakness in the
control of port operations. The proposed project therefore provides for the
appointment of an experienced Director of Operations (Section 4.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement) who would examine the efficiency of cargo-handling
operations now undertaken largely by shipping companies under lease agree-
ments, as well as port regulations and charges to ensure that they provide
incentives for optimum cargo throughput. NPA has recently engaged consultants
under French technical assistance to review its management structure, and has
agreed that recommendations of the study would be discussed with the Bank, and
the agreed plan of action implemented (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).
43.       In view of the need to minimize the heavy expense of maintaining
the enftrance channel to the port, NPA has arranged for observation of the
siltation behavior of the dredged channel during the project construction
period, so that a plan could be devised within one year of the channel
deepening, for the best method and equipment for maintenance dredging; this
plan would be subject to Bank approval (Section 4.03(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The proposed project provides for training of NPA staff in the
operation of a dredger to be supplied by CIDA for the channel deepening.
44.       NPA would have to prepare lease agreements for operation of the
new general cargo/container berth, as well as for the new cold store and
other fishing port facilities. NPA has provided assurances that these
lease agreements would be prepared after consultation and agreement with
the Bank on the underlying policy objectives; this arrangement is intended
to ensure that the berth is operated with adequate cargo-handling equipment
as a common user facility, and that the fishing port facilities are managed
by experienced lessees (Section 4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Finances
45.       NPA has achieved only a modest rate of return on assets since
its establishment in 1972, but its cash flow has been satisfactory due to a
low debt/equity ratio. NPA has agreed to take the necessary measures, includ-
ing tariff increases, to achieve a minimum rate of return on fixed assets in
use of 3 percent from 1977 through 1980 and 5 percent thereafter (Section 5.04
of the draft Loan Agreement). Thus, tariff increase proposals, which have
been accepted in principle by port users, will virtually double tariffs by
1985. The large loan component (over 70 percent) in financing of the proposed
project will increase the debt/equity ratio to a high 53/47 during project
construction, but with rising revenues it is expected to decline to an accep-
table 33/67 by 1984/85.
Project Execution, Procurement and Disbursement
46.       The project would be undertaken under several contracts, as agreed
by co-donors and in accordance with the agreed financing plan, which would
ensure the coordination of construction works and the earliest start on the
most urgent components. The two principal items in the project are the main



- 12 -
civil works contract and major channel dredging. International competitive
procedures in accordance with Bank Group guidelines would apply to this main
contract with the exception of equipment and materials for the workshop to be
procured in France amounting to about 3 percent of the main civil works
contract. The major channel dredging would be undertaken with a dredger and
key crew provided by CIDA under tied bilateral financing arrangements, and
with the remaining crew and other costs borne by Cameroon. CIDA would also
finance a subsidiary civil works contract and some equipment. Procurement
procedures for the CIDA-financed items would be decided by CIDA and NPA.
47.       The main civil works contract has been put to international tender
and the lowest evaluated tender has been selected in accordance with Bank
guidelines. About 62 percent of this contract representing mainly downstream
port development and port rehabilitation will be financed and disbursed
jointly by IBRD/IDA (53 percent), KfW (17 percent), FAC (7 percent), FED (10
percent), and the Government (13 percent). The remainder of the civil works
contract will be financed by BADEA, AfDB and FAC/CCCE and will be disbursed
according to their procedures.
48.       Supervision of construction of the project would be the responsi-
bility of NPA, assisted by CIDA-financed consultants DSA/Tamcon/CDA under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and the other co-donors. Agreement
has been reached with the Government, NPA, and the co-donors, that the Bank
would undertake its customary role in the supervision of the entire project.
Construction work is scheduled to start in 1976 and to be completed by 1980,
with completion of channel deepening by 1983.
Economic Justification
49.       A critical element in the justification of the project is timber
export potential. The prospects for development of forestry sectors both
in West Africa as a whole and specifically in Cameroon were studied in depth,
and it was concluded that potential exports through Douala would reach about
1.1 million tons in 1985. This takes into account forecasts of Cameroonian
timber to be evacuated through the secondary port of Kribi, and via the Congo
transport system Agence Transcongolaise des Communications (ATC). The exist-
ing Douala port facilities are incapable of handling either this projected
volume of timber, or the specialized log carriers which are expected to
account for an increasing proportion of timber traffic. This will be catered
for by creation of the log port, channel dredging, and improvements in road
and rail access to the port. The project envisages a progressive increase in
the volume of exports of sawn timber and timber products, with a corresponding
reduction in the proportion of log traffic.
50.       The proposed development of fishing berths, and of the cold store
and allied facilities, has been decided after an assessment, by consultants
Ecocentre/OCCR, of fish resources along the West African coast, and the
demand for both frozen and fresh fish within Cameroon where fish forms an
essential staple diet.



- 13 -
51.       The project is expected to produce benefits through avoidance of
congestion as traffic develops, reduction in delays to shipping caused by the
present limited channel depth, economies arising from the use of specialized
log carriers now unable to use the port, and added value from the expansion
of fishing and ship-repair activities. The economic return on the project is
estimated to be 17 percent, comprised of 18 percent on the downstream facilities,
19 percent on channel dredging, and 10 percent on the upstream facilities
(in which Bank Group participation is limited to dredging and reclamation).
The three components account for 46, 30 and 24 percent respectively of the
total estimated project cost. The bidding on the main civil works contract
has established the bulk of the costs; however even with an increase of 50
percent in costs of items for which bids have not yet been submitted and a
reduction in benefits by 20-35 percent, the return is still expected to be 9.5
percent. Cameroon will retain about 80 percent of total benefits through
increased tariffs, avoidance of potential shipping surcharges, and the employ-
ment generated by expansion of fishing activity.
Risks Inherent in the Project
52.       The main project risks are that timber traffic will fail to expand
as forecast because of slowness in forestry sector development and that
capacity constraints in the Douala-Yaounde corridor will inhibit transport of
traffic to the port. To minimize the former possibility, arrangements have
been made to appoint two experts to the Ministry of Agriculture to assist in
formulating forestry policies. The latter will be dealt with by the Douala
Railway Station and Marshalling Yard Engineering Project (Loan S 4-CM) and
investment proposals resulting from the Douala-Yaounde corridor study.
Additional safeguards are required to ensure proper coordination as the
project comprises several components and is being financed from various
sources. NPA has, however, already appointed an Assistant Director General
acceptable to the Bank who will be responsible for the overall coordination of
the project. He will be assisted by a small unit within NPA and the CIDA-
financed consultants responsible for supervising the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the National Ports
Authority of Cameroon (NPA), the draft Guarantee Agreement between the United
Republic of Cameroon and the Bank, the draft Development Credit Agreement
between the United Republic of Cameroon and the Association, the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank, the recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Section 1 (d) of Article V of the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
and the text of draft resolutions approving the proposed Loan and Development
Credit, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 14 -
54.       Features of Development Credit, Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
special interest are referred to in paragraphs 30, 42, 43, 44, 45 and 48 of
this report. The additional conditions of effectiveness of the Loan and
Development Credit are that: (i) co-financing agreements (except for the FAC
grant, the CCCE loan and the Second AfDB loan) have been signed and condi-
tions precedent to their disbursement have been fulfilled; and (ii) assur-
ances satisfactory to the Bank have been received on the FAC grant, the CCCE
and Second AfDB loans (Section 7.01 (a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement;
Section 5.01 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Another condi-
tion of effectiveness of the Development Credit is that the agreement for
onlending the proceeds of the Credit to NPA shall have been concluded (Sec-
tion 5.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
55.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Loan and Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
August 20, 1976



ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                      Pope I ,f  a
CANEROON            - SOCIAL INfICATaRS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU lN21 M
CAMEROON                            REVERENCE COU9TIRIES ( 1970)
TOTAL      4r5.4                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.        _,                       1960      19?O   ESTIMATE          GHANA          IVORY COAST    MALAYSIA
GNP PER CAPITA CUSS)                     125.0       230.0      329.0 /c           340.0      3L0.o0     ho.o
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)             4.8        5.8         6.5 a              8.6        5.4        O.L
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        10.0       12.0        114.0 j            36.0       17.0       32.0
PER SQUARE KN. AGRIC. LAND             ..        37.0         ..                62.0       26.0      291.0
virtAL STAtISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND         h.35        42.1       hO.o               h9.8       L6.1       42.,
CRUDE OEATH RATE PER THOUSAND         27 9        23.9       22.0              21.14       23.3       12.9
INFANT MORrALiTY RATE (/THOU)                               142.0             156.0                   1o.8 /a
Llft EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH tYRSI        35.9       61.0        41.0              141.5       41. C      56.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.3        2.7         Z.?                3.2        3- 1       2.6 a
POPULATION GROWTH RATE CX3
TOTAL                                 2.4         2.0         Z.0 ad            2.6         3. 4/e     2.6
URBAN                                             6.0          ..               5.0         8.7 a      3.6
URBAN POPULATION CZ OF TOTAL)           15.0 /-b   20.0          ,,               29.0       28.0        27.8
AGE STRUCTURE CPERCENN)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        *0.0       43.0          *                46.9       L2.5       h41,. L
15 1O 64 YEARS                        56.0       54.0         ,,                49.5       54.8       52.1 j
65 TEARS AND OVER                     4.0         3.0                           3.6         2.7        3.2 Li
MCGE OEPENDENCY MATI0                    0.8        0.9           .                1.0        0.8         0.9 /
ECOIOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         1.2         ..                1.4        0..9 6.b 1
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)           ..          ..         ..                10.9         ..       2C.2 a
USERS (l OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..         ..                2.0                     8.0 /a
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (ThOUSAND)         2400.0      2800.0           .            3300.0       2600.0     2900.0 /a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURt (Z)          86.0       82.0          ..               54.0        82.0       43.0 C
UNEMPLOYED (Z OF LABOR FORCE)            ..          ..          ..                5.0 /a     6.0         6.0 /ab
TICOME DISTRIBUTION
I OF PRIVATE INCOME RECID BY-
JlGt&Si 5Sa OF iUSEHOIDS     .-                     .                                                  28.3
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              .. -*
IWM=S 20% OF HCOUSE1HIMW               .           .          . -                                     '3:?
LWNEST 1It% OF DUSElOLDS               ..          ..         ..                 ,,          .,        11.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LANDO OWNERSHIP
.._________...._____.________.
I OWNEO BY TOP 10l or OWNERS
I OWNED BY SMALLEST 102 OWNERS            .          ..          ..                 ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            30000.0/b   25960.0     26220.0            12950.0 /b 12140.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        4800.o X      2470.0    2270.0             1070.0 7i  2480.0 /S   1080.0 Igac
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            390.0 M    480.0          ''              X60.0      680.0 a     270.0 a
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES Il OF REQUIREMENTS)          96.0       96.0       L04.0               96.0      108.0        93.0 /a d
PROTEIN (GRAlNS PER DAY)              59.0       59.0        64.0               46.0       60.0        49  7
-OF WUhCH ANINAL ANO PULSE           ..             /a.Ot    ..               10.0 /c    18.0d      20o.o0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-                ..         ..          ..                 .. 5.5
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        66.0       1O8.D         ..               58.0       T7.O        89.0 /a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       2.0                                       9.0       11.0        34.0 /a
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDOO
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              14.O/e     14.0/b      14.0 /             15.0       13.0        13.0 /a
MOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
IX OF SECONDARY)                      23.0       22.0        25.0 /b            23.0        7.0         3.0 a
ADULT LITERACY RATE IX)                   .        12.0          -                25.0       20.0        7r.0 1e
HOUSIMG
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                ..         ..          ..                 ..          ..        2.3
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WHtER tS)                         ..          ..         ..                 ..          ..       65.0 a/
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL ONELLINGS)                    ..         ..          ..                 ..         ..        43.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY IS)                      ..         ..          ..                 ..         ..        30.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           3.0        36.0       36.0               78.0         7.0       141.0
PASSENGEtR CARS (PER THOU POP)           1.0         6.0         ..                4.0        10.0        23.0 W
ELECTRICITY (KRHITR PER CAP)           198.0       201.0                         338.0       1ZO.0       382.0 7
NEWSPRINT (CIC/R PER CAPI                 ..               ..                      0.6         0.2        14.0 7
SE____NOTES ____AND ___DE ___INIT___ONS_._ON___REVERSE___     -      - -  _---- _________________________________
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS OH REWERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NCTtS
Salee  othe-isenated, data fat 1960 refer to any yeat betwee      1959 med 1961, inc 1970 betwee    1960 and 1970, end for Mast tRra.l t6etmae    etee
1971 sad 1973.
an Malaysia has been oriented as the anly na-OPEC of a     i.e sioilar to Casere, whir0, eadnsd       ith a diversified trepica1 pradortion, te...h.e the COP
par rapito target (US $400 ta b0g).
CAMEROON             1960    I   West Catror.-     lb  1962;   /r   Ioloding nidives    assis.tant midwive  and assIstant nase        d  C-e-e   rt hoopitala.
total heepitais end sedir1 renters;      In  13 yeats far fEet Cesrea
1970    /   1964-66;    /b  13 yeats for fast Camcoan.
MOST RECENT ESTiIKATE:    /a  13 years for Eaee Ceanroa,     lb  Earloding tesohet training,     It  1975,   /d   1970-75.
GHOANA               1970    I   Registered aatloyrd.      /b  Registered, not all prartioing In the reetry,      It   1966'h0.
IVORY COAST          1970    Ia1965-70;     lb  Ratio of paroistian onder 15 and 65 aed -ne    to total labor forre,    It  Gavenaen    ary,    /d  1964-66,
T. Dion so lmigratias, paplistion gruth rate is higher then the rate of natural iarreasoe.
MIALAYSIA            1970    Ia  West Malaysia,    lb  Rsogiltrrd appliosats far work;    It  tavrtset anly.      Id   196.4-66,  /a  1967,   /f   Inside army
Rl, July 20, 1976
DEF lNlITItsS OP SOCtAL INISRCATORS
Lard Area (thor 0021                                                                   Perolatlan ret .catll,a rorea  - PapsI.iana  divided by amber of prartiotog
Total -Totl1 snrf..    area romptioog lead eras and inland satet,                         male and femal   gradoatoess      "trained" or 'cettifled" navIe, sad
Agril.  M-crn  r-erot ooha     of sgrrotoa         .0 -sd tanp-atily Or_oiliary Parsanel                        ith traimiag at eaperi-crs
perno,e-rly for traps, pootoors, narket 6 kirthe- gadrden   or to   i ltPoerlatiom ant hespita1 hod - Pepelatian divided by aomhr of hospital bode
Cellar,                                                          ava~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ilable is pablir and private general od speolalited hospital amA
rehahilitatian rntors;    -1oldes  -orelg h-.e and eatahOLslhets for
CI;? par taPirs (U0$) - CNP per capita estsa reset market peto..., ..lo-                  rastodial med pr-evntio- rare.
lated.by soar     . r rvers le tlrkd as World Bank (1973-75 basis); 1960,           Per rerita suepl ofvlarles C      of resoiremetal - Compoird from energy
197adI1975 dar.                                                                       eavltofnt food sopplies a-ilable is reentry per repita per day;
avilable soppIitee roprOs ..doaestio prodartion, Importslee I..ports,
PortIa tias ad vita  ertsisad chegna i. er.rk; net                                                                    oppites etlode animal fend, seeds,      ati
porulr ionbid-y. oil lee  -A9 vf loly fIIt  I ttaviabe                            ties rend Is feed prneasieg ad            L.an  I die-rblOot o,  =eoiemot
average of too rod-year as tlrav.., 1960, 1970 ead 1975 dar.tweoo tiasated by F60 base.d an physiologiral nerds for normal ativity
andhelh o       inedrrg nnlomatal teape-stote, body weights, age end
see hdintlbotn    of p       ipala, aed sl11-ig 101 for vastest heese-
Porolatio, densit -C Per "goaro ad   'Mid-yost  .p.ap tiari   pot sqoa- kilo-              hold level.
lene  (,.h betrs      fttlae.Per ..Pt.r sorely at reti                                                            rasrtdy) - Protein         oant-n  of per
PPor  Iiara  d-oity-rt   sonta e-      fgsrir. land - Compared as shee for                 rair    e   opyof frd par day,mat soppyofedidfeda
agrlroltrrl. land rely.                                                                shov, reqnir.emets far all rastries estab1lshedfby USDAd Rosmi
SiteS Itarletins                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Reestlih S.r-ice. provide for a sinh.i alnar  of 60 groos of total
vit.1 sr.ci.li..                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PloreIn pot day,t and 20 gramo of animal and po,ise, ptaieie  of abrrh
Crodr birth Itar  Perr th-osnd4- Annoa   Ire birtho pe   theesed of mid-                   10 gram' shaidthetaelast1proton, ,these standard     are taro then thooe
ynar ypoa'tis     teeye    ratlde to' averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                 of75 graeof ttlpoenad 23gat                  f animal protei1ea
red five-year   v-rag  erdiog to 1971 5For most roet etiate,                            average for rho world,proposed by FgAr in the Third Wonld toad Survey.
Cindy     t ra   e re  thoosad -   sta   doab   pe -tosd at aid-year                    Pa rra,Poi srly from a             Ima ad raIse-_"'otein _opplyof food
popuatio, t n-yar  titbotl  avrac  sedi    I.o 1960 and 1970, end                drivd fra    asial    endMplo     a grn    pat da.
floe-year avrgr ndisg In 1970 for mast .eveor estimate.                             Death rtS/hSages 1-4 - ssnol deahs pr rheey'                 s  g  gap
Infant mvrrltir.y rate (/tha) -     oA-I deaths of Ise.ts onder one year of                i-_yers    to   " oldr.. in this age grasp,Tsggeited   eanidarrof
ageper    h.o.ad live births.                                                           ma1otrirtan.
Life ne tat       t birth (y      Anerage nethe   of yeroflermang
at birth,   -11ay ft r-year oegaendgin160, I197             med 197    a             drt
Grdvolping teetrie.                                                                   Adiasted enr1iinet ratio - primary arheel - Essollmant of all agesa
Oroo reeodooianrare-    Ar-rge ombrs of live daoghtereawmsao will                     per-tange of primary sehaol-age   pe    ata   , isrdes nhildr- aged
brat n ho noraIrprodortiv- period if ohn     o   ine    present age-               6-1   years hat adjoated for drffereo     lengths of prlmery edortc s
sperifir fertility rates, osoa11y fiv-yea     -orages eading In 1960,                   for c nntries with onb  .r.a ednlift, enoi        -tmy enrod 1002
1977 ad' 177   .fo  dvvoloplsgtonottte.                                                 eLioe some  oils ate hel-or abvo the offinia1 schorl agr
Poul -onoreh tst   7, -ltotal - C_po..d annua gI    -rh rates of mid-             pd ed:_          p-tri         ...yc.l-Cp.                   ~be
y, r I.r 191C-111, '96"_"' " 1911-71.                             ...-asoadary  doratian roqo iree at lrat feet yeao of approved primary,
onat ar_thb rote (%) - orin - Canpored like greet brats oftoa                        insctrioan   provides gene ral, vortuaaj or t..nher training
poylatias   difft-rnt defoirilana of arba    areas may effent .ispat-                   issorontian for popile of 12 to 17 yea-   of age. r-rrespando-
bilIry o   aaanguotIe.                                                                  te tees. a    generall1y ...rlodod.
Orb-n prprsiaraL     fttl      - Ratio of orban to total popnlaias,                     fears of rhasling erovided (first and se.rad IboIe) - Total years of
dlff-rent def-tsiaol   of urban ara   nay effort rompaability of data                   orhooling, as seredary love, -oatrana1 itutlsmy he Par-
anog yout...o.                                                                          tially or reapleetly eanioded.
Age n-vrure fprertonr    - Childro-  (0-14 ynovs) , nothing-age (15-64 year),     ,      _ ratianal _nrolmat ft of s.canda-yl - VoratianI inatirotiasa
ad;ria      (65 yer   and over) as parenanao       md-er     `popo1ti-                 jorlode terbn-Ir   itduarria1 or Other progra,s ohinh oporote
Age deredenny rati      -      Iaioo  popaio  "der ~15 and 635 sdp as  tioneednl                           ra    eaessss        eadr       sttro
rho   o  agro I5 throogh 64.                                                         Adoit lterary rate SI) - Litreraredo1re    (able or read end write) a
irroi dredealy rario - R.tio rf popo'tio      ardor 15 asd 65 and avr                    aargeo       tota  adult popoatian aged 15 year    and oer.
to the labo forne in ago grasp of 15-64 years.
a_ily elam_ing _     _aretore iru_altivo. thee) - C,aslati-e somer of                   H- ,igg
-rrptors of bieth-oantre1 d-ni..e aeer a.. pines of nationa      Really              pasn     et roo    Ca-erge   - Average somber of pero-e  pot rom Or
plenieg prog_ sisre ireptian.                                                           ornopied nanveeian1 dwellings Ia orb-a     res    d.aIliirgn  nrinde
Patily laoaln  -aort  CT of sarrtd eal-Pertenrtges .of married                        =o-pea-e otttores mad -nrmPied parts.
o tof obild-braring age (15-44 yeats) who  bs htrh-noarol-    deviros            Soo.pied dsssllag    withont tired water (71 -tOrropied  --tverana1
to all married u-a    is sea  ago grasp.                                                drelliega is oba    md -ruaars w              -h nide or ontaide piped
wtr.foliis       spaetge of all csrpiod duellisgi.
oEplesment                                                                              Arreas to ole  trioty ft at all dwelings) - Conetlano1 dwellings
Total 1aber ferns ithaaad     - Ernm-ire11y arrive peron,       -Iiding                    with sletrrtrity im lIvigquarters as por      n of total dwsIlingo Is
aemd foresae      omoplyd hot emldm         bs  -wve     tsdesits, ate.;                sea    Id   aalaes
defniton  innatou  eseatOe  ate sact rerarble.                                gRa-I dwlling .r.a.mented to electtricity () - Competed as sh,av for
LbrR tori! gioloeC)- Agriro1tutaI labor Forte (is farming,                            trura  dwellings only.
f=retry    7hutisg mad fiahing) me perreeago    of teta1 labor Raes
geme edfto   lbor forcel  LI-ihmp leyd ate masaly dafimd as personaatif
who are able med wrlling to take a Job, sot of a job o      groo  day,               Radis r-ti--r fret      - tapo  -All types of reorsfor radio brmad-
rataine  ant o  a is,med seking work far a spetfid WiniS   potted                e..sts te gemoal pbl     petho-asad of ppelatin; ...olodes
met nereedingon    wrb    ay mt ha roparabla ber-eom oma-tri      dese to               omi    sdrerai-er     In tatries med In years wham registration of
differert definitions of onmeplIyed sod   -astr  at data, e.g., eploy-                  radio sets wa   In effect, data far rect years may mat bo ronpcable
_et of fire e"taitnios,Ismple soteya, ropelsory -m        ploy-at iaatssinne meat -atries                     bh1iahed lrm
tar-     dirtcib.tion  - Parneatage of pri-ate isriete (both is rash med kid)           Pesemeroas      re  that PoeS  - Pasasaer oars rmprlse meter rata
aasisg less that eight panam; etlodee mebolamos, hearses med
reregand by rirhost 5%, rirhest 20%, pau-t 20% aed pooret 40% of                        mii tary  ehiole.
hm-.hold..                                                                           Eleetr~init fk /tae ate cae) - Aama-I romaptiom     of industrial,     -
attrb.i   lea1d arorhit - Percontages of bond onmd by        ilthiast                 g_etia, peblie med priests e1-trcity In kilmett hart       pet .apita,
Riattibotion                                                      gonerally base~~~~~~~~~~_d onprdutio  data, ithsn  latmeRorlae     in
I0X aod p-aea    102 ef lead matgida hat elaimg fo                                                              i.pert  ad aspects of eletiy.
eraith aW rutrition                                                                     -ese at(gy        e   a)-Prepita         Iaa    eema.piio     in kigl
estmaedfrn dnseprdurtion plus mar imparts       f ae    ~apit.
P2       =Psoisio er i cria  - Ppelatton di,,idd by mashe  at prartiriIf                                       PtItagpl
phmtam  ulified from a medinl cobmal at    nivrersty reve.



ANNEX I
ff0  wp~~~~~~rr I~~~~TA ~page 3 of 4 Pages
ed        ~~1967..  1972 - 1974    -    1976-    1967     1974     1981
1    _67  _                                             1972    19 L74   1976       198                -       -
NATIONAL ACCO~M                                                               -                    -
3-Year Average at 1967.. 1969 Prices & Exchange Rates          Average Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product              799.4  1109.9     1195.5      1266.1     1363.8    1798.8        6.8    3.8     6.8     5.7       101.2   104.0     103.6
Ga.ins from Terms of Trade (+)     -__2.5            -           -  38.2    -  41.2   -  62.9         .       .      .       .12             -40       -36
Gross Domestic I!ncome              789.9   1088.5    1149.5      1237.9     1-32-2.6  17735.9       6.6     2.8    7.3     5.6       100.0    100.0    100.0
Import (cine. RFF)                  234.0    325.0     344.5       364.3      387.4     516.6        6.8     3.0    6.0     5.9        29.6    30.0      29.8
Exports       (import capacity)     213.2    290.6      328.4      325.0      336.1     469.0        6.4     6.3    1.2     6.9        27,0     28.6      27.0
Resource Gap                          1- nTEI-7T                                3L.3     41         10.6   -46.2   78.5    -1.5                            2.8 
Consumption Expenditures            682.1    951.2    1013.7      1084.0     1145.2    1445.6        6.9     3.2    6.3     4.8        86.4     88.2      83.3
ITovestment       (mncl. stocks)    128.7   171.7      169.2       183.2      220.1     337.7        5.9   -  .1   14.0     8.9        16.3     14.7      19.4
DDmestic Savings                    107.8   T37.4      153.0       143.9      170.7     290.2         5.0    5.5     5.6   11.2        13.6     13.3      16.7
National Savings                     87.9    114.0     102.7       110,0      151.2     249.8         5.3  - 5.4    21.3   10.6        11.1      8.9      14.4
MERCHANDISE TRADE                             Annual Data at Current Prices                                                            As Percent of Total
Imports169                                                                                                   82     34     202         27       239        54
Capital goods                      40.8     89.1     104.3       143.2      177.5     444.4       169      82    3.      20217                2.9        54
Intermediate goodg s (;3fue1s)     87.3   133.6      198.3       254.3      297.6     533.7        8.9    21.8   22.5    12.4        46.4     45.5     42.5
Fuels and related materials         8.3     15.2      38.3        52.3       61.8     109.8       12.9    58.7   27.0    12.2         4.4      8.8       8.7
of which:   Petroleum             8.3    15.2       38.3        52.3       61.8     109.8       12.9    58.7   27.0    12.2         4.4      8.8       8.7
Cons  tion ,W             ~~51.6   64.9       95.0       112.7     128.9     169.3        12.2   21.0    16.5     5.6       27.4     21.8      13.5
roa  Mrch.      orts (cif)      TFF7T    3=T        r379        3rY r        3T    T27           10.0   20.0    23.6    13.6      13       1         To
Exports
Primary prodlucts ~cI. fuels)     143.7    199.9     4.46.7      398.1      461.0     885.8        6.8    50.0     1.6   14.0        90.8     93.5      86.8
F'uels and related materials        -        -          -           -         -         -                   .       .
of vhich:   Petroleum             -        -         -           -          -         -.                          .
Manufactured goods                 14.6     20.9       3141        53.9      68.3     134.5         7.4   22.0   48.2    14.5         9.2      6.5      13.2
Total Nerch. Exports (foh)                           411.8~7:S  ~   7        27    -Tu7!T7         6.9    47.1     5.2   14.0       rcfl7D   Muuo      TUD
Tourism and Border. Trade                     .         ..                     .         ..                 .      .
Merchanclise Trade Indices                      Average 1967- 69 -100
Export Price Index                 94.0   114.1      172.1       189.2      212.6     303.0        4.0    22.8   11.1     7.3
Import Price Index                 94.8   127.6      186.0       218.0      239.3     343.7        6.1   20.7    13.4     7.5
Terms of Trade Index               99.1    89.4       92.5        86.8       88.9      88.2       -2.1     1.7  - 2.0    - .2
Exports Volume Index               94.0   123.8      163.9       147.0      164.0     229.0        5.7    15.1     -      6.9
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR               Annual Data at 1967-69 Prices end Exchange Rates               Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of Total
Agriculture                       2 72. 2  352.1     380.1       417.5      432.8     540.7        5.3     2.9    6.7     4.6        38.5     37.4     34.4
Industry and M4ining             170.9    233.2      230.8       258.8      271.8    371.2         6.4   - .1     8.5     6.4        24.2    22.7      23.6
Service                          26,      401.6      405.4       46..AD...3  488.1   658.3         8.7      .1    9.7     6.2        37.4    39.9      41.9
Total                             707.4   986.9     1016.3      1136.8     1192.7   1570.2         6.9     1.5    8.3     5.6       100.    100.0o o-  100.0
PUBLIC_FIffAN_                                                                                                                           As_Percent_of_GDP
(Central Government) (in CFAF billion)
Current Receipts                  31.9      56.6      68.4        79.6      103.8    201.1        12.2    9.9    23.2    14.1        16.4    16.4      17.0
Curren Epniues                    32.1      46.6      60.9       7L1. 6      93.9    165.9         7.7   14.3    24.2    12.1        16.5    14.6      14.0
Budgetary Savings                   .2      10.0      7.5          8.0        9.9     35.2      152.7   -15.5    14.9   28.9       -   .       .         .
Other Public Sector Savings  4.6  ~1.0     13.4        10.9      12.5      19.8       35.7   266.1  - 3.5     9.6         2.4      3.2       1.7
Pablic Sector Investment          13.5      27.5      43.4        44.2      49.9     124.7       15.3    25.6     7.2   20.1         6.9     10.4      10.6
US $ million
CURRENT EXP NDITSJRE DETAILS                    Actual        Prelim.    Eat.     Proj.        DITAL ON                                At 1974-1975p Pand ER
As   TtalCretEpn.                        1967     1972       19 74     1975    1976          PUBLIC S3ECTORThrPln                               %oTta
Education                     ~~~~~   ~~~~14.4  17.1  16.9  17.1     17.4         INVES'TMENT PROGRAM                   (19 71 / 72- 19 75 /76)
Other Social Services                      .7    10.7        9.7      10.0     10.3         Social Sectors                          247.6               26.6
Agriculture                               5.0     5.6        5.9       6.1      6.6         Agriculture                              167.5              18.0
Olther Economic Services                11.6      8.7       11.2      12.3     13.5          Industry and Mining                     1.                    .
Administration and Defense               59.5    45.3       42.6      41.8     40.3          Power                                   56.8                6.1
OYther                                    8.8    12.6       13.7      12.7     12.1          Transport and communmications          38 7. 2             41.6
Total Current Expenditures (in                                                              Olther                                   5 7. 7              6.2
CFAF billion)                         32.1    46.6       60.9      71.6     93.9          Total Expenditures                                         io9o.o 101
SELECTED INDICATORS                                 1960-     1967-      1972-    1977-        FIIIAIClE
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)              1965      1971       1976     1981             ulcSto                  2/
Average ICOR                                                  -T-2   - -40       3   1Pbi                  etrSavtngs -               3183.
Import Elasticity                                    .          .968       .789   1.010           Local Borropwing                     55.8                6.0
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate                       .          .023       .239     .289          Foreign Financing                   523.2               56.2
Marginal National Savings Rate                       ..         .137       .151     .239          Total Financing                     9 TO-              100.0
IABOR FORCE AND                                  Total Labor Force                                  Value Added Per Worke (1967-g69       Pricles &-Exc. Rates)
OUTRIT PE   WORKER                                     %, of Total          1967 - 71          In U.S.Dollar       Irercent edAverage          1961- 71
6j7       19 71    12._j7     12..      Growth Rate         +96 7       1971        167         91       GrwhRt
3/                                                  _n                                                   9  7      197        GothRt
Agriculture-                  22,200      31,700      18.5       19.7          9.3          4,585.6    4,186.1        118.9      107.7         - 2.6
Industry3, ~~~~~~      29,210     41.360       24.3      25.7           9.1          1,064.7    1,090.4        27.6       28.1            .6
ServicIdsr3/4                  27,328      34.427      22.7      21.4           6.0          5.027.8    5,420.4       130.3      139.5           1.9
Government                     41,494      53,486      34.7       33.2          6.5          4,752.5    4,848.0       123.2      127.4             .5
Total    -                      --3      1-60,97T3 - 100.0      1 00-.0       T7     ~      1T837T.T    -T3T-867      1600.0     100. 0           .2
not applicable         - nil or negligible                1  Estimaated actual disbursements             4L  Excluding governmant
not available         --less than hal1f the               2/ Net of debt service
smallest unit shownm             3/ Modern sector only



Annex I
Page 4 of 4 pages
CAMEROON
BALANCE OF PAYMENI8. EXTEFXAL ASSISTANCX AND DLBT PROJECTIQRS
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Average Annual
Actual       Estimated                Projected                  Growth Rate
1971   1972   1973   1974   17     1976   1977   1978   1979 2 19      1975 - 1980
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                309    340    533    693   648     766   937   1095   1228   1358       16.o
Imports (incl. NF                  357    425    520   657    71     943   1071   1217   1382   1566       14.6
Resource Balance7X-M)                     85      13     36   -3     -177   -133   -122   -155   -207       7.7
Interest (net)                     -5.5   - 6    -11    -16   - 17  - 21   - 34   - 42    - 49   - 59      28.3
Direct Investment Income           -1.7   - 2    -14.5  - 7.7 - 8   - 8    - 11   - 15   - 21   - 28       28.5
Workers'Remittance                 -17.0  -21    -24    -33   - 34   - 39   - 45   - 52   - 59   - 68       14.9
Current Transfers (net)             15.5   15     11     20     24     30    3      _5 8   141     44      12.9
Balance on Current Accounts        -     L        1       0   -178  -2m     -a    -       -23   -Ta        12.4
Private Direct Investment           12    -25.6    4.6  -13.3 -  4    18     22     27      31    36      109.1
Official Capital Grants              7      6.8    7.2   13    24     26     28      31     34     37        9.0
Public M&LT Loans
Disbursements                     28     72.4   51.5   60     78   118    150     191   253     317       32.4
-Repayments                      - 8    - 8.8  -12.4  -16   -18    -18    -24    -32    -140   -60       27.2
Net Disbursements                   20     3.6    39.1 -_      -0G   lo0  iT2      159   213    257        33.8
Other M&LT Loans
Disbursements                      .      .      .      .      .      .      .      .
-Repayments                        .      .      .      .      .      .      .      .
Net Disbursements                    .      .      .      .      .      .      .      .
Capital Transactions n.e.i.          2     11.8  -18.7   44
Change in Net Reserves              11     42.6  -15.9    0
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Actual        Estimated
Official Grants  Grant-like         25.8   24.0   25.2   ..     24.0                                1970  1971  1972  1973    1974
Public M&LT Loans                                                      DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
IBRD                               -      -      1.7   51.6    7.5   Public Debt Outs.&Disbursed  130.3 159.8 194.5 239.9   295.1
IDA                                1.5   12.7    -     24.0   18.2
Other Multilateral                 3.5     .1   19.0    -      9.0     Interest on Public Debt      5.7   6.5   9.9   9.8    12.3
Repayments on Public Debt    7.5   9.1  15.7  16.5    19.7
Governments                        8.2   24.4   72.1   47.7   75.0     Total Public Debt Service   13.2  15.6  25.6  26.2    32.0
Suppliers                          3.4    4.7     .6   16.8   20.0     Other Debt Service (net)    ..    ..
Financial Institutions             -     15.6    -     22.0    -       Total Debt Service (net)    ..    ..
Bonds                              --    --      --    14.8    -
Public Loans n.e.i.                -      -      -     ..      -     Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Total Public M&LT Loans             16.    57.5   93.4 176.9   129.7
Public Debt Service          4.7   5.3   7.9   4.8     4.9
Total Debt Service          ..    ..
Actual Debt Oustanding on    TDS + Direct Invest.Inc.    ..    ..
Dec. 31. 1974
EXTERNAL DEBT                                   Disb. Only     Percent   Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                                      26.8           9.1       Int. as % Prior Year DO&D    5.3   5.0  6.2    5.0     5.1
IDA                                             31.3          10.6       Amort. as % Prior Year DO&D  7.0  7.0   9.8   8.5     8.2
Other Multilateral                              38.0          16.9
Governments                                    153.8          52.1     IBRD Debt Out.  Disbursed      3.4   7.7  13.8  23.1   26.8
Suppliers                                        8.5           2.9          as % Public Debt O&D     2.6   4.8   7.1   9.6     9.1
Financial Institutions                          36.6          12.4          as % Public Debt Service  3.8  6.4   5.5   8.4     8.4
Bonds
Public Debts n.e.i.                                            -       IDA Debt Out.   Disbursed     8.9  ll.o  18.4  30.1    31.3
Total Public M&LT Debt                         295.1         100.0      "   as % Public Debt O&D     6.8   6.9   9.5  12.6    10.6
as % Public Debt Service  -     0.1   0.1   0.1     0.1
Other M&LT Debts
Short-term Debt (disb. only)
not applicable                          e  staff estimates
not available                           -  nil or negligible
... not available separately                --  less than half the
but included in total                      smallest unit shown



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of July 31, 1976)
Amount (less cancellations
Loan or                                                      and refunding)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower             Purpose          Bank  TW   IDA     Undisbursed
100         1967   Cameroon        Oil Palm, Rubber                11.0          -
490         1967   CAMDEV          Oil Palm, Rubber      7.0                    0.0
593         1969   SOCAPALM        Oil Palm              7.9                    0.0
604         1969   SNEC            Water Supply          4.9                     -
161         1969   Cameroon        Education                       10.5          -
161         1975   Cameroon        Education                        1.2         0.5
180         1970   Cameroon        Roads I                          7.0         0.0
180         1975   Cameroon        Roads I                          1.0         0.0
663         1970   Cameroon        Roads I              12.0                    0.0
663         1975   Cameroon        Roads I               1.0                    0.0
687         1970   REGIFERCAM      Railways              5.2                     _
229         1971   Cameroon        Ports                            1.5          -
302         1972   Cameroon        Rice                             3.7         0.0
320         1972   Cameroon        Education II                     9.0         7.8
886         1973   SOCAPALM        Oil Palm              1.7                     -
429         1973   Cameroon        Roads II                        24.0         5.3
4291/       1976   Cameroon        Roads II                        15.0        15.0
935         1973   Cameroon        Roads II             24.0                   24.0
983         1974   Cameroon        Livestock            11.6                   10.0
1038         1974   REGIFERCAM      Railways             16.o                    2.7
1039         1974   Cameroon        Cocoa                 6.5                    5.1
574         1975   HEVECAM         Niete Rubber Estate             16.o        15.2
575         1975   Cameroon        DFC, Small Scale Enter-          3.0         3.0
S41/       1976   REGIFERCAM      Railways       prises 2.3                    2.3
.245-TI/      1976   Cameroon        Education III              17.0             17.0
1/ Not yet effective   Total              100.1  17.0 102.9      107.9
of which has been repaid               1.1   0.0   0.0
Total now outstand-
ing                99.0  17.0 102 .9
Amount sold   0.2
of which has been repaid               0.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA a/       99.0  17.0 102.9
Total undisbursed                       44.1  17.0  46.8      107.9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of July 31, 1976)
311       1975     BATA    Equity Investment
in Shoe Factory            0.4
a/ prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 100, Ln. No. 490     CAMDEV Project:  US$11 million Credit of March 28
1967; Effective Date: July 7, 1967; Closing Date:
June 30, 1972 and US$7 million Loan to CAMDEV of
same date; Effective Date: July 7, 1967; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977 (Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1974).
The planting programs are now nearly completed, satisfactorily,
and the company is entering into a much needed consolidation period. High
level management is now Cameroonized, and the take-over from the expatriate
General Manager went smoothly. However, the new General Manager, a capable
person with a financial background, needs technical support for some time.
The project is now running on a sound basis and, with some managerial improve-
ment, the prospects are good.
Ln. No. 593 and Sp. Ln.      Oil Palm Project:  US$7.9 million Loan to SOCAPALM
No. 886                    of April 15, 1969; Effective Date:   August 14,
1969; Closing Date: December 31, 1976 and
US$1.7 million Supplemental Loan of April 9,
1973; Effective Date: October 19, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is progressing satisfactorily and the planting of
8,500 ha of oil palm is nearly completed. The establishment of the last
600 ha due to be planted in 1975 will, however, be deferred until the 1976
planting season because it was necessary to use available planting stock
to replenish young palms destroyed by rodents. The second mill, at Eseka
estate, was commissioned in May/June 1975. The estate housing improvement
program is underway. Early yields are in line with appraisal projections;
palm oil prices are higher than expected but so are production costs because
of general inflation; nevertheless, the financial prospects are good.
Ln. No. 604                  Water Supply Project:   US$5 million Loan to SNEC
of June 2, 1969; Effective Date: November 4,
1969; Closing Date: December 31, 1974 (Original
Closing Date: May 31, 1972).
This project was completed on schedule with savings which have
been approved for investment in further water distribution works; however,
disbursements lagged due to the strong working capital position of the
Borrower and the closing date was postponed three times in order to allow
remaining funds to be disbursed. SNEC and Government (Guarantor) have
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7 pages
accepted the Bank's proposal for closure of the loan as of December 31, 1974
and the Bank has cancelled the unused balance of US$70,000.
Cr. No. 161, 161-1          First Education Project:  US$10.5 million Credit of
September 23, 1969; Effective Date: April 29, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976 (Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1974, first postponement December 31,
1975) and US$1.2 million Supplementary Credit of
July 30, 1975; Effective Date: October 30, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The implementation of this project was slow, especially in the
initial years. This resulted from delays in (i) selecting the consultants,
(ii) reaching agreement on schedules of accommodation, (iii) revising the
bidding documents, (iv) starting construction work for which over-priced
initial bids had to be cancelled, and (v) awarding contracts. The project
is now well managed and near completion. With the exception of additional
site-works, the construction of the project schools is completed. Almost all
furniture has been delivered and equipment delivery will soon be completed.
All the schools are in operation. The technical assistance program is about
30 months behind schedule due to slow selection process; hence the closing
date has been extended from December 31, 1975, to December 31, 1976. In May
1975 a supplementary Credit of US$1.2 million was approved to cover cost
increases due to currency realignments.
Loan No. 663, Cr. No. 180   First Highway Project:   US$12 million Loan of
March 27, 1970; Effective Date: June 1, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1973 and US$7 million
Credit of same date; Effective Date: June 1, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1973.
The entire project has been completed. Construction of the Tiko-
Victoria road was satisfactorily completed in April 1973. Construction of
the Ngaoundere-Garoua road was temporarily stopped in 1973 when failures
occurred on some newly-built sections because of drainage problems. The
road design was then partially improved, and construction was completed in
June 1975. Because of the need for these design improvements, and also due
to the effects of inflation, final project costs amounted to US$35.2 million
as compared with the original estimate of US$25.1 million. Original Bank
Group financing of US$19 million was increased by US$2 million in May 1975
to match currency realignments. Loan/Credit funds are now fully disbursed.
Ln. 687                      First Railway Project:   US$5.2 million Loan of
June 9, 1970; Effective Date: September 15, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1974.
Project execution has been satisfactory for track renewal work
and delivery of motive power and rolling stock. However, unforeseen tech-
nical difficulties such as extremely bad subsoil conditions made lengthy
studies necessary before selecting the site and the optimum design of the



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7 pages
new railway bridge at Japoma, near Douala. Bids were called at the com-
pletion of these studies, and results showed that the Loan funds allocated
to this item would be insufficient to cover the full construction costs of
the new bridge. Supplementary financing was provided under the Second Rail-
way Project. (Loan 1038-CM).
Cr. No. 229          Douala Port Project:  US$1.5 million Credit of January 14,
1971; Effective Date: April 14, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1974; (Original Closing Date: June 30, 1973).
The Douala Port Project commenced in July 1972 and physical work
under the Credit was satisfactorily completed in November 1974. Covenants
and undertakings agreed during Credit negotiations have been reasonably
fulfilled, but financial targets were not achieved. Remedial financial
measures are included in the proposed Second Douala Port Project.
Cr. No. 302          SEMRY Rice Project:  US$3.7 million Credit of April 26,
1972; Effective Date: July 28, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1976.
The project started in mid-1972 and is progressing satisfactorily.
Implementation is on schedule and the Credit has been virtually disbursed.
Results achieved by the project in the fields of production yields and agri-
cultural practice improvements have largely exceeded targets. The project
has been less successful in attracting qualified Cameroonian staff and es-
tablishing an adequate financial management but these shortcomings are
being corrected. The devaluation of the US dollar and additional works
have increased costs by about 34 percent. The Government, CCCE and FAC are
financing the cost overrun.
Cr. No. 320          Second Education Project:  US$9 million Credit of June 28,
1972, Effective Date: February 27, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Due to difficulties in selecting architects and agreeing on the
designs, project implementation is delayed by twenty-four months, but no
extension of the closing date of June 30, 1979, is expected. The project
is generally well managed, but faces severe cost overruns due to currency
realignment and the accelerated price increases which have occurred since
1973 the impact of which has been compounded by the implementation delays.
Consequently one item is to be financed under the Third Education Project.
(Loan 1245-T).
Cr. No. 429, Ln. No. 935    Second Highway Project:   US$24 million Credit of
September 26, 1973; Effective Date: December 20,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978 and
US$24 million Loan of same date; Effective Date:
December 20, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7 pages
The Government has awarded civil works contracts for all three
roads, and construction began in December 1974. Contractors started work
slowly on the Douala-Pont du Nkam (161 km) and Pont du Noun-Foumban (50 km)
roads, and delays of six months to one year are expected. Construction of
the Garoua-Mora (260km) road is progressing satisfactorily. The project
was re-appraised in September 1975 and the total cost was estimated to have
almost doubled. In view of the unexpected magnitude of the cost overruns
and the absence of additional financing from new donors, the Government
agreed to postpone construction of one road section (90 km) to reduce total
project cost. A supplementary credit of US$15 million was approved in March
1976 to help alleviate the burden imposed on the Government by the project's
cost overruns.
Ln. No. 983    Livestock Project:   US$11.6 million Loan of May 14, 1974;
Effective Date: September 16, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Project implementation is generally good and appointment of project
staff has been completed. Results obtained at one of the project ranches are
exceptionally good, but a second ranch has encountered serious start-up dif-
ficulties. Bids for the construction of the two slaughter plants were invited
in early 1976 and have been received. About 70 livestock credits are expected
to be processed during 1976, and the tsetse-fly eradication campaign is likely
to start in December 1976, as scheduled. Disbursements have been slow, but
are expected to accelerate when the construction of the slaughter plants
begins.
Ln. No. 1038    Second Railway Project:  US$16.0 million Loan to REGIFERCAM
of September 18, 1974; Effective Date: December.18, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Procurement of main project items is satisfactory. The track mate-
rial has been delivered and final delivery of rolling stock items is underway.
Although problems were encountered in the construction of the foundation for
the Japoma bridge, the works are expected to be completed by April 1977. Due
to the fluctuation in exchange rates during project implementation, additional
financing was required to cover the cost of the equipment already ordered and
of the reconstruction of the JAPOMA bridge. Consequently, the railway has
obtained a supplier's credit of US$890,000 to supplement Bank financing for
the rolling stock, and the foreign exchange cost of the consulting services
(US$925,000) originally included in this Second Railway Project have been
transferred to the Third Railway Project financed under Loan No. S4 which is
not yet effective. Due to the world slump in the timber market and recent
substantial increases in staff costs, REGIFERCAM experiences difficulty in
attaining the financial covenants included in the Loan Agreement. During the



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7 pages
negotiations of the Third Railway Project, the Second Railway Project finan-
cial targets were retained and the Government and REGIFERCAM undertook to take
the necessary measures including tariff increases to achieve the target set
for 1978/79. A first tariff increase averaging 12.4% has been implemented,
effective June 1, 1976, and subsequent tariff increases will be implemented
on July 1, 1977 and 1978, respectively.
Ln. No. 1039   Cocoa Project:   US$6.5 million Loan of September 18, 1974;
Effective Date: February 26, 1975. Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
The Project has made continuing progress in establishing its
structure as well as organizing the training program and field development.
The management is still somewhat weak and, as a result, efficient coordina-
tion of the various activities is lacking. No serious cost overruns are
expected, except for a small shortfall during the Project's first two years
which has been estimated at about US$0.3 million; Government's contribution
will be increased by this amount. The roads program component of the Project
is, however, not progressing well. Measures envisaged by the Bank are: (a)
enlisting RMWA's help in organizing a mission of the Highway Engineer to
review the situation and to make recommendations for the setup of an opera-
tional Feeder Roads Department, and (b) exploring the possibility of having
an expatriate Highway Engineer put at the head of this Department. Project
implementation in the field is proceeding satisfactorily. The project's
planting program is carried out in line with appraisal forecasts. Supply of
inputs has been satisfactorily organized and nurseries properly developed.
Credit No. 574    Niete Rubber Estate Project:   US$16.0 million Credit of
June 3, 1975; Effective Date: December 1, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
Activity at the Niete Rubber Estate got under way immediately
upon the arrival of management personnel on-site in August 1975. Some plant-
ing has already been done in advance of schedule, and a first village for
laborers is under construction. The management team, provided under con-
tract by a plantation firm, SAFACAM, is highly competent having had exten-
sive experience in Asia. Despite lateness by one Government agency in sub-
scribing its share of a necessary HEVECAM capital increase, all documents
related to credit effectiveness were received on time, and effectiveness was
declared, December 1st, 1975, as scheduled.
Credit No. 575     Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project:   US$3.0 million
Credit of July 1, 1975; Effective Date: July 30, 1976
(original effectiveness date: December 1, 1975; first
postponement: February 2, 1976; second postponement
June 2, 1976); Closing Date: December 31, 1980.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7 pages
Credit effectiveness was declared on July 30, 1976 after two
postponements. Delays were caused mainly by difficulties with the selec-
tion and appointment of three experts as technical assistance to the Banque
Camerounaise de Developpement (BCD).   Their appointment was a condition of
effectiveness of the credit.
Loan No. 1245-T   Third Education Project:   US$17.0 million Third
Window Loan of July 2, 1976; Projected Effective Date:
October 4, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The Loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. S4        Douala Railway Station and Marshalling Yard Engineering
Project: US$2.3 million Loan of June 25, 1976; Projected
Effective Date: September 27, 1976; Closing Date:
October 31, 1978.
The Loan is not yet effective.






ANNEX III
Page 1 of 5 pages
CAMEROON
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
LOAN/ CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Credit:  United Republic of Cameroon
Loan: National Ports Authority of Cameroon (NPA)
Guarantor (Loan):       Government of Cameroon
Amount:                 Credit:  US$10.0 million
Loan: US$15.0 million
Terms:                  Credit on standard IDA terms.   Loan to be amortized
over 20 years including four and a half years of grace,
at an annual interest rate of 8.9 percent.
On-lending terms        Relent to NPA for twenty years including four and half
of Credit               years of grace, with interest at 8.9 percent per annum.
Co-Financing            Co-financing arrangements are detailed on page 3 of this
Annex.
Project Description:    The Project comprises the following principal elements:
(a)  upstream port development, including new fishing
berths, cold storage and market facilities,
new dockyard and floating dry dock;
(b)  downstream port development, including an area
for handling logs, three moorings for log carrying
vessels, a berth for containers and general
cargo and a transit shed;
(c)  dredging the entrance channel;
(d)  road and rail access and other port improvements;
and
(e)  consulting services for supervision of construc-
tion. Construction is expected to start in
1976 and be completed in 1983.
Estimated Cost:         Total project cost, derived from 1976 bid prices and
estimates (including physical and price contingencies
but net of taxes and using an exchange rate of US$1 =
CFAF 225) is as follows:



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 5 pages
Local     Foreign      Total
US$ million--------
1.  Upstream port                           3.99        5.29       9.28
2.  Access                                  5.37        3.20        8.57
3.  Downstream port                        14.46       17.99       32.45
4.  Port rehabilitation                     2.32        0.34        2.66
Sub-total                         26.14       26.82       52.96
5. Contingencies
Physical                              4.28        3.67        7.95
Price                                 7.03        6.15       13.18
Sub-total                         37.45       36.64       74.09
6.  Dredging of entrance channel            3.70        21.30      25.00
7.  Floating dry dock                       0.78        3.12        3.90
8.  Fishing port buildings                  1.83        4.28        6.11
9.  Consulting services                     1.55         6.18       7.73
10.  Land acquisition                        3.33         -          3.33
TOTAL                             48.64       71.52      120.16
Notes: 1. Contingencies included in items 6 through 9.
2. No contingencies required for fixed price land acquisition.



Financing Plan
The financing plan and the allocation of finance towards project items are as follows:
P].an                                          Major terms of financing
CFAF       US$ million
Donor     Currency         Amount     billion    equivalent            Term       Grace Period     Interest p.a.
millions   approx.     approx.            (Years)         (Years)            %
CIDA       CN$               29         6.53      29.0                 50             10               -
AfDB       Units of a/c      10         2.80      12.4                 15              5                8
BADEA      US$               10         2.25      10.0                 22              3                6
IBRD       US$               15         3.37      15.0                 20              4-1/2           8.9
IDA        US$               10         2.25      10.0                 50             10               0.75
KfW        DM                20         1.80       8.0                 20             10                2
CCCE       FF                 3.75      0.75       3.3                 10              5               5.5
FAC        FF                 3.75      0.75       3.3                grant
FED        Units of a/c       4         1.1        4.9                grant
Cameroon   CFAF            5492         5.49      24.4
TOTAL (rounded)               27.09     120.4
(DM
8
oq t24
w



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 5 pages
ALLOCATIONS
Item                           Financing           Amount
CFAF             US$
Billion         Million
1.   Dredging and              IBRD/IDA   5.625           25.0
reclamation;              KfW        1.8              8.o
downstream quays          CAM        1.41             6.27
and transit shed; and     FED        1.1              4.89
port rehabilitation       FAC        0.716            3.18
10.649           47.34
2.   Road and rail             BADEA      2.25            10.0
access, utilities         AfDB       1.4              6.22
CAM        0.24             1.06
3.89            17.28
3.   Upstream port             AfDB       1.4              6.22
4.   Dockyard workshops        CCCE       0.750            3.33
FAC        0.034            0.15
0.784            3.48
5.   Dredging of entrance      CIDA       6.525           29.00
channel (including        CAM        3.093           13.75
maintenance dredging);
supply of dredger and
floating dry dock;
fishing port buildings; and
supervisory consulting
services
9.618           42.75
6.   Acquisition of land       CAM        0.0749           3.32
Total financing               27.09           120.39
Total cost estimate           27.04           120.16



ANNEX III
Page 5 of 5 pages
Estimated Disbursements:                               (US$ million)
Fiscal Year      Annual Disbursements     Cumulative Disbursements
1976/77                 6.0                       6.0
1977/78                10.8                      16.8
1978/79                 6.7                      23.5
1979/80                 1.5                      25.0
Procurement Arrangements:
The project would be executed under several contracts. However,
the main civil works (including some dredging and reclamation) would be
undertaken as a single contract in order to ensure a reasonable coordination
of the many elements of the project, and would be financed by BADEA, AfDB,
FED, KfW, FAC, CCCE, Cameroon and the Bank Group. International competitive
bidding procedures in accordance with Bank Group guidelines would apply to
this main contract with the exception of equipment and materials for the
workshop to be procured in France amounting to about 3 percent of the main
civil works contract. Following pre-qualification, bids were submitted
on March 31, 1976, and the lowest evaluated tenderer has been selected.
The major part of the entrance channel dredging, and construction of fishing
port buildings and floating dry dock, would be undertaken with tied bilateral
aid from CIDA.
Consultants:           Supervision of construction of the project would be
undertaken by consultants under CIDA financing. The
consultants would also advise on channel maintenance
dredging and train NPA staff in the use of the dredger.
The consultants have been selected in agreement with,
and under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
and the other co-donors.
Rate of Return:       The economic rate of return on the project is estimated
to be about 17 percent.
Appraisal Report:     Report No. 1123-CAM dated August 17, 1976.






M   A  LI            -c                           2' I
-'      ~~~~~~N IG E R  C HA D                                             .s-.
UPPEE'  ~~    Lake      I ~SUDAN
,VOLTAS\fCha\ 
CI"  J    N IGE RA
z  ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  /CENTRAL AFRICAN
AMEROON\S,   /
12'                                           os                    I
I            NIGERIA                        OOfl0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~CH  D
I'-  -                                               (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HA RI
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON                                 -~-Mok.1  M..i .  4
MAPGUI  o   \MA'0
ADMiNISTRATIVE DIVISIONS                                     WA NOA A   DIAAEYao
Pro...... 'Vince boundaries               ~
IS'             --  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Division  boundaries          olk,i0elei               ..-
International boundaries
YAOIUNDE 9  National capital
BERTOUA   Province capitols
EaT-n 0  DViviion Capitals
Tibut, .  Subdivision copitals
00-k. *  DintniCt capitols
Rivers                                       NU
ay0    pnl.,         T             N.r
0 20~~~10 120 l40 le1 00
N IG E RI A                                                ADAMAOUA                      e/
MEN(CHL/  IO&TN'          tny.
MANI't/.'* MbeQW~MF-A               ..........c.'
u~IBAMEND  BA MO/IN                                                   C E N T RCENTRA
Male ...r. A5jX  Fo-anb8 Mlao.o.
4-       0Fo0 Wo -
-- .   YA FkoSS A                                                       F   R   I   Cn  MA A
,  W   N t'--                                                              ..i.NO.,"  rk
Munden,ba1  ~~~o K1'i 
-     MFANkasn~-1bu               Ng..O      .- 
-~END/Nd I                       Bso.f.n Ck...Muevo  E NI T RR~L  AT-NAA
Ekr,T ,  /.OIK-b4M  ..  ks,s i  ata                        D-g~  EtoJ
- - -  ---*  -  ~ ~ ~   ebOfl~~O  *.  .':"  ;enkI~BO  -. st.  Eboko  .......
T,         I0 FKF -'t\               VYONG       D
*  '~~**ii**  ~~.,  MA~1saN~  cRa00  Essi        / -
t            ~~~~~~~~~~~YAOUNDtwsO0 oOi.MOMQ'V' Aog bn  - 
MessotduNP~~'~~l'  N Is  Mfoo i  Al orDtI,na  'Mess. nenu  ouOan
... O.                D~~~.-~  Su m gy7,flt  (Rn0p  9 ~ -nsv0'NO   l  r Z'  HAI  Y N
"  IL/A FT 1000  '' ~   ~      8'UM8   El
Ak/ . Moon  Agbarn       - vonaI                     10\
01BI         4 IVTEAyDau.
RILGUINEA  GI 
E-  IJLT~~~~~~~~ ~~,~~~L_  1'          .         4'I                              i



