FILE COPY
Report No. 1123a-ÇAM
Appraisal of a Second Douala
Port Project Cameroon
August 17, 1976
Western Africa Projects Department
Ports, Railways & Aviation Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = CFA francs(CFAF)
US$1.00         =  CFAF 225
CFAF 1 million =  US$4W,h4.
Fiscal Year: July 1 - June 30
System of Weights and Measures: Metrie
Metric                         US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                =   3.28 feet (rt)
1 cubic meter (m3)             35.29 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2   =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )  =   0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)             =   2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)           2,204 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AfDB       - African Development Bank
BADEA      - Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
CCCE       - Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique
CIDA       - Canadian International Development Agency
FAC        - Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération
FED        - Fonds Européen de Développement
KfW        - Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
ATC        - Agence Transcongolaise des Communications
CAR        - Central African Republic
CAM        - Cameroon
NPA        - National Port Authority
REGIFERCAM - Régie des Chemins de Fer du Cameroun
SEPBC      - Société pour Export des Parc a Bois Cameroun
OCCR       - Organisation Controle Conceptia Réalisation
SOGREAR    - Société Grenobloise d'Etudes et d'Applications
DSBI       - Deutsche Socretat Beratender Ingenieure
Ecocentre - Centre de Cooperation Economique de Macgregor Comarain S.A.
DSA        - Desjardins, Sauriol et Associés Ltée.
TAMCON     - Tamcon International Ltée.
CDA        - Carr & Donald & Associés.
dwt        - deadweight tons
grt        - gross registered tons



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
APPRAISAL OP SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMAR............................................ -                              i - iv
1.   INTRODUCTION  le ................... .. ..  , , I......      .     ..
2.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR   ....         ............  .......... . ..2
A. Sector Background  . ..                 ,          , ,..                  2
B. The Transport System                  ,, ,           ...    2
C.   Transport Planning and Coordination                 .     .    .3
D.   Governnent Objectives and Achievements              .     .    .        4
3.   PORT FACILITIES, ORGANIZATION, AND OPERATIONS.                                5
A. Facilities ........ . .                                                   5
B. Organization and Staffing of NPA. . .                                     6
C.   Budget, Accounts, and Audit           .     .     .........             7
D.   Operations  ......... 9. ..                       ..... .  , , , .  ..  7
4.   THE PROJECT  ..........................................                       8
A.   Objectives  ....................... .. -,*- ........                   8
B.   Description ..............          .. ,,........                       8
C.   Cost Estimates    ` ............... .  .. ...  .........  .,....       10
D. Execution                     ..............  12
E.   Procurement  ..      .........2...     ,., ,                           12
F. Financing and Disbursements                . . .                         13
G.   Ecological Effects           .........................                 15
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION ...15
A. Traffic ..                                                               15
B.   Project Components and Economic Benefits.                              17
C.   Benefit Distribution             ....................                  19
D.   Sensitivity Analysis          ...........................   .          20
This report has been prepared by Messrs. D. Grant Duff (Engineer), M. Dick and
K. Cleaver (Economists), and P. Levy, A. Engvall and D. Screwvala (Financial
Analysts).
ItUh documen bus a mtnsU*fli  iUfset sMa ey k u_  by relit oely in tbh p.rformac
et tsir officha duun. 1. 6stsu My M otasË» o   asbIod witbast Wo#i hak autholaston.



- ii 
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page_ No.
6.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION  .........................................    20
A.  Past and Present Financial Performance of NPA  .... .......    21
B.  Financing  Plan    ..........................................  21
C.  Projected Financial Performance ..........                     ................    23
D.  Secondary Ports  .........................................    25
E.  Sensitivity Analysis .........................                25
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND_ REOMMENDATION .........................    25
TABLES
1.  Project Cost Estimates
2.  Cost Estimates and Financing Allocation
3.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4.  Port of Douala - Total Import and Export Traffic, 1969-74
5.  Port of Douala - Traffic Forecasts, 1975-86
6.  Income Statements, 1972/73 - 1974/75
7.  Balance Sheets, 1972/73 - 1974/75
8.  Forecast Income Statements, 1975/76 - 1985/86
9.  Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds, 1975/76 - 1985/86
10.  Forecast Balance Sheets. 1975 - 1986
11.  Debt Service, 1976/77 - 1987/88
ANNEXES
1.  Bank Group Activities in the Transport Sector of Cameroon
2.  Description of Existing Port Organization and Facilities
3.  Main Project Characteristics
4.  List of Associated Projects
5.  Project Implementation Schedule
6.  Financing Plan
7.  Traffic Analysis
8.  Economic Evaluation
9.  Assumptions used in the Financial Statements
10.  Summary of Tariffs
11.  Financial Sensitivitv Analysis
CHART
Organization Chart of the National Port Authority (NPA)



- iii. -
Table of Contents (Continued)
MAPS
Caneroonian ports, transport routes, and forest areas - IBRD 11633
Downstream port (Log Port and Deep-water Berth) - IBRD 11635R
Upstream port (Fishing Port and Dockyard) - IBRD 11680
Channel approach to Douala - IBRD 3010 R






CAMEROON
APPRAISAL OF SECOND DOTJALA PORT PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The economy of Cameroon which is primarily rural, has developed
steadily for many years, and a 5-6% growth of Gross Domestie Product (GDP)
is projected by the Bank through 1985. Achievement of this growth level
will be largely determined by the development of exports of logs and pro-
cessed timber from the extensive forest reserves, as vell as of other agri-
cultural products. An associated increase in essential imports is also
expected to occur.
ii.       An expansion of the transport system vill be required to support
this projected growth, since population density is relatively low, and the
sources of exports are far from the ports. The Bank Group has been closely
associated with the transport sector for a number of years and has helped
finance projects for road, railway and port development, including the First
Douala Port Project (Credit 229-CM, US$1.5 million, 1971) nov completed. This
project increased port capacity to meet requirements until feasibility
studies and implementation of the complex Second Port Project now proposed
could be carried out. The feasibility studies were undertaken by consultants
OCCR/Sogreah/DSBT (France/Germany).
iii.      Douala ls Cameroon's principal citv and major port, lying at the
head of the Wouri estuary about 30 km from the open sea. The other porte
are of much leses importance and serve limited hinterlands, whereas Douala is
a focal point for both the road and rail systems of the country. Douala
possesses the basic infrastructure needed for a port, but the limited depth
of water in the long entrance channel le a handicap to port development in
view of the trend towards deeper drafts of vessels: moreover, there is very
limited room for expansion because the port is largely hemmed in by the city.
The feasibility study carried out as part of the First Port Project analyzed
the costs and benefits of development at various sites along the Wouri, and
concluded that because of the high additional infrastructure costs which
would be associated with the development at other sites, expansion of Douala
is the most economic means of providing the increased port capacity now
required.
iv.       The proposed project would satisfactorily overcome the two major
obstacles to development of the port of Douala, namely, the limited channel
depth and space for growth, to cover requirements at least for the next
decade. Under the project, the entrance channel to the port would be
dredged, and some of the material used in reclamation. Road and rail access
to the port would be improved. The existing port would be rehabilitated
and restructured to permit seaward expansion, and to provide facilities
for log exports and a deepwater berth for containers and general cargo.
Fishing berths and cold storage facilities wotuld be provided upstream.



- ii -
v.        This extensive development and restructuring of the port area
would be undertaken in conformity with development plans for both the city
and the railway, The project is estimated to cost about US$120 million
equivalent net of taxes, of which about US871 million is foreign costs.
These costs include price and physical contingencies, and are based on
consultants' estimates and on the lowest evaluated bid for the main civil
works contract,
vi.       The Covernment of Cameroon and the National Port Authority (NPA)
have asked the Bank to assist in financing the project. They have also
invited other donors to participate, and the financing plan is approximately
as follows: Bank Loan US$15 million, IDA Credit US$10.0 million, Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA) USS29.0 million, African Development
Bank (AfDB) US812.4 million, Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
(TADEA) US$10 million, Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) USS8.0 mil-
lion, French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation/Caisse Centrale de Coopera-
tion Economique (FAC/CCCE) US$6.6 million, Fonds Europeen de Developpe-
ment (FED) US$4.9 million. The balance of US$24.4 million equivalent
would be met by the Government and NPA.
vii.      The project would be undertaken under several contracts, as agreed
by co-donors and in accordance with the agreed financing plan, which would
ensure the coordination of construction works and the earliest start on the
most urgent components. The two principal items in the project are major
channel dredging and the main civil works contract. The major channel
dredging would be undertaken with a dredger and key crew provided by CIDA
and with the remaining crew and other costs borne by Cameroon. CIDA would
also finance a subsidiary civil works contract and some equipment. Procure-
ment procedures for the CIDA-financed items vould be decided by CIDA and NPA.
viii.     The main civil works contract has been put to international tender
and the lowest evaluated tender has been selected in accordance with Bank
guidelines. About 62% of this contract representing mainly downstream port
development together with port rehabilitation will be financed and disbursed
jointly by IBRD/IDA (53%), KfW (17%), FED (10%), FAC (7%) and the Government
(13%). The remainder of the civil works contract vill be financed by BADEA,
AfDB and FAC/CCCE.
ix.       Supervision of construction of the project would be the responsi-
bility of NPA, assisted by CIDA-financed consultants DSA/Tamcon/CDA under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and the other co-donors.
Construction work is scheduled to start in 1976 and to be completed by
1980, with completion of channel deepening by 1983.
x.        A critical element in the justification for the project is timber
export potential. The prospects for development of forestry sectors both in
West Africa as a whole and specifically in Cameroon were studied in depth, and



- iii -
it was concluded that potential exports through Douala would reach about
1.1 million tons in 1985. This takes into account forecasts of Cameroonian
timber to be evacuated through the secondary port of Kribi, and via the Congo
transport system Agence Transcongolaise des Communications (ATC). The exist-
ing Douala port facilities are incapable of handling either this projected
volume of timber, or the specialized log carriers which are expected to
account for an increasing proportion of timber traffic. This will be
catered for by creation of the log port, channel dredging, and improvements
in road and rail access to the port. The project envisages a progressive in-
crease in the volume of exports of sawn timber and timber producte, with a
corresponding reduction in the proportion of log traffic.
xi.       The proposed development of fishing berthe and of the cold store
and allied facilities has been decided after an assessment of fish resources
along the West African coast, and the demand for both frozen and fresh fish
within Cameroon where fish forms an essential etaple diet.
xii.      The project is expected to produce benefits through avoidance of
congestion as traffic develops, reduction in delays to shipping caused by the
present limited channel depth, economies arising from the use of specialized
log carriers now unable to use the port, and added value from the expansion
of fishing and ship-repair activities. The economic return on the project
is estimated to be 17%. The bidding on the main civil works contract has
established the bulk of the costs, however, even with an increase by 50%
in costs of items for which bids have not yet been submitted and a reduction
in benefits by 20-35%, the return is still expected to be 9-1/2%. Cameroon
will retain about 80% of total benefits through increased tariffs, avoidance
of potential shipping surcharges, and the employment generated by expansion
of fishing activity,
xiii.     The institutional environment for the transport sector has not
evolved as rapidly as the physical infrastructure. Agreement has been
reached for technical assistance to strengthen the machinery for policy-making
and coordination within the sector and to expedite studies and other preinvest-
ment work (notably in connection with forestry feeder road development, devel-
opment of the Kribi region, and future port investment needs and alternatives).
xiv.      NPA has achieved only a modest rate of return on assets since its
establishment in 1972, but its cash flow has been satisfactory due to a low
debt/equity ratio. Tariff increase proposals, which have been accepted in
principle by port users, will virtually double tariffs by 1985, and produce
a rate of return of 5% in 1981/82 and 5.4 in 1984/85. The large loan com-
ponent (over 70%) in financing of the proposed project will increase the
debt/equity ratio to a high 53/47 during project construction, but it is
expected to decline to an acceptable 33/67 by 1984/85.



- iv -
xv.       NPA's organization and administration have been reviewed, and al-
though found to be generally satisfactory,there is a weakness in the control
of port operations. The proposed project therefore provides for the appoint-
ment of an experienced Director of Operations who would examine the efficiency
of cargo-handling operations now undertaken largely by shipping companies
under lease agreements, as well as port regulations and charges to ensure that
they provide incentives for optimum cargo throughput. NPA has recently
engaged consultants under French technical assistance to review its mannage-
ment structure, and has agreed that recommendations of the study would be
discussed with the Bank and the agreed plan of action implemented.
xvi.      In view of the need to minimize the heavy expense of maintaining
the entrance channel to the port, NPA has arranged for observation of the
siltation behavior of the dredged channel during the project construction
period, so that a plan could be devised within one year of the channel
deepening, for the best method and equipment for maintenance dredging:
this plan would be subject to Bank approval. The proposed project pro-
vides for training of NPA staff in operation of a dredger to be supplied
by CIDA for the channel deepening.
xvii.     NPA would have to prepare lease agreements for operation of the
new general cargo/container berth, as vell as for the new cold store and
other fishing port facilities. NPA has provided assurances that these
lease agreements would be prepared after consultation and agreement with
the Bank on the underlying policy objectives. This arrangement is intended
to ensure that the berth is operated with adequate cargo-handling equipment
as a common user facility. and that the fishing port facilities are managed
by experienced lessees.
xviii.    The proposed project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$15 million
to the National Port Authority of Cameroon as Borrower, with the Government
of Cameroon as guarantor and for an IDA credit of USS10.0 million to the
Government of Cameroon on standard terms. An appropriate Loan term would
be 20 years including 4-1/2 years of grace.



CAMEROON
APPRAISAL OF SECOND DOtJALA PORT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The National Port Authority (NPA) and the Government of Cameroon
have asked the Bank to join other donors in financing a project to meet the
port of Douala's needs through 1985. The proposed proiect is to provide
port facilities which the country would require to meet projected growth
of general cargo and log traffic.
1.02      The new facilities would cater primarily for projected log exports,
container traffic, and fishing development, The entrance channel to Douala
port would be deepened to accommodate vessels of increased size, especially
specialized log and container carriers. Road and rail access to the port
would be improved, in conformity with development plans of the city and of
the Railway. The project would be capable of further development to meet
future traffic, particularly with regard to containers and to increased log
exports.
1.03      The project would meet the recommendations of a consultants' study
under which alternative sites along the Cameroonian coast and also within
the Wouri estuary were considered for development of deep-water port facili-
ties for future general cargo, container traffic, and log exports. Douala
was selected as the most suitable site for immediate development because of
its accessibility by rail to a large area of forest reserves in southern
and eastern Cameroon, and because of its already established port infra-
structure. Loge and timber producte would continue to be exported largely
through Douala, although a limited development program is being undertaken
at the secondary port of Kribi in the south to cater for expansion of its
road-transported exports, Over the longer term, the consultants' study
envisaged the possible development of facilities for containers, oil-tankers,
and possibly bauxite traffic at Pointe Limboh which is close to natural deep
water (see Map 3010R).
1.04      Total project cost is estimated at about US$120 million equivalent
net of taxes, including foreign costs of about US$71 million (60%). To
help finance the project, a Bank Loan of US915 million and an IDA Credit of
US$10 million are proposed; other contributors would provide a total of
US$70.99 million equivalent as follovs: CIDA IJS$29.0 million, AfDB US$12.44
million, BADEA US$10.0 million, KfW US$8.0 million, FAC/CCCE US$6.66 million,
and FED US$4.89 million. The Government and NPA would provide the balance of
US$24.4 million equivalent.
1.05      The Association has already financed a First Douala Port Project
(Credit 229-CM, US$1,5 million, 1971), which provided an additional berth
for handling cement clinker and industrial products and other miscellaneous
items; the project has been satisfactorily completed. Other Bank Group
operations in the transport sector include two projects for highway develop-
ment and two for railways! details of these projects are given in Annex 1.



-2-
1.06      This report is based on information prepared by consultants OCCR/
Sogreah/DSBI (France/Germany) and Ecocentre (France), by NPA and the Regie
des Chemins de Fer du Cameroun (Regifercam), and on the findings of Bank
missions. The report has been prepared by Messrs. D. Grant Duff (Engineer),
M. Dick and K. Cleaver (Economists), and P. Levy, A. Engvall and D. Screwvala
(Financial Analysts).
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Sector Background
2.01      The populatio~ of Cameroon is about 6.5 million, and the country
covers about 475,000 km . A predominantly rural economy, strongly export/
import-oriented, is nov more or less adequately served by the primary
transport network following a major investment effort over the last ten years
to strengthen and extend the system. However. increasing strains have been
placed on the system as a result of the increase in traffic associated vith
growth in Gross Domestic Produet (GDP) of about 7% p.a. during the 1960's.
Although this growth has slowed down in recent years, a 5-6% p.a. rate of in-
crease in GDP is projected during the next decade, and this will substantially
increase the pressure on the transport system. Achieving the above growth
rate will depend on energetic efforts to expand production and transport
the products, particularly from vithin the agricultural and forestry areas
where transport infrastructure is still inadequate.
2.02      In recent years, largely because of the need to remedy the lack of
basic infrastructure and its high cost over long distances, the transport
sector has absorbed some 42% of total public investment. The critical
issues nov are: (i) to ensure that the transport system can handle projected
demand while not continuing to absorb a disproportionate share of the country's
limited investment resources; (ii) to improve the standard of highway main-
tenance; and (iii) to ensure the availability of the necessary financial
resources.
B.   The Transport Sy_tem
2.03      Douala is the focal point of the Cameroon transport system  and
handles considerable Chadian and Central African Republic traffic.  Its port
handles nearly 90% of total Cameroon external trade and is the starting point
for the two main axes of road and rail transport to West Cameroon and to
Yaounde and the north respectively, which serve the main centers of economic
activity. These are concentrated in the coastal region around Douala, and
in the regions of Yaounde, Bafoussam, and Maroua in the north  the southeast
is relatively unexploited. Each region has its own road network around the
main population centers, feeding into the principal axes and serving local
needs.



-3-
2.04      Douala port has three main forms of traffic:  bulk, timber, and
general cargo which includes other agricultural exports, Bulk traffic com-
prises alumina, petroleum, and clinker imports whlch are handled by special-
ized facilities of adequate capacity. The general cargo and timber berths
are currently over-utilized, With forecast increases in both import and
export traffic, particularly of timber, congestion will rapidly occur, with
costly ship delays and diversion to other ports (Kribi and Victoria) unless
substantial investment is undertaken. The proposed Second Douala Port Proj-
ect would largely segregate timber from general cargo traffie and provide
the capacity necessary for both at least until 1985. Some investment is
currently being made at Kribi to serve local requirements. Traffic and
prospects at the port of Victoria are insignificant.
2.05      The railway system comprises two lines.  The line serving West
Cameroon has old equipment and rolling stock and is neither of major economic
importance nor suitable for other than minor investments. The Transcameroon
system comprises the old central line to Yaounde (300 km), which handles the
bulk of the railway's traffic, and the recently completed continuation to
N'Gaoundere (600 km), which at present carries little traffic except timber
from Belabo (300 km from Yaounde).
2.06      The road system between Douala and West Cameroon competes wvth
the old Northern railway line and serves local markets. Between Douala
and Yaounde it largely complements the railway, with roads feeding into
the rail system. Growing traffic congestion in this corridor has led to
an ongoing study of alternative investment policies (para. 2.11). In the
north, an extensive road system continues the Transcameroon Railway towards
Chad, and also serves local market requirements wvth adequate capacity for
many years to come.
C.   TranprtPlanningand Coordination
2.07      The Ministry of Transport is formally responsible for transport
planning, but the Ministry of Planning and the Economy has considerable in-
fluence on investment priorities in the sector, The Ministry of Equipment,
presently responsible for roads, conceptually acts largely as an executing
agency, None of the Ministries has adequate transport administration and
economic staff; the overall long-term development strategy and system of
project preparation and evaluation have not been firmly established. Al-
though as a result, non-economie considerations may tend to have had dis-
proportionate influence on investment decisions, this has not led to a signifi-
cant misallocation of resources. However, as a result of current transport
problems -- such as the choice between road and rail investment in the
Douala-Yaounde corridor (where a railway realignment from Yaounde
to Otele has already commenced), road upgrading versus network expansion, and
the inter-relationship of transport investment with regional development as
vell as the possibility of a separate highway authority nov under considera-
tion -- it will be necessary to achieve a marked strengthening of the machinery
for policy-making and coordination vithin the sector and expeditious imple-
mentation of studies and preinvestment vork in a number of areas.



- 4 -
2.08      Attempts to reinforce the organization and machinery of planning
have not been very successful, but there are nov indications of growing Gov-
ernment awareness of departmental veaknesses, and a technical assistant has
recently been appointed to advise the Ministry of Transport. Agreement has
been reached with the Government on the steps to be taken to further improve
the planning capabilities of the Ministries of Planning, Transport & Equip-
ment, as a development of proposals initiated under the Second Highway
Project.  These steps vill take the form of, firstly, recruitment of five
technical assistants, comprising three economists - one for each Ministry -
and two engineers for the Ministry of Equipment. Secondly, appropriate
work programs for these personnel and their counterparts will be established.
For the economists these will include inter alia compilation of highway data
and its analysis to establish road transport costs and road investment
priorities, co-ordination and initiation of sub-sectoral studies, and
examination of transport and closely allied sectoral investment plans to
ensure cross-sectoral consistency. The engineers would be concerned respec-
tively with construction and maintenance projects and the production of
technical data necessary as inputs to the work of the economists. Negotiations
are currently underway between the Government and consultants for recruitment
of the above personnel whose services would be financed partly under the
Second Highway Prolect and partly under a proposed technical assistance
project.
D.  Government Object ives and Achievements
2.09      During the Third Plan (1971-76), investments in the transport sector
are estimated to total over CFAF 80 billion (out of total public sector
expenditure of about CFAF 200 billion). The primary objectives were to sub-
stantially improve the transport links between Yaounde and the north and to
take the initial steps to improve east/vest communications in the country.
The Government has been largely successful in these efforts.
2.10      In the Fourth Plan (1977-81). Government objectives are to ensure
expansion of the capacity of Douala port and of the railway line in the central
Douala-Yaounde corridor, in order to meet traffic demands forecast for the
next decade as agricultural and forestry exports increase and as imports
grow. The choice of the railway as the economically optimal investment
approach for the Douala/Yaounde corridor is, however, not obvious.  The ongoing
Second Railway Project (Loan 1038-CM, US$16 million, 1974) includes financing
of a study of modal coordination in the corridor which is scheduled for
completion by December 1976: the results of this study will provide guidance
as to the best investment policy. bearing in mind the prospects for both road
and rail developrent.
2.11      One-third of the road program is devoted to completion of ongoing
projects: however, there are now clear indications that in the future less
emphasis will be placed on primary road development and more on road mainte-
nance and secondary road development, which are essential to projected
increases in economic growth and in traffic. A highway maintenance study
financed under the Second Highway Project (Loan 935-CM/Credit 427-CM, US$48
million, 1973) has recently commenced.



2.12      The Government has made only little progress in establishing the
necessary strategy, policy, and institutions for utilization of forestry
resources, an essential pre-condition for developing an appropriate road
program in the newer or less developed forestry areas. These measures
include the appointment, not later than September 1, 1976, of two consultants
to assist the Ministry of Agriculture in the formulation of forestry policy
and legislation. The Bank has recently agreed with the Government on the
appropriate terms of reference which, together with the names of suggested
personnel, have been submitted to Government who are now actively considering
them.
Lon er-Term Prospects
2.13      The Government's Fourth Plan objectives refer to a balanced regional
development and a fuller utilization of resources, and the transport needs
associated with these: however, the strategy is not clear, and the transport
implications have not been fully developed. The tendency is to concentrate
transport investment on the Douala-Yaounde corridor. While this is currently
appropriate, the long-term transport requirements of the region south of the
corridor may require that consideration be given to the possibility that
development of port facilities in the Kribi area in the mid-1980's could
relieve pressure on Douala. Accordingly, towards the end of the 1970's, a
follow-up will be necessary to the studies carried out on the Douala-Yaounde
corridor, forestry road development, and the Kribi master plan, in order to
produce a systematic long-term program for transport investment in the south-
ern part of Cameroon as a whole. Discussion with the Government on this
issue has already been initiated, and will be one of the subjects to which
the transport economist technical assistant allocated to the Ministry of
Transport will be expected to give close attention.
3. PORTPFACILITIES, ORGANIZATION, AND OPERATIONS
A.   Facilities
3,01      The port of Douala lies on the Wouri estuary some 3n km from the
ocean, The entrance channel has a limiting depth of about 5 m below water
datum, and this restricts the size of fully-laden vessels which may enter
or leave port to about 3,500 dwt at high-water; however, vessels of up
to about 16,000 dwt use the port when light.
3,02      Port facilities are largely on the Douala side of the estuary
bordering the town, where they comprise a marginal wharf totalling almost
1,700 m (nominally eleven berths), with supporting transit sheds and a
limited open storage area, a shallow quay and stacking area for handling
log exports, as well as a small fishing berth and dockyard.  On the opposite
side of the estuary at Bonaberi, there is a wharf used mainly for imports
of cement clinker and for banana exports. All berths are served by road and
rail, and a bridge connects both sides of the estuary. Petroleum imports
are handled at a mid-channel berth, Annex 2 gives details of the installa-
tions at Douala port and information on other ports administered by NPA.



- 6-
B.   Organization and Staffin&__f NPA
3.03      NPA is the authority for administration of all Cameroonian coastal
and river ports, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport and
Communications. NPA was established in 1972 with the cooperation of the
Association under the terms of the First Douala Port Project (Credit 229-CM).
The extent of NPA's powers and obligations, its organizational structure
(see Chart), and the nomination of its Director-General have all been agreed
with the Bank under that project.
3.04      Staff at present totals 1,089 including 39 at the upper adminis-
trative levels, which represents an increase in staff numbers since NPA's
establishment of about 18%. Both the numbers and the organizational system
are generally acceptable, but there is score for some consolidation at the
upper levels in view of the number of positions provided and the limited
needs of a port authority of this size. In addition, the post of Director
of Operations is vacant. and the work is presently undertaken by the Harbor
Master. NPA has accordingly arranged for consultants ISIS (France) with
FAC finance to review its management structure. NPA has agreed to discuss
the recommendations of the study with the Bank, to implement the agreed
plan of action, and to appoint a Director of Operations whose experience
and qualifications are acceptable to the Bank no later than December 31, 1976.
NPA also agreed to prepare a manpower plan showing its expected staff requirements
(by year and category) over the next five years, together with proposals for
meeting these requirements (para. 3.07), this manpower plan to be submitted to the
Bank for review by June 30, 1977.
3.05      NPA's collaboration with the Government in reasonably satisfactory,
but its representation in the planning of the industrial zones at Douala has
lapsed, although this was required under the terms of Credit 229-CM. The
Government has agreed to ensure resumption of NPA's representation.
Traiingand Advisory Services
3.06     IJnder the terms of Credit 229-CM and in accordance with agreements
between NPA and the Bank, NPA has arranged since 1972 for the training of
staff and for the engagement of expert advisory staff in certain specific
areas, In accounting and budgetary control, consultants IDET, CEGOS, and
BCEOM (France) provided experts who have improved procedures and trained
NPA staff in the use of computers. In order to improve its maintenance
dredging operation, NPA retained experts from Bos Kalis (Netherlands)
to assist in operation of its cutter suction dredger "Garoua". An expert
from the United Nations Conference for Trade and Development (UNCTAD) has
advised on cargo movements and on the tariff structure.
3.07      The above training and the use of advisors has been successful,
and under the proposed project would be continued in several fields in-
cluding maintenance dredging with CIDA-financed technical assistance (para.
4.06). NPA also has a continuing arrangement with the ports of Marseilles
and Dakar under which its middle-management staff can be sent for short



- 7 -
training courses in various aspects of port operations. Training of low-
er-level staff is provided on the lob. The present arrangements for train-
ing are satisfactory and should be continued: to this end, NPA has agreed
to provide assurances that it vwll submit annually for Bank approval, its
proposals for staff training during the period 1977-81.
C.   BudSetL Accounts   and Audit
3.08      NPA's annual operating and capital budgets are prepared by its
management and made operative after approval by its administrative council.
NPA's modern accounting system, introduced with the assistance from con-
sultants, provided for under Credit 229CM, conforms to the standards
recommended by the Organisation Commune des Etats Africains et Malgache
(OCAM) and is generally satisfactory. However, some modifications of the
accounts classification would be desirable to clarify the difference between
capital and recurrent costs for minor items. These modifications vill be
introduced over the next two years during computerization of the accounts.
3.09      NPA's accounts are audited by a "Commissaire aux comptes" who is
appointed jointly by the Ministers of Finance and of Transport in compliance
with the Governmental Decree establishing NPA. Both the provisions of the
law and the independence of the auditor, who is a State Financial Inspector,
meet Bank Group guidelines regarding the audit of Borrovers' accounts. How-
ever, because of the shortage in qualified state financial inspectors, the
Government has agreed that NPA should have its accounts audited by a private
auditing firm.  NPA is looking for a firm acceptable to the Bank to audit its
1975-76 and subsequent accounts, Further, the Governuent has agreed to (a)
take appropriate action to improve the quality of this audit, particulary
by including comments on financial management, and (b) subuit audited finan-
cial statements to the Bank for review and approval vithin six monthe after
the end of each fiscal year.
3.10      NPA has insurance coverage for road vehicles (as legally required),
equipment or buildings rented or hired out (and for which the hirer or tenant)
pays), buildings (including equipment) against fire and explosions, harbor
floating craft for public liability, and theft of electronic equipment.  All
other normal risks are met from NPA's own funds, which is an acceptable
practice.
D.   Operations
3.11      NPA's functions at Douala port include maintenance of the entrance
channel by dredging and pilotage. NPA also operates a dockyard, slipway,
and floating dry dock, and it maintains the quays and sheds, General cargo is
handled by a number of shipping companies using their own equipment: these
companies lease transit sheds at the port. Log traffic, currently the most
important cargo at Douala port, is handled by the Societe pour Export des
Parc a Bois Cameroun (SEPBC) which is owned partly by NPA and partly by
companies active in the timber industry. Alumina and its products are
handled by ALUCAM which is partly state-owned, Consignees use their own
labor to collect cargo. There are no restrictions on night or holiday working,
and operations continue for 12 hours per day on average. Details on port
operations are given in Annex 2,



- 8 -
3.12      The efficiency of cargo-handling operations at Douala is reasonable
compared to many other West African ports, but improvements need to be effected
in two areas, log handling and maintenance dredging. At present, about 85%
of log traffic arrives at the port by rail and, after sorting at an area up-
stream, is moved along the quay for loading on vessels at the general cargo
berths.  This movement of logs hampers the smooth cross-flow of general cargo
traffic from vessels to transit sheds and also contributes to severe deter-
ioration of the quay surface. The proposed project provides for construction
of a new log port to enable separation of log traffic from genera' cargo.
As regards maintenance dredging, operations are relatively expensive because
NPA's dredger is small in relation to the long distances that have to be
travelled to deposit the dredged material. Proposals for improving the
operational efficiency of maintenance dredging will be considered under the
proposed project (para. 4.06).
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Obecttves
4.01      The principal objectives of the proposed pro1ect are as follows:
(i) to provide additional capacity at Douala port for
projected traffic, and in particular to provide
separate log facilities by the creation of a log
port;
(ii) to increase the depth of the access channel to
Douala port, at present only about 5 m below low
water, to enable specialized log carriers of up to
20,000 dwt, and semi-specialized container ships,
to use the port: and
(iii)  to improve road and rail access to the port and
traffic flow within the port area.
The project would be the major item in NPA's investment proRram under the
Government's Fourth Development Plan (1977-81).
B.   Description
4.02      The project would comprise the following principal comnonents:
(i) Downstream port development. including an area for handling
logs, three moorings for log-carrying vessels, and a berth
for containers and general cargo (Map 11635R).
(ii)  Upstream port development, including new fishing berths,
cold store and market facilities, and a new dockyard
(Map 11680).



- 9 -
(iii) Dredging the entrance channel (Map 3010 R).
(iv) Road and rail access and other port improvements
(Map 11680).
(v) Consulting services for supervision of construction.
Details of the proposed project are given in Annex 3 and summarized in
paras. 4.03 - 4.07 below.
Downstream Port Develo ment
4.03      At the downstream port, logs would generally arrive by rail at
new sidings on the reclaimed area (20 ha), and would then be moved by tugs
from the sheltered log basin for loading on specialized vessels at moorings
in the channel.
4.04      The proposed container/general cargo berth would be 240 m long
and 9.5 m deep with a large open storage area and a transit shed. There
would be an option under the civil works contract to extend the berth to
400 meters- this option would be exercised only after agreement with the
Bank on the economic and financial justification. The berth would be
operated as a common user facility, using mobile cranes and cargo-handling
equipment provided by the shipping companies. The design would allow ready
adaptation of the berth for future use with rail-mounted container cranes
and deepening to 11.5 m. In order to ensure that the specialized facilities
at this berth are available to all shippers, NPA has agreed that the formu-
lation of policy governing the preparation of lease agreements for opera-
tions at the berth will be undertaken in consultation and agreement with
the Bank.
Upstream Port Development
4.05      The proposed project would provide new facilities required to
promote development of the fishing industry, as follows: berths totalling
530 m and generally of 5 m depth, cold store, ice plant, market hall, and
related facilities.  In order to ensure that this new venture would not
unreasonably strain NPA's management capability, NPA has agreed that these
facilities would be operated by experienced fishing companies, and that
the lease agreements for these fishing interests would be prepared after
consultation vith the Bank on the underlying policy objectives. The pro-
posed dockyard, including workshops and a 500 ton floating dry dock, would
replace facilities to be demolished to permit the seaward expansion of the
port.
Dredyn_ the Access Channel
4.06      The entrance channel to the port would be deepened by dredging
in soft material to a depth of 7.5 m over most of its length (22 km);
the outer bar would be dredged to 9.5 m. The existing two-lane channel
width would be retained. CITA would supply a dredger and key crew to



- 10 -
undertake this work, and would train NPA staff in tise of the dredqer.
Recause siltation in the deepeneAi channel is exnected to he ereater than
at present, the behavior of the channel will he closely monitored durine
the deepenine operations with a view to establishinç, within one year of
completion of the works. a plan for future maintenance dredging operations.
The proposed monitoring process will include a determination of the suit-
ability of NPA's existinz dredger "Garoua" for future maintenance dredging.
NTPA has agreed to carry out the maintenance dredging plan after Bank approval.
Road and Rail Access, and Other Port Improvements
4.07      The proposed prolect provides for imDrovement on road and rail
access to the port and for construction of new railway marshalling yard
facilities within the Port area.  Consultants will carry out a feasibility
study under the Third Failway Project to determine the size of a marshalling
yard at the new Douala Station outside the port area, as well as ensure
coordination of this yard with the railway facilities within the port.  NPA
has agreed that it will implement the consultants' recommendations, adlusted
as necessary to incorporate any changes or modifications mutually aereed
with Regifercam and the Bank. To allow construction of the proposed
improvements. some buildings near the most seaward of the existing gen-
eral cargo berths would be denolished and the area incorporated within
a new Dort houndary to improve traffic circulation within the port.
Regifercam and the Douala city authorities have collaborated with YPA
and their consultants in preparation of the plan for this port expansion
and creation of an enlarged customs area. The Government has given assur-
ances that all legal and other necessary steps will be taken to ensure
formal acquisition by NPA of the enlareed port area so that it will he
available not later than July 1978 to suit the estimated construction
schedule.  The project also provides for improvement of the paved area
of the port which has deteriorated under heavy traffic, particularly loes.
Associated Works
4.05      A number of associated works wouJd have to be undertaken to allow
impleTnentation of the pronosed port prolect.  "A and the Government have
agreed that thev will carry out a plan satisfactory to the Bank coverine the
execution anA financing of the followinq works as detailed in &nnex 4:  (i) re-
location of the naval base- (ii? lowering the oil pipeline- (iii) modifica-
tion to municiDal utilities- (iv) provision of canoe beach facilities: (v)
improvement of road access to Bonaberi berth, Bonaberi industrial zone and
across the Wouri bridRe  (vi) future commercial. facilities within the port:
(vii) provision of cargo handline equi,iDent  and (viii) construction of a
railway marsballing yard outside the Dort area.
C.   Cost Estimates
4.n9      The total proiect cost, calculated in 1976 base prices (including
Physical and price contingencies but net of taxes) is estimated at approxi-
mately CFAF 27 billion (VSS120 million equivalent), inclutdine foreiqn costs



- il -
of about US$71 million equivalent. The Government has decreed that all
taxes and duties on project construction and supervision will be waived.
Cost estimates are detailed in Table 1 and summarized below-
CFAF million             US$ million / __     of
Local forei Tn Total   Local  Forein   Total  Total
I   (i) Upstream port               650.8    874.5   1525.3   2.89    3.89        6.78      6
(ii) Access                    1207,6    721.2   1928.8   5.37    3.20         8.57      7
(iii) Downstream port           2847.7   3627.6   6475.3  12.66   16.12    28.78    24
(iv) Buildings                  425.2    365.3    817.5   1.89    1.74         3.63     3
(v) Contingencies /2          2112.0   2007.1   4119.1   9.39    8.92    18.31    15
II       Additional berth /3         330.5    497.9    828.4   1.47    2.21        3.68      3
III       Port rehabilitation /3   _852.5    123.2    957.7   3.78    0.56          4.34      4
Subtotal              8426.3   8243.8  16670.1  37.45   36.64    74.09    62
IV       Dredging of entrance
channel /3  /4           832.5   4792.5   5625       3.70   21.30    25.00    21
V       Floating dry dock /3        176       702      878      0.78    3.12      3.90      3
VI       Fishing port
buildings /3             413       962      1375     1.83    4.28       6.11     5
VII       Consulting Services /3    348        1392      1740     1.55    6.18       7.73     6
VIII       Land acquisition            749        -        749     3.33      -        3.33     3
Totale                10944.8  16092.3  27037.1  48.64   71.52   120.16   100
/1   Exchange rate - IJS$1.0 - CFAF 225.0.
/2   Contingencies in item I include physical 15% and price 1976, 13%; 1977, 11 1/2%;
1978 to 1979, 11%.
/3   Contingencies included in items Il through VII.
/4   Cost of dredging in item IV includes supply of dredger, and maintenance dredging
during the channel deepening period.



- 12 -
4.10      The cost estimates for most of the civil works are based on the
lowest evaluated bid price submitted in March 31, 1Q76 following interna-
tional competitive hidding, with appropriate physical and price contingen-
cies. Cost estimates for the small remaining amount of civil works and for
the floating drv dock are based on those by consultants OCCR/Sogreah/PSM1
and apIpear reasonable. The cost estimate used for the dredRing of the port
entrance channel is that agreed by CllA and NPA, who will undertake this part
of the project. The estimate implies a dredging unit rate which appears low
and is based on rates for physical and price contingencies which are lower
than those which the Rank would normallv adopt.  Nevertheless Cameroon has
confirmed that it will if necessary arrange additional finance for any
shortfall, and Cameroon would be able to bear this cost. Cost estimates
for project supervision are based on estimates by consultants TSA/Tamcon/CDA 1/
(Canada). These project cost estimates exclude the training of NPA staff
in a veariety of disciplines, including oneration of the new dredger, for
which CIDA has allocated UJSS1.0 million equivalent.
D.   Execution
4.11      NPA would he responsible for execution of the prolect, with assis-
tance rrovided by consultants DSA/Tamcon/CDA to be financed bv CIllA (estimated
about 80 man-vears of consulting services). The consultants have been
selected in agreement with, and on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank and the other co-donors.
4.12      In view of the need to coordinate the views of firms and authorities
involved in project construction and to fulfill NPA's responsibility for
project execution, NPA has agreed to designate no later than September 30,
1976, a Project Officer with the rank of Assistant Director-General, whose
qualifications, experience and terms of employment are acceptable to
the Bank. The Project Officer would be authorized to act in the absence
of the Director-General in matters affecting project execution. NPA has
also arranged to strengthen its staff during the project construction period
by the recruitment of two engineers, one specialized in structures, the other
in maritime engineering, under French technical assistance. Agreement has
been reached with the Government, NPA and the co-donors that the Bank would
undertake its customary role in the supervision of the entire project. Civil
works construction is expected to start in 1976 and to be completed bv 1980
and channel deepening by 1983; the proposed implementation schedule is shown
in Annex 5.
E.   Procurement
4.13      The project would be executed under the following principal contracts
and bidding procedures:
(i)  Main civil works (comprising         Under international competitive bid-
items I & Il in the cost es-        ding in accordance with Bank Group
timate para. 4.09).                  guidelines.  Materials and equip-
ment for the FAC/CCCE financed dock-
yard workshops would be procured in
French franc zone.
l/   Desjardins, Sauriol et Associes Ltee./Tamcon International Ltee./Carr &
Donald & Associes.



- 13 -
(ii)  Port rehabilitation.                 Local competitive bidding proce-
dures acceptable to the Bank.
(iii)  Dredger supply.                      Under CIDA procedures with bilateral
aid.
(iv)  Supply of additional                 Under NPA procedures.
dredging equipment.
(v)  Crew for dredger operation.          Under CIDA procedures with bilat-
eral aid.
(vi)  Floating dry dock.                   Under CIDA procedures with bilat-
eral aid.
(vii)  Fishing port buildings               Under CIDA procedures with bilat-
(including equipment).              eral aid.
(viii)  Consulting services.                 Under CIDA procedures with bilat-
eral aid.
These arrangements have been agreed upon by donors and by Cameroon and pro-
vide for appropriate Cameroonian participation and for unified control of
the main civil works.
4.14      The main civil works contract would be divided into parts against
which the respective donors would disburse as shown in Table 2.
4.15      The lowest evaluated tenderer for the main civil works contract has
been selected in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. No domestie construc-
tion firms sought prequalification individually for the main civil works
contract in view of their lack of experience in this specialized field.
There vould, however, be opportunities for such firms to work as subcontractors
to the successful tenderer for this contract and to bid for the improvement
works at the existing port.
4.16      CIDA will arrange competitive bidding from Canadian sources for the
items it proposes to finance under procurement procedures to be decided by CIDA
and NPA.
F.   Financing and Disbursements
4.17      Donors and the Goverument have prepared a financing plan (Annex 6)
which agrees closely with the project cost estimates. A condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Bank Loan and the IDA Credit will be the receipt
of assurances satisfactory to the Bank that full financing for the project
has been secured.



- 14 -
Item                           Financin8             Amount               Approximate
CFAF             US$            % of
Billion      Million            item
1.   Dredging and               IBRD/IDA      5.625          25.0             53
reclamation,               KfW           1.8             8.0             17
downstream quays 1/        Cameroon      1.41            6.27            13
and transit shed,          FED           1.1             4.89            10
port rehabilitation        FAC           0.716           3.18             7
10.649         47.34            100
2.   Road and rail               BADFA        2.25            10.0             58
access, utilities          AfDB          1.4             6.22            36
Cameroom      0.24            1.06             6
3.89           17.28           100
3.   Upstream port              AfDB           1.4             6.22           100
4.   Dockyard workshops          CCCE          0.750           3.33            96
FAC           0.034           0.15             4
0.784           3.48           100
5.   Dredging of entrance       CIDA          0.525           29.00            68
channel (including         Cameroon      3.093          13.75            32
maintenance dredging).
Supply of dredger
and floating dry dock.
Fishing port buildings.
Supervisory consult-
ing services
9.618         42.75            100
6.   Acquisition of land        Cameroon      0.749           3.32           100
Total financing                       27.09          120.39
Total cost estimate                   27.04          120.39
1/   Includes additional deep water berth.



- 15 -
4.18      CIDA would arrange with NPA appropriate disbursement procedures for
items which it finances. Each donor would be responsible for disbursing in
the proportion of its financial contribution to the estimated total cost of
the relevant part of the contract. The proposed Bank Loan and IDA Credit
would represent about 21% of total project financing or about 53% of funds
allocated to the component of the main civil works contract.
4.19      Assuming Loan and Credit signature by September 1976, disbursements
from the toan and Credit are foreseen approximately as detailed in Table 3.
G.   Ecolo ical Effects
4.20      Dredging is presently undertaken on a regular basis to maintain the
entrance channel at its current depth. Dredging to deepen the entrance channel
and the subsequent continuous maintenance dredging necessary to remove siltation
would not have a significant effect upon the regime of the estuary. No change
is foreseen upon artisanal fishing activity as a result of the project. The
reclamation under the project would change a short length of the existing
shoreline, but its effect on the hydrographic regime of the estuary would be
negligible.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   Traffie
5.01      Total commercial (excluding fishing) traffic through Douala port
increased from 1.65 million tons in 1969 to 2.09 million tons in 1974 (Table 4).
Of these totals, about 30 - 40% vas bulk traffic which does not pass through
general cargo facilities and is therefore not affected by the proposed proj-
ect. Project-related traffic grew from 1,18 million tons in 1969 to 1.34 mil-
lion tons in 1973, and then dropped slightly to 1.32 million tons in 1974 due
to a sharp cyclical decline in timber exports.
5,02      Future prospects for Cameroonian imports and exports, and inter
alia, traffic passing through Douala, have been examined in detail by con-
sultants, Their forecasts to 1985/86 have been employed as a basis for
Douala general cargo demand forecasts detailed in Table 5, modified to take
into account the additional information noted below. Over 1974-86, general
cargo import traffic is expected to increase by about 6.1% p.a, and exports
by about 7,6% p.a., compared with respective averages of 8% and 7% p.a. over
1960-74.  A detailed traffic analysis is given in Annex 7.
Timber Traffic
5,03      Timber exports are critical to total demand on non-bulk Douala port
facilities; they accounted for 35% of general cargo traffie in 1973 and 30%
in 1974. The consultants' forecasts (of 1.6 million tons in 1985/86 compared
with 0.48 million tons in 1973) have been modified to take into account the



- 16 -
findings of the most recent studies of forestry potential in West Africa
and the assumptions regarding evacuation of timber from south-east Cameroon
via the Agence Transcongolaise des Communications (ATC) system, as contained
in the Congo Second Railway Project appraisal report (Report No. 745a-COB
dated March 9, 1976).
5.04      The probable volume of Douala timber exports, which makes allowance
for problems of coordination between the forestry sector, Government and
transport modes, is 1.17 million tons in 1985- of this, about 0.92 million
tons are expected to be logs. Exports in log equivalents grev by 8.5% p.a.
during 1969-73 and at over 7% p.a, over the longer period 1960-73. In 1974,
however, there was a sharp decline in exports due primarily to recession in
Europe, and recovery has only recently commenced, It is assumed that recovery
will continue and that the 1969-73 rate of export growth will be reattained.
This forecast increase over the long-term growth rate is primarily a function
of the improvement in the total transport system either underway or expected
(including the Second Railway Project, the present port project, and future
forest road developments).
General Cargo Traffic
5.05      The consultants' forecasts for imports of foodstuffs and miscel-
laneous items have been increased. This increase takes into account (i)
the historical relationship between the growth of imports and that of GDP,
(ii) the possibility that there vill be an increase in import substitution,
and (iii) Bank forecasts that GDP growth vill be more rapid during the next
decade than in recent years. The net result of the operation of these factors
is a forecast growth of 6.5% p.a. for these two categories during the next
decade, compared with 6% p.a. during 1969-74. If the historical import/GDP
growth ratios continued, import growth would be over 8% p.a.
Fishing Traffic
5.06      The upstream facilities comprise a fishing port and ship-repair
installations which vould primarily service fishing boats. The volume of com-
mercial fish landings which provides the main justification for these facil-
ities increased over 1970-74 from 23,000 tons to 27,000 tons, with frozen
fish becoming increasingly important,
5.07      The potential demand could grow very rapidly if increased supplies
of frozen fish vere available. However, probable supply constraints (Annex 7)
are likely to be important. Basically, the availability of potential Cameroon
supplies is critically dependent upon the attitudes of Nigeria and Namibia
to extension of their territorial waters which currently supply over 70% of
the Douala commercial landings. It is assumed they vill follow recent inter-
national trends and extend their waters, vith fishing by foreign vessels
progressively curtailed by physical or financial (license) measures. The
net result is a forecast of commercial fish landings in 1985 of 50,000 tons,
enabling fish consumption to rise by 20% per capita.



- 17 -
B.   Project Components and Economic Benefits
5.08      The total project is analyzed in three parts:  downstream facilities,
channel dredging, and upstream facilities. These correspond to the most
clearly definable sets of economic benefit streams. Details of the economic
evaluation are given in Annex 8.
Downstream Facilities
5.09      The downstream complex will comprise a log basin enclosed by a
breakwater providing a location for the displaced naval base and preventing
loss of floating logs, as well as probably two general cargo/container berths.
The second berth is included in the project, but a final decision on its con-
struction will not be required until mid 1977. The utilized capacity of the
existing general cargo berths and the new facilities will depend largely on
the extent of further productivity improvements at existing berths, the rate
of transfer of logs to the log basin, and the degree of containerization of
cargo. It is assumed that productivity will improve slowly at about 2% p.a.;
that 85% of log exports will be through the log basin by 1985; and that con-
tainerized traffic will rise from the current level of 70,000 tons to 350,000 -
400,000 tons by 1985.
5.10      The economic benefits from the downstream facilities take the form
of avoidance of excessive ship-vaiting time and costs associated with
diversion of traffic to other ports in Cameroon. In the absence of the
project, increased berth utilization would accommodate about 230,000 tons,
and diversion to Tiko/Victoria and Kribi another 200,000 tons. Beyond those
levels, the least-cost capacity provision would probably be through construc-
tion of a log-handling facility at Manoka (downstream from Douala) in 1983,
a solution studied with funds provided under the First Douala Port Project
and rejected as significantly less cost-effective than construction at Douala.
Table 5 gives details of the forecast distribution of traffic with and with-
out the project. The rate of return on the downstream facilities is about
18% with either one or two general cargo/container berths.
5.11      In addition, the incremental costs and benefits from provision of
the general cargo container berth components of the downstream facilities were
analyzed separately.  The benefit from construction of the first berth is
avoidance of additional ship-waiting time and the rate of return is calcu-
lated at 17%, thus fully justifying the proiect component.
5.12      The analysis of the construction of a second berth is more diffi-
cult, Slight variations in the magnitudes of the variables described in
para, 5.09 could cumulatively have a major effect on the need for a second
berth, The best estimate is that by 1985 the first general cargo/container
berth would be inadequate to meet Douala's requirements.  Assuming container
traffic grew at only 7% p.a. thereafter (compared with about 14%
p.a. forecast for 1973-86), the rate of return on the cost quoted for con-
struction in 1979 (immeidately following completion of the first berth)



- 18 -
is 21% thus giving a priori justification for inclusion of the second berth
in the project. Construction could be postponed until 1984 vithout altering
the benefit streams- however, due to high remobilization costs, 1984 con-
struction would be more than twice as expensive in constant prices as 1979
construction. The rate of return on the cost differential over the period
1979 to 1984 is equivalent to 20% on the 1979 cost which is well in excess
of the opportunity cost of capital in Cameroon of 9% and thus fully justi-
fies construction of the second berth as a unit with the first (Annex 8,
para. 44).
Channel DredjM
5.13      This would produce benefits which are a function of the volume of
general cargo (including logs) traffic, but which are independent of the
benefits attributable to the downstream facilities. These are: (a) reduced
or eliminated ship-waiting time at the mouth of the channel for favorable
tidal conditionsz (b) avoidance of the need for sub-optimal ship routing
of larger vessels due to draft limitations at Douala; (c) benefits from
use of specialized log carriers which are currently prominent at ports such
as Abidjan, but which cannot economically call at Douala at present. The
benefit streams are shown in Annex 8, Table 3.  Initially the (a) stream
is the most important, but beyond 1985 the (c) stream is expected to figure
prominently. The rate of return on channel dredging from 5 to 7.5 meters
is 19%.
5.14      The proposed dredged depth was the minimum acceptable to NPA, the
Government, and other co-donors. An incremental analysis of the costs/ben-
efits of dredging to 8.4 meters, as originally proposed by NPA, was carried
out. This gives a negative rate of return even under the most favorable
assumptions regarding incremental dredging costs (Annex 8, para. 46).
Upstream Facilities
5.15      Utilization of the existing shallow fishing berth is estimated at
over 85%, exclusive of some deep-draft vessels. Consequently, saturation of
the existing berth will occur in the near future. The benefits stem from
value lost to the Cameroon economy from the substitution of imports for landed
fish which would occur in the absence of the project. Both consultants' and
independent Bank estimates suggest that value added in Cameroon is high
(approximately 20% of market value).
5.16      The benefits from the workshops are also in value added, are directly
related to the number of ships handled, and as the fishing fleet is the most
important customer, relate directly to the volume of fishing traffie.  The
rate of return on the combined fishing port and workshops (in construction
of which Bank Group participation is limited to dredging and reclamation works)
is 10%, a rate based upon conservative estimates of potential fish stocks. This
does not take into account benefits that might arise from possible transfer of
artisanal fishing to the new facilities. It is not possible to establish
separate rates of return on the two components, due to the large element of
joint costs.



- 19 -
5.17      The proposed fishing quay length might be reduced by 80 meters
without affecting the basic layout of the upstream facilities. The size of
the ship-repair facilities, however, cannot be significantly reduced.
Because both the marginal costs and benefits are small in relation to average,
the rate of return on the marginal 80 meters is also about 10%, and the
original layout has been retained.
Employment Generation
5.18      The project construction costs include local unskilled labor at
financial vage rates: the shadow vage rates are significantly less. The
difference represents a benefit whieh vill generate a value added to the
economy equivalent to a rate of return on the total project of 1/2 - 1%,
not including the value of skill increases attributable.
Total Protect
5.19      The overall rate of return on the project is 17%.  The distribu-
tion of costs and rates of return by project component is shown in Annex 8,
Table 6.
C.   Benefit Distribution
Downstream Facilities
5.20      Shipping companies initially obtain benefits from the avoidance of
ship-waiting time, except if real port tariffs are increased and if potential
surcharges by shipping lines are avoided. The proposed port tariff increases
(para. 6.08) have been accepted by NPA and would enable the direct extraction
for Cameroon of about 70% of the benefits from ship-vaiting time avoidance;
the residual 30% would go directly to the shipping companies. Rowever, (a)
there is probably an element of cross-subsidization of Douala traffic by
that to other West African ports, because passage up the long channel to
Douala is a cost to the shipping companies not experienced elsewhere, and
not offset either by higher shipping charges or lower port tariffs (similar
at Douala and other West African ports); and (b) in the absence of the project,
and with increasing shipping, the disadvantage of Douala vould be greater
in the near future, and thus a benefit to Cameroon would be avoidance of
potentially increased shipping charges. Their prospective level is uncertain,
but if they represented half the residual 30%, the combined direct and indirect
benefits would give Cameroon a rate of return on the project item of nearly
16%. Excluding the surcharge avoidance benefits gives a return of about 13%.
Channel Dredging
5,21      Benefits from the use of specialized log carriers accrue initially
to the logging companies and shippers, Retention of benefits in Cameroon is
currently about 30%; this proportion could increase sharply if taxation re-
visions now under consideration by the Government are implemented. The other
benefits (routing optimization and waiting-time avoidance) accrue initially



- 20 -
to the shipping companies, except if extracted by real tariff increases. The
proposed real tariff increases account for only about 40% of these benefits,
because Douala channel characteristics limit the scope for such increases with-
out inviting retaliation by shipping companies. The benefits accruing directly
to Cameroon are therefore about 30% of the first stream, and about 40% of the
other two. However, at least half the non-tariff extracted benefits from
streams two and three should accrue to Cameroon from avoidance of shipping
surcharges, giving a combined total direct and indirect benefit to the
country of over 11% on the project item, which is satisfactory.
Upstream Facilities
5.22      The benefits from these facilities have been measured in terme of
value added within Cameroon. The total benefit and retained benefit are thus
identical.
Total Prolect
5.23      The benefit retained in Cameroon is expected to be the equivalent
of a 14% rate of return on the total project which is satisfactory, particu-
larly in view of the probable benefits from external economies (resulting
from retention of Douala as Cameroon'. major timber port) expected to result
from the project, but which have not been quantified,
D.   Sensitiviy Analysis
5.24      Sensitivity analysis cost and benefit assumptions are:  (a) timber
traffic 35% below the probable forecast, and evacuation via Congo ATC of
about 0,35 million tons p.a,; (b) import traffic reduced 20% due to lover
forecast CDP growth rates; (c) for upstream facilities, landings reduced
25%; (d) all capital and maintenance coste, not already subject to a final
bid, increased by 50%. The simultaneous occurrence of these conditions is
highly improbable, but in such an event, the following rates of return vould
result: 12% on downstream facilities- 9% on channel dredging; 5% on upstream
facilities; 9.5% on the total project: and a total rate of return to Cameroon
of 8%. Risk analysis indicates a 95% probability that the rate of return on
the total project will fall between 12.5% and 16.5%.
6. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
6.01      The object of the financial analysis is to determine if the
financing plan established in July 1976 can finance the project without
severely affecting NPA's future financial position, and establish whether
and under what conditions it will provide an acceptable financial rate of
return.



- 21 -
6.02      To allov a realistic assessment of NPA's cash position during
and after implementation of the project, the financial tables (Tables 8
through 10) have been prepared [n current CFA francs under inflation assump-
tions shown in Annex 9, However, tables showing breakdowns of operating
revenues and working expenses for the financial years following 1974/75 have
been prepared ln both constant 1975 CFA francs and current CFA francs. All
proposed targets are based on current prices.
A.   Past and Present Financial Performance of NPA
6.03      NPA produced its first commercial accounts in June 1972.  Tables 6
and 7 show income statements and balance sheets for the years 1972/73-1974175;
some details are given below:
(in CFAF million)
1972/73   1973/74   1974/75
Operating Revenue          1,044      1,185      1,587
Operating Expenditure        981      1,132      1,438
Net Operating Revenue         63         53        149
Operating Ratio, %            94         96         91
Rate of Return on net
fixed assets in use, %    0.9         0.7       0.9
Debt/Equity Ratio          19/81      18/82       4/96
6,04      Adequate cost accounting was not available prior to the establish-
ment of NPA in April 1972, As a consequence, tariffs remained largely unal-
tered and did not fully reflect operating coste from the mid-1960's until
October 1974 when the tariff structure vas revised, and a slight increase
was applied to rates charged for the various port services (para. 6.08).
This has been the main reason for NPA's poor earning situation. In spite
of this, however, NPA's working capital and cash position as of June 30, 1975
vas satisfactory, since it had not undertaken any major investment since
its establishment. NPA's only long-term debt relates to IDA Credit 229-CM
(US$1.5 million, January 1971) for the First Douala Port Project.
B.   Financing  lan
6.05      NPA's financing plan for the period 1976-77/1981-82 is summarized
below, Details of the sources and applications of funds statements (in cur-
rent CFAF billion) are given in Table 9.



- 22 -
Current
CFA__ billion _
Sources
Internal Cash Generation          12.1               38
Debt Service                       5.5                17
Net Internal Cash Generation       6.6                21
Grants                             5.2                16
Loans                             19.8                63
Total Sources                31.6              100
Apjzications
Second Port Project               26.2               83
Other Investments                  1.4                4
Increase in Working Capital        4.0                13
To tal Aplications           31.6              100
6.06      The donors' and Government's funds under the July 1976 financing
plan cover 95% of the project's financing, leaving a modest 5% as NPA's
contribution. Assunming NPA's projected financial performance described
in para. 6,11 to 6.15 materializes, NPA vill easily generate funds to pay
for its contribution to the project and finance its regular annual reneval
program averaging CFAF 200 million p.a. in 1978-7q/1979-80 and CFAP 300
million p.a. thereafter.
6.07      The table in para. 6.05 shows that, of the CFAF 25 billion external
funds granted to NPA for the financing of the project during 1976-77/1981-82,
CFAF 5.2 billion consists of grants (including CFAF 3.3 billion from the Gov-
ernment of Cameroon). Interest rates on funds to be borrowed ran2e from
0-10% p.a. and repayment periods from 10-50 years (Annex 6). It has been
agreed that the proceeds of the IDA Credit would be on-lent by the Govern-
ment to NPA on the same financial terms as the proposed loan. Conclusion
of this agreement would be a condition of effectiveness. Provided the revenue
forecasts shown in Table 9 materialize, NPA could accumulate large amounts
of uncommitted cash after 1981-82, as a result of project construction and
the relatively soft borrowing terms. The Bank discussed the uses of this
possible excess cash with the Government and NPA, including: (i) financing
of additional port investments; (ii) paying income tax or dividends to the
Government; or (iii) speeding up repayment of long-term debt. The Government
stated, however, that it is preparing a new law making NPA and other public
corporations liable to income tax. If NPA's cash generation during project
construction is found to be more than is required to meet its vorking costs,
committed investments, debt service and adequate working capital, a decrease
in the Government's contribution to the cost of the project can also be
considered.



- 23 -
Tarif f s
6.08      The rate revision implemented by NPA in October 1974 simplified
tariffs and also brought charges more in line with the cost of providing
various port services.  NPA has agreed to further restructure tariffs in
order to encourage the most efficient use of port facilities, as well as
to relate charges to the benefits which users vill receive as a result
of the proposed project. This uould mean that future tariff lncreases
vould fall principally upon the larger port users such as timber exporters
and international shipping agencies. The size of tariff increases for general
cargo operations vould thus be maintained below the average required to allow
NPA to finance its share of project costs.
6.09      Additional tariff increases vould be required during the project
implementation for NPA to meet its contribution to the proposed financing
plan and achieve the rate of return on net fixed assets in use provided
for in the proposed loan agreement Accordingly, NPA has implemented a
15% increase on charges for ships and a 12% increase on charges for goods
starting May 1, 1976. The financial forecasts are based on the assumption
that NPA vill increase its tariffs again by about 30% by July 1, 1978, by
25% when most new port facilities become available to the port users in
1980/81, and by 8Z in 1982/83. A furthe« 5% increase in rates is tentatively
planned for 1984/85, but a final decision on its implementation will depend
upon future developments in the NPA financial position. The proposed
increases would, on the average, double tariffs between 1975 and 1985.
In constant prices, this represents an increase of about 35%.
6.10      The proposed tariff revisions are not expected to have a detri-
mental effect on the port's traffic volume. NPA has already informed port
users that tariffs would be revised periodically and has obtained their
agreement in principle, Accordingly, the Bank has obtained assurances from
NPA that:  (i) tariffs would be lncreased as necessary to achieve the
specified rate of return (para. 6.13); and (ii) the tariff structure would
be revised so that charges reflect the costa of providing various port
services,
C.   Pro ected Financial Performance
6,11      Forecast income statements and balance sheets for the years 19751
76-1985/86 are given in Tables 8 and 10. The folloving table illustrates
NPA's projected financial performance over the period.



- 24 -
1975/76  1978/79  1981/89  1984/85
Net Income (before interest),
CFAF billion                           0.1      1.1       1.6       1.7
Working Ratio, %                          70        55        50       54
Operating Ratio, 7                        96        72        76       81
Average Net Fixed Assets in Use
CFAF billion                           7.8     22.3      32.1      32.6
Rate of Return, 7                        0.9       5.0      5.0       5.3
Debt/Equity Ratio                       4/96    53/47    47/53    33/67
Current Ratio                            9.8       7.2      4.7       7.6
Due to the substantial contribution of the various donors to the cost of the
project and to the easy lending conditions, NPA's financial position durine
project construction is not expected to be difficuilt in spite of the large
increase in capital investment resulting from the Project.  Borrowing will
be high (Table 10) and NPA's debt to equity ratio will increase from 4/96
in 1975-76 to 53/47 in 1978-79. However, provided revenue projections are
achieved as forecast, the debt to equitv ratio will be reduced to an esti-
mated 33/67 and the current ratio is expected to decrease from its present
9.8 to 4.7 by 1981-82 and to steadily increase to 7.6 by 1984-85.
6.12      The above projections show that NPA should be able to finance its
share of the proiect and service the relevant debt.  However. to prevent it
from borrowing beyond a safe level in the future, NPA has agreed:  (i) that
it will not incur any additional debt unless the maximum future debt ser-
vice is covered at least 1.5 times by its internal cash generation, and
(ii) that it will not make any investment other than the Project and asso-
ciated projects (except for minor items totalling not more than CFAF 200
million annually) except in consultation with the Bank between 1977 and com-
pletion of project construction.
6.13      In line with the traffic estimates and accounting for assumed
tariff increases, Rross revenues of the port of Douala are forecast to
increase five-fold bv 1984/85. The new facilities are expected to result
in improved efficiency, and the operating ratio is projected to decrease
from the present 96% to 81% by 1984/85, resulting in an increase in net
income before interest from CFAF 0.1 billion to CvAr 1.7 billion.  However,
since future additions to the fixed assets base will be larRe, the rate of
return on net fixed assets will remain low, increasing onlv from 0.9% in
1975/76 to 5.3% in 1985/86. NPA has agreed to take the necessary steps to
earn a rate of return on average net f ixed assets in use of not less than
3e' during the main project implementation period (1976/77-1979/80), and
of not less than 5% thereafter.
6.14      The fixed assets shown on the opening balance sheet in 1472 were
valued on a replacement cost basis, and the financial forecasts assume that
fixed assets will be revalued in 1978 and again in 1935.  The necessity for
fulture revaluations of fixed assets wnuld of course deDend to a laree extent
on the level of future price inflation.  NPA has aRreed to revalue its fixed
assets as of June 30. 1Q78 and thereafter at five year intervals ir consultation
with the Bank.



- 25 -
D.   SecondarU Ports
6.15      The financial analysis does not include the small secondary ports
of Garoua, Kribi, and Victoria/Tiko, because they carry only little traffic
in relation to that of Douala Port, and because their operations have only
a marginal impact on NPA's finances. In 1974/75, revenues of the secondary
ports amounted to 11% of NPA's total revenues, and their expenditures to
about 14% of those of NPA: these proportions are projected to be about 7%
and 13% respectively by 1986. The contribution of the secondary ports to
NPA's cash flow was about 10% in 1974/75, and is expected to be only about
5% in 1985/86.
E.   Sensitivity Analysis
6.16      The sensitivity analysis of financial forecasts given in Annex 11
is based on the following assumptions: (a) 20% decrease in NPA's gross
operating revenue: (b) 10% increase in working expenditure; and (c) 10%
increase in the cost of the project excluding the main civil works con-
tract. The analysis showed that, should all three sensitivity assumptions
materialize simultaneously, NPA would suffer a slight net operating loss
for each fiscal year between 1976-77 and 1985-86. The analysis further
showed that, using the above assumptions, there would be an cumulated
shortage of cash of about CFAF 2.4 billion for NPA by the end of 1981/82
and of about CFAF 3.0 billion by 1985/86. This shortage could only be
overcome by an additional tariff increase averaging 10% or by additional
long-term borrowing, Both alternatives could be considered without creating
major problems to the borrower or the Government. However, all three
sensitivity assumptions are unlikely to occur concurrently.
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Agreement has been reached with NPA and the Government on the
following items:
(a) with the Government:
(i) steps to be taken to improve transport planning
and coordination, and the appropriate approach
to planning requirements and staffing needed to
achieve this (paras. 2.08 and 2.13);
(ii) assurances that the Government will appoint,
not later than September 1, 1976, two consul-
tants as technical assistants to the Ministry
of Agriculture to assist in formulating policy
on development of the forestry sector (para.
2.12);



- 26 -
(iii) confirmation that NPA will be represented in
the planning of industrial zones in Douala,
according to terms under Credit 229-C4
(para. 3.05),
(iv) regarding the audit of NPA's accounts, the
Government will: (a) take appropriate action
to improve the quality of this audit, particu-
larly by including comments on financial man-
agement7 and (b) submit audited financial
statements to the Bank for review and approval
within six months after the end of each fiscal
year (para. 3.09);
(v) assurances that the Government will take all
legal and other necessary steps to ensure
formal acquisition by NPA of the enlarged
port area required for proposed improvements
on road and rail access to the port, so that
it will be available not later than July 1978
to fit the construction schedule (para.
4.07): and
(vi)  confirmation of exemptions from taxes and
duties on project construction and super-
vision (para. 4.09).
(b) with NPA:
(i) regarding issues of management and staffing, NPA
bas agreed to: (a) appoint no later than December 31,
1976 a Tirector of Operations whose qualifications
and experience are acceptable to the Bank; (b) dis-
cuss with the Bank the recommendations of the con-
sultants reviewing NPA's management structure and
implement an agreed plan of actionz (c) prepare a
manpower plan showing NPA's expected staff require-
ments over the next five years, together with
proposals for meeting these requirements and sub-
mit this plan to the Bank for review by June 30,
1977: and (d) submît annually for Bank approval
its proposals for staff training during the period
1977-81 (paras. 3.04 and 3.07).
(ii) that the lease agreements for oDerations by shipping
companies at the proposed new container/general cargo
berth, and by fishing companies at the proposed new
facilities at the upstream port, would be preDared
after consultation and agreement with the Bank on
the underlying policy objectives (paras. 4.04 and
4.05);



- 27 -
(iii)  that it will establish a plan for future maintenance
dredging operations within one year of completion of
the proposed channel deepening, and will submit this
plan for Bank approval (para. 4.06);
(iv)  that it will implement the recommendations of con-
sultants concerning new marshalling yard facilities
within the port area, adjusted as necessary to
incorporate any changes or modifications mutually
agreed with Regifercam and the Bank (para. 4.07);
(v)  that it will be responsible for execution of the
project, with assistance provided by CIDA-financed
consultants to be selected in agreement with, and
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and
the other co-donors (para. 4.11);
(vi) that it will designate a Project Officer, having
the rank of Assistant Director-General, whose
qualifications and experience would be acceptable
to the Bank (para. 4.12);
(vii)  assurances that:  (i) tariffs will be increased
as necessary to achieve agreed financial rates
of return; and (ii) the tariff structure will
be revised so that charges reflect the costs of
providing various port services (paras. 6.08 -
6.10);
(viii)  that:  (i) it vill not incur any further debt
unless the maximum future debt service is cov-
ered at least 1.5 times by its internal cash
generation: and (ii) it will not make any invest-
ments outside the project (except for minor items
totalling not more than CFAF 200 million annually)
except in consultation with the Bank (para. 6.12);
(ix) that it will take the necessary steps to earn a
rate of return on average net fixed assets in use
of not less than 3% during the main project imple-
mentation period (1976/77 - 1979/80), and of not less
than 5% thereafter (para. 6.13); and
(x) that it will, in consultation with the Bank, revalue
its fixed assets as of June 30, 1978 and every five
years thereafter (para. 6.14).



- 28 -
(c)  with the Government and NPA:  that a plan will be prepared,
satisfactory to the Bank, coverlng the execution and
financlng of the associated projects as detailed in Annex 4
(para. 4.08).
7.02      Two conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Bank Loan and IDA
Credit would be:
(1)  The receipt of assurances satisfactory to the Bank
that full financing for the project has been secured
(para. 4.17); and
(il)  The agreement for on-lending the proceeds of the IDA
Credit to NPA has been concluded (para. 6.07).
7.03      The proposed project is suitable for a Loan of US$15 million to the
National Port Authority of Cameroon as the Borrower, with the Government as
guarantor, and a Credit of US$10.0 million. An appropriate Loan term would
be 20 years including 4-1/2 years of grace.
August 1976



TABLE I
Shoot I
CAMFROQN
SECOND DQOUALA PORT PROJDCT
PROJECT TORT ESTIATE
ApproSiatot            Approolatoe
CFAF Iillon                       US$ MilliOn                                                         7.
Local      Foroino    Total        ConEo ..     rojo      Total       For-i-n %   of Proe1t -sn A        cf Tnto! SIalat                   FiLn-ci-c
PART A
1. MAIN CIVIL ORDKS
i. UPTtro-n Port
Dr-dging                 133.2       199.8       333.0         .592      .880      1.480          60             2                                         IBRD.IDA, FAC, FED, KFe., CAM
Qoays,  -orth-orks       318.3       628.4       946.7        1.415     2.792      4.207          66. 38         5  1                                      AfDB
ultlliti-                199.3        46.3       245.6        .806       .206      1.092          18.87          2                                         AfDB, BADEA, CAM
tA- Ro,d Inn.Tall Ac?ots
Rocd                     650.6       343.4       994.0       2.891    1t527        4.418          34.55          6  1                                      AfDE, bAIEA, CAm
I              ~~~~~~~7
R.il                     557.0       377.8       934.8       2.476      1.679      4.155          40.42          6                        7                AfDB, 8"DEA, CTM
iii. Doans tronc Port
Dr-dgig                1252.2      2369.8      3622.0       5.564    10.533      16.097          65.40         21                                         IBORD, IDA, FAC. FED, KFW, CAT
l5oyo, rarthoBorAs      1170.4      1126.8      2297.2       5.202      5.030      10.210         49.05         14  )                                      IBRD. IDA. FAC, FED, RfW, CAM
)                    24
COthEd-c p-tîrlti-n        6.0         70.4       76.4         .027      .313        .340         92.20          -  1                                      AfDB
19î111,ooo               419.1        60.6       479.7      1t8.3        .069      2.032          12.63          3 ;                                       AfD0. B0DE61  CAd
ton,,     d oeA         178.0        76.8       254.8        .791       .341      1.132          30.14          2  9                                      1BD, IDA, FAC, FED, KFW, CAM
9               ~~~~~~~3
k6.rkshops, oqolocont    247.2       315.5       562.7        1.099     1,402      2.501          56.06          3  )                                      FAC, CCCE
-boto I1            5131.3       5615.6    10746.9       22.806    24.958      47.764          52,25        64                       40
850.6       761.2      1611.8       3.780      3.384      7.164          47.23        10
1Frlr                   1261.4      1245.9      2507.3       5.605      5.538     11.143          49.69         15
sloS-total           2112.0      2001.1     4119.1        9.385     8.922      18.307          48.72                                  15
lol-totol               9243.3      7622.7    14866.0       32.191    33.880      66.071          51.20        89                        55
Il.  ADDITIONAL B2RTH            228.3        343.9      372. 2       1.015     1.528       2.543         60.10          3                                         iBRDB  IlA>, FAI, of00 ;A,   (SA   jootto
contingencl22~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~El 7eiiapprora fOooon)                                                                           tlflco
phoaicol                 34.2        51.6        RS.8        .152       .229        .381         60.10          1
Price                    68.0       102.4       170.4        .302       .455       .757          60.10          1
Soi-total            330.5       497.9      828.4        1.469      2.212      3.681          60.10          S                        3
TOTAL                  7573.0      8120.6    15694.4       33.660    36.002      69.752          51.70         94                       58
Ill.  PORT OEHABILITATDION       522.0         75.4      597.4        2.321      .335       2.656         12.63          5                        4                IBR., IDA, FAC, FtD, KFW. CAM
Phyatonl                78.3        11.3        89.6        .348       .050       .398          12.63          -
Poito                  252.2        36.5       288.7       1.121       .162      1.283          12.43          1
Sob-total           330.5        47.8       378.3       1.469       .212      1.601
Oob-totnl              852.5       123.2       975.7       3.789       .547      4.336          12.63          6
TOTAL PART A          8426.3       8243.8    16673.1       37.450    36.639      74.089          49.40       100                        62



CAMEROON
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
CFAF  million                             US $ million                               Approximate Approximate
Approximate        of        of total
Item                        Local       Foreign       Total         Local       Foreign       Total           Foretgn °   Proiect     project         Financing
Part B
PART B
IV,  CHANNEL DEEPENINC
Supply of dredger
and FauiDment               -          2295         2295              -       10.200       10.200              100           24          9          CIDA. CAM
Dredging                     832.5       2497.5       3330            3.700      11.100      14.800                75          35         12          CIDA, CAM
Sub total              832.5       4792.5       5625           3.700      21.300      25.000                85          59         21
V.  FLOATINC DRY DOCK             176         702           878           0.780       3.12        3.90                 80           9           3          CIDA, CAM
VI.  FISHINC PORT                 413          962          1375           1.830       4.28        6.11                 70          14           5          CIDA  CAM
BUILDINGS
VII.  CONSULTING SERVICES           348        1392          1740           1.550       6.18         7.73                80           18          6          CIDA, CAM
(supervision)
TOTAL PART B                1769.5      7848.5        9618.0          7.864      34.882      42.746                81.7       100         35
PART C
Vlll.  LAND EXPROPRIATION            749          -            749           3.324          -         3.329                                        3         CAM
GRAND TOTAL                10944.8    16092.3        27037.1         48.638      71.521     120.164                59.7                  100
Rounded                                                             49           71         120
Notes:  1.  Cuirrency exchange rate US$1.0 = CFAF 225.0
2.  Physical contingency 15% on Part A Civil Works and 10% on the remainder.                                                           |
Price contingencies on Part A 1976 13%, 1977 11.5%, 1978 through 1979 11%                                                             -.
and 87. per anntum on all Part B items.Physical and price contingencies
included in Part B items.  No contingency for Part C.
3.  Channel dredging in Part B(IV) incluides maintenance dredging costs
duiring the construction period.
4.  Sources.  Lowest evaluiated bid for civil works in items I(A to D) and 11;
estimate hv consultants OCCR/Sogreah/DSBT and NPA for item  Ill  estimate
by CIDA and its consultants and by consultants OCCR/Sogreah/I)SBI and OSA/
'ramcdn/CDA and NPA for remaining items.
5.  CIDA financed training of NPA staff excliided.
Açgtust 1976



j                                                                            cc      c          c cc      c
-l,                                                                      0-        e,, ' 
e ~    ~       ~       N ce
e            eje                     c 
=   :                             -I    e e,a               g-e
:-  J                   -2_>,)t   
e    2                                                                                                                                  e  e :      , 
e1 -- S                                                                                                       c- e  e,  c>  E  C>« e   C
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:C e                                         
ce~~~~~~~~~~~ ._ .e
c~~~~~"                       g -c                 C S-t  gK i       c   c:   c                                    -t
C                                                                            c                                     c
e< -       Uc                                          e     cr  c o(W r   n_   U lEv  -j fr r                             j' 
c-                     e,                 c       o    e    G      r 0  Cr_DD Vz a O
C-    O> YO _                                               00e  _ -N - oN0                          
U ~  ~     ~     ~     -     ce, uoc e_  C> O                  c  -         cc       ce!         ccc-h     r
e~~      ~~~                 -O cee               'C   .eec                 cc eS_  cS    ce   e   c            ee C-
0e .o   ~  Oe ,c De C                                                                          c  e   v:        LU
e    l                      e-g t o              ce       c   e  -e   < . vf ,,      
-1           c :  u                        |Hc_   c e                  De  -  r c|_
W          zl |    a              3l~~2    e     ce                               ci    CY .DL«    
e-e et e-, 'C~~~~~~~~~~



Table 3
CAMEROON                                Page i
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year                                     Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter Ending                                         at End of Quarter
(US$ Million)
IBRD/IDA                             Total
Contribution                      Donor Financing
1976-77
December 31, 1976                      2.025                            5.985
M.arch 31, 1977                        4.375                           11.855
June 30, 1977                          6.080                           20.660
1977-78
September 30, 1977                     8.850                           30.655
December 31, 1977                     12.240                           42.715
March 31, 1978                        14.180                           54.045
June 30, 1978                         16.780                           65.785
1978-79
September 31, 1978                    19.445                           77.205
December 31, 1978                     22.090                           89.440
March 31, 1979                        22.590                           98.850
June 30, 1979                         23.510                         102.920
1979-80
September 30, 1979                    24.275                         105.255
December 31, 1979                     25.000                          107.665
Ifarch 31, 1980                       25.000                          108.550
June 30, 1980                         25.000                          109.360



Table 3
Page 2
Cumulative Disbursements
at end of Quarter
(US$ Million)
IERD/IDA                             Total
Contribution                    Donor Financing
1980-81
September 30, 1980               (see note below)                   110.165
December 31, 1980                                                   110.980
March 31, 1981                                                      111.795
June 30, 1981                                                       112.650
1981-82
September 30, 1981                                                  113.510
December 31, 1981                                                   114.365
March 31, 1982                                                      115.225
June 30, 1982                                                       116.120
1982-83
September 30, 1982                                                  117.010
December 31, 1982                                                   117.905
March 31, 1983                                                      118.800
June 30, 1983                                                       119.765
1983
September 30, 1983                                                  120.160
Sources: Estimates by consultants, NPA and CIDA.
1/ $25 million disbursed by December 31, 1979



CAMEROON                              Table 4
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Port of Douala - Total Import and Export Traffic
('000 tons)
1969     1970      1971      1972      1973      1974
Imports
Petroleum Products            256       283       322      306       350       340
Fertilizer                     51        42        58       38        44        35
Equipment                      68       113        76       86        77        84
Cement                        106       110        36       28        10        18
Clinker                        23        38       121      148       138       210
Alumina                        88       104        87       92        91        95
Food & Beverage               117       135       135      152       163       160
Other                         216       271       305      276       274       289
Total Imports            925    1,096    1,140    1,126    1,147    1,231
Exports
Logs                          298       294       299      284       403       319
Sawn Timber                    53        61        71       76        76        84
Total Timber                  351       355       370      360       479       403
Coffee                         68        71        75        78       84       107
Cocoa                          57        61        67        62       67        69
Cocoa Products                 21        19        18        20       21        23
Bananas                        35        37        40       68        69        75
Cotton                         31        31        24        27       37        30
Aluminum                       52        41        40        42       31        32
Other                         113       108        95       82       102       119
Total Exports            728      723       729       739       890      858
TOTAL TRAFFIC         1,653    1,819    1,869    1,866    2,037    2,089



CAMEROON
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Port of Douala Traffic Forecasts
('000 tons)
Esti-
Actuals      mate                           Forecasts
'69   '73   '74   '75   '76   '77   '78   '79   '80   '81   '82   '83   '84   '85   '86
Imports
Petrol                256   350   340   384   433   490   554   620   698   756   820   889   964  1046  1111
Clinker/Cement        129   148   228   236   254   273   293   316   340   344   348   352   356   360   360
Alumina                88    91    95    98   101   104   108   112   115   116   117   118   119   120   120
Wine                   16    17    18    18    18    18    19    19    19    20    20    20    21    21    22
Grain                  40    53    51    55    61    66    72    78    86    93   101   110   119   125   133
Other Food             61    93    91    96   102   118   114   121   130   135   143   152   161   170   181
Equipment              68    77    84    89    94   100   106   112   119   127   134   142   151   160   170
Fertilizer             53    44    35    33    31    28    26    23    21    25    29    34    38    43    46
Other Imports         216   279   289   308   328   349   372   396   422   450   480   511   545   590   627
Total Imports        925  1147  1231  1317  1423  1576  1664  1797  1948  2072  2192  2328  2474  2625  2770
Exports
Logs                  298   403   319   366   420   443   480   513   560   620   680   750   836   920  1000
Sawn Timber           53    76    84    93   100   107   110   117   120   140   160   190   220   250   270
Total Timber          351   479   403   406   520   550   590   630   680   760   840   940  1050  1170  2170
Coffee                 68    84   107   107   107   108   108   109   109   113   118   123   129   137   142
Cocoa and Products   78    88    92    98   100   104   106   112   116   119   122   125   129   133   138
Bananas                35    69    75    79    84    89    94    98   103   106   109   113   117   120   127
Cotton                 31    37    30    32    34    36    39    42    45    47    49    51    53    54    56
Aluminum               52    31    32    35    38    41    44    47    51    52    52    52    52    52    52
Other Exports        113   102   119   122   125   128   131   134   138   143   148   154   163   170   178
Total Exports        728   890   858   930  1008  1056  1114  1172  1242  1340  1438  1558  1693  1836  1953
Total Traffic       1653  2037  2089  2247  2431  2632  2778  2969  3190  3408  3630  3886  4167  4461  4723
____   _ ___  ___ _      -___                      ____   ____  ____                                   o-



Forecasts of Project-Related General Cargo Traffic and Capacity Provision
('000 tons)
Actual        Esti-                               Forecast
mate 
'69   '73   '74    '75    '76    '77    '78    '79    '80    '81    '82    '83    '84    '85    '86
Imports                  542   549   568    591    627    661    700    740    786    842    897    959   1024   1088   1156
Exports                  641   790   751    816    886    926    976   1027   1088   1182   1277   1382   1524   1654   1808
(of which logs)          298   403   319    366    420    443    480    513    560    620    680    750    830    920   1000
Total                   1183  1339  1319   1407   1513   1587   1676   1767   1874   2024   2174   2341   2548   2742   2964
Capacity at Optimum
Utilization Existing
Berths (9)                            1415   1440   1466   1500   1530   1570   1623   1643   1665   1686   1706   1730   1770
Thru new facilities                                                                   251    381    509    655    842   1012   1194
Log basin                                                                             196    250    330    420    530    670    830
New container/general                                                                                                            l
cargo berth                                                                            55    131    179    235    312    342    364
Alternative Capacity
Provision
(a)  via buoys                                                                       147    169    194    223    259    300    324
(b) increased berth
utilization                                                                     227    207    185    164    144    120           80
(c) diversion to other
existing ports                                                                            5    130    230    210    190    190
(d)  diversion to Manoka                                                                                      38    229    402    600
1/  approximatel,  the maximum sustainable capacit, of one berth 



Table 5
Page 3
Forecast of Traffic for the Fishing Port and the Repair Facilities
Actual and Forecast                                           Forecast of the number of boats expected to
Commercial Fish Landines                                                     ,qee the rpnair fscilitv 1/
Industrial2 -            Artisanal        Trawlers    Trawlers    Petroleum research
based in    not based   boats, cargo boats,
Year   Total   Total   Fresh   Frozen   Shrimp                          Douala      in Douala         oil tankers          Total
1970   41       23       17        5         1         18
71   42       24       15        7        2          18
72   42       26       16        8        2          19
73   43       27       16        9         2         19
74   43       27       15       9          2         20
75   43       23       15        9         2         20
76   44       23       14       10         2         21
77   44       23       14       lC         2         21
78   45       23       14      il          2         22                12             2                 il                 25
79   50       27       14       il         3         22                 14            3                 il                 28
80   54       31       15       13         3         23                 16            5                 il                 32
81   59       35       15       15         4         23                 17            5                 il                 33
82   63       39       16       18         4         24                 18            5                 12                 35
83   68       44       17       22         4         24                 20            5                 12                 37
84   73       48       19       25         4         25                 22            5                 13                 40
1985   76       50       21       25         4         26                 23            5                 14                 42
1/ Because the new repair facilities provide a service (in the form of the floating dock) which is
not currently in existence, the present intermittent use of the existing repair facilities is not
a useful guide onwhich to base forecasts.  The forecast of demand for the repair facilities is
based upon the assumption that 30% of the 40-boat fishing fleet predicted to exist by 1978 will
use the port repair facilities, the residual continuing to use their own facilities.  By 1980, if
the projections of fish throughput are correct, there will be 48 fishing boats of which 16, or
33%, are expected to use the repair facility. By 1985, the fleet will have expanded to 67 boats
of which 23, or 34% are expected to use the repair facilities.  The slight increase in percentage
use is expected to occur as depreciation of the boat owners' private repair facilities occur.
Some of these owners will make use of the port's repair facilities rather than replacing their own.
The projections are conservative, since by 1985 it is quite possible that the entire fishing fleet
will be using the repair facilities.  The percentage of boats using the facilities was estimated
by the consultant from responses to questionnaires sent to boat owners asking them if they would
use such facilities.
2_/ The capacity of the existing fishing berth is estimated as 16,000 tons fresh fish and 13,000 tons
shrimp and frozen.  It is anticipated these capacities would decline (see Annex 9, Part II)in the absence
of renovation of the berth,and thus effective capacity declines until the new facilities enter service
in 1979/80. Thereafter,throughput is constrained by the forecast growth of supplies, up to capacity
of 21,000 tons fresh and 38,000 tons frozen and shrimp.



CANIERO0N
3ECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT                        Table 6
National Port Authority
Douala Port
Incame Statements 1972/73-197V75
(in millions of CFAF)
Actual
1972/73   1973/74   1974/75
OPERATING REVENUE
Charges Againat Ships
Pilotage                                46        52       131
Toll Fees                               76        25        63
Berthing and Mooring                    41        13        33
Other                                    9        83        208
Subtotal                         172        173       435
Charges Against Merchandise
Loaded                                 248       222       210
Unloaded                               376       445        420
Other                                             3          29
Subtota;L                         E         98        659
Rentals
Sheds                                 113        146       148
Timuber Depot                           36        50        51
Subtotal                         149        196       199
Miscellaneous                             99       118        294
-2TAL OPERATING REVU3J    1,044         1,185     1V587
OPERATING EXPENDITURE
Administration                           111       115       147
Maintenance                              233       218        279
Salaries and Wages                       196       2147       316
Materials and Supplies                    72       113        145
Water and Electricity                     48        62         79
Other                                     16         9         50
Total Vorking Eqnditure           7 Ê       79       1,016
Depreciation                             278       338        422
Provisions                                27        -          -
TOTAL OPERATIEIG EIPDITRE   981       1 132      1,438
NET OPERATING R3VENUE                        3                  149
Net Non-Operating Revenue                  622        55        133
NET INCOME                                 685       108        282
Working Ratio                               65         67        64
Operating Ratio                             94         96        91
Average Net Fixed Assets in Use          7,219     7,144      7,787
Rate of Return                            0.9%      0.7%       0.9%



CAMEROON
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT                     Table 7
National Port Authority
Douala Port
Balance Sheets 1972/73 - 1974/75
(in millions of CFAF)
Actnal
As of June 30:                             1973       1974       1975
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross Value                        7,595       8,187       8,916
Less:  Depreciation                   278        616       1,038
Net Fixed Assets in Use            7,317       7,571       7,878
Work in Progress                      621        509         408
Total Fixed Assets             7,938       8,o80      8,287
Investments                                31         40          46
Current Assets
Cash                               1,883       1,519       1,284
Receivables                           174        164         310
Payment in Advance                      1          9          21
Stores                                 77         81          97
Total Current Assets           2.135       1,773       1,712
TOTAL ASSETS             10,104       9,893     10,045
LIABILITIES
Equity
Capital                            6,906       6,906       8,436
Retained Earnings                     68         793       1,075
Total Equity                   7,591       7,699       9,511
Long-Term Debt
FIDES                              1,428       1,372         -
IDA                                   339        360         360
Total Long-Term Debt           1,767        ,732         360
Current Liabilities
Payables                              644        304         174
Loan Installment Due in One Year    102          158          -
Total Current Liabilities        7462                    174
TOTAL LIABILITIES        10,104      9.893      10,045
Current Ratio                               2.9         3.8         9.9
Debt/Equity Ratio                          19/81      18/82        4/96



Table 8
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
National Port Authoritv
DoualI Port
Forecast Incomu Statemants
(In Millions of CFAF)
1975/76     1976/77    1977/78    1978/79        1979/80    1980/81      1981/82      1982/83     1983/84     1984/85      1985/86
OPERATING REVENUE
Charges Against Ships
Pilotage                      A      158          174         201         224         218          226          232        259          276         294          310
B     174         220          254         368         358          456         470         574          612         685          722
Toll Fees                     A      109          117         134         147         142          145         155          164         174         184          194
R     120         148          170         243         235          293         314         366          389         431         454
Berthing and Mooring          A      266         315          366         398         432          455         504          556         591         624          656
B     292         398          462         653         709          920        1021        1232         1309        1451        1526
Subtotal                      A      533          606         701         769          792         826         891          979        1041        1102         1160
B     586          766         886        1864        1302         1609        1805        2172         2310        2567        2702
Charges Axainst M.rchandise
Loaded                        A      237          262         273         291         307          325         344          364         386         410          435
B     261         323          336         466         492          657         697         788          835         931         988
Unloaded                       A      521         577         625         677          735         768          803         928        1003        1084         1171
B     573          711         770        1084        1177         1552        1628        2007         2169        2461        2659
Subtotal                       A      758         839         898         968                      03           47         1389                    1494         Ï606
E     834        1034         1106        1550        1669         2209        2325        2795         3004        3392        3647
Rentals                          A      254         280         294         332          359         389          409         454         492          534         580
B     279         344          361         530         573          786         830         978         1060        1208        1312
Miiswllaneous                    A      145         145         297          411         717          732         773         865         888          920         954
a     160          179         367         660        1152         1480        1568        1876         1926        2097        2175
StAL OPERATING REVENUE         A    1690         1870        2190         2480        2910         3040        3220        3590        3810         4050        4300
8    1859        2323         2720        4004        4696         6144        6528        7821         8300        9264        9836
OPIRAYLNG EXPENi7ITURE
Staff                            A      625         645         685          775         810         865          930        ln80        1110         1140       117'
B     669          742         836        1015        1134         1368        1495        186I         2044        2247       21h'
Materisls and Supplies           A      380         440         520          560         585          650         710         810         850          890         940
B     414         519          660         767         860         1063        1100        1428        1591         1762        1963
General Expenses                 A      185         220         250         295          315         350          400         450         475         495          525
B     202         260          318         404         463          573         613         794          890         980         1096
Suodries                         A       10          10          10           10          10           10          10          10           10          10          10
6      il           12          13          14           15          17           18          18          19          20           21
Total lorking Expenditure   A    1200            1315        1465        1640         1720        1875        2050        2350         2445        2535         2645
8    1296        1533         1827        2200        2472         3021        3226        4101         4544        5009        5548
Depreciation                     A      314         333         414         544          846        1069         1088        1106        1124        1144         1162
B     490          514         534         687        1293         1501        1708         1983        1999        2519         2534
TOTAL OPERArING EXPENDIT[1RE A    1514          1648         1879        2184        2566         2944        3138        3456         3569        3679         3807
B    1786        2047         2361        2887        3765         4522        4934        6084         6543        7528         8082
NET OPERATING REVENUE              A      176         222         311          296         344           96          82         134         241          371         493
B       73         276         359        1117          931        1622         1594        1737        1757        1736         1754
INTEREST ON LONG-TERM DEBT         B                   84          408         639         921          937         917         873          812         750         686
NET INCOME                         A      150          138        (97)       (343)       (577)        (841)    (835)          (739)        (571)       (379)       (193
B      73          192        (49)         478           10         685         677          864         945          986        1068
AVERAGE NET FIXED ASSETS IN USE A    7976            7953       10950        14152       18902        23620       23383       22586       21771        20937       20084
B    7787         7974       10794       22273       32076        32685       32102        31927       30261       32598        34224
RATE ;F RETURN             %       A      2.2         2.8         2,8          2.1         1.8         2.0         2.5          0.6          1.1         1.8         2.5
B     0.9          3.5         3.3         5,0         3.0          5.0         5.0          5.6         5.8          5.3         5.1
W1R09  :c RATIO            %       A    71           70          67           66          59          62           64          65           64          63          62
S    70          66           67          55          53           50          50          52           55          54           56
OPEEAFING RATIO            %       A    90           88          86           88          88          97           97          96           94          91          88
B    96          88           87          72          80           74          76           78          79          81           82



CAMEROON
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
National Port Authority
Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds
(In Millions of CFAF)
1976/77 -
1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86               1981/82
SOURCES
operating revenue                1859         2323        2720        4004       4696         6144      6528         7821        8300         9264        9836         26415
Working expenditure              1296         1533        1827        2200       2472         3021       3226       4101         4544         5009        5548         14279
Cash generated from               563          790         893        1804       2224         3123      3302        3720         3756         4255        4288         12136
operations
Grants                                         974        1547         931        676          514        554         599          55                                   5196
Loans                                         3297        8563        7263        597           30                                                                     19750
Total Sources                     563         5067       11003        9998       3497         3667      38S6        4319         3811         4255        4288         37082
APPLICATIONS
Investments                       300         4668       10585        8559       1678         1034      1059        1121          388          300         300         27583
Debt service
Interest                                        84         408         639        921          937       917         873          812          750         686          3906
Amortization                                                                      248          531        789         810         832          855        1175          1568
Total Debt Service                              84         408         639       1169         1468      1706        1683         1644         1605        1861          5474
Increase (Decrease) in            (52)          98          76         223       (149)         (71)      (127)        129          89          541        (162)           50
working capital
Total Applications                248         4850       11069        9421       2698         2431      2638        2933         2121         2446        1999         33107
Cash increase (decrease) in yr. 315            211         (66)        577        799         1236       1218        1386        1690         1809        2289          3975
Cash brought forward from        1284         1599        1810        1744       2321         3120      4356        5574         6960         8650       10459          1599
-previous year
Cash at the end of the year    1599           1810        1744        2321       3120         4356       5574       6960         8650        10459       12748          5574
Debt coverage                    N.A.         9.4         2.2         2.8        1.9          2.1        1.9         2.2         2.3          2.7         2.3



Table 1I0
CAMEROON
SECOND3 DOUALA PORT 3ROJECI
National Pcrt Authority
Forecast Balance Sheets
(in millions of corrent CFAF)
as oc  tise 30                               1975      1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       1986
Fised Assets
Cross valse                             8916      9225      10293      16599      35158      38186      39170      40229       41250      42138      52336      5263h5
Minus depreciation                       1038     1528       2042       3262       3949       5242       6743        8451      10434      12433      1684         1437'
Net fised assets in use                 7878      7697       8251      133337     31209      32944      32427      31778      35816       29755      35491      32'i
Wonk in progress                         409       400       4000      120f00      2000         650        700        700        803        300        300        3')0
I'otal Fixed Assets                     8287      8097      12251      25337      33209      33594      33127      32478      3161h      30505       35791      33S5'
Investmests                               46        46         46         46         46         46         46         46          4h,        46         4h        'h
Cutrent Assets
Cash                                    1284      1599       1810       1744       2321       3120       4356        5574       6960       8655      10459      12748
Re-eivables                              310       309        387        453        667        782       1139        1223       1303       1383       1911       2029
Pavmeets in advasce                       21        il         14         17         20         24         27          32         37         42         48         54
Stores                                     97      207        260         330        384       430         492        557        633        710        792        889
Total Cornent Assets                     712      2126       2471       2544       3392       4356       6014        7386       8933      10785      13210      15720
TOTAL ASSETS                                 ?J045    10269       [4768     27927       36647     37996       39187      39910      40595      4(6b35'    -047       49323
LIABILITIES
EqvRtv
Capital and reserves                    8436      843e       8796       8796       8796       8796       8796        8796       8796       87q¾       8796       8796
Revaluazion reserve                                                     3035       3035       3035        3035       3035       3035       3035      11040       1 1i)j
Subsidies for investennts                                     974       2521       3452       4128        4642       5096       5795       5850       5850       5850
RetLied carioga                         1075      1148       1340       1291       1769       1779       2464        3141       4005       4950       5936       7004
Total  ouOiny                           9511      9584      I11IO      15643      17052      17738      18937      20168       21631      22631      31622      321 ''
l.ong-cern debt                          360       360       3297      11860      19123      19472      18971      18182       17372      16540      15685      [-5' 3
tirreot Liabilities
Payables                                 174       325        361        424        472        538         748        771        782        533        b8S        9'8
L.oan i.stalimnts due in ose .ear                                                              248        531        789        810        832        855      I-
.`ota  Carrent Liabilities               174       325        367        424        472        786       1279       1560       1592        1665       1740       2123
TOAL 1 A3511 ' 1IS                          19045    i )2-       14is8      27927      36647      37996       39187      39910      40595      4083h      4904?      49323
,wIrrovz Ratio                                9.8       6.5        6.8        6.0        7.2        5.5        4.7        4.7        5.6         -
l)ebt!Equity Ratio                            4/96      4/96       23/77      40/60      53/47      52/48      50/50      47/53      44156      42/58       33 'e1     i



CAMEROON
'able I1
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
National Port Authority
Debt Service
1976/77     1977/78      1978/79     1979/80     1980/81      1981/82     1982/83      1983/84     1984/85      1985/86      1986/87     1987/88
ADB FIRST TRANCHE
Mobilization                       601         744           55
Repayments                                                                                        97          104         113          122          131         142          154
Balance                            601        1345         1400        1400         1400        1303         1199        1086          964         833          691          537
Commirtent charge                    3            2
Interest                            24          78          110         112          112         112          105          96           87           78          67           55
Total interest and                  27          80          110         112          112         112          105          96           87           78          67           55
commitment charge
ADB SECOND TRANCHE
Mobilization                                   438          962
Repayments                                                                                                     97         104          113          122         131          142
Balance                                        438         1400        1400         1400        1400         1303        1199         1086         964          833          691
Commitment charge                                6            2
Interest                                        18           73         112          112         112          112         105           96          87           78          67
Total interest and                              24           75         112          112         112          112         105           96           87          78           67
coemitaent charge
ABEDIA
Mobilization                                   706         1544
Repayments                                                                            67          71           75          80           84          89           94          102
Balance                                        706        2250         2250         2183        2112         2037        1957         1873        1784         1690        1590
Interest                                        21           88         135          135         131          127         122          118         113          108          102
CCCE
Mobilization                                   750
Repayments                                                                                                    150         150          150          150         150
Balance                                        750          750         750          750         750          600         450          300          150
Inter.st                                        21           41          41           41          41           41          33           25           17           8
IBRD and IDA
Mobilization                      1368        2408         1515         334
Repay,ments                                                                          181         363          363         363          363          363         363          363
Balance                           1368        3776         5291        5625         5444        5081         4718        4355         3992        3629         3266        2903
Comeitment charge                   13           71          16            1
Interest                            40         229          281         485          501         485          452         420          388         355          323          291
Total interest and                  53         250          297         486          501         485          452         420          388          355         323          291
cooneitrent charge
KFW
Mobilization                       439         773          485         103
Repayments                                                                                                                                                      164          168
Balance                            439        1212         1697        1800         1800        1800         1800        1800         1800        1800         1636        1468
Interest                             4          12           28          35           36          36           36          36           36          36           36          32
C IDA
Mobilization                       889        2744         2702         160           30
Repayments                                                                                                                                                      131         130
Balance                            889        3633         6335        6495         6525        6525         6525        6525         6525        6525         6394        6264
Interest
TOTALS
Mobilization                      3297        8563         7263         597           30
Repayments                                                                           248         531          789         810          832         855         1175        1057
Balance                           3297       11860       19123        19720       19502        18971       18182        17372       1c540        15o85       14510        13453
Commitment charge                   16          29           18            1
Interest                            68         379          621         920          937         917         873          812          750         686         620          547
Total coemitment charge             84         408          639         921          937         917         873          812          750         686          620         547
and interest






ANNEX 1
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Bank Group Activities in the Transport Sector of Cameroon
Bank Group lending for transport development in Cameroon has
been as follows:
1.        Loan 663-CM (US$12 million), Credit 180-CM (US$7 million), March
1970, First Highway Project: This project provided for improvement of the
roads Ngaoundere-Garoua (246 km) and Tiko-Victoria (22 km), and preinvest-
ment studies for improvement of the roads Garoua-Mora (260 km) and Douala-
Pont du Nkam (180 km).
The entire project has been completed. Construction of the Tiko-
Victoria road was satisfactorily completed in April 1973. Construction of
the Ngaoundere-Garoua road was temporarily stopped in 1973 when failures
occurred on some newly-built sections because of drainage problems. The
road design was then partially improved, and construction was completed in
June 1975. Because of the need for these design improvements, and also due
to the effects of inflation, final project costs amounted to US$35.2 million
as compared with the original estimate of US$25.1 million. Original Bank
Group financing of US$19 million was increased by US$2 million in May 1975
to match currency realignments. Loan/Credit funds are now fully disbursed.
2.        Loan 687-CM (US$5.2 million, June 1970), First Railway Project:
The project consisted of track renewal work, as well as reconstruction of
the Japoma Bridge and procurement of motive power and rolling stock.
Project execution has been satisfactory for track renewal work
and delivery of motive power and rolling stock. However, unforeseen tech-
nical difficulties such as extremely bad subsoil conditions made lengthy
studies necessary before selecting the site and the optimum design of the
new railway bridge at Japoma, near Douala. Bids were called at the completion
of these studies, and results showed that the Loan Funds allocated to this
item would be insufficient to cover the full construction costs of the new
bridge. Supplementary financing was provided under the Second Railway Project.
(Loan 1038-CM).
3.        Cr. No. 229 - Douala Port Project: US$1.5 million Credit of January 14,
1971; Effective Date: April 14, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1974; Original
Closing Date: June 30, 1973). The Douala Port Project commenced in July 1972
and physical work under the Credit was satisfactorily completed in November 1974.
Covenants and undertakings agreed during Credit negotiations have been reasonably
fulfilled, but financial targets were not achieved. Remedial financial measures
are included in the proposed Second Douala Port Project.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        Cr. No. 429, Loan No.935 - Second Highway Project: US$24 million
Credit of September 26, 1973; Effective Date: December 20, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978 and US$24 million Loan of same date; Effective date: December 20,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978. The Government has awarded civil works
contracts for all three roads, and construction began in December 1974. Contractors
started work slowly on the Douala-Pont du Nkam (161 km) and Pont du Noun-Foumban
(50 km) roads, and delays of six months to one year are expected. Construction of
the Garoua-Mora (260 km) road is progressing satisfactorily. However, because of
the expected large project cost overrun due to inflation, the Garoua-Figuil section
(93 km) of this road has been deleted, and on March 2, 1976 the Board of Executive
Directors approved a US$15 million supplementary Credit. The Bank concurrently
reduced its participation in road construction from 68% to 47%. Government notified
the consultants selected for the highway maintenance study in February 1976 but has
taken no action to date to appoint technical assistance experts or initiate forestry
stuides.  The project was re-appraised in September 1975, and the total cost is now
estimated at US$143 million.  This would leave a financing gap of about US$74
million.  In view of the unexpected magnitude of the cost overruns and the absence-f
of additional financing from new donors, the Government has agreed to pcstpone
construction of one road section (90 km). This would re4Rce total project cost
to about US$121 million of which about US$83 million aretoreign exchange costs.
A supplementary credit of US$15 million was approved in March 1976 to help alleviate
the burden imposed on the Government by the project's cost overruns.
5.        Loan No. 1038 - Second Railway Project: US$16.0 million Loan to REGIFERCAM
of September 18, 1974; Effective Date: December 18, 1974; Closing Date: December
31, 1977. Procurement of main project items is satisfactory. The track material
has been delivered and rolling stock is being purchased. Although problems were
encountered in the construction of the foundation for the Japoma bridge, the works
are expected to be completed by April 1977. Due to the fluctuation in exchange rates
during project implementation, additional financing was required to cover the cost
of the equipment already ordered and of the reconstruction of the JAPOMA bridge.
Consequently, the railway has obtained a supplier's credit of US$890,000 to supplement
Bank financing for the rolling stock, and the foreign exchange cost of the consulting
services (US$925,000) originally included in this Second Railway Project have been
transferred to the Third Railway Project financed under Loan No. 54 which is not
yet effective. Due to the world slump in the timber market and recent substantial
increases in staff costs, REGIFERCAM experiences difficulty in attaining the finan-
cial covenants included in the Loan Agreement. During the negotiations of the Third
Railway Project, the Second Railway Project financial targets were retained and the
Government and REGIFERCAM undertook to take the necessary measures including tariff
increases to achieve the target set for 1978/79. A first tariff increase averaging
12.4% has been implemented, effective June 1, 1976, and subsequent tariff increases
will be implemented on July 1, 1977 and 1978, respectively.
6.        Loan No.54 - Douala Railway Station and Marshalling Yard Engineering
Project: US$2.3 million Loan of July 25, 1976; Effective Date: September 27, 1976;
Closing Date: October 31, 1978. The Loan is not yet effective.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Description of Existing Port Or anization and Facilities
A.   Oanlzation and Qperations cf NPA
1.        Control of NPA is exercised  by an Administrative Council whose
president is nominated by Decree by the President of the IJnited Republic of
Cameroon. There are eleven members of the Council consisting of representa-
tives of the Ministries of Transport. Finance, Planning, Industry and Commerce,
and Labor, and of the Douala Chamber of Commerce, the Director-General of the
Cameroon Railway, two representatives of maritime interests and two Govern-
ment nominees,  The chief executive officer of NPA is its Director-General
who is directly responsible to the Administrative Council.
2,        NPA's functions at Douala port include censervacy and provision
of navigational aids, pilotage, and operation of a dockyard for repairs of
its own workboats and other small craft. General cargo is handled by four
shipping companies which operate under lease agreement at designated berths
and sheds. Log traffic is handled by the Societe pour Export des Parc a Bois
Cameroun (SEPBC) in which NPA has an equity interest and aluminum products
by ALUCAM, which is partly state-owned. SEPBC unes its own log-carrying
equipment ashore, as well as tugs and barges. NPA maintains the quays and
sheds. The shipping companies use their own cargo-handling equipment. NPA
in addition rents a few mobile cranes and other items.
3.        The present arrangements for general cargo handling are reasonably
satisfactory and result in traffic throughput similar to other West African
ports, For example, about 1000 tons of general cargo and logs per meter
of quay were handled during 1974 at the general cargo berths. This caleu-
lation excludes berths handling special cargoes such as cement clinker,
bananas and alumina.
4.        About 85% of log traffic arrives at the port from forest areas by
rail and is sorted and stacked in the storage area at the upstream end of
the port. From here the logs are usually moved by special log tractors and
trailers direct to the general cargo berths for loading. although some float-
able logs are also launched into the water and towed to vessels at the general
cargo berths or at moorings in the estuary. The logs are placed aboard vessels
either in the hold or as deck cargo using the ships own gear. This movement of
logs along the general cargo berths and stacking on the quay apron prior to
loading at times obstruct the flow of general cargo from transit sheds to
vessels. Moreover, the stacking and handling of heavy logs is a major cause
of deterioration of the quay surface, which in turn impedes the operation of
fork-lift trucks between vessels and sheds. This problem is addressed under
the present project.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        NPA undertakes responsibility for establishing suitable procedures
for cargo-handling operations at Douala through lease agreements with the
shipping companies who use the transit sheds, and through the other cargo
handling and port organizations on which it is represented.
6.        NPA maintains the port entrance channel at its present depth of
about 5 m below low water datum with its dredger "Garoua". The entrance
channel is relatively stable in its present alignment and depth, although
maintenance dredging is expensive, and the fine silt which accumulates is
difficult to dredge. The "Garoua" operates both by transporting material
to deposit grounds and by overspill dredging to place bed material in sus-
pension on ebb tides.
B.   Port of Douala
Access and Topography
7.        The port of Douala/Bonaberi is located at the head of the Wouri
estuary about 30 km from the ocean. Vessels reach the port by a two-way
channel, 150 m wide and over 9 km in total length, which is maintained by
dredging to a depth of about 5 m below low water. There is an outer bar
with a depth of about 7 m, Mean tidal range is about 1.7 m. The channel
consequently limits the size of vessels which may enter port to about 3,500
tons dwt, or up to about 16,000 tons when lightly laden.
8.        The port lies largely on the Douala side of the estuary, with some
industrial wharves on the Bonaberi side. A road and rail bridge connects
both; principal connections are shown on Maps 11633 and 11635R. The port
occupies a very restricted site, hemmed in by the town of Douala and by
a cliff which runs close to the downstream general cargo berths. Improve-
ments within the port area and of road and rail access are envisaged under
the proposed project.
t2eratin,ySehedu1e
9.        The port's normal working hours are from 07.30 to 12.00 hours, and
from 14.00 to 17.30 hours, but cargo-handling operations are undertaken without
restriction on wirk during nights, Sundays or holidays, and on average a
12-hour day is worked.
10,       Vessels using the port do not normally require assistance from tugs
in berthing, but one tug is available commercially, and another is on order.
Pilotage is compulsory.
Port Installations
11.       Berths.  On the left bank of the estuary (Douala side), there are
effectively 9 general cargo berths of varying lengths in a continuous wharf
of 1,494.5 m, a berth of 174 m for vessels unloading ore and loading aluminum



ANNEX 2
Page 3
ingots, a shallow log-launching berth of 30 m, a shallow berth of 165 m used
by fishing vessels, and the dockyard. The ggneral cargo berths have
associated transit ~heds (totalling 54,000 m ), and in some cases open stor-
age areas (33,000 m ). A continuous wharf of 350 m on the Bonaberi side is
designated as the industrial wharf, and handles cement clinker imports and
banana exports.
12.       The limiting depth alongside the general cargo berths and the
industrial wharf is 8.5 m, and at the fishing berth 5.0 m. At the log-
launching berth and other shallow berths, the depth is less than 2.0 m.
Oil-tankers discharge at a dolphin berth in the channel with 8.0 m alongside,
which is operated by a commercial consortium. There are three temporary
buoy moorings used by SEPBC for loading log-carrying vessels. The general
cargo berths are served by rail: approximately one-third of this traffic
is carried by road.
Docklard and Floating Craft
13.       Douala port also has2a dockyard operated by NPA, equipped with a
100 ton slipway, about 21000 m of werkshops and stores and a garage. There
are a 1,200 ton capacity floating dock and two floating cranes of 10-ton and
100-ton capacity. NPA has a number of launches, including seven pilot boats
and other work boats.
Dred ers
14,       NPA has two dredgers ba¶ed at Douala.  The self-propeXled cutter
suction dredger "Garoua" of 500 m  hopper capacity with a 500 m  barge is used
for maintenance of the port entrance channel. A very small cutter suction
dredger "Kienke" with floating pipeline is used for minor maintenance work
within the sheltered areas of the port.
B.   Secondary Ports
Port of Kribi
15.       Kribi is a sheltered lighterage and shallow quay port located in
the south, with a growing traffic in agricultural and log exports. It has
the following present characteristics and is undergoing development.
Quays                     250 m
Log park capacity       7,000 m
Storage area            2,500 m2
Shed capacity           8,500 m3



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Port of Victoria-Tiko
16.       This is a small port in the rocky bay of Ambas, of diminishing
importance in the Western region, which caters particularly for cocoa and
rubber exports. The facilities comprise:
A finger quay        about 8n m
Transit sheds and                 2
warehouses        about 3,500 m
Storage area        about 10,000 m
Tiko
17.       A small port in a sheltered location in the western region, of
limited importance, Tiko caters particularly for banana exports. Its
facilities include:
Main wharf                about 135 m with depths to 7 m
Lighterage wharf          about 120 m
Transit shed              about 3,500 mZ
Garoua
18.       A river port on the Benoue in northern Cameroon, Garona has
been of limited importance since the Nigerian civil war. Its facilities
comprise:
Quay                           256 m
Storage                    120,000 m2
Shed                         4,800 m
Petroleum storage and                3
berth capacity            22,000 m



ANNEX 3
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Main Pro ect Characteristics
BackSround
1.        Development of the port of Douala has reached a stage where it is
no longer practicable to increase deep-water berth capacity vithout a major
re-structuring of the port layout. Seaward extension of the port is blocked
by the dockyard and naval base and hampered by the restricted width avail-
able between the quay alignment and the town (see Maps). At the rear of the
passenger terminal where the port area is narrovest, the ground rises
steeply, making an inland extension of the port rather costly. Development
of the upstream end of the port would be hampered by limited water depth and
by the existing fishing industry, while the Bonaberi side of the chO"l has
been zoned for industrial development and has problemn of access.
2.        The proposed project accordingly envisages the seaward development
of the port for general cargo traffic, container traffic and log exports.
This development would be facilitated by using material from deepening
the entrance channel which at present has a very limited depth of about
5 m at low water,  The dockyard which would be demolished to make way for
access to the additional berths would be re-located upstream in a develop-
ment linked to an expanded fishing port. Buildings adjoining the downstream
berths would be demolished in order to expand the very restricted port area
in accordance with plans prepared jointly by the Douala city authorities,
Regifercam and NPA, for a ring road for the town and for improved rail
access; only the first stage of improved road and rail access is included
in the project. The main components of the proposed project are described
below.
Downstream Port Development
3.            Port.  A new log port would be created at the downstream end
of the existing berths, using material from channel deepening to form a re-
claimed area for the reception, sorting, and stacking of logs. The dockyard
and the naval base would be demolished and re-located to permit this proposed
seaward expansion.
4.        About 85% of log traffic would be expected to continue arriving by
rail at the port where marshalling and other railway facilities would be pro-
vided; these facilities would handle about 4 to 5 trains per day, each of
about 175 tons. A new railway marshalling yard which is the subject of the
Third Railway Project would be situated at Bassa industrial zone outside the
port to cater for rail movements through the port.



A1nEX 3
Page 2
5.        An estimated 20 ha of the reclaimed area would be used for log
exports, of which about 10 ha would be allocated to log reception and sort-
ing, 7 ha to the storage of non-floatable logs. and 3 ha for floatable logs.
A rock-rubble protected breakwater would provide a sheltered area of about
18 ha for logs to be launched and formed into rafts or loaded into barges
from a shallow quay of 350 m length, for transport by tugs to vessels at
three buoy-mooring stations in deep water in the main channel, or to vessels
at the general cargo berths depending on the volume of logs to be loaded.
This system of log handling follows the practice most widely adopted at
other West African ports and is considered the most economical and flexible
method for handling traffic volumes projected at Douala port.
6.        The above facilities could accommodate about 4 weeks' supply of
logs and would provide adequate storage for the anticipated traffic up to
about 1.1 million tons of logs by 1985. The storage area could be readily
extended if needed for increased log traffic by merely paving an additional
area of the reclamation.
7.        A beach for canoe fishermen would also be provided near the log
port in an attempt to discourage canoes from entering the commercial port. A
shelter and other essential facilities would be provided by the city author-
ities under a separate project.
Container/General Car_! Berth
8.        A deep-water berth 240 m long with 9.5 m depth alongside at low
water would be constructed for container and for general break-bulk cargo.
There is an option to extend the berth to 400 m subject to an economic,
financial and operational justification to be approved by the Bank. It
would have a supporting paved storage area of about 8 ha and would be
designed to permit future deepening to 11.5 m. During the initial stages,
goods and containers would be handled either by ships' gear or mobile cranes
and by fork-lift trucks ashore, and the berth could be readily converted for
use with a rail-mounted container crane if the need arose. A transit shed
*of about 5000 m capacity would be provided ashore, and the berth would have
the usual utilities.
9.        This berth, together with a transit shed, would be operated as a
common user facility, with each shipping/cargo handling company continuing to
make arrangements for its own ship and shore container-handling equipment as
at present. Stuffing and unstuffing of the containers would be undertaken
outside the port area. Within the downstream port, an area would be allocated
for companies using the berth to provide their own office accommodation and
truck-parking area. A limited number of containers would continue to be
handled at the existing general cargo berths and stored either at the new
berth or at a small upstream subsidiary storage area.
10.       A small amount of settlement of the dredged material used in the
reclamation is bound to occur with time. Accordingly. roadways and quay
aprons would be paved with interlocking concrete blocks which can be lifted



ANNEX 3
Page 3
and relaid when settlement occurs. The log stacking area will be paved with
a layer of pozzulana which is economical and can be regraded periodically.
The bituminous surface of the container and general cargo stacking area can
be relaid or upgraded as future traffic development or other circumstances
may require.
11.       Tenderers have submitted prices for a possible extension of this
container/general cargo berth to 400 m (two berths) to enable an evaluation
of the merits of constructing this additional length under the project.
Upstream Port Develnment
12.       The upstream end of the port would be redeveloped to accommodate
the dockyard and workshops displaced by the seaward extension of the port
and to provide better facilities for fishing vessels. An area in the channel
which is presently exposed at low water would be reclaimed by closure of
part of the Wouri Bridge and by dredging reclamation with a rock rubble
protected embankment which would also help reduce silt deposition on ebb
tides from the main Wouri channel.
F ishni  Port
13.       Berths for fishing vessels would total about 530 m, most of which
would have a depth of 5 m and a small length of 6.5 m where the fishing
berths Join the site allocated to future ship-repair facilities. The facili-
ties in the up er port area for fishing interests include a cold store of
about 15,000 m capacity, an ice plant capable of producgng 150 tons of ice
per da, a market hall with a public area of3about 500 m , and an area of
3000 m available for fishmongers with 400 m of cold storage capacity, in
addition to a small workshop, administrative offices, and electrical sub-
station. NPA wnuld lease these facilities to fishing interests under agree-
ments acceptable to the Bank.
Dockyard and workshop Area
14.       A dockyard and workshop area linked to the fishing port would be
provided, together with administrative buildings and a fitting-out quay.
Existing machinery and equipment in the present work8hops, supplemented by
new equipment provided under French aid and purchased within the Franc zone,
would be installed in a new dockyard workshop complex at the upstream port
area. These new facilities would enable NPA to carry out the repair and
maintenance of its buoys and navigational equipment, dredging craft, pilot
launches and miscellaneous work boats, as well as offer an essential service
for fishing vessels and other small craft.  A floating dry dock of 500 tons
capacity would be provided with CIDA financing to replace the present small
slipway which would have to be demolished to permit construction of the down-
stream port development.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
15.       The entrance channel would be dredged to a depth of 7.5 m below
low water datum over a length of about 22 km, and would retain its present
width of 150 m to permit two-way passage at high water of log-carrying and
other large and specialized vessels of up to about 20,000 tons dwt. At the
outer bar, the dredged vidth wuld be 250 m and the depth 9.5 m because of
the need for greater tolerances in this exposed situation. The material to
be dredged is soft, and it is expected that a trailing suction dredger wotld
be used. The net volume of material to be dredged is about 7.6 million m;
side slopes would be dredged to about 1 in 10 which would be suitable.
16.       Sand from the dredged channel adjoining the present port would be
used to create the large reclaimed area needed for port expansion. Surplus
material including silts and clays would be deposited at sea and ashore at
deposit grounds to be selected by the supervisory consultants. During the
period of channel deepening, the behavior of the channel and estuary would be
kept under review to provide as much information as possible on future
siltation, and hence on the most suitable equipment and method of maintenance
dredging operations. Consideration would then be given to the possible ule
in maintenance operations of NPA's existing cutter suetion dredger (500 m
hopper capacity) and of a dredger to be supplied by CIDA for channel deepening.
Training would be provided in the use of the new dredger.
Road and Rail Access
17.       The proiect would provide improved road and rail access from the
city to the new downstream port area, and new railway marshalling yards and
facilities to handle the increased traffie, This would entail the demolition
of buildings in the city, and an expansion of the port area near the most sea-
ward of the general carRo berths.  Rail access would be improved witbfr the en-
larged port area and in conjunctior. wft` t!o  fùt1r? 'r½aitng yar! at Bassa
in-8ustrial zon.  te rfWa   aciities within the p-r-t vulAi he e>-a.ainei
h    -,ta  1un'îer the Third Railway Project »    _   't:'-    pati1lr-
with -e-w oa3amarsha l-C  r->r  en tto    te- zcor -.rovem.enr_
oF arnd- and r    .-s  heavc *een prenare'   C cc<: ruc   -t> "efercan
»n 7uaia cjtv ait7lori,ies5 ,nd coan :crrr to  their Ittrnate geve oD-'ent plans.
The improvements to port access and the creation of the new reclaimei areas
would enable repairs to be carried out on paved areas within the existing
port boundaries which have so far been neglected.
Consultin__ervices
18.       CIDA would finance the services of consulting engineers to be en-
gaged to assist NPA in project execution, in coordination of all project
comnponents including bilaterally and items financed by several donors and
in preparation of progress reports for the Government and the co-donors.
The consultants have been selected in agreement with and on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank and the other co-donors.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Associated _rojeets
19.       The proposed major improvements to the port of Douala make it
necessary or advisable to carry out various additional works not included in
the project. Details of these associated projects are given in Annex 4.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
List of Associated Projects
The proposed major improvements to the port of Douala make it
necessary or advisable to carry out various additional works not included in
the project. These associated projects are described below, together with
details of arrangements to be made to assure their implementation within
specified time-limits, in accordance with the tenderers agreed construction
program and after Bank consultation.
1.   New Naval Base
The existing naval base vill have to be demolished to permit exten-
sion of the port area downstream for the new log port and container/general
cargo berth. The Government will arrange for the base to be vacated by
June 1977 to suit the contractors' construction program.
Arrangements will be made, in agreement with NPA, to accommodate
naval vessels either at Douala or other NPA commercial ports until completion
of a new base, a site for which would become available at the seaward end of
the log port breakwater by 1979. The costa of constructing the new base and
of providing alternative accommodation for naval vessels, will not be charged
to NPA or the proposed project.
2.   Oil Pipeline
The underground oil pipeline which connects the mid-channel oil
tanker berth to the storage tanks ashore will have to be lowered in order to
provide an access channel of adequate depth to the proposed fishing berths
and dockyard. NPA will arrange with the oil companies to have the necessary
alterations made to suit the port construction program; the financing
plan for the works will be agreed with the oil companies.
3.   Modification to Municipal Utilities, and New Offices for Maritime Companies
To allow for the planned port expansion, offices and other property
in the city near the downstream general cargo berths will have to be
demolished. This demolition and the associated improvements in road and rail
access which are proposed under the project, will necessitate the Modifica-
tion of utilities outside the port boundary such as water supply, telephone
lines, electricity, and drainage. The appropriate state and municipal
utility organizations will ensure that the required modifications will be
carried out to suit the approved port construction program; the financing
plan for such modifications will be agreed between NPA and the appropriate
authority.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
The displaced maritime companies vill be given every assistance,
for example, by issuing of building permits and arranging suitable alterna-
tive accommodation so that port business is not adversely affected. The
financing plan for demolition of property outside the port boundary vill
be agreed with the respective owners.
4.   Canoe Beach Facilities
The proposed project makes provision for a new beach for canoe
fishermen at the seavard end of the new log port to discourage their use
of the commercial port. In order to provide an incentive for using this
beach, the Douala City Authority vill make available by 1980, at its own
expense, the folloving amenities: a shelter, supply of fresh vater, and
adequate parking and other facilities.
5.   Improvement to Road Access to Bonaberi berth, Bonaberi industrial zone,
and across the Wouri Bridge
Since the Wouri Bridge links the two sides of the estuary on which
NPA operates port facilities, NPA has a special interest in maintaining its
surface, as vell as the road access to Bonaberi berth and to the Bonaberi
industrial zone, all of which are now in very poor condition (See Map 11680).
The Government vill take the necessary steps to have the roada and the bridge
surface repaired by 1980; the costs of these works vill not be charged either
to NPA or to the proposed port project.
6. Future Commerical Facilities vithin the Port
The shipping companies and other firme who would use the new con-
tainer/general cargo berth and the new log port vill require office accommoda-
tions, parking space, and associated facilities as traffic develops. NPA
plans to make it possible for these companies to construct their required
facilities at their own cost. Also, when present log operations are moved
downstream, NPA plans to allocate space in the upetream port to companies
wishing to finance and build warehouses and allied port facilities. Planning
and financial arrangements for these commercial facilities vill be done in
consultation and agreement with the Bank.
7.   Cargo-handling Equipment
As traffic develops at the new log port and the container/general
cargo berth, the companies undertaking cargo-handling (including logs) vill
require additional equipment. NPA will prepare appropriate lease agreements
for these new port facilities to ensure the availability of adequate cargo-
handling equipment, including tugs, as needed; the policy governing these
lease agreements vill be subject to Bank approval.
8.   Future railway marshalling yard
The railway marshalling yard in Douala city is inadequate to handle
the volume of log and other traffic expected to paso through the port
by rail. Accordingly, a new marshalling yard and railway station are



ANNEX 4
Page 3
proposed at Bassa industrial zone outside Douala city; these facilities and
the accompanying rail link to the port are planned for financing under Bank
Group projects now being processed which would cover both detailed engi-
neering and construction. The timing of proposed studies, including final
engineering and project construction vorks, which are expected to be com-
pleted by 1982, will be coordinated vith the implementation achedule for
the proposed port project.



ANNOEX 5
CAMEROON
Second Douala Port Project
Schematic Implementation Schedule for principal proiect items
1976      1977  1_3J            197  .-  lm98Q       I4s        1982        l9U,
I Main Civil Works
(i) Upstream port
Dredging
Quays
Utilities                 ,
(ii) Road & Rail Access
Road-
Rail-
(iii)  Downstream Port
Dredging
Quays--
Utilities
(iv) Buildings
Transit Shed               _
Workshops                  _
21
Il  Additional berth-                                _ _ _
III  Port rehabilitation
IV Channel dredging
Dredger & Equipment
DredRin2                                            _
V  Floating dry dock
VI Fishing port buildings
Notes 1. This chart indicates approximate construction periods only.
2. Additional berth subject to Bank approval.



CAMEROON                                                             ANNEX 6
Page I
Second Douala Port Project
National Port Authority
Project Financing Plan
List of Loans and Grants
Unit                     Commit-
Foreign        Exchange   Amount          ment
No.  DuimuJrs                 Foreign       Currency       Rate         CFAF         Charge      Interest   Terms of
Currency     Amount          in CFAF    Million           '.      % p.a.       Repayment                         Purpose of Loan
LOANS
1.  ADB Ist tranche           Units of        5 million      280         1400         0.50         8          15 yrs. incl.               Upstream port
account                                                                        5 yrs. of grace
(equal annuities)
ADB 2nd tranche                           5 million      280         1400        0.50         8                                      Road and rail access utilities
1,  ABFDA                     USS            10 million      225         2250         ---          6         22 yrs. incl.                Road and rail access utilities
3 yrs. of grace
(equal annuities)
'.  CIDA                      Can. $         29 million      225         6525         ---          -         50 yrs. incl.               Dredging of entrance channel;
10 yrs. of grace            supply of dredger and floating
(equal repayments)         dry dock; fishing port buildings;
supervision of construction
5.  CCCE                      CFAF          750 million         1         750         ---          5.5       10 yrs. incl.                Dockyard and workshops
5 yrs. of grace
(equal repayments)
6.  KFW                       Deutsch        20 million        85        1800         ---          2          20 yrs. incl.               Dredging and reclamation;
Marks                                                                          10 yrs. of grace            downstream quays; transit shed;
(equal annuities)          port rehabilitation
7.  IBRD                      US$            15 million      225         3375         0.75         8.9       20 yrs. icl
4 1/2 yrs. of grace
(equal repayments)
IDA (ta Goverameat)   US$               10 million       225        2250          On-lent to NPA under the same conditions as
IBRD loan
G(RANTS
I.  FFD                       Inits of        4 million      280          1 100"
account
2.  FAC                       CFAF          750 million         1           750
3.  Cameroon Government   CFAF             4000 million         1         4000



CAMEROON
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Nationul Port Authority
Project Financlng Plan
1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84         Total
LOANS
ADB lst tranche        601        744        55                                                              1400
ADB 2nd tranche                  438        962                                                              1400
ABEDIA                            706      1544                                                              2250
CCCE                             750                                                                          750
IBRD/IDA              1368      2408       1515       334                                                    5625
KFW                    439        773       485        103                                                   1800
CIDA                   889      2744       2702       160         30                                         6525
TOTAL                 3297      8563       7263       597         30                                       19750
GRANTS
FAC                    184       351        199         16                                                    750
FED                    258       453        285       104                                                    1150
Government             532       743        447       556        514        554       599         55         4000
TOTAL                  974      1547        931       676        554        554       599         55         5850
ONPC                   197       275        165        205       190        205       222         33         1492
GRAND TOTAL           4468     10385       8359      1478        734        759       821         88       27092
CD m



ANNE 7
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Traffic Analysis
A.  Commercial Traffic (excludîng fishing)
1.        Table 4 attached to the main report shows the growth of import and
export traffic through Douala port between 1979-74; Table 5 shows the fore-
cast growth to 1986. Certain commodity groups are currently either handled
by specialized facilities or at a specific, designated berths and have there-
fore been excluded from consideration in assessing the need for, and the
effects of providing, the new facilities in the proposed project. These com-
modities are as follows:  petroleum, clinker, bananas, alumina and alumirnm,
and bulk wine.
2.        The remaining traffic, which is handled by general cargo methoda, is
therefore the traffic relevant to the project. The forecasts for this traffic
are shown in Table 5, both with and vithout the project.
3.        The forecasts are largely based upon those of consultants OCCR.
Their timber forecasts have however been modified to take into consideration
the views on Cameroon export prospects contained in the most recent studies
of West African forestry potential, and the Congo Second Railway Project
Appraisal Report (CRA). Furthermore, the consultants' import traffic fore-
caste have been adjusted to take into consideration Bank forecasts of GDP
growth in Cameroon through 1986, the historical relationships between imports
and GDP growth, and possible modifications to those relationships. Comenta
on the main traffic forecasts are given below.
B.   Imports
4.        Import traffic is projected by establishing behavioral relationships
between growth of importe and growth of GDP. Projections of GDP vill then
define future import traffic.
5.        GDP grew at a rate of 3.5% p.a. from 1969-74.  Since 1974, the
annual rate of growth has fallen to 3%, primarily as a result of the world
economic recession. Recovery has begun, and GDP is expected to increase
at an average rate of 5% p.a. between 1974-85.
6.        The relationship between the growth of imports and GDP, based on
1967-74 national data, is shown below:



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Imports
GDP
Foodetuffs       Other Importe          Equipment      Total
1969-1974    1.8                1.7                   1.2        1.68
1974-1985    1.4                1.35                  1.2        1.33
The relative reduction in the foodstuffs/GDP ratio compared vith that for
other importe results from the fact that greater opportunities exist in the
immediate future for import substitution in staple foode such as sugar than
in the various manufactures which comprise other imports. Taking the three
commodity groups together, an average yearly growth in GDP of 5% vill cause
an average yearly grovth in importe of 6.7% (1.33 x .05).
Fertilizer
7.        Fertilizer imports are expected to decline until about 1980 as a
result of import substitution by local production. At that time, the capa-
city of the local plant is expected to be reached. Consequently, there vill
then be an increase in imports vhich vill retura to the current volume by
about 1985.
Clinker/Cement
8.        Although clinker importe handled at the specilized Bonaberi Berth
do not affect the demand for general cargo facilities, those of ce ent do.
The process of substitution of clinker for cement, begun in 1969, is nov
virtually complete, and cement imports should henceforth be limited to a
small annual residual of about 10,000 tons.
C.   Exports
Timber
9.        The future volumes of timber exported through Douala are critical
to the justification of the project, as they currently accouRt for over 30%
of general cargo traffic and are expected to comprise about 40% in 1986.
10.       The volume of timber exporta for Cameroon increased by nearly 10%
p.a. over 1969-73, vith Douala's share in the total decreasing slightly due
to operational constraints. The other timber export ports, accounting for
about one-quarter of the total, are Kribi and Campo. Up to 1974, the prob-
lem of supply represented an important constraint on exports. This vas
related primarily to the inadequacy of the transport system to evacuate the
quantity of timber potentially exploitable. In 1974 and 1975, the principal
constraint vas one of declining vorld demand, which is nov recovering as
the economic recession in Europe and the U.S. subsides. Given the large



ANNEX 7
Page 3
timber potential of Cameroon, the degree to which the port system can be
improved so as to permit more rapid evacuation may be the major determi-
nant of the rate of increase of timber exports.
11.       World sales of timber grew at 8% per year from 1965-70.  Most of
the demand for African timber (90%) is in Europe. According to the forestry
studies, tropical hardwood entering into world trade should increase at 5.5%
per year from 1975-80 and at 4.2% from 1980-85. The same studies predicted
the following for Cameroon:
Timber Exports 1985
(millions of m3)
West African Region                                 Cameroon
High estimate          Low estimate         High estimate          Low estimate
18.2                   13.0                  2.2                   1.8
Low estimates assumed only a very modest rise in world prices for timber, as
well as only a modest improvement in the transport network. The high pro-
jections assumes an increase in world prices of between 35-50% between 1972-
80 and 5-1OZ from 1980-85. It also assumes that supply bottlenecks, such as
the inadequate transport network, can be removed.
12.       Two sets of forecasts have accordingly been considered; the basis
in both cases is the recent studies of West Africa forestry potential already
mentioned. The sets can be described as Probable and Minimal. The Probable
represents the volume anticipated taking account possible organizational
constraints in the forestry sector, and it is employed in the project eco-
nomic benefit analysis. The Minimal, based on the lower forecasts of the
studies, is employed in the sensitivity analysis. The results are shown
in the table on page 5 fo this Annex.
Probable
13.       The forestry studies made it clear that supply and not demand con-
straints are likely to determine the regional, and by inference, the national
level of exports during the period to 1985. Two sets of forecasts were
adopted. The lower assumed transport improvement at only an historical
rate. This seems inappropriate as far as Cameroon is concerned, where
(a) the Second Railway Project, (b) the Second Douala Port Project, (c)
the complementary Third Railway Project, and (d) the forestry feeder road
study financed under the Second Highway Project are all designed to sub-
stantially improve the transport system, with particular reference to the
evacuation of timber.
14.       Thus the higher forecast is adopted as the starting point.  The
overall regional total volume for this is forecast as 18.2 million m3 in 1985,
or 40% above the low forecast of 13.0 million m3. However, while for the



ANNEX 7
Page 4
Central African sub-region (CASR) 1/, the difference is rather in excess, at
45%, of the average (which is understandable in view of the more limited
expansion opportunities in the more developed exporting countries of Nigeria,
Ivory Coast and Ghana) and expansion of Zaire production is expected largely
to account for this. The rationale given is that unless the presently
inaccessible interior of Zaire is opened up, the resource capacity of the
region and sub-region vill be inadequate to meet the demand.
15.       This implies that the probable demand for Cameroon timber is higher
than forecast. If, in fact, the difference between the low and high estimates
were assumed constant for all CASR at +45%, the Cameroon potential would rise
to 2.6 million m3 in 1985.
16.       The potential availability of Cameroonian supplies does not seem to
be in doubt. The forestry studies note that the Yokadouma and Dja forest
reserves have an area of approximately 11 million ha and estimated timber
stock of about 100 million m3 of first clase species and 150 million a3 of
lesser known species of marketable size. In the CRA report, it vas assumed
that blocs 5, 6, and 11 of the Yakadouma reserves which cover an area of 5bout
1.2 million ha would yield about 0.4 million tons (or about 1/2 million m )
by 1985, which would be evacuated through the Congo ATC system. Thus the
implied potential of the remainder of these reserves is clearly considerable;
the problem is one of mobilization of resources and transport.
17.       The forestry feeder road stydy to be undertaken with funds provided
under the Second Bighway Project is critical to this mobilization. It is
assuued for the purpose of this appraisal that the study will get underway
shortly, and that it will recommend developuent of feeder roads to the Trans-
cameroon railvay. Furthermore, it is anticipated that such a program of in-
vestment vill be implemented. (The Bank's Basic Economic Mission Report on
Cameroon (Transport Section) foresees that this program will account for about
40% of Bank lending in the highway sector during the Fourth Plan 1976-81.)
The average distance to railheads from the Yakadouma and Dja areas (excluding
blocs 5, 6 and 11) is about 250 km, and this, combined with the Cameroon Gov-
ernment's policy of encouraging timber exports through low average rail charges,
indicates that transport costs will be low enough to make exploitation of
secondary as well as primary species commerically viable.
18.       Thus the total volume of Cameroon timber exports in 1985 is forecast
as 2.6 million m3 equivalent. Of this, about 0.5 million m3 is assumed to be
evacuated via Congo ATC in accordance with the CRA report, leaving 2.1 million
m3 for evacuation via Douala and Kribi. This is equivalent to 1.4 million
tons after deduction of wastage in processing sawn timber, and it is forecast
that Douala vill handle about 920,000 tons of logs and 250,000 tons of sawn
timber. This is equivalent to about 8% p.a. increase over 1973-86, somewhat
above the 7% p.a. recorded for Douala during 1960-73.
1/ Comprising Cameroon, CAR, Congo, Gabon, and Zaire.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
Minimal
19.       The minimal forecast employs the pessimistic forestry studies' esti-
mated total for 1985 of 1.8 million m3 as a base and deducts 410,000 m3 for
evacuation via Congo. This is consistent with the central CRA assumption of
500,000 m3 from a higher total volume.
Cameroon Timber Export Forecasts 1985 /1
1973      ---- 1985 --------
Probable     Minimal
(Sensitivity)
Total production for export (million m3)             2.6           1.8
Evacuated via Congo ATC (million m )                 0.5          0.4
('000 tons)
Total through Cameroon
of which:                               670      1,420           950
Kribi                                190        250          220
Douala logs                          403        920          575
Douala processed                      77        250          155
Lost through processing              (77)      (250)         (155)
/1  Wastage in processing is assumed to equal 50%.  Quantities were
converted from m3 to tons by the coefficient 0.8 tons per m3, the
average for Cameroonian export species.
20.       Other Exports
(a)  Coffee.  Quantity exported increased at about 9.5% p.a. between
1969-74, reflecting a recovery from a depressed supply and
demand situation in the mid-1960's. A more stable situation
is assumed in the future, with exports growing at about 1% p.a.
(b)  Cocoa and cocoa products.  The quantity of cocoa exported is
expected to grow at about 4% p.a. until 1980, somewhat above the
3% p.a. growth between 1969-74. This increase in exports
will be influenced by a recovery from the recent drop in demand
for cocoa products caused by a sharp rise in prices between
1971-74. Demand should be stimulated by the projected decline
in current prices. After 1980, it is assumed that a potentially
weak demand situation will again restrict export growth.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
(c)  Other exports.  These are expected to grow, on average,
appreciably more rapidly than in recent years. This partly
reflects new agricultural developments such as rubber
plantations in the Kribi region and also the growth of
semi-processed exports and of finished goods such as textiles.
D.   Traffic Forecasts for the Upstream Facilities
21.       Forecast volumes of fish landed at Douala generate the demand
for fishing facilities, and servicing of the fishing fleet constitutes
the main demand for workshops and ship-repair facilities.
Fish Landings
22.       The future demand for fish supplied by the industrial fishing
fleet, and thus the demand for port facilities, is based on the following
assumptions:
(a)  A future population growth of 2.3% p.a.;
(b)  A yearly increase in per capita fish consumption of about
3%, resulting from the continued increase in frozen fish
consumption per person in the interior (of about 6% p.a.).
Consumption per capita in the interior has increased rapidly
as a resuit of the introduction (in 1968) of frozen fish
which could be transported to those regions. The deuand
which remains to be satisfied in the interior is indicated
by comparison of average consumption per person (in 1970)
between several areas of population concentration:
(kg per capita)
Douala                         59.4
Yaounde                        40.8
Ebolowa (South Central)        27.4
Bertoua (East)                 20.5
Kubiba (West Cameroon)          5.3
Other towns (avg.)              1.7
(c)  75% of fish landed by the domestic fishing fleet is taken
from outaide of Cameroon's waters because the coast of
Cameroon is not particularly good fishing territory. The
best territory exists to the north of 23' north latitude
(Mauritania) and south of 230 south latitude (Angola and
Namibia). In the Gulf of Guinea there are zones of water



ANNEX 7
Page 7
called upwellings which bring nutritive elements up to the
depths at which the fish caught for commercial purposes live,
hence providing good fishing potential. Such upwellings
occur off the coast of Nigeria, and it is here that about
52% of Cameroon's industrial fish are caught, another 27%
coming from the waters off the coast of Namibia.
Extension of territorial waters by Nigeria and Namibia would
place the grounds now fished by Cameroonian vessels vithin
territorial waters. It is likely that licensing fees would
be imposed upon vessels operating out of non-national ports.
Since the affected vessels from Douala are foreign-owned,
it is possible that they would move to Nigeria. This would
imply that Cameroon does not have a comparative advantage in
large-scale commercial fishing, and the advantages of operating
through new fishing port facilities in Cameroon might be offset
by the fees required to fish in foreign waters. This could
at worst leave only the smaller boats discharging in Cameroon,
but it is most likely to effectively increase the cost of
fish landed in Cameroon from distant waters.  It is assumed
that these additional costs would be largely passed on to
the Cameroonian consumer. However, as a result of the un-
certainty of supply of fish, projections of fish landings
at Douala are substantially lower than projections of demand,
at constant prices, the difference made up by both real price
increases (thus reducing demand) and imports. The margin of
error involved in these projections is quite large in both
directions. Cameroon recently concluded a protocol with
Gabon permitting Cameroonian fishing boats to again fish in
Gabonese waters from which they had been excluded. This will
increase the potential catch of the Cameroonian fleet.
(d) The conservative projection of fish landings used in the
economic analysis assumes a supply/demand equilibrium in
1985 at a level about 20% above the constant per capita
demand level of 63,200 tons of industrial and artisanal
fish, or 76,000 tons. The breakdown is shown in Annex 9, Part II,
from which it will be seen that this implies full utilization
of fresh fish facilities by 1985, with some spare capacity
remaining for frozen fish. The forecast growth rate for
industrial fish consumption is thus about 6% p.a., which is
much lover than the 19% increase over 1966-70, but slightly
greater than the constrained growth of about 5% p.a. there-
after.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
1.        This annex is in five parts.  Part I gives a brief description
of the project's background and components. Part II gives the economic
rationale of the project. Part III discusses the distribution of benefits
between the Cameroonian and foreign agencies, primarily shipping companies.
Part IV deals with the sensitivity analysis and Part V with incremental
analysis.
PART I - Background
2.        The necessity of a Second Douala Port Project was foreseen during
the planning for the First Douala Port Project.  The first project recognized:
(a)  that some immediate provision of log export capacity was
required; and
(b)  longer-term requirements of the port would require detailed
study and would probably necessitate a radical change in
physical characteristics of the port.
3.        The First Port Project included:
(a) development of an industrial quay on the west side of the Wouri
river which provides for the clinker imports requirements of
CIMENCAM (Cameroon Cement Company) and the requirements of
specialized banana export ships;
(b)  alleviation over the short term (eight years) of the problem
of congestion of facilities used to handle and load logs by
constructing a stacking area for logs, improving access to
the river, and by providing mooring buoys for vessels loading
timber in mid-stream.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
4.        Although there were delays in project completion, the First Port
Project is expected to generate a satisfactory rate of return until super-
seded by the proposed second project.
5.        Facilities included in the Second Port Project:
(a) Downstream Port. An additional port complex downstream of the
existing general cargo facilities, which would comprise the
equivalent of one general cargo/container berth, with provi-
sion for a second berth if justified by a separate analysis
to be undertaken in 1977, and an enclosed log basin together
with the necessary stacking and back-up areas. The log basin
is designed to serve specialized log-carrying ships which
are expected to grow in importance as log export volumes
increase. The gradual substitution of specialized log
carriers would in turn release general cargo capacity for
other traffic, which by 1985/6 would be the equivalent of
about one general cargo berth.
(b) Channel Dredging. This is a necessary complement to both the
introduction of specialized log carriers, which are of larger
capacity and deeper draft than the normal run of general cargo
vessels, and to the eventual introduction of specialized container
vessels. This project component is economically independent
of the others, since the economic benefits result from: (i)
reduction or elimination of costly delay in avaiting favorable
tide conditions for entry to and exit from the port; (ii)
avoidance of suboptimal routing; and (iii) scale economies
in specialized vessel usage. The costs associated with dredging
material and utilizing it in contruction of the downstream
facilities have been distributed between the two project
elements in accordance with consultants' estimates.
(c) Upstream Port. This will accommodate the dockyard and workshops
removed from their present development constraining location,
as well as an expanded fishing port to accommodate future
traffic growth and located close to fish-processing activi-
ties.
(d) Road and Rail Access. This is a necessary complement to the
investments noted above, principally (a) and (c). In effect,
without the improved transport within the port which this
access would provide, the increased volume of traffic forecast,
particularly of timber, could not be efficiently moved between
the quayside and the transport links outside the port boundaries.
Associated with this access provision are external road and
rail developments which are not part of the project.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
PART II - Economic Analysis of the Proposed Project
Project Capacity Provision
A.   Downstream facilities
6.        The project will have to accommodate an increase of about 1.6
million tons or an increase of 125% ln traffic. It vlll do so through (a)
provision of specialized log-loading facilities; (b) increased general cargo
berth productivity; and (c) provision of an additional berth for container/
general cargo handling.
(a) Log exports, which are currently handled in one of three ways
(from shore directly to ships at berth, from shore via vater
to ships at berth, and from shore via water to ships at
anchorage), will gradually concentrate on loading to apecial-
ized vessels via the proposed log basin. It is assumed, in
accordance vith the OCCR analysis, that 73% of log exports
will be transported by these specialized vessels by 1986, and
in addition, floatable timber exported on general cargo vessels
vill be handled through the log basin, giving a total of 85%
of log traffic thus accommodated. In the first year of oper-
ation of the log basin (1980), it is expected to handle about
50% of log traffic. The existing specialized log-handling
facilities, the paved stacking area at the northern end of
the port, and the buoys in the channel vill be phased out
concurrently with the transfer described above. The area
released will thereafter accommodate both the shipping
interests displaced by the demolition accompanying the
construction of road and rail access and the warehouses
which are a necessary complement to the project. The transfer
of traffie to the log basin vill release some capacity for
general cargo use. This will be limited to about 200,000
tons by 1985 (compared with 1973) due to the continued passage
of some timber traffic over the general cargo berths.
(b)  The increase in general cargo traffic will be met firstly by
a slow increase in productivity at existing general cargo
berths which is expected to average about 2% p.a. between 1974
and 1985/86, as compared with a relatively rapid increase of
about 3% p.a. between 1969-74. The 1969-74 increase resulted
principally from improvements in log-handling operations and
the introduction of larger ships to West African operations
by SNCDV, the major operator through Douala. The effects of
these innovations have now largely been exhausted, and benefits
from improvements by other smaller shipping companies are
likely to be much slower in appearing.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
(c) The growth in general cargo will be partly met by an increase
in containerization which is expected to be handled mainly
at a new deep-water berth. Container traffic is expected to
reach about 360,000 tons by 1986. This is somewhat above
the likely berth capacity, and consequently it is highly
probable that a second berth will be required. Construction
could theoretically be postponed until about 1984, but the
economies of scale in port construction make continuous
construction of the two berths preferable. An option for
construction of a second berth has accordingly been built
into the overall project, but a decision whether or not to
exercise it does not need to be taken until mid-1977, by
which time NPA is expected to produce an updated analysis
of the economic justification for a second berth.
Operational Characteristics without the Project
7.        The forecast volumes of traffic will place demands upon the port
with which the existing facilities could not cope without a very high level
of congestion and long delays to ships. The optimum level of general cargo
berth utilization for a port of this size is about 75%. It is assumed that
in the absence of the port project, part of the excess demand would be met
by increasing berth utilization to 90%; beyond that level, the costs of
congestion begin to increase very sharply, and it is theoretically less
expensive to divert cargo. (Experience in Nigeria suggests that a very
high incidence of delay will be tolerated before diversion takes place if
international frontiers (e.g. between Nigeria and Dahomey or Ghana) have
to be crossed by the diverted traffic, but the diversion from Douala would
be to other ports in Cameroon so this question does not arise.) The bene-
fits from avoidance of ship delays and diversion to other ports constitute
the benefits attributable to the project.
8.        The provision for excess demand in the absence of the port project
therefore has two components: (a) increased berth utilization to 90%; and
(b) diversion to other ports.
(a) The calculation of the effect of berth occupancy upon ship-
waiting time employed in this annex is based upon Erlang's
formula assuming non-uniform ship service times. It is
assumed that occupancy for a port of Douala's present size
can rise to about 90%, after which ship delays will cause
the shipping companies to impose surcharges. The volume of
traffic handled under the assumption of 90% utilization
takes into account the approximately 50% greater productivity
of timber loading compared to that of other general cargo
which will affect aggregate productivity, since the ratio of
timber handled as general cargo to other general cargo will
decline as the log-basin operations increase in importance.
Account is also taken of the probable decline in productivity
as berth occupancy increases to 90%, causing increased
congestion.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
The benefit from ship-waiting time avoidance is based
upon the daily costs to ships in port and, in the case of
contai.er and general cargo ships in particular, the
cost of delay in the delivery of cargo which is involved.
This latter clearly requires a knowledge of the unit value
of general cargo, information which is not readily available
for Douala. However, there is no reason to believe that it
differs substantially from that of other ports, and estimates
have been made in the case of UK trade 1/ which provide a
basis for assessment of the relationship between ship and
cargo delay costs. The former are based upon examination
of Bank data (based upon Westinform), updated ship "shadow"
prices, world-scale freight indices, and the consultants'
estimates, which all give roughly the same results. The
resultant costs, including allowance for cargo (and container)
values are shown below. The increasing value placed upon
general cargo vessel time assumes that these vessels will
increase in size over time. The reference case container
vessel is assumed to have a capacity of 500 standard 20'
ISO containers.
Cost of Ship Waiting Time ($'000/day)
General Cargo           Bulk           Container
(Timber)
6.2 - 7.5              5.0             11.0
The distribution of waiting time between vessel types is
assumed to be in accordance with the relative volumes of
traffic forecast. This therefore supposes no priority
accorded to vessel classes. This approach could introduce
a distortion if, for example, container vessels were given
priority in berth allocation, and thus the weighted average
value per day of ship-waiting time would decline. However,
it is also probable that this type of preferential treatment
would induce the non-preferred general cargo and timber
ships to divert to other ports (Victoria and the hypothetical
Manoka) to a disproportionate extent. Thus the weighted ship-
day value average of vessel types subject to delay at Douala would
increase, and the two sets of effects are offsetting.
(b) The table on the following page shows the volume of traffic
which would need to be diverted, and the tentative allocation
to different ports. The assessment of benefits from diversion
1/   "The Cost of Ship's Time," R.0. Goss, Department of Trade and Industry,
London.



ANIEX 8
Page 6
avoidance is based upon the assumption that Tiko/Victoria
would essentially handle general cargo traffic, Kribi could
receive diverted timber traffic and some general cargo, and
Manoka would cater exclusively to timber exports. The benefits
of diversion avoidance equal the additional transport costs
which would be incurred by such diversion.
The capacity of Tiko/Victora was based upon the maximm
traffic handled (in 1966) minus the minuscule volume nov
passing through the port. In effect, diversion to Tiko/
Victoria would be a reverse process to that which has
occurred in recent years with traffic increasingly con-
centrating on Douala. For Kribi, a total capacity estimate
of about 400,000 tons p.a., when the works underway are
completed, has been adopted. This is somewhat higher than
NPA's assessment, but it is based upon the quay length
and storage space which will become available and
is consistent with experience at other ports. Surplus
capacity at Kribi vill be reduced to zero by 1985 due to
growth of local demand.
Provision of log-exporting capacity through an operation
involving unloading of logs at the Japoma Bridge, transport
by raft, and loading to ocean-going vessels at Manoka near
the confluence of the Wouri and Dibamba rivers, vas considered
in a study financed under the First Douala Port Project. This
showed that while total unit operational cast8 for a log-
handling project at Douala (similar to that nov proposed
as part of the Second Project) were similar to those at
Manoka, the capital cost of the latter would be about two-
thirds higher. The coste have now been updated and expressed
in terms of annual costs attributable to the appropriate
volumes of log traffic.
(in '000 tons)
1980   1981   1982    1983       1984    1985    1986
Total diverted traffic      -       5     130      268      439      592     790
Allocation:
Tiko/Victoria               -       5      70      190      190      190      190
Kribi                       -       -      60       40       20       -       -
Manoka                      -       -       -       30      229      402     600
9.        Table 1 of this Annex shows the resulting cost and benefit streams
for the downstream facilities. The economic rate of return is estimated at
18%.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
B.   Channel Dredging
10.       The project includes dredging the Wouri Channel to 7.5 m below
low vater datum and the outer bar to a slightly greater depth. The
objective is to reduce the costs associated with:
(a) the present necessity either to wait for high tides to enter
or exit from the port, or in the case of large vessels, to
enter or exit with cargo volumes constrained by available
water depth. Benefits equal .he reduction in the average
waiting time per ship entering/exiting the port, multiplied
by the average cost per day of ships' time, multiplied by the
number of ships of various categories projected to be delayed.
The projections of number of ships delayed are shown in Table 2
of this Annex.
(b) the existing sub-optimal routing of deeper drafted shipping
on the West African route, necessitated by draft limitations
at Douala. The cost saving resulting from a more optimal
routing permitted by channel dredging at Douala is added as
a benefit.
(c) the inability of bulk log carriers to use the port at the
existing channel depth. They will be able to use the port
at the projected depth of 7.5 m, with a consequent benefit
consisting of cost savings resulting from the substitution
of specialized vessels for the present system of transporting
logs by mainline general cargo vessels. Specialized container
vessels were not examined in the same way, mainly because at
the time of the study, they were not thought likely to be
of major importance. Since then, however, it has become
evident that they may play a more significant role than anti-
cipated, and to the extent that the benefits for their use
are not subsumed in the higher berth productivity of container
operations compared with general cargo, this higher productivity
represents a benefit of the channel dredging. The calculation
of benefits resulting from channel dredging shown in Table 3
of this Annex can therefore be considered a minimum. The
economic return on this project item is estimated at 19%.
C.   Upstream Facilities (fishing port and repair facilities)
The Fishing Port
11.       The existing fishing berth is shallow and has a restricted backup
area which is about 0.75-km downstream from the fish-processing facilities.
The movement of landed fish from the berthing area to the processing facilities,



ANNEX 8
Page 8
and out of the port, is impeded by timber traffic.  In order to avoid con-
gestion, restrictions have been placed upon the evacuation of fish by truck
from the port to the town.
12.       The view of NPA and the consultants is that maintenance of even
the existing traffic through the present facilities would be very difficult
if demand and thus congestion increased, and that this could have a signifi-
cant effect on the efficiency of fishing port operations. The movement of
log operations to the downstream port facilities would not improve the situa-
tion, since the shipping company premises displaced by this move would have
to be relocated in the existing log park area.
13.       The new facilities would have positive economic benefits by
permitting increased fish landings.  The fishing berth occupancy rate is
calculated at about 85%. However, this is an underestimate because it
excludes the deeper draft fishing vessels which presently discharge at
commercial berths. Their transfer to the existing fishing berths would
lead to a significant increase in congestion. An increased volume of
fish landings is improbable if handling must occur through the existing
facilities. Thus the primary benefit from the new facilities results from
an increase in capacity. A secondary benefit is that the inefficiency
costs associated with the present congestion, where vessels are often
banked four deep, would be avoided.
Benefits
14.       The alternative to the local supply of fish to Cameroonian consumers
(plus some exports) is the importation of fish. The economic benefit of the
fishing port is thus the difference between local value added at world prices
generated with the proposed fishing port and that generated in the absence of
the proposed fishing port.
15.       Local value added in world prices, as a percentage of sales, was
computed for the fishing industry from data found in the "Recensement
General des Entreprises," Cameroon, 1967/68. From value added at world
prices is subtracted salaries paid to expatriates, the opportunity cost of
Cameroonian labor (assumed to equal 50% of their salaries), and profits.
Profits are deducted since they accrue to the foreign companies which own
the fishing boats and are considered a capital cost to Cameroon. This is
conservative since some of these profits are likely to remain in Cameroon.
The result is a ratio of economic benefits to sales value accruing to
Cameroon of about 20%.
Workshops and Repair Facilities
16.       The proposed workshop/repair facilities comprise a building for
repairs, the necessary machinery, and a 500-ton floating dock. There will
be a transfer of facilities from the existing location, which would be
incompatible with development of the downstream facilities. The benefits



ANNEX 8
Page 9
from transfer are ignored, since the alternative is a comparatively inexpen-
sive demolition of existing facilities and use of private repair facilities.
The benefits attributable depend upon the increment in local value added
generated by future repair operations. Since the market for repair services
will be relatively competitive, the unit sales value can be employed as a
surrogate for the gross economic benefit from operations of the facilities.
Local value added to sales (again based on Census data) equals 26%, after
deducting expatriate salaries and the opportunity cost of Cameroonian labor
but no deduction of profits since these will accrue to NPA. The resulting
values were related to consultants' forecasts of the number of ship repair
operations, which in turn were determined by the number of fishing boats
based at the port plus miscellaneous customers such as petroleum exploration
ships.
17.       There is no equivalent alternative to the proposed fishing port
and repair facility. Douala is the main market for fish, and provision of
facilities elsewhere would not only be equally expensive but would involve
heavy investment in refrigerated transport. Thus the benefits from the
upstream facilities are measurable only in terms of the local value added
generated (see Table 4 of this Annex). The limitations to the rate of
growth of fish landings at Douala (analyzed in Annex 7, para. 22), combined
with the scale of construction necessitated by need for a new upstream port
complex, limit the rate of return on the upstream facilities to 10%.
Employment Generation
18.       The project is expected to take over three years to complete
and to employ local labor, largely unskilled or semi-skilled, for a total
of 1,500-2,000 man-years. Assuming 1,750 man-years and a 50-hour week,
this is equal to 4.4 million man-hours.
19.       There is a strong seasonal pattern in marginal employment in
Cameroon with a comparatively high level of employment during the main agri-
cultural season of about six months. The project labor force is expected to
be drawn from this seasonal labor particularly in the off-season plus the
itinerant unemployed. The average wage of unskilled labor in Douala is about
CFAF 50/hr., and thus on the basis of six months per year involuntary unem-
ployient, the shadow vage rate is CFAF 25/hr. The project costs, including
labor, have been assessed in financial terms. The difference between the fi-
nancial and shadow wage rate therefore constitutes a benefit to the Cameroon
economy.
20.       It is assumed that project employment will be at the average wage,
and that therefore the net increment per head will be CFAF 25/hr. This may
exaggerate the benefits from employment of the seasonal labor force on a full
year basis but understates the benefit for employment of the itinerant unem-
ployed. It can therefore be taken as an approximate average benefit and,
applied to 4.4 million man-hours, yields a benefit attributable to the project
of CFAF 110 million spread over the project execution period as shown below:



ANNEX 8
Page 10
Employment Benefits (CFAF million)
1976       1977        1978       1979      1980
11.9       35.5        39.8       21.0       1.8
This benefit does not include that due to the long-term skill improvements
which can be expected to flow from participation in the project.



ANNEX 8
Page 11
PART III - Benefit Distribution
A.   Downstream Facilities
21.       If it is assumed that all the benefits accrue to Cameroon, the
rate of return from the downstream facilities to Cameroon equals 18%. How-
ever, it is possible that part of the cost-saving to the shipping companies
resulting from avoidance of ship-waiting time vill not be passed on to
Cameroon through lover charges for carrying goods into and out of Douala.
Similarly, it is possible that much of the reduction in transport coste per-
mitted by avoidance of diversion to other ports vill accrue to the logging
companies and other exporters or importers, Taking each of the three benefit
streams shown in Table 1 of this Annex, it is clear that benefits (b) (avoid-
ance of transport costs resulting from traffic diversion to other existing
ports) and (c) (avoidance of log facility construction at Manoka) represent
economic benefits to Cameroon, This leaves benefits (a) (avoidance of
ship-waiting time).
22.       Calculation of the distribution of benefits arising from the
avoidance of ship-vaiting between the shipping companies and Cameroon
presents certain difficulties. At one extreme, it can be argued that only
that part which is directly extracted through an increase in real tariffs
benefits the country (though even this is an over-simplification when
changing long term cross-elasticities of demand for transport against other
goods and services is taken into account).
23.       NPA vill increase its tariffs in 1976 by an average of 14%, and
additional increases vill be made approximately every two years vith an
effect equivalent to a 10% annual increase until completion of the main
project elements by 1980/1. (See Table 5 of this Annex.) Some of this
merely offsets expected inflation, but Cameroon recovers economie benefits
equal to the increment in tariffs resulting from the real tariff increase
(after inflation adjustment). Real tariff increases are calculated to
account for over 70% of the present value of the benefits of ship-waiting
time avoidance, and if none of the residual 30% accrued to Cameroon, the
rate of return to the country would still be about 19%.
24.       The extent to which that part of the benefit not directly extracted
is passed on depends upon a number of factors, of which the most important
are: (a) the long-run degree of competition in shipping, which is partly
a function of the importance of cartelsz (b) the extent to which there is
cross-subsiziation of shipping charges vithin a given shipping route (such
as Europe-West Africa), so that goods passing through high-cost ports (in
terms of port charges and the quality of service provided) are not subject
to proportionately higher charges, and the stability of the situation: and
(c) the extent to which the relative disadvantage of using one port as
against another changes over time.



ANNEX 8
Page 12
25.       In the case of Douala, shipping conferences dominate traffic
movements, and Cameroon has no domestic shipping line which might introduce
potential competition. There is therefore little reason to believe that
rates would be reduced to reflect non-directly extracted benefits. However,
as Douala port charges are already slightly above average for West Africa,
and the port has the disadvantage of being located up a long channel, there
is a clearly implied element of cross-subsidization in Cameroon's favor.
This situation is by definition an equilibrium one at a given point in time,
but in the long term, this equilibrium could be expected to be unstable.
This is particularly the case without the proposed project, where the di-
vergence between the physical characteristics of Douala and other major
West African ports is likely to become more important as the optimum ship
size increases and as developments at other ports occur. Thus within the
forecast period, shipping charges to Douala are likely to increase in rela-
tion to those to other lWest African ports. Avoidance of these increases
constitutes a benefit to Cameroon and are estimated to be equivalent to
half the non-tariff extracted benefits for the project element.
26.       The rate of return to Cameroon from the downstream port facilities,
assuming full benefit from traffie diversion avoidance, real increases in
tariffs, and 50% of non-directly extracted waiting time avoidance benefit
amounts to over 16%, or about 90% of the total benefit.
B.   Channel Dredging
27.       The rate of return to Cameroon on this project item, assuming that
all economic benefits accrue to Cameroon, is 19%. As in the case of the
downstream facilities, it is likely that some project benefits will go to the
international shipping companies, the logging companies, and foreign importers
and exporters. The cost economies from the use of specialized log carriers
accrue directly to the logging and shipping companies. The extent to which
this will benefit Cameroon depends on the Government's taxation policy and
what the logging companies do with the increment of after-tax profits so
generated. The analysis conducted in the forestry studies indicates that
currently about 30% of this increment is retained in Cameroon; with revised
tax policies now under discussion, this proportion could increase substantially.
28.       With respect to benefits from reduced ship-waiting time and routing
optimization, the increment in tariff charges recovers about 40% of the
benefits (Table 5). The analysis of the probable distribution of benefits
from ship-waiting time avoidance not extracted by real tariff increases from
the downstream facilities applies equally to that relating to channel dredging.
Additionally, a similar rationalization can be made with respect to elimination
of sub-optimization of routing. As the disparity between the draft limitations
at Douala and other West African ports is very substantial, it is probable
that long-run shipping rate adjustment would account for the greater proportion
of non-tariff extracted benefits. However, assuming only half those indirect
benefits accrue to Cameroon, the total rate of return to the economy from the
three benefit streams amounts to just under 13%, which is satisfactory.



ANNEX 8
Page 13
C.   Risk Analysis
29.       Table 6 of this Aane« shows the estimated economic returns on
the various project items. A risk analysis was undertaken in order to
incorporate judgements in regard to possible errors in cost and beaefit
estimates. Possible errors were specified along with the probability of
their occurrence for each benefit and cost stream, on the basis of judge-
ments about probable colt overruns, errors in traffic projections, and
other errors in estimating benefits. The result indicates that there is
a 90Z probability that the overall rate of return to the project will fall
between 13.5% and 15.5% and a 95% probability that it will fall between
12.5% and 16.5%.



ANNEX 8
Page 14
PART IV - Senaitivity Analysis
30.       Risk analysis is preferable to sensitivity analysis in assessing
the possibility of poor project performance. Hovever, the rate of return
calculated under a combination of the vorst possible assumptions is shown
here, although the probability of its occurrence is very small (less than
2% according to the risk analysis).
A.   Commercial Traffic
31.       The following assumptions were employed:
(a) Timber traffic reduced 35%, consistent with the low
estimate found in the WAFS, with 340,000 tons p.a.
evacuated via Congo ATC.
(b)  Import traffic flowing through Douala reduced in accordance
with the assumption that GDP would grow by only 3Z p.a.
to 1985, but that the historical import/GDP coefficients
(described in Annex 8, Section B) would result. This is
equivalent to a reduction in import traffic of 20Z. The
resulting traffic volumes are shown in Table 7 of this
Annex.
Costs
32.       Cost streama not subject to the accepted bid (for the main civil
works) were increased by 50Z.
Benefits
33.       Benefits flowing from the downstream facilities were reduced in
line with the reduction in traffic. This reduction results from postponement
of both the need for alternative capacity provision and for traffic diversion.
34.       Benefits from channel dredging vere reduced in line vith the
following:
(a) A reduction in the number of ship calls, and thus the
benefits from delay avoidance. This reduction is slightly
less than proportional to the traffic reduction due to
the economies of scale in ship operation.
(b) Sub-optimal routing avoidance benefit is reduced. In the
absence of more detailed information, this reduction is
assumed to parallel that in ship calls.



ANNEX 8
Page 15
(c) A reduction in the benefits from substitution of specialized
timber vessels for general cargo timber movements. This
reduction is assumed proportional to the reduction in log
traffic.
Results
35.       Assuming that benefits of avoidance of shlp-vaiting time, etc.
are recovered by Cameroon through reduced shipping charges, the sensitivity
analysis reduces the rates of return from 18Z to 12% for the dowvstream
facilities and from 19% to 9% for channel dredging.
B.   Fishing and Ship-Repair Traffic
36.       The fishing traffic forecasts have already been severely constrained,
lu comparison vith those of the consultants, by the doubts expressed on the
future landings of frozen fish. Nevertheless, the revised forecasts still
indicated a growth of 85% between the estimated 1974 and forecast 1985 landings.
37.       For the sensitivity aualysis, this forecast grovth vas restricted
even more severely, and it is assumed that frozen fish landings vill in fact
increase in lino vlth those of other fish, i.e., that there vill be no
overall grovth in per capita consuaption. This givea a reduction i total
comuurcial landinga of 25% and an implicit reduction, assuming artisanal
fishing production in as forecast, of about 17%, compared vith the base
forecasts.
38.       The use of the repair facility is decreased by the slover rate
cf growth in the number of refrigerated flshing boats resulting from the
ulover grovth of frozen fisb landiugs. The higher forecasta require 16
additional refrigerated fishing boats by 1985. The lov forecast requires
une additional boat. The reduction in the expected number of refrigerated
fishing boats using the facility vould result in an 11% overall decline in
use of the facility.
Costs
39.       Capital and maintenance costs not subject to the accepted bid
(for the main civil works) vere increased by 50%.
Benefits
40.       No change vas made in the assumptions relating to benefit per
unit of traffic. The variables affecting the net local value added, such
as espatriate payments, opportunity costs of local labor, and the propor-
tion of value added attributable to shipping, could as vell vary in one
direction as the other, and the values chosen vere based upon the best
information currently available.



ANNEX 8
Page 16
Results
41.       The effect of a much reduced rate of growth of frozen fish
landings on the overall return to the upatream port development, combined
with the capital cost increase, reduces the rate of return from 10% to 5Z.
C.   Total Project Senaitivity Analysis
42.       The overall rate of return vould decline from nearly 18Z to
9.5Z, which is still considered satisfactory. The rate of return to
Cameroon would be about 8Z.



ANNEX 8
Page 17
PART V - Incremental Analysis
A. First General Cargo/Container Berth
43.       The transfer of 85% of log exports to the log basin by 1985 repre-
sente the maximum proportion considered physically feasible. Therefore, the
additional pressure on the existing general cargo facilities, which vould re-
sult if the proposed general cargo/container berth vere not built, could not
be accommodated by further transfer of log traffic; neither could additional
traffic be diverted to other ports. The effect vould be to increase utili-
zation of existing berths to beyond the optimum; the economic benefit from
avoiding this is estimated as representing a rate of return on the new berth
of 17%, fully justifying its inclusion in the project.
Second General Cargo/Container Berth
44.       Provision of a second berth is included in the project as an
option upon which a decision vill not be required until mid-1977. The rea-
son a final decision is not proposed nov is that the physical necessity for
the berth vill not occur until the end of the forecasting period in 1985,
and thus supplementary information on the longer term demand for port
facilities as a result of ongoing studies (notably the railway Douala-
Yaounde corridor study) should be significant in establishing vith more
precision the potential demAnd for the berth. A preliminary evaluation,
based upon the assumption that container traffic vill grov at 7% p.a.
after 1986 (the rate of grovth forecast for total project-related
traffic 1975-86, and substantially below the forecast growth rate of
container traffic during that period), gives a rate of return of 21% on
the second berth at the price quoted for 1979 construction. Provision
for construction is made in the project, rather than as a possible subse-
quent project, because of the economies of scale resulting from avoidance
of remobilization. It ia estimated that separate, subsequent construction
in 1984 would be more than twice as costly (in constant prices) as
under continuous construction. The "saving" on continuous construction
vould be the equivalent of a 20 percent rate of return on the bid price
of 650,000 CFAF, which compares very favorably vith the opportunity coat
of capital in Cameroon, estimated as 9 percent.
B.   Channel Dredging
45.       The proposed channel depth of 7.5 meters is expected to accommodate
all but a amall number of ships at all tidal conditions (Table 2); the re-
mainder vould have to avait more favorable conditions, up to high tide. It
is difficult to be precise, but it is improbable that a significant number of
ships vould have to enter or exit with less than normal cargo, if advantage
were taken of tidal conditions.
46.       The benefit from deepening the channel below 7.5 meters vould be,
therefore, a further reduction in delay costa. The original NPA proposal vas



ANNFX 8
Page 18
for dredging to 8.4 meters: if this occurred, there would be virtually no de-
lay to shipping. Thus the benefits from this incremental dredging are elim-
ination of the delay costs applicable to ships which would suffer delay with
a 7.5 meter channel. These benefits are small, and the incremental deepen-
ing would require both additional capital and maintenance dredging. It may
be that if operational characteristics permitted, this could be done at lover
unit costs than for the proposed channel: however, even if a 50% reduction
were achieved, which is the maximum feasible, the costs would exceed the
benefits, and the incremental economic rate of return would be negative
(Table 9).
C.   Ustream Facilities
47.       The ship repair facilities are discrete in size, and marginal varia-
tion is therefore not feasible. However, the fishing berths could be reduced
in length by 80 meters (from 530 meters) without a radical alteration in the
layout. Beyond that reduction, the hydrology would be affected and studies
supplementary to those already conducted would be required to determine the
costs involved. The incremental analysis is therefore confined ta the affect
of an 80 m reduction, which would be limited to quay construction and would
thus only afford a possible 4% reduction in overall upstream construction
c0ets.
48.       As the fishing berths will not be fully utilized at 1986 forecast
volumes, the potential benefit is probably greater than that actually fore-
cast for the marginal 80 m. Nevertheless the rate of return on the marginal
quay is nearly 10%, thus justifying its inclusion in the project.



Annex 8
Table 1
CAMEROON
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streams for the Downstream Facilities
(in CFAF million)
Benefits
Year            Costs            a/          b/          c/        Total
1976          1590.00          0.00        0.00       0.00         -1590
1977          3770.00          0.00        0.00       0.00         -3770
1978          3570,00          0.00        0.00       0.00         -3570
1979          1390.00          0.00        0.00       0.00         -1390
1980             0.00        110.00        0.00       0.00           110
1981             0.00       2200.00        0.00       0.00          2200
1982             0.00       2260.00       10.00       0.00          2270
1983             0.00       2320.00      20.00      580.00          2920
1984             0.00       2380.00      2.0.00     580.00          1980
1985-2000        0.00       2440.00       10.00     580.00          3030
a/  Avoidance of ship waiting
b/  Reduction of transport costs resulting from traffic diversion to
other existing ports
c/  Avoidance of log facility construction at Manoka.  Theorétically
ehe facility would be required in 1982, but the first year volume
would be so small that postponement to 1983 of capacity-provision
would be justified. The benefit represents the opportunity cost
of capital in Cameroon (9%) applied to the construction costs of
the Manoka facility.



CAMEROON                       Annex 8
Table 2
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Number of ships reauiring high tide for entry/exit to/from Douala
1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Existing l/
channel  in      1196   1194   1191   1244   1271   1333   1421   1514   1601   1703
out     1146   1146   1141   1185   1214   1279   1372   1420   1510   1662
Total   2342   2340   2332   2429   2485   2612   2793   2934   3111   3365
Of which
log carriers        O      0       O      O     O       0        O     °      °        °
Propose d_/
channel in         9      9     12      14    17      19      20    25      31       4o
out       °       l      8     13    18      19       24    27      30      33
Total     9     10      20     27    35      38       44    52      61      73
of which   in       O      0       2      3     4       5        6     7      7        8
log
carriers   out     O       1      7      12    17      19      22    24      26      27
Total   O      1       9     15    21      24      -28    31i    33       35
1/  1088 ships discharged/loaded at Douala in 1973.
2/  Log carriers are not able to use the port with the existing channel.
With the proposed channel depth, 20,000 dwt vessels which are the
maximum size likely, will be able to enter at high water fully laden.



CAMEROON                            Annex 8
Table 3
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Costs and Benefits of Channel Dredging
(CFAF millions)
Year                 Costs                             Benefits                 Total
a/          b/             c/             d/           e/
1977          1045.00       0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00   -*1C45
1978         15'G.00        0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00   -1550
1979         1110.00        0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00   -1110
1980          1030.00       0.00        420.00           0.00           0,00    -610
1981           990.00       0.00        600.00         160.00         255.00       25
1982           810.00       0.00        680.00         320.00         620.00      810
1983           170.00    400.00         710.00         330.00         750.00     1220
1984             0.00     400.00        760.00         330.00         920.00     1610
1985-2000        0.00    400.00         810.00         330-00        1100.00     1840
a/  Capital dredging costs have two elements (a) the cost of the dredger and
(b) the cost of dredging. The former is accenteZI as estirmated by CtDA,
but CIDA estimates of the latter appear low and accordingly for ecoiomic
ana1vRis tn-ir f1&11uQ ^     1e" ro.lleA.   'e resa'ua 'ma'e o  4-
dredger after completion of its capital dredging program is reflected in
the maintenance dredging costs.
b/  Maintenance dredging costs,
c/  Benefits from reduced ship waiting time for tides.
d/  Benefit from increased optimization of routing.
e/  Benefit from cost economies from use of specialized log carriers.



Annex .
Table 4
CAMERO0N
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streams OI the tUpstream. Facilities
(CFA? millions)
Year                     Costs                      Benefits               Total
1976         îa-/              bi _         C/             si
1976            8 c9.OC          0.0o            C.oc          o.bo      - 890
1977           2C20 .CC          0.00          57.00           0.00    -1963
1978            1780.00          0.00          91.00         120. 00    -1569
1979             480.CC2        42. o0        170.00         275.00        -77
1980               0. 0O        48.00         183.00        275.00         410
1981               0.o00        49.00         198.00        310.00         459
1982               0.00         '49.00        205.00        34$0.00        4q
1983               0.00         49.00         213.00        380.00         514 4
1984               0.00         49.00         221.00        420.00         592
1985               0.00         49.00         230.00        435.00         616
1986-2000           0.          ]49.00        238.00         460.00
a/ Investment costs
b/ Upkeep cf- fishing port
c/ Local value added generated by repair facilities
d/  Local value added generated by fishing port



Annex 8
CAMEROON                           Table 5
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Current Price and Real Tariff Changes Proposed
Downstream Facilities                  Channel Dredging
'DP    2Increment in    Real increment
Year~~ de2to          Increment in      Real increment
Year     deflator -/   tariffs due to        in tariffs          tariff charges in tariff charges
tariff rate                             caused by the
increase _/                             rate increase 1/
(million CFAF)     (million CFAF)       (million CFAF)  (million CFAF)
(a)              (c)
1971 = 100                                                 61                50
2/              1/
1976         123              242              197                  110                83
1977         133              417              314                  171               120
1978         143              628              440                  220              144
1979         153              899              590                  404               250
1980         163             1676             1030                  435               252
1981         173             1887             1091                  461               252
1982         183             2014             1100                  486              251
1983         194             2158             1112                  622               300
1984-2000   206              2843             1380                  655               300
1/  Including tariffs levied on vessels for berthing and mooring, and charges against
merchandise loaded and unloaded.  The increment is measured as the increase in tariffs
over that which would have been collected had tariff rate not been changed, expressed
Rc initla], eniiivalents of the biennial tariff adjustment proposed by INPA.
2/ From the Draft 1975 Bank Economic Report on Cameroon.



Annex 8
CAMEROON                           Table 6
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Summary of Economic Rates of Return
Downstream          Channel         Upstream    Employment   Total
±facilities         dredging        facilities  generation Project
(a)  Rate of returnI./         18 %               19 %             10 %         0.6      17.0%
(total recovery of
benefits)
(b)  Rate of return_ /
(recovery of
benefits through         15.7               11.4             10           0.6       13.6
proposed higher
tariffs plus 50%
of rpqi dlle l            _
(c)  Percentage of
project costs           46                 30               24                    100.0
(d) Contribution to
Total project rate
of return if all         8.3                 5.7             2.4          0.6       17.0
benefits recovered
(e) Contribution if
benefits recovered
as in (b) above         7.2                 3.4             2.4          0.6       13.6
l/  Assuming that the benefits of avoidance of ship waiting time, optimization
of routing, and cost economies resulting from the use of specialized log
carriers accrue to Cameroon through reduced charges.
2/ Assumes that the benefits listed in 1/ are principally recovered through an
increase in real tariffs, but that 50% of the residual benefits also accrue
to Cameroon through avoidance of long term changes in shipping company tariffs.



Annex 8
CAMEROON                            Table 7
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Traffic Volumes used for Sensitivity Anaivsis
(1974)   1980      1981     1982      1983      1984      1985      1986
Traffic
Imports           568      629      673       718       767       820      870       925
Exports           751    1003      1053      1105      1160      1217     1277      1339
(of which logs) 319      429       450       473      496       522       548       575
Total           1319    1632      1726      1823      1927      2037     2147      2264



Annex 8
Table 8
Downstream Facilities
Incremental Cost/Benefits
(CFAF millions)
Container/General                     Second Container/
Cargo Berth                           General Cargo Berth
Year            Costs               Benefits                Costs              Benefits
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                     C    B 
C1c 2                                              3       B         B2
(000 tons)
1976               70
1977             950
1978            1200
1979            1000                                     650
1980                                  50
1981                                 340
1982                                 700
1983                                 800
1984                                 800                        1600
1985-2000                            900                                    22         35
Cost C1    based upon best estimates of the distinction of costs in
the main civil works contract, between log basin and general
cargo facilities.
C2    construction cost without remobilization.
C     estimated construction cost with remobilization.
3
Benefit B1    capacitv Provision benefit,  Thiq rplbtpc tn 1QRh/A
forecast traffic volumes. In calculations the rate
of return of the second berth, the highly conservative
assumption that container traffic would increase at
7% per annum thereafter was adopted.



Annex 8
Table 9
Channel Dredging
Incremental Cost/Benefits
from dredging between 7.5 and 8.5 meters (inner channel)
(CFAF millions)
Year         Costs                                  Benefit       Total      Total
1       ~~~2
a1    a2    b       b2
1981     1950  975   G        0                      0         . 95,)       -975
1982      0    0      C       O                     8.3            8.J         °.3
1983      0    0    150      75                     19.9         -130.1      -55.1
1984      0    0    150      75                     23.8         -126.2      -51.2
1985-2000 0    0    150      75                     27.7         -122.3      -47.3
Costsa  and Total  assume dredging costs of $2.3/m3; Costs a, and Total,
1          1
sste el./lnm3. The form-er is thfe beFt estirate- the Intter represents
the marginal cost under the most favorable assumptions abouit dredger
capacity and operating costs.



Annex 8
Table 10
Upstream Facilities
Incremental Costs/Benefits from marginal
80 meters of fishing quay (CFAF millions)
Year               Costs                              Benefit
Fish volume   Value
(000 tons)    Added
Benefit
1976
1977
1978                15G
1979                 50
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984                 _                            2           35
1985-2000            _                            4           37



ANNEX 9
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND DOIUALA PORT PROJECT
National Port Authority
Assumptions Used in the Financial Statements
A.   Basic Assumptions
1.        The financial forecasts are based on a financial study carried out
by NPA's consultants.  The consultants' estimates have however been slightly
adjusted, resulting in a more conservative forecast of NPA's financial position.
2.        In order to give a better understanding of the effects of inflation
and of the proposed tariff increases on NPA's finances, the forecast income
statements (Tables 8-10) have been prepared both in constant 1975 prices and
in current prices.
3.        The constant 1975 prices are shown under Case "A".  In this case,
revenues are projected at present tariffs. and operating expenditures are
projected based upon traffic increases making due allowance for possible
efficiency improvements. Depreciation has been calculated by applying
average depreciation rates to the various fixed asset categories valued
at 1975 prices. The investment costs used for the project are the Bank's
cost estimates excluding price contingencies (Table 1 of the main report).
4.         The forecast balance sheet is shown in current prices, while the
forecast income and sources and application of funds statements show the
current prices under Case iB". Under the assumption of current prices,
revenues are projected based upon the proposed tariff increases, All
operating expenditures are adjusted for inflation, and the investment costs
of the project include price contingencies. Fixed assets are assumed re-
valued in 1978 and in 1985, which resulted in higher annual depreciation as
compared with Case "A". The annual inflation rates are assumed as follows:
1979I80 and
1975/76   1976/77    1l77/7q  1978/79   onwards
Civil Works                    167       147         1?7       127        107
Equipment                      12%       10%          8%7       q          7!
Land                           1t%       107         1 00      1 0!       1 0%7
Salaries and Wages              7%        7Y          7T        7%         7%
Other Operating Costs           9%        87          87        8%         77



ANNEX 9
Page 2
B.   Tarif fs
5.        In order for NPA to obtain the agreed rate of return on its net
fixed assets in use including the project on its completion, substantial
tariff increases will be required. In addition to an average 13% increase
in rates implemented by NPA in May 1976 it has been assumed that NPA would
further increase its tariffs by 30% in 1977/78, 25% in 1979/80, 8% in 1982/
83 and 5% in 1984/85.
6.        An attempt has been made to show how tariffs could be restructured
to arrive at a better cost coverage for the various services provided by the
port (Annex 11). The proposed overall tariff increases correspond to an
average annual increase in tariffs of 13% over the six-year period 1975/76-
1980/81.  This tariff increase is distributed as follows:
Average 1975/76-1980/81
Log Port                                        25%
Fishing Port                                    12%
Workshops                                       18%
Channel                                         22%
Cargo and Container Berths                       6%



ANNEX 10
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Summary of Tariffs
Tariffs at Douala are levied under two broad categories: (a) on
vessels using the port of Douala; and (b) on goods passing through the port.
A selected summary of tariffs is given below, all costs being assessed in
CFAF.
A.  Tariffs on Vessels                                            CFAF
On entry
a)  on entry to the port per decimeter of actual draft   430
b)  per GRT if berthing at a quay                               9
c)  per GRT if at moorings                                      6
d)  for foreign vessels per vessel                          3,450
On pilotage
a)  on entry and departure per GRT                             10
b)  on entry to port per vessel                             3,450
c)  per hour of pilot waiting time                          2,000
d)  on night movement per vessel                            6,000
At quays
(1) vessels 501 to 8,000 GRT
a)  per GRT per day                                        9
b)  per ton of cargo moved                                30
(ii) vessels 8,000 GRT and over
a)  per GRT per day                                        6
b)  per ton of cargo moved                                30
c)  per voyage per vessel                             1,000
d)  for fishing boats per kg of fish unloaded              3



ANNEX 10
Page 2
For using port water area
a)  per GRT per day                                               2
b)  per GRT per day for vessels if at buoy moorings               3
For vessels registered at Douala
a)  for vessels between 1,001 and 3,000 GRT per year   150,000
b)  for vessels between 100 and 1,000 GRT per year          75,000
c)  for others                                              50,000
B. Tariffs on Merchandise
On cargo loaded
per ton or fraction
cocoa                                                700
coffee                                               600
tobacco  & rubber                                    500
groundnuts                                           300
palm oil                                             200
cement  & palm kernels                               150
bananas, cattle-cake, logs, sawn wood,
minerals, scrap iron & bitumen                     100
other                                                400
On cargo unloaded
All cargo classified under Series A, B, C and 1 to 5.
per ton
wine                                                1,900
products lighter than petrol                          800
products heavier than petrol                          500
railway classification 1                              805
2                            500
3                            310
4                            210
5                            120
6                            110



ANNEX 1 1
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis of Financial Forecasts
1.        A sensitivity analysis of the financial forecasts vas conducted
to test the impact of a possible decrease in NPA's cash generation and/or
an increase in the cost of capital investments on NPA's ability to: (a)
finance its operating costs; (b) maintain its working capital at an ade-
quate level; (c) service its debt; and (d) finance its capital investments
and renewals. The analysis was carried out assuming: (a) 20% decrease in
NPA' gross operating revenue, (b) 10% increase in working expenditures, and
(c) 10% increase in the cost of the Project excluding the main civil works
contract, whose cost is based on firm bid prices increased by physical and
price contingencies.
2.        The table attached to this annex shows the yearly impact of the most
pessimistic sensitivity assumption on NPA's projected income account and cash
position assuming NP4 is granted the same external financial support as in
the main analysis (Table 2 of Annex 6). Two periods are considered, namely,
1976-77 to 1981-82 covering the construction period of the Project and 1982-
83 to 1985-6 assuming full utilization of the additional capacity provided
to the Douala Port under the Project. The following summarizes the attached
table and-compares the results of the sensitivity and basic assumptions.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
CFAF billion
Cumulated Income Account
1976-77/1981-82                 1982-83/1985-86
Assumption                     Basic        Sensitivity        Basic        Sensitivity
Gross operating revenue         26.4             21.1           35.2             28.2
Working expenses                14.3             15.0           19.2             19.9
Depreciation                      6.2             6.5            9.0              9.3
Net operating revenue             5.9            ( 0.4)          7.0            ( 1.0)
Interest charges                 3.9              3.9            3.1              3.1
Net surplus                       2.0            ( 4.3)          3.9            ( 4.1)
Source and application of funds
SOURCES
Cash generated                  12.1              6.1           16.0              8.3
from operations
Grants                           5.2              5.2            0.7              0.7
Loans                           19.8             19.8             -                -
Total Sources                    37.1             31.1          16.7              9.0
APPLICATIONS
Capital investments             27.6             29.1            2.1              2.2
Debt service                      5.4             5.4            6.8              6.8
Increase (decrease) in           0.1              0.1            0.6              o.6
working capital
Total Applications               33.1            34.6            9.5              9.6
Increase (decrease) in            4.0            ( 3.5)          7.2            ( 0.6)
cash during period
Cash brought forxard             1.6              1.1            5.6            ( 2.4)
from year preceeding period
Cash at the end of period         5.6            ( 2.4)         12.8            ( 3.0)



ANNEX il
Page 3
3.        The table shows that, should all three sensitivity assumptions
materialize simultaneously, NPA would suffer a slight net operating loss
during both periods under consideration, instead of achieving the agreed
rate of return on average net fixed assets in use of 3% through fiscal
year 1980 and 5% thereafter. Under the same sensitivity assumption, NPA
would generate enough funds to finance its working expenses, maintain its
working capital at an adequate level and pay for its share of capital
investments but would be short CFAF 3.0 billion to pay for its debt ser-
vice. Additional resources would be needed to overcome the shortage of
funds.
4.        Although the Government has agreed to compensate for any shortage
of funds of NPA for implementing the Project and/or servicing its debts, it
is presumable that it would not provide further funds to NPA beyond its
already heavy commitments in project financing. Should any of the assump-
tions of the sensitivity analysis materialize, NPA would have to find addi-
tional funds to pay for its investment and service its debt. This could be
done by increasing its tariffs above those assumed for the main analysis or,
in case the ceiling of such increases is attained, to have recourse to addi-
tional borrowing. Both alternatives can be considered, bearing in mind that
(a) tariff increases projected under the basic assumption after 1978/79 are
relatively modest, and (b) NPA's projected debt service can easily be in-
creased without jeopardizing its future financial position.  However, the
three sensitivity assumptions are unlikely to materialize at the same time.



CAMEROON
SECOND DOUALA PORT PRO,Ii 'I
National Port A vithority
Financial Sensitivity Analysi:  Summarized Income Statenent and rable
l or Source and Application of Fonds under Most Pessimistic Sensitivity Assumptions
(In Millions of CFAF)
lotal                                                       Total
1976/77                                                      1982/83
Income Atcount                                1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81           1981/82     1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85         1985/86     1985/86
Minimal gross revenue                           1487        1858        2176        3204         3757       4916        5222        21133         6257       6640         7411        7869       28177
Maximal working expenses                        1394        1646        1956         2317        2582       3152        3350         15003       4287        4712         5149        5701       l9849
Minimal cash generation                           93         212         220          887        1175       1764         1872         6130       1970         1928        2262        2169        8329
Maximal depreciation                             490         522         565          743        1353        564        1775         6522        2053         2070        2590        2605        9318
Maximal operating expenditure                   1884        2168        2521        3060         3935       4716        5125        21525        6340         6782        7739        8306       29167
Minimal net operating revenue                  ( 397)      ( 310)      ( 345)         144       ( 178)       200           97         (392)     (  83)       ( 142)        328)      ( 437)    (  990)
Interest charges                                  -            84         408         639         922        937         917         3906          873         812         750         686         3121
Net surplus                                    ( 397)       ( 394)      ( 753)      (495)       (1099)    ( 737)       ( 820)      ( 4298)       ( 956)      ( 954)      (1078)       (1123)      (4111)
Source and application for funds
SOURCE:   Cash generation                         93         212         220         887         1175       1764        1872         6130        1970         1928        2262        2169        8329
Grants                                            974        1547          931         676        514         554         5196          599          55                                 654
loans                                            3297        8563         7263         597         30                    19750
Total Source                           93        4483       10330         9081        2448       2308        2426        31076        2569         1983        2262        2169        8983
APPLICATIONS:
Investments                           300        4856       11095        9109         1759       1107        1135        29061        1203          397         300         300        2200
Debt service                            -           84         408         639        1169       1468        1706          5474        1683         644        1605         1861        6793
Increase (decrease) in              (  52)         98           76         223       ( 149)      ( 71)      ( 127)           50         129          89         541       ( 162)         597
working capi tal
Tota  A248                                       5038        11579        9971        2779       25(14       2714        34585         3015        2130        2446        1999         9590
Cash increase (decrease) in  'ear                 155)     ( 555)    ( 1249)       ( 890)      ( 331)    ( 196)       ( 288)      ( 3509)       ( -u6)      ( 147)      ( 184)         170      ( 607)
Cash brouglut forward from previo-us vear       1284        1129          574       ( 675)      (1565)    (1896)       (2092)        1129       (2380)       (2826)      (2973)      (3187)      ( 2380)
Cash at the end of the year                     1129          574       ( 675)      (1565)      (1896)    (2092)       (2380)      ( 2380)      (2826)       (29731      (3l57)      (2987)    ( 2987)
- t
ni 5



CAMEROON
SECOND DOUALA PORT PROJECT
National Port Authority
ORGANIZATION CHART
ADMINISTRATIVE COUNCIL
DIRECTOR GENERAL
-Public Relations
- Secretarial
-Douala II Port Project
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR GENERAL                                    ASSISTANT DIRECTOR GENERAL
(Studies)                                                    (Technical)
ADMINISTRATIONI  STUDIES, ORGANIZA-    INFORMATION &                  OPERATIONS      SECONDARY PORTS      WORKS    woRKSHOP &
& FINANCE         TION & METHODS         ADMINISTRATION                               DIRECTORATE                             S|
Personnel         Documentation        Information                 Harbour             Kribi           New Works   Materials
Finance           Studies              Administration               Master             Garoua          Maintenance Construction
Legal                                                              Quay Manage-        Victoria-Tiko  Dredging    Studies
Stores                                                              ment & Stores                      Hydrography
Medical                                                            Statistics &                        Buoyage
Labour Control






~~   ~ ~ 9A9               -    -    ~      ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                C~HAD
.;- .A-                                                                     
CAMERO N '                                                   N \0
G-e
oNIrEC-7 REPUBUC 0F GÂMIE RO;N - 
DOUALA-E SEC0 - D PORT iET
4 D~~~~~~~~ - -   0i;-- RrdrlSrrfds   7.- 0520-     ;i;i; :ti:=;     
4'            MI~oed   Iraa    QD PrPr 
-; ;  0 - t - ; if  : -=    -f  terrfoo boodrdieszbe>     ;0             ::
TA,- I.~~~~~J.44B» j»-,»,, O» 'hA n»,~'CE  N  T   A 
N~~~~~~QERIA  /L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8E-U
; n; ;i 1/ i, : 0  , :;0 0 } 0-                      .                                     emfbo  ;J<   b  
A         ÇA~~NAOA
~~~~L                       AIRA.   UNF                                      iO.    GO tRi e é\' atp'fÂ :;f ;
L                                      OfINN,,   AINE  -      I----                                   --   =------   __ _ _ _     ------'-''.V
es X   , -f-  iV<«K          Æ r~    @aXmcysA                                   9   -1                 ;  YokoNDÉa _t o              4 
WiNElbiM - 8/ 7 n C vtsmlé t - \ 0 t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
grrN^4:.4N-'\k`°''+ ' É
,                                t                      W                                t;                                       0              G       I~~~~~~Ak" 






-    N I ' E ..   C ÉN T RA L   / -  
AFKICA' oC <                           -                                                             -«XV          
FCAD                                                                                               ?k
EIGUNA  As.N  7-ONO                                                                                          k'é  t 
N1GEF t'                                            ' "N                                         @
,f ;" <-                                      , ,»'' A lt
.______    0 iAFR     .'/CCOvIC N
Ç > l e                                      `à I
Ytf_|_ Xjsbyb@ Sdb  "v                                                      «1t-gA
breahyrAtr~J <                                          t-y ,/ a          /'1 
.  jjt2<<                                          >t2                                 UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
: :::  ( I/rr                 ,X. ;ot»`                              ~~~~~~DOUALA SECOND PORT PROJECT
. .   S                 ,/,/</                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Diogrommatic Loyout of Project
::  :: tX                ,/'                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~DOWNSTREAM PORT DEVELOPMENT
fr-              t-, Yft           t-«<  \               Exmi'g Pr0jec1
0,' r a:'N s  <-' \   /   <                                                 r at D=1j Port focilities~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P,pf.cliie
CCC o0  .    Ca) oe   beoch
pxfr                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~METERS__
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q






_~~~~~~~~~~~~OR  BIDGE
r~~~~~~~~~
UN ÔD,'UBI 0FCAERONrnoMn
/ / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mol.g  Pto,esse  .1 \
DOUALA SECOND PORT PROJECT    /»   o  r a,B0O
UPSTREAM  PORT DEVELQPMENT  5  f<çX4o é+oe.,, O 
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \6V 
road  sf01100~ ~ ~ ~~~odig og
1 Nt  -   -00  f  i   /A/A<o>#`.   . < E D  O  . U  ` T R0  A0L  L  -..
b-t ERS
v=   d0L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e






9' 10'                       ~~~    ~       ~     ~        ~        ~~~9-2D'  +e  9- 30             &       'A                                     EPEME 9
UNITED  REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON/ 
DOUAlA SECOND PORT PROJECT/ - :
CHANNEL APPROACH TO DOUALA/                                                                                                                                D         j
-MT TH EFsDDUAADeo-FT3N, CAHL/                                                                                                                 Vp0j
MAIN  EOADS  J                                                          2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OA
9ALW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ASr-    pw,
VI~) C O TO RIALN                                                                                    D/*s
-4'10      DOUALA    CHANNEL       4                                                                     <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fHA NE
? . 5 e 4 .77-



