CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 657 CM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Second Douala Port Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 24, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 24, 1976, between UNITED REPUBLIC
OF CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Borrower) nd INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the National Ports Authority of
ameroon (hereinafter called NPAC) have requested International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the
Bank), and the Association respectively to assist in the financing
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the loan agreement be-
tween the Bank and NPAC referred to hereunder;
(B) By an agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and NPAC (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agree-
ing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000) (hereinafter
called the Loan);
(C) The Borrower and NPAC have contracted and intend to con-
tract, as the case may be, from the institutions listed in Schedule
5 to the Loan Agreement, grants and loans in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to about $96,000,000 to assist in the financing
of the Project substantially as set forth in the said Schedule 5,
on terms and conditions set forth in the agreements entered, or
to be entered, into between the Borrower, NPAC and such institu-
tions;


﻿-2-
(D) By the Development Credit Agreement dated January 14, 1971
between the Borrower and the Association, the Association granted
to the Borrower a development credit in an amount equivalent to
$1,500,000 to assist in the financing of a Douala Port Project on
terms and conditions set forth in the said Agreement;
(E) By the Guarantee Agreement (Second Douala Project) of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower
has agreed to guarantee the Loan and to undertake certain obliga-
tions with respect to the Project;
(F) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit be disbursed before
the proceeds of the Loan; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿()                                     -3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of
the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions), namely, that paragraph (9) of Section 2.01
is deleted and the following is substituted therefore:
"9. The term Project means the project or program
for which the Credit is granted, as described in the Loan
Agreement and as the description thereof may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the
Bank and the Association."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date here-
with between the Bank and NPAC for the purpose of the Project, as
such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term


﻿-4-
includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, as made applicable
to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the Loan Agree-
ment and all schedules to the Loan Agreement; and
(b) "Guarantee Agreement" means the guarantee agreement be-
tween the Borrower and the Bank of even date herewith for the pur-
pose of the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time
to time; and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental
to the Guarantee Agreement.
(c) "NPA's Legislation" means Law No. 71-LF-5 of the Borrower
dated June 4, 1971, establishing NPAC, Decree No. 72-DF-201 of the
Borrower, dated April 17, 1972, defining the organization and
functioning of NPAC and any decree or regulation issued in applica-
tion of the said Law.


﻿*                             -5-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to the Loan Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement,
provided, however, that for the purpose of this Agreement, all
references in the said Schedule to the Bank shall be deemed to
be references to the Association and all references therein to the
Loan shall be deemed to be references to the Credit.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-6-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of thee-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable-on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1986, and ending March 15,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 15, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 2.09. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, if the Borrower shall repay in advance of matur-
ity any part of its indebtedness under any loan made to the Bor-
rower for the financing of the Project, the Borrower shall simul-
taneously repay a proportionate amount of the Credit then out-
standing. All the provisions of the General Conditions relating
to repayment in advance of maturity shall be applicable to any
repayment by the Borrower in accordance with this Section.


﻿*                           -7-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Other Covenants with Respect to NPAC
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause NPAC to carry out the
Project and to perform punctually all the obligations of NPAC as
set forth in Article III, IV and V of the Loan Agreement, provided,
however, that for the purposes of this Agreement, all references
to the Bank therein contained shall be deemed to be references to
the Association and all references to the Loan shall be deemed to
be references to the Credit.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Credit to NPAC under a Financing Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NPAC under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association, and which shall, with-
out limitation, provide that NPAC shall: (i) pay to the Borrower
a commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount so relent and not
withdrawn by NPAC from time to time; (ii) pay to the Borrower in-
terest at the rate of eight and ninety-hundredths per cent (8.90%)
per annum on the principal amount so relent and withdrawn by NPAC
and outstanding from time to time; and (iii) repay to the Borrower
the principal amount so relent over a period of 20 years from the
date of this Agreement, including therein a period of grace of four
and one-half years.


﻿-8-
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Financ-
ing Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Fi-
nancing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. The provisions of Sections 2.02, 3.02, 3.03,
3.04, 3.05, 3.06 and 3.07 of the Guarantee Agreement are hereby
incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect
as if they were fully set forth herein; provided, however, that
for the purpose of this Agreement, all references to the Guarantor
and the Borrower in such provisions shall be deemed to be refer-
ences to the Borrower and NPAC respectively.


﻿()                                  -9-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) NPAC's Legislation, or any part thereof, shall have been
amended, repealed, suspended or waived so as to have an adverse
effect on the Project or on the operations of the Port of Douala-
Bonaberi.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower or NPAC to withdraw
the proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower or to NPAC for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing there-
for, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower or NPAC as the case may be estab-
lishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:


﻿- 10-
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower or NPA to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement, and (B) adequate funds for
the Project are available from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that any event specified in para-
graphs (a) or (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agree-
ment within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement, other than the effectiveness of this Agreement,
have been fulfilled; and
(b) the execution and delivery of the Financing Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and NPA shall have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur--
nished to the Association, namely, that the Financing Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower and NPA, respectively, and constitutes
a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and NPA in accor-
dance with it. terms.
Section i.03. The date January 24, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-12                                  0
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.01, 3.02 and 3.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of Sec-
tion 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Planning
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economic Affairs
and Planning
Yaounde
United Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:               Telex:
MINEP                         8268 KN
Yaounde, Cameroon
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                      440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 1)4-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Eric D. Quan
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


