CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1321 CM
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Second DoualA Port Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 24, 1976


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 24, 1976, between UNITED REPUBLIC
OF CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and National Ports Authority of Cameroon (hereinafter
called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower
a loan in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars
($15,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guar-
antee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿I
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guaran-
tor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium,
if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in
the Loan Agreement (including without limitation those set forth
in Section 3.05 thereof).
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the pro-
visions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifi-
cally undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to believe
that the funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to
meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of
the Project, to make all necessary arrangements promptly to pro-
vide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such
funds as are needed to meet such expenditures on terms and condi-
tions consistent with the Borrower's obligations under the Loan
Agreement.


﻿4w
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt,
which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the
creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or adminis-
trative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satis-
factory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public-assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of an- entity owned or controlled by, or op-
erating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Guar-
antor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall carry out, not later than
December 31, 1980, or such other date as the Bank shall agree: (i)
the improvement of access road to the Bonabgri berth; and (ii)
the improvement of the surface of the Wouri bridge.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall ensure that all the follow-
ing Associated Projects are completed under terms and conditions
and according to a time schedule satisfactory to the Bank:
Ci) those listed in Section 4.08 of the Loan Agree-
ment;
(ii) the relocation of the naval base to permit expan-
sion of the downstream port area;
(iii) the lowering of the oil pipeline connecting the
mid-channel oil tanker berth to the storage tanks
ashore to an adequate depth;


﻿-6-
(iv) the relocation of water supply drainage, electric-
ity and telephone facilities due to the enlargement
of the port area and the construction of access to
the port;
(v) provision of a shelter, fresh water supply, park-
ing and other facilities at the canoe beach to be
built; and
(vi) construction of the Douala marshalling yard facili-
ties and of a link between such facilities and the
port on the basis of feasibility studies undertaken
for such facilities.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall cause the Borrower to be
represented in any organization which may be established to op-
erate the industrial zone expected to be created at Bonabgri.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall, not later than June 30,
1977, or such other date as the Bank shall agree, furnish to the
Bank a plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the
capability of its Ministries of Planning, of Transport and of Equip-
ment with respect to transport planning and coordination which
shall include, inter alia, estimated requirements of such ministries
for technical assistance, training and consultants' services, pro-
posals for financing such plan, together with a work program for
such ministries in transport planning, and shall thereafter imple-
ment such plan and carry out such program.


﻿Section 3.06. In order to assist the Guarantor in formulating
a forestry sector development policy, the Guarantor shall not later
than September 1, 1976 or such other date as the Bank shall agree,
employ two consultants under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Guarantor shall maintain in the position
of Director General of the Borrower a person with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Planning
of the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Economic Affairs
and Planning
Yaoundg
United Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:                Telex:
MINEP                         8268-KN
Yaounde
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA)
64145 (wUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Eric D. Quan
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


