CONFORMED COPY
I40AN NUMBER 1321 CM
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Douala Port Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NATIONAL PORTS AUTHORITY OF CAMEROON
Dated September 24, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 24, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and NATIONAL PORTS AUTHORITY OF CAMEROON (hereinafter called
the Borrover).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Borrower and the United Republic of Cameroon (here-
inafter called the Guarantor) have contracted and intend to con-
tract, as the case may be, from the institutions listed in Sched-
ule 5 to this Agreement, grants and loans in an aggregate princi-
pal amount equivalent to about $96,000,000 to assist in the fi-
nancing of the Project substantially as set forth in the said
Schedule 5, on terms and conditions set forth in the agreements
entered, or to be entered, into between the Guarantor, the Bor-
rover and such institutions;
(C) By the Development Credit Agreement dated January 14,
1971 between the Federal Republic of Cameroon (now known as the
United Republic of Cameroon and hereinafter called the Guarantor)
and the International Development Association (hereinafter called
the Association) the Association granted to the Federal Republic
of Cameroon a development credit in an amount equivalent to
$1,500,000 to assist in the financing of a Douala Port Project on
terms and conditions set forth in the said Agreement; and


﻿(D) By the Guarantee Agreement (Second Douala Project) of
even date herevith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor
has agreed to guarantee the Loan and to undertake certain obliga-
tions with respect to the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
iand conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THERPOREthe parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 197, vith the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions in the Preamble to this Agreement and in Schedule
5 hereto have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Borrower's Legislation" means Law No. 7l-LF-5 of the
Guarantor setting up the National Ports Authority of Cameroon dated
June 4, 1971, Decree No. 72-DF-201 of the Guarantor defining the
organization and functioning of the National Ports Authority,
dated April 17, 1972, and any decree or regulation taken in appli-
cation of the said law;
(b) "Associated Projects" means the projects described in
Section 4.08 of this Agreement and in Section 3.03 of the Guaran-
tee Agreement;
(c) "Credit Agreement" means the Development Agreement
(Second Douala Port Project) between the Guarantor and the Association


﻿-4-
of even date herewith as such agreement may be amended from time
to time and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements dated March 15, 1974 aplicable
to the said Agreement, all agreements supplemental to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and all Schedules to the Development Credit
Agreement; and
(d) "Financing Agreement" means the financing agreement re-
ferred to in Section 3.02 of the Credit Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or refer-
red to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen mil-
lion dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-6-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and ninety hundredths per cent (8.90%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
vise agree, if the Borrower shall repay in advance of maturity
any part of its indebtedness under any loan made to the Borrower       0
for the financing of the Project, the Borrower shall simultaneously
repay a proportionate amount of the Loan then outstanding. All the
provisions of the General Conditions relating to repayment in ad-
vance of maturity shall be applicable to any repayment by the
Borrower in accordance with this Section.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, administrative and financial practices.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of em-
ployment shall be satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or instUlation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the Dro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Proj-
ect; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of para-
graph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Proj-
ect and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall fur-
nish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, prop-
erty and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire not later than June 30, 1978, or
such other date as the Bank shall agree, all such land, and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction and
operation of the facilities included in the Project and shall fur-
nish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land
are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, on or before September 30,
197E, or such Later date as the Bank may otherwise agree, establish
the nositicn of Project Officer with the rank of Assistant Director


﻿General, with resnonsibility for overall coordination of the exe-
cution of the Project, and shall ensure that the said position
is filled at all times until the Closing Date by a person whose
qualifications and experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; it being understood that
such Project Officer shall discharge his duties and responsibilities
under the authority and supervision of the Borrower's Director
General.
Section 3.07. After having furnished to the Bank an economic,
financial and technical justification, together with a detailed
plan to make optimum use of an additional berth, the whole satis-
factory to the Bank, the Borrower may extend to 400 m the length
of the deepwater berth included in Part A (ii) of the Project.


﻿S10 -
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times maintain its
existence and the right to carry on its operations, and shall
take all steps as shall be necessary to acquire, maintain and re-
new all rights and franchises as shall be necessary or useful in
the conduct of its operations.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) cause the study
of its management structure undertaken by consultants to be com-
pleted not later than June 30, 1978, or such other date as the
Bank shall agree; (ii) promptly furnish such study to the Bank and
review it with the Bank; and (iii) promptly implement the plan of
action to be agreed with the Bank on the basis of suc"- ::ady.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its comments,
not later than A-A.r. 30, 1977 or such other date as the Bank shall
agree, a detailed manpower plan showing expected staff requirements
by year and by category for the years starting July 1, 1977 through
June 30, 1982.
(e The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its anproval,
not later than April 30 in each year, its training program for
the next fisc .1 year, such programs to be furnished for fiscal
years 1977 t' o.gh 1981.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall operate, maintain, repair
and renew its facilities, equipment, machinery and other property


﻿necessary or useful in its operations, in accordance witn sounc
engineering and port management practices.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its anroval,
not later than March 31, 1980, or such other date as the Bank
shall agree, a detailed maintenance dredging plan for the entrance
channel to the port of Douala and shall carry out such maintenance
in accordance with such plan as approved by the Bank.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not sell, lease, transfer,
assign or otherwise dispose of any of its rights or assets exce't
in the ordinary course of business.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall appoint not later than
December 31, 1976 or such other date as the Bank shall agree, and
thereafter maintain in office a qualified and experienced direztor
of operations whose powers and duties shall be satisfactory t- .he
Bank.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall make the facili"ies :-onstruC-
ted under the Project available to users of the Port under arrange-
ments which shall ensure efficient Port operations and which shall
be made after consultation with the Bank.


﻿W
- 1L2 -
Section 4.08. In order to ensure the timely implementation of
the Project and its optimum utilization, the Borrower shall take
all steps within its power to carry out or cause to be carried out
the following Associated Projects:
(i) the construction of office buildings and associated
facilities for shipping companies and other port
users; and
(ii) provision of additional cargo handling equipment
as required for the operation of the Port as ex-
panded under the Project.


﻿ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adeauate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
ex.enses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) fur-
nish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower renresents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, excent as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: CW) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally


﻿14
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on. the Loan. and in the creation of any such
lien exrress provision will be made to that effect, at no cost
to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on
any assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory
to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the fore-
going provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a dabt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take all such measures, including but not
limited to increases in tariffs, as shall be required to earn an
annual rate of return not less than three per cent (3%) in each
of fiscal years 1977 through 1980 and of five per cent (5%) there-
after.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated in
respect of each fiscal year by relating the net
operating revenue for that year to the average of
the value of the net fixed assets in operat,ion a;
the beginning and at the end of that year;


﻿w                                   -15 -
(ii) the term "net operating revenue" shall mean the
difference between (A) gross operating revenue and
(B) operating and administrative expenses, including
adequate maintenance and depreciation and taxes
other than income taxes, if any, but excluding in-
come taxes, interest and other charges on debt (if
any); and
(iii) the term "value of net fixed assets in operation"
shall mean the gross value of fixed assets in op-
eration less the accumulated depreciation, such
assets to be valued and such depreciation to be
calculated from time to time in accordance with
sound and consistently maintained methods of valu-
ation and depreciation acceptable to the Bank.
(c) In order to permit a realistic assessment of the Bor-
rover's operating targets in terms of rate of return within the
meaning of this Section, the Borrower shall, as of June 30, 1978,
and thereafter at five-year intervals, revalue its fixed assets
in consultation with the Bank.
(d) In implementing the provisions of this Section, the
Borrower shall revise from time to time the structure of its
tariffs so as to ensure, as far as practicable, that charges re-
flect the costs of providing each group of port services.
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt unless its net revenues for the


﻿-16-                                  'O
fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-
month period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever amount is
greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt ser-
vice requirements for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt, in-
cluding the debt to be incurred. For the purposer of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" shall mean all indebtedness of the Bor-
rower, maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of exe-
cution and delivery of the contract or other instrument providing
for such debt or modifying its terms of payment.
(c) The term "net revenues" shall mean the difference be-
tween (A) gross operating revenue from all sources, adjusted to
take account of the Borrower's tariffs in effect at the time of
the incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect during
the entire fiscal year or twelve-month period to which such re-
venues relate, and (B) all operating expenses, including adequate
maintenance, taxes, if any, and administrative expenses, but be-
fore provision for depreciation and interest and other charges on
debt.
(d) The term "debt service requirements" shall mean the ag-
gregate amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments,
if any) of interest and other charges on debt.
(e) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in the currency of the Borrower debt payable


﻿-17
in foreign currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign cur-
rency is, at the time such valuation is made, obtainable by the
Borrower for the purposes of servicing such debt or, if such for-
eign currency is not so obtainable, at the-rate-of-exchange that
will be reasonably determined by the Bank.
Section 5.06. Beginning with the Borrower's fiscal year 1977
and until full completion of the Project, the Borrower shall not,
without prior consultation with the Bank, carry out any invest-
ment, other than the Project and the Associated Projects, except
with respect to items not exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent
of CFAF200,000,000 within a twelve-month period.


﻿-18 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Borrower's Legislation, or any part thereof, shall
have been amended, repealed, suspended or waived so as to have an
adverse effect on the Project or on the operations of the Port of
Douala-Bonabgri.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or ter-
minated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its


﻿NOW -19 -
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
(c) a default shall have occurred in the performance by the
Guarantor of any of its obligations under Article III of the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to
paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any event specified in para-
graph (a) or (b) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall
occur or that the event specified in paragraph (c) of such Sec-
tion shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Guarantor.


﻿-20-
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The folloving events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the agreements between the Borrower and the insti-
tutions listed in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, except the agree-
ments listed under paragraphs (A) (3), (C) (1) and (D) (1) thereof,
have been duly signed and conditions precedent to initial disburse-
ments, if any, under such agreements, save for the effectiveness
of this Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(b) that assurances satisfactory to the Bank have been re-
ceived by the Bank with respect to the agreements listed under
paragraphs (A) (3), (C) (1) and (D) (1) of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement, for the financing of the Project.
Section 7.02. The date January 24, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 21 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the.
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For the Borrower:
National Ports Authority
of Cameroon
P.O. Box 4020
Douala,
Cameroon
Cable address:                Telex:
DIROPORT                      5270-KN
Douala


﻿-22-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
NATIONAL PORTS AUTHORITY
By /s/ Eric D. Quan
Authorized Representative


﻿-23 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Loan and of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Category of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan and of the Credit, the al-
location of the amounts of the Loan and the Credit to such Cate-
gory and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in such Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dol.ar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works under          25,000,000         57%
Parts A (i), A (ii),
and E of the Proj-
ect
TOTAL      25,000,000


﻿-24-
2.   The disbursement percentage has been calculated in compliance
with the policy of the Bank and the Association that no proceeds
of the Loan and of the Credit shall be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Guaran-
tor on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, pro-
curement or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such
taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Bank or the Association may, by notice to the Borrower or the
Guarantor as the case may be, increase or decrease the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such item as required to be
consistent with the aforemtntioned policy of the Bank and the
Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of -,ayments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement. In addition, except as the
Guarantor, the Borrower, the Bank and the Association shall agree,
and until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn or
committed, no withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account ex-
cept under commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Sec-
tion 5.02 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01
of the Loan Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the disbursement percentage set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank and the Association have
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan and the Credit
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all ex-
penditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and of
the Credit, the Bank and the Association may, by notice to the


﻿I
- 25 -
7crrower or the Guarantor, as the case may be, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then aprlicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
5.   Tf the Bank and the Association, after having exchanged views
with the Borrower or the Guarantor, as the case may be, shall have
reasonably determined that the procurement of any item is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan or the Credit and the Bank and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Bank or the Association under the Loan
Agreement or the Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower or the
Guarantor, as the case may be, cancel such amount of the Loan and
of the Credit as, in the Bank's and the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Credit.
01


﻿-26 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project. which is designed to Drovide additional caDacitv
at the Port of Douala, to increase the depth of the access channel
to the said Port and to imDrove rail and road access to it and
traffic flow within it, consists of the following Parts:
A.   Downstream Port Development
(i) Construction of a new log port, consisting of a
reclaimed area totalling about 20 ha for the re-
ception, sorting, and storage of logs, a shallow
quay of 350 m for launching and exnorting logs
within sheltered water, and three deer-water moor-
ings for log carriers in the channel;
(ii) construction of a deep-water berth of 240 m with
9.5 m depth alongside at low water (with the option
of an extension to 400 m), for use by container
vessels and as a general cargo berth, with a stor-
age area (but initially without a container crane),
as well as a transit shed; and
(iii) sunnly and installation of utilities.
B.   Unstream Port Development
(i) Reclamation works including river training and new
berths for fishing vessels (about 530 m with depths
of 5 m to 6.5 m alongside);


﻿-27 -
(ii) construction of a cold store and a fish marketing
hall and associated facilities;
(iii) construction of offices and workshops and provision
of equipment for a dockyard; and
(iv) provision of a floating dry dock for the said dock-
yard.
C.   Dredging of Access Channel
Deepening by dredging of the port access channel to a depth
of about 7.5 m in its inner 22 km length, and to about 9.5 m
in its outer length.
D.   Road and Rail Access
Construction of:
(i) new rail sidings and facilities in the port area;
and
(ii) new road access to the log port. to be located in
part on land not nresently Dart of the port area.
E.   Rehabilitation of the Existing Port
Renair of Daved areas within the Dresent port area.
*               e           e
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31. 1980.


﻿- 28-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 1981
through March 15, 1996:                      470,OOO
On September 15, 1996:                            430,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02). the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 29 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                           1.35%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                           2.65%
More than six years but not
mre than eleven years
before maturity                           4.9o
More than eleven years but not
mre than sixteen years
before maturity                           7.10%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                           8.00%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                           8.90%


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bi!dig
1.   The works included in Parts A (i) and A (ii) of the Project
shall be nrocured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Bidders for the works included in Parts A (i) and A (ii) of
the Project shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3
of Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts under Part E of the Project shall be awarded after
locally advertised competitive bidding in accordance with local
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure
to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said pro-
cedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequali-
fied bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications


﻿- 31 -
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequali-
fication shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its
comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower
shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications
in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award of the said consultants and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
01


﻿- 32 -
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the rea-
sons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 5
Financing Plan*
Expected Amount
Financing                              (in U.S. Dollar
CoMponent          Institution**        Afreement             Equivalent)
(A) Civil works       IBRD/IDA     (1) Loan and Credit
under Parts                         Agreements            25,000,000
A (i), A (ii)    FED           (2) Financing Agreement     4,900,000
and E of the     FAC           (3) Financing Agreement     3,300,000
Project          KfW           (4) Loan Agreement          8,000,000
(B) Civil works       AfDB         (1) First Loan
under Parts                         Agreement              6,200,000
A (iii) and
B (i) of the
Project
(C) Civil works       CCCE         (1) Loan Agreement           3,300,000
and equipment
under Part B
(iii) of the
Project
(D) Civil works       AfDB         (1) Second Loan              6,200,000
under Part D                        Agreement
of the Proj-     BADEA         (2) Loan Agreement         10,000,000
ect
*    Excluding the Guarantor's and the Borrower's participation.
** Definitions used have the following meanings:
AfDB:     African Development Bank
BADEA:    Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
CCCE:     Caisse Centrale de Coopgratior Economiqe
CIDA:     Canadian International Development Agency
FAC:      Fonds d'Aide et de Coo oration
FED:      Fonds Euro  en de DEveloppement
IBRD:     International Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment
IDA:      International Development Association
KfW:      Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau


﻿- 34
Expected Amount
Financing                            (in U.S. Dollar
Component          Institution**       jareement           ftuivale
(E) Civil works      CIDA
for fishing              )
port build.-             )
ings under               )
Part B (ii)
of the Proj-
ect
(F) Floating dry     CIDA     )
dock under               )
Part B (iv)              )
of the ProJ-             )
ect                      )
(G) Channel deep-    CIDA     )   (1) Loan Agreement         29,000,000
ening under              )
Part C of the            )
Project                  )
(H) Consulting       CIDA
services for             )
supervision              )
of construe-             )
tion                     )


