Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             LfErh% 
Report No. 3044-TH
THAILAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
October 15, 1980
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =  Thailand Baht (B)
B I           =  US$0.05
B 1 million   =  US$50,000
US$1           =  B 20
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                            British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                   =  3.28 feet (ft)
I cubic meter (cum)           =  1.307 cubic yards
I metric ton                  =  0.98 long ton
I litre                       =  0.28 US gallons (gal)
= 0.22 British gallons (imp gal)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB    =  Asian Development Bank
ARD    =  Office of Accelerated Rural Development
cfs    =  container freight station
DOH    =  Department of Highways
EEC    =  European Economic Community
ETO    =  Express Transport Organization
LWOST  =  Low Water Ordinary Spring Tide
MOC    =  Ministry of Communications
MOF    = Market Organization of Farmers
PAT    =  Port Authority of Thailand
RTN    =  Royal Thai Navy
SRT    =  State Railways of Thailand
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



THAILAND
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  TRANSPORT SECTOR ....  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  1
A. Transport System .... . . . . . ..                                 1
General ..... . . . . . ..                                      1
Road Infrastructure .... . . . ..                               1
Railways ..... . . ..                                           2
Inland Waterways .... . . . . ..                                3
Coastal Ports and Shipping .... . . ..                          3
Airports   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  4
B. Transport Demand.                                                  4
C.  Transport Planning, Coordination and Investments . . . . . .    5
D.  Bank Lending to the Transport Sector . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
2.  PORT AUTHORITY OF THAILAND AND THE EXISTING PORTS OF
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP ....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  6
A.  General  .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  6
B. Port Authority of Thailand .... . . . .                            7
Organization .... . . . . . ..                                  7
Tariffs and Costs .... . . . . ..                               8
Budgets, Accounting and Audit  . . . . . . . . ... . . . .    9
C. Existing Facilities .... . . . . ..                                9
The Port of Bangkok  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
The Port of Sattahip   ..11
3.    THE  PROJECT    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  12
A.    General  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  12
B.  Berths Utilization at Bangkok (Klong Toei) . . . . . . . . .   13
C.  Improvements to Operations and Cargo Throughput at Bangkok
(Klong Toei) .13
Cargo Discharge to Berth and Overside  . . . . . . . . . .   13
Container Handling Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Berth Allocation Between Conventional and Container
Cargo .16
This report is based upon the findings of a Bank mission which visited
Thailand in February 1980 comprising Messrs. Higginbottom (mission leader),
Seigel (Financial Analyst) and Weckerle (Economist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
D. Physical Improvements at Bangkok (Klong Toei) and
Sattahip and Proposed Bang Su Development .  . . . . . . . .    17
Port Improvements  ...  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    18
Bang Su Development .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
Organization of Bang Su  . ..  . .  . . . . .     .  .  .  .  .  .    .    19
4.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENT AND ECOLOGY . . . . . . .    21
A. Cost Estimate  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......   .    21
B.  Financing Plan ....  .  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......   .    22
C.  Construction and Procurement ... .        .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  23
D.  Disbursement ....  .  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    24
E.  Ecology .    .    .    .    .    .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
F.  Completion Report  ....  .  .  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .    .......   .    25
5.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......... .    26
A.  Investment Objectives  ...  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  26
B.  Import and Export Volumes  ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  26
C.  Container Traffic  . . . . .      .    .   .   .   . . .  . . . . . . . . .    27
D.  Traffic Distribution Between Port Facilities ...  .          .......   28
E.  Investment Alternatives .   .   .   .   .   .   . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
F.  Project Benefits, Costs and Returns  . . . . . . . . ..             30
6.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               33
A. General             ... ...33
B.  Past Financial Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . .                33
C.  Forecast Financial Performance - Sattahip                           35
D.  PAT's Consolidated Financial Performance . . . . . .                 36
E.  Sensitivity Analysis and Financial Risks . . . . . .                38
F.  Revaluation of Assets and Insurance  . . . . . . . .                40
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS    .......                   . .  41



-3-
TABLES
1. Indicative Inland Freight Traffic of Thailand by Modes
2. Government Investments in Transport during Third and Fourth
Five-Year Development Pl ans
3. PAT's Principal Rates and Charges as of September 30, 1979
4. Import and Export Trade T'hiough Bangkok Port System - By Commodities
5. Import and Export Trade Through Bangkok Port System - By Facilities,
1975-85
6a.  Civil Works - Klong Toei
6b.  Civil Works - Sattahip
6c.  Mechanical EquI4ment   Klong Toei
6d. Mechanical Equilp.ent - Satrahip
6e. Floating Equipment - Sattahip
6f. Consultants' Technical Assistance and Training
6g. Bang Su Container Freight Stations and Bonded Warehouses
7. Implementation Schedule
8. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
9. PAT Consolidated Income Accounts, 1976-85
10. PAT Consolidated Balance Sheets, 1976-85
11. Port of Sattahip Income Accounts, 1980-85
12. PAT Consolidated Cash Flow Data, 1980-85
13. Container Traffic at Bangkok (Klong Toei) and Sattahip Ports
14. Daily Costs of General Cargo Ships
15. Economic Rates of Return
16. Prices of Petroleum Products in Thailand
ANNEXES
1.  Technical Assistance and Training for Port Authority of Thailanl
2. Operating Efficiency Indicators
3. Import and Export Trade (Non-POL) through Bangkok Port Systep,
4. Assumptions for Financial Projections
5. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
Thailand Ports - 14856R1
Port of Bangkok - 2791R
Port of Bangkok - Klong Toei Berths - 14988
Port of Sattahip - 14989
CHART
Port Authority of Thailand Organization






1. TRANSPORT SECTOP.
A. Transport System
General
1.01      During the last 10-15 years, the Thai economy, as a result of the
strong showing of the agricultural sector, grew at a rapid pace and
generated a high demand for transport. Transport growth in this period was
about 8% p.a. for freight and 12% p.a. for passenger traffic; it was
supported by large Government investments for transport and generally
liberal transport policies which stimulated a competitive road transport
industry. Most of the transport growth was in the roads sector because of
the Government's strategy of building a comprehensive network of primary
(national) and secondary (provincial) roads. Today, virtually the entire
primary roads system serving interprovincial trade is complete, and
significant progress has been made towards the build-up of the secondary
system. Railways, inland waterways and coastal shipping, confined to
specific locations and handling mostly bulk-commodities, have also grown,
but at a more modest rate.
1.02      llith the progress made in developing primary and secondary roads,
among the future transport requirements will be: first, extension and
improvement of tertiary roads in support of the needs of local communities;
second, the upgrading of the performance of other modes of transport; and
third, the removal of specific capacity bottlenecks in the national
transport system, such as the Port of Bangkok. Tertiary roads are
underdeveloped and inadequately maintained. Inland waterways and coastal
shipping perform at below attainable output and efficiency levels, and their
as well as the railways' capacity for energy efficient transport is
underutilized. However, improvement and development of the inland waterways
and coastal shipping are being addressed in a separate Bank loan (paras.
1.10 and 1.12), and port capacity in the Bangkok area will be expanded under
this project. A brief discussion of the various components of the Thai
transport system follows.
Road Infrastructure
1.03      By traffic volumes, network length, area coverage and capital
expenditures, roads are Thailand's most important transport infrastructure.
The Department of Highways (DOH) competently administers and maintains the
national as well as the provincial roads systems.  Nhtional highways, the
primary roads system, total nearly 14,000 km.  They radiate from Bangkok to
the national borders, and most are paved. Built or reconstructed to present



standards in the last 20 years, many of these roads are however soon to
reach full capacity or to require reconstruction as a result of
uninterrupted traffic growth.
1.04      Provincial roads, the secondary roads system, total about
30,000 km. They serve provincial needs in linking changwat capitals with
larger changwat towns. The length is currently increasing at a rate of
several thousand km per year since roads, which have been under the juris-
diction of other agencies, are now being classified and transferred to DOH
which has an established record in roads planning, construction and mainte-
nance. About 15,000 km have had some improvements, and about 8,000 km of
them are paved. The remainder of provincial roads, 15,000 km, are tracks or
substandard earth and gravel roads, some of them impassable in the rainy
season.
1.05      In addition to the primary and secondary roads system of 44,000
km, Thailand has an estimated 40,000-50,000 km of tertiary roads.  The exact
number is difficult to assess since inventories are incomplete and generally
out-of-date. Standards vary between tracks and engineered roads of various
levels. Planning is deficient and maintenance, on average, poor or nonexis-
tent. Tertiary roads responsibilities are being shared with little coor-
dination by several Government agencies, of which the most important is the
Office of Accelerated Rural Development (ARD). Planning, construction
methods and maintenance of tertiary roads need to be improved, and the
jurisdictions of rural roads agencies need to be redefined. To deal with
these issues, the Government is conducting a consultants' study under Bank
financing (Sixth Highway Project, Loan 1519-TH).
Railways
1.06      The railways are a trunk line carrier with 3,800 route-km of which
600 km are branchlines. The meter gauge lines are single track except for
some 90 km near Bangkok. Four lines radiate from Bangkok: north to Chieng
Mai, northeast to the Laotian border near Vientiane, east to the Kampuchean
border and south to the Malaysian border. Following its decision to develop
Sattahip as a commercial deep-sea port (para. 2.02), the Government commis-
sioned an engineering study for an extension of the railway from
Chachoengsao on the Fastern Line to the new port. The study was completed
by mid-1980, and the Government intends to construct the line, under its own
financing, between early 1981 and late 1983 (para. 3.17).
1.07      The State Railways of Thailand (SRT) are an operationally
efficient and well-managed state enterprise with weak finances due to tight
Government control over its tariffs. Under the current Five-Year Plan, and
with Bank assistance (Fifth Railway Project, Loan 1662-TH), SRT are engaged
in rehabilitation of plant and equipment, and extension of line and rolling



stock capacity. Faced with stiff competition from road and inland waterways
transport, the railways are, within the framework of existing Government
regulation, gradually converting into a market oriented enterprise; however,
deregulation, in particular of tariff policies, will be required to fully
accomplish this conversion.
Inland Waterways
1.08      Thailand has a comprehensive inland waterways system of about
1,300 km in the N&orthern Corridor stretching from Bangkok to Uttaradit in
the Central Region. The main components are: (a) the Chao Phrya river from
the Gulf of Thailand to Nkhon Sawan (325 km); (b) the %n river from Makhon
Sawan to Taphan Hin (78 km) and from there to Uttaradit (274 km); (c) the
Pasak river from Ayutthya, where it enters the Chao Phrya, up to the Rama IV
dam (45 km); and (d) sections of the Ibi and Suphan Tha Chin rivers (about
100 km), which offer a bypass of some difficult sections of the Chao Phrya.
1.09      During low water season from January to Mlay, however, navigation
in the Mhn and Chao Phrya, except for the section from the Gulf to Ayutthya
(110 km) is restricted, and barge traffic is forced to detour on slow and
more costly routes, reduce payloads or cease operations. As a result,
inland waterways traffic is thinning out quickly to the north of Ayutthya,
even though the rivers reach into the heartland of Thailand's most
productive agricultural region; and large quantities of agricultural and
other bulk commodities, which are in principle suitable for barge traffic,
are carried by road.
1.10      To utilize the inland waterways potential for low-cost transport,
a project (Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports, Loan 1889-TH) is being
implemented with Bank financing, under which the shallow river sections will
be deepened. The project includes improvements at two river ports, Makhon
Sawan and Taphan Hin, to facilitate transshipment between water and road or
rail. Provision of a pilot barge convoy, also part of the project, is to
demonstrate the operational and economic advantages of replacing the
traditional wooden barges by modern units. After completion by about
end-1983, traffic (excluding sand) from the project region, which is at
present in the order of 0.6 million tons, is to quadruple. Mfost of this
traffic consists of rice and maize.
Coastal Ports and Shipping
1.11      The coastal ports sector which covers all shallow draft seaports,
comprises about 40 facilities ranging from small fishing and cargo wharves
of purely local importance to large regional ports with annual volumes of
several hundred thousand tons of cargo. Most coastal ports are located on
the east and west coasts of the southern peninsula and are owned and managed



- 4 -
by local governments or private operators.  Despite recent improvements of
land transport in coastal zones, coastal ports and shipping remain essential
parts of the areas transport system. Virtually all of then also serve as
bases of marine fishing. About 2.0-2.5 million tons of cargo and petroleum
and 1.2 million tons of fish are annually loaded or landed in these ports.
1.12      The condition of the port access channels is the principal
constraint under which coastal shipping operates. All coastal ports are
riverine with severe draft restrictions at the rivers' mouth and subject to
continuous siltation from riverine and littoral sources. Frequent
maintenance dredging and in some cases capital dredging is required but the
Harbor Department's capacity to execute these functions, is limited due to
lack of equipment and expertise. The Inland Wlaterways and Coastal Ports
Project which is referred to above (para. 1.10), will deepen the entrance
channels to two of the larger ports and improve the Department's channel
maintenance performance. Implementation is scheduled for 1981/82.
Airports
1.13      Thailand's international and domestic air transport are centered
at Don Muang airport in the vicin'ty of Bangkok. Airport capacity is tight
and plans are under study for dealing with the need for further expansion.
Two other international airports, Fat Yai near the 2falaysian horder and
Chieng MIai in the north, are capable of receiving commercial jet planes.
There are another 40 airfields of various sizes of which about half receive
scheduled flights. Domestic public air transport is being provided by Thai
Airways, and Thai International Airway is the international carrier. Both
companies are Government-owned.  Civil domestic aviation fs in the order of
0.3 million passengers and 1.2 million tons of cargo per year.
B. Transport Demand
1.14      All modes combined, freight transport in Thailand is in the order
of over 50 million tons and 14 billion ton-km p.a. (Table 1).  Roads
generate about 70% of ton-km, followed by the railways with close to 20% and
inland waterways with about 10%. Freight is geographically concentrated in
the Nbrthern Corridor between the Gulf of Thailand and the Nbrth and along
the traffic axes radiating from Bangkok to the south and northeast.
Direction, composition and size of traffic flows reflect (a) Bangkok's
central location and dominance as the country's principal port and
consumption center, (b) Thailand's generally rural character, and (c) the
agricultural strength of the Central Region. An estimated 30-50% of all
freight is agricultural produce, of which about one half is exported, most
of it through the Port of Bangkok and the Eastern Seaboard port facilities.



C.  Transport Planning, Coordination and Investments
1.15      The Mlinistry of Communications (MOC) is responsible for transport
policy, coordination and planning. Through its own departments, or through
supervising transport enterprises, it is concerned with all transport
operations. During the last 10-15 years, the Government has been able to
keep transport investments generally in line with the needs of the growing
economy. These investments by themselves have in turn helped to stimulate
economic development. An efficient and competitive privately owned road
transport industry has evolved. The railways are gradually meeting the
challenge of road competition, but deregulation is needed to make them fully
effective competitors (para. 1.07). Despite the existing railway
regulation, there is no evidence of significant intermodal distortions.
1.16      At the recommendation of the Bank, a Transport Planning IUnit (TPU)
was set up in 1974 in the MOC to act as the focal point of transport
planning and policy review. The Unit, with technical assistance provided
under Bank financing (Sixth Highway Project, Loan 1519'-TH), is currently
participating in the formulation of the Fifth Five-Year Transport
Development Plan (1982-86); among the main issues it will address are the
transport policy implications of rising fuel cost (for current fuel price
data, refer to Table 16). Another major item in its work plan is a study of
road user and inland waterways charges; the main body of the study is to be
completed by the early 1981.
1.17      During the Third Five-Year Development Plan in 1972-76, Thailand's
public sector investments in transport were about B 21 billion in current
prices, and under the ongoing Fourth Plan for 1977-81, capital expenditures
are estimated at B 28 billion (Table 2). Transport's share of public
development expenditures, 20% in 1972-76, are expected to drop to about 11%
in 1977-81 because of the earlier achievements primarily in the road sector.
In both Plan periods, road infrastructure received between 75% and 80% of
all funds allocated. However within the roads sector, some shifts are
taking place, since tertiary roads have gradually increased their share of
the roads' budget from 10% in 1972-76 to 25% in 1977-81. The 1982-86
Transport Plan is currently under preparation.  With an intensified interest
in rural development the Government is expected to continue raising the
investment shares of roads identified with primary sector and local
community development. Moreover, with its concern about the energy
situation the Plan is also anticipated to emphasize the fuller development
of energy efficient transport.



- 6 -
D. Bank Lending to the Transport Sector
1.18      The Bank has been involved in all transport modes (except civil
aviation) and has helped finance 15 transportation projects in Thailand.
Three loans, totalling $20.3 million, have been made for port development.
The first two port projects were completed on schedule, and the third
project, Loan 702-TH, was completed in MIay 1976, about two years behind
schedule, largely because of delays in awarding civil works contracts.
Comments of the Project Performance Audit Report for Loan 702-TH are given
in para. 4.09. An inland waterways and coastal port project ($53 million)
has recently been approved. The Bank has made five loans totalling $68.7
million to help implement SRT's development plans. Four projects have been
completed satisfactorily; about $7.5 million of the loan amount for the
third project was cancelled when the Government chose to purchase the
locomotive through direct negotiations. The Bank has made six loans, the
first in 1963 and the most recent in 1978, totalling $261.6 million, for
construction and maintenance of national and provincial roads. In addition,
about 1,300 km of village access roads are being constructed by the Office
of Accelerated Rural Development (ARD) under the Nbrtheast Thailand Rural
Development Project (Loan 1198-TH). The first four completed roads projects
were executed efficiently and with substantial savings in cost. The quality
of construction throughout was good, domestic prices remained stable, and
there was strong competition among contractors. However, on the fifth
project, there were cost overruns and delays caused by sharp increases in
prices which required rebidding of several contracts, but under the ongoing
sixth project costs are presently running close to the estimates. The sixth
project has continued assistance in strengthening road plann!ng and
maintenance in the Department of Highways and transport planning through TPU
in MOC. The operations evaluation report on Loan 626-TH (Fourth Highway
Project) commented that the project had achieved its objectives; road
construction costs had been overestimated as the inflation rate was slower
than anticipated, and traffic had grown at a rate higher than projected.
2.    PORT AUJTHORITY OF THAILAND AND THE
EXISTING PORTS OF BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP
A. General
2.01      Thailand's seaborne dry cargo trade comprises: (a) conventional
break bulk and containerized imports and exports shipped through the Bangkok



- 7 -
Port; and (b) agricultural exports handled through Bangkok or, when exported
in bulk, through 2Iah Boon Krong and the deep sea anchorage at Ko-Sichang,
both on the Fastern Seaboard.  Petroleum products are handled through Sri
Racha, also on the Eastern Seaboard.
2.02      Plans for the development of a second deepwater port, within
reasonable distance of Bangkok, have been under consideration for some time
(para. 5.14) and were finally narrowed down to a choice between a site at
Laem Krabang and the existing port at Sattahip (Map 14856), with the latter
finally selected. Sattahip was originally developed as a military port
under the control of the Poyal Thai Navy (RTN) and was handed over to
civilian control in late 1979.
2.03      Two other ports in Southern Thailand, Phuket and Songkhla, are
being studied, under financing by the Asian Development Bank (ADB), as
possible deep-sea ports to serve overseas traffic from the southern region.
2.04      The Bangkok Port comprises private and public wharves and is
spread along some 40 km of the river Chao Phrya upstream from its mouth.
The main wharves, operated by the Port Authority of Thailand (PAT), are
located about 27 km up-river at Ylong Toei. PAT has also been made
responsible for operating the new port at Sattahip. Details of PAT and of
Bangkok and Sattahip ports follow below.
B. Port Authority of Thailand
Organization
2.05      The Port Authority of Thailand (PAT) was established as an
autonomous organization in 1951, aided by Loan 37-TH.  It is responsible for
managing and operating the general cargo wharves at Rlong Toei, and for the
dredging and conservancy of the navigation channel in the Chao Phrya river
within the port limits, including the Bar Channel at the river mouth (Map
2791R).
2.06      PAT is directly responsible to the Mlinistries of Communications
and Finance. It is managed by a Board of Commissioners consisting of a
Chairman, the Port Director, and nine members. The Director, assisted by
two Deputy Directors and the chiefs of the various service and operational
departments, is responsible for day to day operations. The major,
departments include Port Operations, Engineering, Marine, Personnel, and
Comptrollers (Chart). Total permanent staff is about 1,250; PAT also
employs about 6,000 day laborers.



-8-
2.07      PAT has comprehensive responsibilities for handling breakbulk
general cargo after it is landed on the berths.  Its functions for container
operations are limited to the container freight stations where the goods are
removed from the container for storage or delivery to consignees.  Transfer
of cargo from the ship's hold to berth, stevedoring, is the responsibility
of the ships agents, as is the stacking of containers and all container
movements; each of the agents is allocated an area in the container yard
according to the traffic handled. A review of operating procedures is
included in Chapter 3.
2.08      Except for the operating problems currently being encountered,
which are addressed by the project, the management of the port is
satisfactory; the present Director and senior staff have worked closely with
Bank staff for a number of years in the execution of Loan 702-TH.
2.09      The port of Sattahip has been under control of the RTN until late
1979. It is now operated for commercial trade and controlled by PAT. Both
Bangkok and Sattahip have separate managers and staff reporting to the
Director, PAT; and separate accounts will also be kept which will be
consolidated into overall PAT accounts on an annual basis.
Tariffs and Costs
2.10      Tariff levels (Table 3 and Chapter 6) have been sufficient in the
past to enable PAT to maintain a sound financial position; however, tariffs
are not cost-based with the result that port resources are or could be
inefficiently used.  For example, low storage charges have contributed to
the serious congestion difficulties presently being experienced at Klong
Toei. The issue of cost-based tariffs was initially addressed under Loan
702-TH, and costbased tariffs were recommended by consultants. However, the
proposed tariff, which met strong opposition from the Ship Owner's
Association, was not introduced. Since this study was completed prior to
the development of container traffic, costing of container services was not
examined.  Therefore, a review of PAT's cost structure which has changed
significantly over the past few years, would be appropriate.  Further, a new
situation has arisen with the development of Sattahip as Thailand's second
major deep-water port.  During negotiations, PAT agreed to employ
consultants to complete a tariff and costing study by June 30, 1981 under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; the study will provide the
costs of its various services and facilities at Ylong Toei and Sattahip,
recommend appropriate tariffs, and analyze the scope and requirements for
using port pricing for an efficient traffic distribution between the two
ports to complement PAT's Klong Toei berth allocation policy (para. 3.11).
PAT has further agreed that upon completion of the study it will restructure
its tariffs in a manner acceptable to PAT and the Bank.



- 9 -
2.11      PAT's overall costs bear a reasonable relationship to revenues and
staffing levels are adequate. Since PAT employ labor for cargo handling as
well as other port functions, wages and salaries represent a higher than
usual percentage of working expenses.
Budgets, Accounting and Audit
2.12      PAT has control of its operating budget, which requires only
approval of the Board of Commissioners, and submits it to the Cabinet for
information only; but its capital budget has to be approved by the Cabinet.
The capital budget has some flexibility in that only Board approval is
needed to spend additional funds up to a fixed amount.
2.13      The accounting system follows commercial accounting practice and
was designed and introduced with the assistance of consultants under Loan
702-TH; but as noted earlier, it does not treat container operations as a
separate cost center; depreciation of fixed assets is based on original
costs and estimated useful life. At negotiations, PAT agreed to utilize PAT
staff to (a) modify the accounting system to include the impact of
containers, (b) implement such modifications at the ports of Sattahip and
Klong Toei; (c) examine the advisability of computerizing PAT's accounting
system; and (d) strengthen financial planning and reporting with emphasis on
developing proper linkages between traffic data and financial data (Annex
1). PAT further agreed to undertake the accounting/financial planning work
described above in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to PAT and
the Bank and to implement the agreed changes by December 31, 1981.
2.14        Section 5.02 of the Loan Agreement of Loan 702-TH requires PAT
to furnish the Bank with audited financial statements within six months of
the end of each fiscal year. The audit is the responsibility of the
Government's Audit Council, and has been satisfactorily carried out. During
negotiations, PAT has reaffirmed Section 5.02 of the Loan Agreement of Loan
702-TH.
C.  Existing Facilities
The Port of Bangkok (rlaps 2791R and 14988)
2.15      The Bangkok Port comprises wharves, warehouses and mid-stream
dolphin berths stretching for some 40 km along the Chao Phrya river from its
mouth. These facilities are mostly privately owned and operated except for
PAT's wharves at Klong Toei, and are largely used for export of agricultural
products; imports should by law be handled over PAT's facilities at Klong



- 10 -
Toei. The maximum draft of ships which can use the port is limited by the
available depth of 8.5 m (LWOST) at the entrance channel (10,000 to 12,000
dwt general cargo and 400/500 TEU container ships). The navigational
channel within the river has varying dredged depths between 8.5 m and 11.5 m
(LWOST) and permits passage of ships up to 172 m (565 ft) length. Tidal
range is 1.54 m. Deep water exporting facilities are available in the Gulf
of Thailand at Mah Boon Krong on the Eastern Seaboard and the anchorage at
Ko Sichang island opposite flah Boon Krong.
2.16      The privately operated wharves at Bangkok include 82 public and
private wharves, landing places and finger piers along a considerable
distance of the river and 33 midstream anchorages and moorings at different
locations along the river.
2.17      PAT's facilities, the Klong Tcei wharves, comprise at present:
(a) 10 conventional (break-bulk) general cargo berths on the W7est Quay
with a total length of 1,660 m and a dredged depth of 11.0 m
(LWOST) backed up by transit sheds, port warehouse space, and open
storage;
(b) 6 berths used for container ships on the East Ouay totalling
1,255 m, also with 11 m depth alongside; two were originally
designed for break-bulk cargo and are backed up by transit sheds
which are currently being used as container freight stations
(cfs); the remaining four are backed up by a container yard; and
(c) 36 dolphin berths located midstream opposite the Klong Toei
berths, which are mostly used for export cargo loaded from barges;
however due to congestion in the port, Customs Department is also
permitting homogeneous bulk imports to be discharged to barges at
the dolphin berths for subsequent landing at private facilities.
2.18      Adequate mechanical equipment is available for conventional cargo
handling, but the container yard equipment needs to be augmented. Floating
craft and dredgers are adequate for maintenance and operations. Maintenance
of the existing facilities is good. Poll on-roll off facilities could be
readily provided if such traffic developed.
2.19      Road access to Klong Toei berths, improved under Loan 37-TH, is
satisfactory, and there is a good rail connection to the East Quay.
2.20      As previously noted, PAT is responsible for all operations
involved in handling break bulk general cargo handled over the Rlong Toei
berths; however, when the ships are tied up alongside, cargo is discharged
both on to the berth and overside to barges; that proportion landed to
barges is handled ex barge through the private facilities and warehouses.



- 11 -
The Port of Sattahip (Map 14989)
2.21      The port and harbor are located in a large bay on the eastern side
of the Gulf of Thailand and at the southern end of Thailand's Eastern
Seaboard. The harbor is protected from the open sea by a breakwater some
1,000 m long.  The dredged entrance channel is some 150 m wide and has an
available depth of 10 m (LWOST). There has been very little silting in the
channel or harbor, but tugs are necessary, due to a cross current of about 1
knot in the entrance channel at some stages of the tide. Tidal range is
about 1.4 m.
2.22      To form the required berths within the harbor, land has been
reclaimed behind quay walls constructed of concrete caisson built out from
the original shore line. There are three 182 m long berths on the West face
(berths 1-3 inclusive), each of which has a transit shed, and two 175 m long
berths on the North face, which have no transit shed. There are no berths
on the South face which fronts the entrance channel and is open to wave
action during South Wlesterly weather conditions. The depth alongside the
berths is 10 m at LWOST. The dredged fairway fronting the western berths is
adequate for safe ship handling but that for the northern berths requires
improvement. Fendering requires renewal.
2.23      Over 60 ha of open storage is available, but the pavement is
inadequate, and both new paving and renewal of the existing is required.  Nb
mechanical handling equipment, small craft or survey launches are currently
available. Except for the three transit sheds, there is little covered
storage space available. There is however a good mechanical workshop.
Ancillary works and services are satisfactory. Adequate space is available
for future development.
2.24      The Government intends to construct a railway line (Map 14856) to
Sattahip between early 1981 and late 1983 (para. 3.17). The new line will
join an existing line from Bangkok at Chaochoengsao. The immediate road
access to the port is adequate, and there are a number of alternative roads
between Bangkok and Sattahip which are also adequate to serve Sattahip by
road.
2.25      So far there has been little civilian traffic at Sattahip because
of its recent change of status. The only major cargoes have been imports of
pipe for the offshore gas field in the Gulf of Thailand and some bulk
agricultural exports. The former traffic is handled by the pipeline
contractors, and this cargo is expected to continue until 1983. Sattahip's
future traffic will be containers diverted from Klong Toei, which will be
operating near capacity by the end of 1982, and agricultural bulk exports.



- 12 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. General
3.01      Traffic in the Bangkok Port System has rapidly increased in the
last 10-15 years and heavily taxed port capacity. After having undergone
several improvements over the past years, the capacity of the System, and in
particular Klong Toei, is now being exhausted, and port congestion will soon
reach critical levels. This project will deal with this problem, by
producing the necessary capacity for traffic projected through 1985e Its
main components will be improvement of efficiency of existing operations and
installations (at Klong Toei), development and expansion of port facilities
(at Sattahip) , and construction of a container freight station (at Bang Su).
However, it is also expected that the port facilities, as improved by the
project, will need to be expanded further in the near future to handle
forecast traffic after 1985.  The project therefore provides consulting
services to provide a Master Plan for such port development up to the year
2000. The project was prepared by the Sattahip Committee appointed by the
Government with assistance by an individual consultant of the Port of
Singapore Authority and by Maunsell Consultants (Australia) in association
with Sindhu Pulsirivong (Thailand) and Sir William Halcrow and Partners
(UK).
3.02      To achieve its efficiency and capacity objectives, the project
will comprise four separate but interlocking parts. First, it will increase
throughput of cargo at Klong Toei, with special reference to conventional
break bulk cargo by: (a) optimizing use of available quay space (para.
3.03), (b) correcting the operational problems currently being experienced
on conventional cargo and improving container handling (paras. 3.05-3.10),
and (c) revising the berth allocation between conventional and container
cargo ships (para. 3.11); second, it will include the physical improvements
required at Klong Toei so that the necessary operational improvements can be
achieved (paras. 3.12 and 3.15). However, even after these improvements
have been accomplished, total traffic to be efficiently handled at Klong
Toei in 1983 in the absence of an alternative port, would be beyond the
capacity of the improved port, and no space is available for physical
expansion at Klong Toei.  Some traffic will, therefore, be diverted to
Sattahip. Since most imports are and will continue to be destined for the
metropolitan area (currently 90%), most of the traffic landed at Sattahip
will have to be transferred by rail or road, back to Bangkok. The least
cost transport solution, will be to use Sattahip as a container port rather
than as a port for break bulk goods, which would have to be transported in
numerous parcels to separate consignees in Bangkok. The third element of
the project is the necessary physical improvements at Sattahip for handling



- 13 -
containerized ships diverted from Riong Toei (paras. 3.13 and 3.15); and
the fourth and final element is a new inland container freight station and
bonded warehouse complex at Bang Su, outside Bangkok, to stuff and unstuff
containers handled through Sattahip (paras. 3.14 and 3.15). D)etails of the
operational and physical elements of the project are discussed below.
B. Berths TJtilization at Bangkok (Klong Toei)
3.03       The number of ships normally  berthed at Klong Toei is 16, but
available quay length on occasion permits berthing of 18 ships. There are
ten existing conventional berths totalling about 1,660 m length on the West
Quay, and six nominal container berths totalling about 1,255 m length on the
East Quay. In addition, there is a barge berth at the western end of the
East Quay which can be used for smaller ships. PAT has a policy of berthing
as many ships as possible and agreed during negotiation to continue with
this policy in the future.
C. Improvements to Operations and Cargo Throughput at Bangkok (Klong Toei)
3.04      Klong Toei imports are either conventional break bulk cargo or
containerized goods. In 1979, 3.7 million tons were imported, of which
about 2.9 million tons were conventional and about 0.8 million tons
containerized (Table 5). Conventional break bulk cargo at Klong Toei is
expected to increase steadily, and by 1985, total conventional cargo imports
is forecast at 3.85 million tons (Table 5).
Cargo Discharged to Berth and Overside
3.05      The tons/net gang hour of conventional cargo discharged through
the West Quay in 1979 was about 33 when landed to the berth, and about 18
when landed overside. While good by international standards, these rates
are lower than those achieved in earlier years. However, they are expected
to recover to the original levels of about 40 and 20 respectively, after the
project has been implemented.
3.06      The number of ships berthed at the West Quay in 1979 was about 730
conventional and about 390 combo ships./l At the East Quay, about 330 combo
and the same number of container ships were berthed, the latter being feeder
/1 Combo ship is a conventional general cargo ship with containers as deck
cargo.



- 14 -
ships connecting with main routes to and from Hong Kong and Singapore. The
conventional cargo, which passes over the ten West Ouay berths, is handled
both over the berths and overside to barge while the ship is tied up
alongside. Due to the high volume of conventional cargo and existing
regulations and procedures for landside cargo operations, cargo handled
overside (170,000 ton/berth) has, in 1979, exceeded cargo handled over the
berth (125,000 ton/ berth), and cargo handling cost and ship waiting time
were therefore excessively high.
3.07      The following factors are responsible for the situation on the
West Quay:
(a) the practice to handle containers from combo ships in the port
area where landed; this operation occupies valuable quay space and
slows operations;
(b) the large quantities of goods in storage for excessive periods;
and PAT's inability to move goods into bonded warehouses, or to
dispose of cargo which has not been claimed by the consignee or
purchased at the auctions of unclaimed cargo; and
(c) the requirement that goods for delivery from the port are carried
in trucks supplied by the Express Transport Organization (ETO), a
Government organization.
3.08      To resolve these operational problems and reach satisfactory port
efficiency levels, a set of administrative, organizational and operational
changes will be instituted under the project, and this was agreed during
negotiations. The changes are outlined below, except for those dealing with
the reassignment of container yard responsibilities which are discussed in
paras. 3.09-3.10.  To monitor the effectiveness of those port efficiency
measures, PAT will record and keep appropriate data and statistics (Annex
2).  Specifically, the following measures will be taken:  (a) the Customs
Department will (i) continue to permit containers to be moved to the
container yard for handling, irrespective of the berth it is landed at, and
similarly be moved from the container yard for loading at any berth; (ii)
permit goods in bond to be moved from the port to approved bonded warehouses
outside the port, if unclaimed after three weeks in the port storage; and
(iii) dispose of unclaimed cargo which has not sold at the normal auction
for such cargo; (b) PAT will (i) handle all containers in the East Quay
container yard irrespective of which berth the containers are landed at;
(ii) increase its storage charges so as to penalize cargo which is left in
the port more than seven days, in accordance with the recommendations of the
tariff study (para. 2.10); and (iii) take appropriate steps to encourage and
enable interested parties to establish by December 31, 1981 bonded
warehouses outside the port and expand the practice to move cargo from port



- 15 -
storage to an approved outside bonded warehouse after three weeks, at the
cost of the consignee; in the event that such outside bonded warehouse
storage is not established , review not later than March 31, 1982 with the
Bank measures necessary for its establishment; and (c) the Government will
ensure that consignees will be free to choose a haulage contractor of their
own choice whenever ETO vehicles are not promptly available.
Container Handling Performance
3.09      Because of the present organization of the container yard at Klong
Toei, the average handling rate for containers, some 6.3 TEU /1 per hour,
is very low, and the throughput per container berth was only 230,000 tons
(in 1979), rather than 500,000 tons per yer, which should be attained. Each
of the ten shipping companies represented in the port handles its own import
and export containers in the space allotted. Nb container freight stations
(cfs) are available, though two transit sheds built for conventional cargo
operations, are used. The sheds, operated by PAT, are in the wrong place
and have insufficient cargo space, and are consequently congested. As a
result, some containers are unstuffed in the container yard, where also all
the export containers are being stuffed. The situation is further
aggravated by the arrangement that the empty containers, which represent
about 80% of the some 4,000 TEU in the yard, are stacked in the same port
area.
3.10      To streamline container operations, reach an improved handling
rate per hour and increase traffic handled by the individual berths under
the project, the container yard responsibilities will be redefined under the
project. These changes, which are outlined below, will become effective as
soon as the new cfs under the project are available, and in any event not
later than December 31, 1982. Arrangements will also be made under the
project that each movement of a container into the container yard from the
ship and from the yard for the respective services or for reloading on ship,
be documented; and PAT's operating department will be reorganized
accordingly. In addition, PAT will provide more cfs space by making two
Supplementary Sheds Nbs. 2 and 3 (Map 14988) available as cfs. Further, PAT
will allow shipping companies to retain in the yard only that number of
empty containers which are required for their export trade. Technical
assistance (Annex 1) to assist PAT in the reorganization will be provided
under the project. The arrangements described in this paragraph were agreed
during negotiations.
/1  TEU is a twenty foot equivalent unit; one 20 ft long container and one
40 ft long container, for example, would be three TEUs.



- 16 -
Operation                                     Responsibility
Off load/load ship                            Ship's agent
Operate yard for all shipping                PAT or single agent
companies using the port                      appointed by shipping
companies
Operate cfs                                   PAT
Operate new open area for stuffing           PAT or single agent appointed
containers (approximately the area           by PAT
of new paving provided by the project)
Move container unloaded from combo ships   PAT
on the West Quay to the East Quay con-
tainer yard for unstuffing/stuffing
Berth Allocation between Conventional and Container Cargo
3.11      Because of PAT's berth allocation policy, the conventional cargo
handling berths on the West Quay are highly utilized, while the East Quay
container berths are grossly underutilized. With increasing traffic,
continuation of this policy would result in considerable waste of port
capacity and in the build-up of high levels of ship wating time.  To redress
this imbalance in berth utilization, taking into consideration the most
efficient use of Sattahip, PAT will under the project reduce the number of
container berths at Klong Toei by converting them into   general cargo
berths; and it will correspondingly provide new container berths at
Sattahip. While in principle Sattahip could also have been developed as a
general cargo port, using it primarily for containers is more economic, as
land transport between Sattahip and Bangkok is cheaper for containerized
goods than for breakbulk (para. 3.02). The pace, at which Klong Toei
container berths will be turned over for general cargo usage, will be
determined by increases in traffic and in such a way, that the annual number
of ship waiting days at Klong Toei does not exceed current levels. By
present traffic estimates, a reduction from six to three container berths at
Klong Toei would be required in 1983 to keep ship waiting time at current
levels; and by 1985, only 2 container berths are suggested at Klong Toei.
It was agreed at negotiations that: (a) during the period 1983-1985, PAT
will limit the number of berths used for container operations at Klong Toei
in such a way, that the annual ship waiting time for all berths and all
ships at Klong Toei does not exceed 1,000 days; and (b) after 1985, the



- 17 -
number of container berths at Klong Toei will be determined in a manner
satisfactory to PAT and the Bank. With the new berthing policy, complemen-
tary investments and efficiency measures taken at Klong Toei, the port's
annual capacity will be about 5 million tons of cargo arrived at as follows:
15 conventional cargo berths at 230,000 tons/berth /1    3.45
3 container berths at 500,000 tons/berth                   1.50
Total                                                  4.95
Accordingly in 1983, with a total of about 5.35 million tons containerized
and break bulk cargo to be handled, some 400,000 tons will have to be
diverted to Sattahip, and more in subsequent years (Table 5).
D. Physical Improvements at Klong Toei and Sattahip,
and Proposed Bang Su Development
3.12      The physical improvements proposed under the project at Klong Toei
will provide additional container freight station capacity, improvement to
the container yard and new container handling equipment.
3.13      The improvements proposed at Sattahip will comprise dredging to
the entrance channel and harbor, improvements to fendering, resurfacing the
container yard area and a new cfs and auxilliary buildings services; and
provision of container handling equipment.
3.14      A new cfs and bonded warehouse complex will be built at Bang Su,
outside Bangkok, to handle the containers landed at Sattahip with goods for
the Bangkok area. Bang Su is the location of the main cargo handling depot
for Bangkok traffic of the State Railways of Thailand (SRT). The new
railway line which the Government intends to construct (paras. 2.24 and
3.17) has direct connection to Bang Su, and improvement of a short length of
road will provide an adequate link to the Bangkok ring road and to the main
road to Sattahip. As the Eastern Seaboard development, the subject of a
Bank financed study (Loan 1638-TH), commences, it is foreseen that some
traffic will be consigned to Sattahip, and a small cfs at Sattahip to handle
LCLs /2 is therefore also included in this project; but it is anticipated
that most of such traffic, when it develops, will be received as FCLs./2
/1 Does not include containerized cargo landed from combo ships at
conventional berths and handled through the container yards.
/2 LCL is a container with goods for more than one consignee (less than
full container load). FCL is a full container for one consignee.



- 18 -
3.15      The proposed physical improvements at Klong Toei and Sattahip and
the new construction proposed at Bang Su are described in detail below:
Port Improvements
(a) Civil Wlorks at Klong Toei
(i)  Construction of two new container freight stations 120 m by
45 m complete with paved area and drainage, adjacent to the
East Quay entrance gate; surfacing 31,000 sq m in the
container yard, and resurfacing 10,000 sq m and provision of
a rail loading slab.
(b) Civil Works at Sattahip
(i)  820,000 cu m dredging to the entrance channel and harbor for
a uniform 10 m depth at LWOST; provision of new tug berth and
renewal of existing fendering;
(ii)  230,000 sq m paving to container yard and vehicle park areas;
rail trackwork inside port limits and railway loading slab;
(iii)  administrative offices, a 120 m by 45 m cfs, and ancillary
buildings; and
(iv)  water supply, drainage, sewerage, electrical services and
ancillary work.
(c)  Mechanical Equipment for Klong Toei and Sattahip
(i)  9 30-tons rubber tired gantries (transtainer cranes);
(ii)  25 fork lift trucks from 25 tons capacity to 3 tons capacity
and 2 30-tons top spreader fork lifts; and
(iii)  three mobile cranes; 28 tractors and flat bed trailers; and
miscellaneous transport vehicles, fire engine, navigation
aids, radio and ancillary equipment;
(d)  Floating Equipment at Sattahip
(i) one pilot launch, one survey launch, two mooring boats and
five work boats/launches; and two 3,200 HP tug boats;
(e) Consulting Engineering Services for design, supervision and
procurement of the above works and equipment; and



- 19 -
(f) Technical Assistance and Training for PAT's staff for:
(i) study of preventing erosion in the Sattahip bay;
(ii) study of location and type of port development on the Eastern
Seaboard required in the period from 1985 to the year 2000;
(iii) study of PAT tariffs, including storage charges; and
(iv) reorganization of PAT's conventional cargo and container yard
operations and responsible operating department.
Bang Su Development
(a) Civil Works
(i) two container freight stations of about 240 m x 45 m, one
container freight station of about 300 m x 45 m and four
bonded warehouses about 200 m x 45 m; each complete with
paving and drainage to surrounding area; and
(ii) improvement to the road and rail access to the site and
provision of rail loading slab;
(b) Mechanical Equipment
(i) two 30-tons rubber tired gantries (transtainers);
(ii) ten 25-tons fork and 94 3-tons fork lift trucks and ten
tractors and trailers; and
(c) Consulting Engineering Services for design, supervision and
procurement of the above works and equipment.
Organization of Bang Su
3.16      The Bang Su cfs and bonded warehouse complex will handle the goods
from the containers landed at and exported through Sattahip. The Government
will finance the complex (US$52.4 million) using Bank funds (US$31.5 mil-
lion), and it will hold title to the complex. Land for Bang Su, which is
owned by SRT, will be leased to the Government. However, the Government
intends to lease Bang Su, after its construction, to an operator, who would
be responsible for its day-to-day management; and in the interest of
efficiency, it is hoped that private entrepreneurs can be attracted because
of the excellent business opportunity, which Bang Su is expected to provide.
Accordingly, the consultants, who will undertake the engineering of Bang Su



- 20 -
under the project, will also review the institutional arrangements for
operating Bang Su, and submit their recommendations, including those on the
suitability of specific potential operators, by not later than December 31,
1981. Based on their recommendations, the Government will select an
operator for Bang Su, and lease the complex to the operator on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. In the event, however, that lease
arrangements with a suitable operator can not be made, the Covernment would
operate Bang Su itself under own arrangements. Bang Su will be constructed,
and leased to an operator, according to a schedule which is compatible with
that of the other project elements. All the above financing, operational
and leasing arrangements were discussed and agreed during negotiations.
3.17      As previously mentioned (para. 2.24), the Government intends to
construct a new railway line between Chaochoengsao on SRT's Fastern Line and
Sattahip, to serve the Eastern Seaboard and its hinterland, the new deepsea
port and future industrial development. The new line will initially serve
primarily the needs of Sattahip, but could subsequently derive its main
importance from being a bulk goods carrier for the various industries to be
developed in the port's hinterland (Eastern Seaboard). The new line will
also carry some passenger traffic. Construction is to start early 1981 and
to be completed by late 1983. Total track costs including land and
signalling, based on detailed engineering, are estimated at about US$105
million including physical and price contingencies; and rolling stock
requirements for 1985 ports traffic are estimated at about US$25 million
total costs including contingencies. Overall capital costs summed up to
1985 are therefore about US$130 million. During negotiations, the Bank
expressed concern about the economic viability of the new line and
appropriate timing for its construction (para. 5.18) and suggested that the
railway investments be reviewed in the context of the Eastern Seaboard Study
(para. 3.14). It was agreed that in the event, the railway was not
available, there are already adequate roads between Bangkok and Sattahip
which could accommodate the container traffic during Sattahip's initial
years of operation, and that there is a competitive trucking industry in
Thailand which would provide the road transport. In any case, whatever the
timing will be for the new railway line, it was agreed during negotiations
that the Government will allow the road transport industry to compete for
container or other transport between Sattahip and Bang Su, and that
consignees of cargo shipped through Sattahip can use road haulage
contractors of their own choice for any movement of cargo.



- 21 -
4.  PROJECT COSTS, FINAICING, DISBURSEMENT AND ECOLOGY
A. Cost Estimate
4.01      The estimated cost of the proposed project works detailed in the
previous chapter is US$109.2 million including US$50.9 million foreign
exchange of which US$47.0 million would be financed by the proposed loan.
Details of the estimated cost of the project are given in Table 6 and
summarized below:
Local   Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign  Total
---- (Baht million) ----    --- (S$ million) ---
Klong Toei & Sattahip
Klong Toei - Civil works        90.5       -        90.5    4.52    -        4.52
Sattahip - Civil works         271.4      68.6     340.0   13.57    3.43   17.00
Klong Toei - Mech. equipment   65.0       96.2     161.2    3.25    4.81    8.06
Sattahip - Mtech. equipment     68.0      89.6     157.6    3.40    4.48    7.88
Sattahip - Floating equipment  73.0       -         73.9    3.70    -        3.70
Consulting Services              -        25.7      25.7    -        1.28    1.28
Tech. assistance & training      -        22.9      22.9    -        1.15    1.15
Base Cost                 568.8    303.0      871.8   28.44   15.15   43.59
Physical contingencies          70.6      15.4      86.0    3.53      .77    4.30
Price contingencies            108.7     68.3      177.0    5.43    3.42    8.85
Total Port Works          748.1    386.7   1,134.8   37.40   19.34   56.74
Bang Su Complex
Civil works                    263.2    315.2      578.4   13.16   15.76   28.92
Mechenical equipment            30.0    110.0      140.0    1.50    5.50    7.00
Engineering consulting
services                       -       38.0       38.0    -       1.90    1.90
Base Cost                 293.2    463.2      756.4   14.66   23.16   37.82
Physi-al contingencies          45.0      70.0     115.0    2.25    3.50    5.75
Price contingencies             80.0      97.0     177.0    4.00    4.85    8.85
Total                     418.2    630.2   1,048.4   20.91   31.51   52.42
Project Total                1,166.3  1,016.9   2,183.2   58.31   50.85  109.16



- 22 -
4.02       The estimated costs are based upon preliminary engineering, and
include 20% physical contingencies for civil works. Final engineering is
not expected to be completed until after loan signature but the project
involves very little foundation works and no underwater works except a
comparatively small amount of dredging. Unit prices for the estimate are
January 1980 prices for similar work in Thailand. Mechanical and floating
equipment prices are based upon recent quotations, and in the case of
mechanical equipment for Klong Toei and the floating equipment at Sattahip,
most of the equipment has already been ordered or procured under financing
from PAT's budget. Financing details are given in Table 6. Price contin-
gencies for civil works are calculated on the basis of inflation rates of
15% for 1980, 12% for 1981 and 10% for 1982 and 1983 based upon anticipated
increases in construction costs in Thailand; those for mechanical equipment
procurement and other direct foreign costs are based upon 10.5% for 1980, 9%
for 1981, 8% for 1982 and 7% for 1983. The average man-month cost for about
110 man-months of technical assistance proposed in the project inclusive of
man-month rate, fee and international travel is expected to be about
US$10,000, plus an additional local allowance of about US$2,000 equivalent.
B.  Financing Plan
4.03       The project's financing plan is as follows:
Port works            Bang Su
Finance source                     Local    Foreign   Local   Foreign   Total
--------------- US$ million--------------
IBRD                                 -        15.5       -        31.5       47.0
Government of Thailand               -         -        20.9       -         20.9
Port Authority of Thailand          3 7.4      3.9       -         -         41.3
To tal                           37.4      19.4      20.9      31.5      109.2
The proposed $47 million loan will be made to the Government, which will
onlend $15.5 million to PAT on the same terms and conditions as the Bank
loan, for the execution of the port works. The Bank loan will finance these
items:



- 23 -
Port works    Bang Su         To tal
---------- IS$ million ---------
Civil works                                   5.46         22.60         28.06
Mechanical equipment                          7.66           7.00         14.66
Consulting services                           1.28          1.90          3.18
Technical assistance & training               1.10          -             1.10
Total                                      15.50         31.50         47.00
C. Construction and Procurement
4.04      PAT will undertake the project works for Klong Toei and Sattahip
ports; and SRT are expected to be appointed by the Government as executing
agency for the construction of Bang Su. Consultants, which are acceptable
to the Borrower and the Bank and appointed on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank will assist in the project implementation. This was
agreed during negotiations. The works will be completed by June 30, 1984 in
accordance with the implementation schedule given in Table 7, on the
assumption that the proposed loan will be effective by February 1981.
4.05      Execution of the Bank-financed civil works to be carried out under
the project will be by two separate contracts:
(a) Sattahip civil works; and
(b) Bang Su complex civil works.
The balance of the civil works, which will be financed by PAT and the
Government, will be undertaken by PAT under local contracts. Mfechanical
equipment will be procured under three separate contracts:
(a) Transtainer cranes;
(b) forklift trucks; and
(c) tractors and trailers.
Floating equipment and some mechanical equipment have been or will be
procured by PAT. Tenderers for civil works and equipment may submit bids
for more than one contract if they so wish.



- 24 -
4.06      All civil works, and equipment procurement financed under the Bank
loan will be let in accordance with international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. A preference not exceeding 15% of
the c.i.f. price or the customs duty whichever is less will be granted to
local manufacturers for the procurement of mechanical and floating
equipment. During negotiations the above procurement procedures were
agreed. The Government intends to levy import taxes on all items procured
for the project.
D. Disbursement
4.07      Disbursement of funds from the Bank Loan for the various works to
be executed under the loan will be as follows, excluding taxes, in each
case:
Civil Works at Sattahip .................. 55%  Total cost
Bang Su Civil Works ...................... 55%    "    "
Mechanical Equipment ..................... 100%  Foreign exchange
cost or ex-factory
cost for locally
manufactured and
65% of total cost
if procured local-
ly other than ex-
factory
Consulting Services ...................... 100%
An estimated schedule of disbursements is given at Table 8. Disbursement is
expected to be completed by the second quarter of FY85.  The closing date
for the loan is December 31, 1984.
E. Ecology
4.08      The only work which might affect the ecology of the harbors con-
cerned is the dredging at Sattahip. The dredged material will be disposed
of in shallow water for land reclamation. It will not affect fishing, which
is undertaken outside the harbor; and the reclamation fill level will be
maintained below water level, for subsequent completion when the land is
required, to avoid any risk of dust problems.



- 25 -
F. Completion Report
4.09      Promptly after completing the project, PAT will prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report on the execution and initial operation of the
project (except for the Bang Su complex), its costs, and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it. For the Bang Su complex, the Government
will make separate reporting arrangements. This was agreed during negotia-
tions. The main comments of the Project Performance Audit Report for Loan
702-TH were: (i) it appeared that PAT could have financed a larger part of
the project from its own resources without endangering its financial posi-
tion, (ii) the project was not analyzed for its impact on the urban environ-
ment, and (iii) implementation of covenants concerned with social and admin-
istrative issues can be difficult and time consuming to apply and need to be
handled cautiously. In this project, a significant portion of the Klong
Toei and Sattahip investments are being financed by PAT. With regard to the
urban environment and traffic, the project does not appear to pose undue
risks.



- 26 -
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Investment Objectives
5.01      During the last 10 years, the Bangkok Port System has supported a
growth of Thailand's dry imports in volume terms by about 11% p.a. and an
equally high export growth averaging about 9%-10% p.a. The capacity of the
system to efficiently handle further increases in external trade, in par-
ticular imports of breakbulk goods, is now being exhausted, and port conges-
tion costs are soon to reach critical levels, to burden the country's import
bill and to constrain its export potencial. The ports capacity which will
be created under the project in Klong Toei and Sattahip, will be adequate
for traffic levels of 1985, after which date generation of additional
capacity will be required. Type, scope and timing of this new capacity will
be determined under the port master plan included in this project.
B. Import and Export Volumes
5.02       In the 1960s, Thailand's economy grew at the fast rate of over 8%
p.a., and in the first half of the 1970s, at about 6.5% to 7.5% p.a. The
growth target of 7% adopted for the Fourth Development Plan 1977-81 has so
far been exceeded, however, largely at the expense of deteriorating balance
of payments, which in conjunction with the current slowdown of world trade
could lead to a reduction in GDP growth during the remainder of the ongoing
Plan period. The current outlook for the Fifth Development Plan 1982-86 is
one of continuing growth but presumably at a somewhat reduced rate.
5.03       Growth of volumes (tons) of dry import cargo, following closely
the general trend of the economy, has been between 6%-7% p.a. from 1960 to
1975. Between 1975 and 1978, the latest year for which verified actual
statistics are available, the rate jumped to about 22% p.a. fueled by a
construction boom, and from 1978 to 1985 it is expected to settle down to
about 5% p.a. on average (Table 4). Export tonnages grew at an estimated 9%
p.a. from 1970 to 1975, and at the much higher rate of about 16% from 1975
to 1978 largely due to an increase in tapioca exports (Table 4). The main
contributions to the export growth apart from tapioca, came from rice, maize
and sugar/molasses. Growth of overall export volumes from 1978 on to 1985
is estimated at only about 2% p.a. because of a decline of tapioca volumes
to below the 1978 level.
5.04      While during the 1960s and early 1970s import volumes have
generally developed in close correlation to GDP, this relationship has not



- 27 -
proven useful for trade estimates during the most recent years. Import
trade forecasts up to 1985 under the project have therefore been made on a
commodity by commodity basis taking into account structural changes in the
Thai economy. Similarly, exports for 1980 to 1985 were forecast on the
basis of individual commodity projections with particular emphasis on those
commodities which represent potential cargos for the Sattahip port.
5.05      For the import forecast up to 1985 the consultants preparing the
project distinguished and analyzed 17 major commodity groups of which in
volume terms the most important currently are: iron and steel including
scrap, fertilizer, chemicals, paper and raw materials, cement, and vehicles,
machinery and parts. The first three import categories will, in tonnages,
contribute most to the import growth followed by timber, while others will
stagnate or grow only slowly, and cement will disappear completely from the
import list. Regarding exports, agricultural produce will in the next 10-15
years remain Thailand's main export in volume and revenues, and tapioca
products are expected to be the principal export commodity with an annual
volume of twice that of rice, the second most important export produce. A
brief discussion of the development of principal import and export
commodities is given in Annex 3. Container traffic is being discussed
separately below (paras. 5.06-5.07).
C. Container Traffic
5.06      Containerization is a relatively recent phenomenon to Thailand,
and containerized imports and exports combined have grown from close to
0.6 million tons in 1977 to over 1 million tons in 1978 and an estimated
1.4 million tons in 1979 (Table 5).  Over the same period the share of
containerized cargo of total breakbulk cargo, again imports and exports
combined, rose from about 15% to an estimated 30%.
5.07      After the rapid rate of growth of the last 2 to 3 years, the
containerization of suitable commodities is projected to stabilize in the
1980-85 period at about 35% of total breakbulk import and export cargo.
Nonetheless, the volume of containerized traffic is projected to increase
further to about 2.1 million tons in 1985 because of the growth of trade.
The 35% of containerized cargo, projected by the consultants preparing the
project, is based on a commodity-by-commodity analysis taking into account
the principal origins and destinations of each cargo group and shipping
trends. Variations of the 35% share do not significantly change the
project's economic return (Table 15).



- 28 -
D. Traffic Distribution Between Port Facilities
5.08      The assessment of future traffic distribution between the
facilities comprising the Bangkok Port System requires a distinction between
agricultural bulk (tapioca and maize), breakbulk and container traffic. The
results of this assessment are given in Tables 4 and 5, the first showing
the 1975 to 1985 import and export trade through the Bangkok Port System by
commodities, and the second shows the trade by facilities, also up to 1985.
5.09      Tapioca is currently being exported through a jetty at Mah Boon
Krong, near Sri Racha southeast of Bangkok, and through barges unloaded into
bulk carriers anchored in the waters of Ko Sichang. Because of the
projected reduction of tapioca exports between 1980 to 1985 to below 1978
levels, no new export facilities would be required on port capacity grounds.
However, the development of Sattahip for non-bulk traffic will also entail
cost advantages for tapioca exports due to reductions of (port) landside and
ship loading costs and reductions in land transport costs. Based on these
factors including an analysis of the points of origin of tapioca, a
diversion of tapioca to Sattahip from the deep sea anchorage of Ko Sichang
has been projected, in the order of 0.5 million tons in 1980 and 1.4 million
tons in 1985. Loading of tapioca at Sattahip is already underway since
1979.
5.10      Maize is another agricultural bulk commodity which is expected to
utilize the new port. However, the economic case for diversion of maize
export to Sattahip from Bangkok port, where it is presently being handled,
is less clear than that for tapioca. The pattern of crop production
suggests that there would not be an apparent reduction in land transport
costs from shifting some maize export to the new port. Nonetheless, the
Market Organization of Farmers (MOF) has iet a contract for the construction
of a maize silo and bulk loader at Sattahip and plans to export 0.3 million
tons per year through the port. Maize handled in Sattahip has therefore
been projected at 0.1 million tons in 1982 growing to 0.3 million tons by
1985, but no project benefits have been credited to Sattahip from this
traffic.
5.11      Forecasts of Sattahip breakbulk and container traffic are derived
from the policy decisions envisaged under this project in response to the
increasing Klong Toei port congestion. In 1978, congestion in the port
resulted in 1,200 ship waiting days, and in 1983, the figure would be close
to 4,000 days unless new port capacity was generated. From an operational
viewpoint, relief of Kiong Toei congestion could be accomplished through
diversion to Sattahip of either breakbulk or containers. Diversion of
containers, however, is by far the better economic strategy due to their
comparatively low land transport cost between Sattahip and the new c.f.s. at



- 29 -
Bang Su. Accordingly, the policy has been devised under the project to
gradually reduce the number of Klong Toei container berths to make room for
the growing breakbulk traffic, and simultaneously to use compensating
container capacity at Sattahip. Under this arrangement, inbound container
cargo in Sattahip is expected to total 0.24 million tons in 1983 and 0.76
million tons in 1985, and outbound cargo is expected to be around 0.16
million tons in 1983 and 0.51 million tons in 1985 (Table 13). Some
occasional container traffic is already passing through Sattahip.
E. Investment Alternatives
5.12      To cope with existing and anticipated Klong Toei port congestion
and insufficient capacity, the Government had to consider the following
alternatives: increasing the capacity of Klong Toei and/or private wharves
in the Chao Phrya; increasing the volume of cargo handled midstream in the
Chao Phrya; and creating new port facilities in the Gulf of Thailand.
Increases in existing Klong Toei capacity are essentially limited to reallo-
cation of berths between conventional cargo and container ships and raising
berth productivity. Both are envisaged under the project but are, by them-
selves, insufficient capacity generators. Construction of new Klong Toei
berths is physically not possible as the port site is hemmed in to the east
by an oil installation and to the west by other existing waterside develop-
ment. Further there is the depth limitation at the entrance bar (8.5 m).
Other riverside space in the Bangkok area is also fully used up or lacks
adequate land access and would, in any case, require capital cost equal to
or above those of the Sattahip port. Existing private port capacity is
already fully engaged.
5.13      Handling cargo in the Chao Phrya through use of lighters from mid-
stream anchorages and dolphins is already being practiced for selected
homogeneous cargo which has the approval of Klong Toei customs and is
destined to riverside warehouses and factories. Once ship waiting days have
reached emergency levels, midstream handling could, subject to customs
concurrence, conceivably be extended to nonhomogeneous goods, though only
with considerable operational difficulties and at very high cost. The poor
economics of such a port solution are apparent from the comparison of this
project with its reference case (para. 5.15).
5.14      The search during the last few years for new port sites in the
Gulf of Thailand resulted in the identification of two feasible port loca-
tions, Laem Krabang and Sattahip. Laem Krabang, located about 50 km closer
to Bangkok than Sattahip, would have offered the advantage of lower land
transport costs and more land space in the immediate port area for
industrial development. It would, however, have faced water supply



- 30 -
difficulties similar to Sattahip, involved much higher investments and posed
environmental risks to the seaside resort of Pattaya, one of Thailand's
major tourists areas. In the final analysis, the Government decided against
Laem Krabang on the basis of an economic comparison of the two ports which
highlighted Sattahip's sunk capital costs and its relatively low additional
development cost.
F. Project Benefits, Cost and Returns
5.15      The economic analysis of the project is based on a comparison with
the reference case. Under this reference case, the Port of Bangkok with the
Klong Toei and private wharves would continue as Thailand's principal port
for breakbulk and containerized cargo; but ship waiting time, for lack of
berths, would increase substantially above current levels, and from 1983 on,
breakbulk lighterage of ships anchored mid-stream in the Chao Phrya would be
expected to commence. Based upon this scenario the project benefits are in
decreasing order of importance, savings in ship-waiting costs (at Klong
Toei), agricultural bulk export costs (tapioca at Ko Sichang) and breakbulk
lighterage costs (at Klong Toei). The project is not expected to be detri-
mental to the urban environment and traffic. From 1985 on, savings in
ship-waiting costs are estimated at close to 70% of total project benefits.
The calculation of shipwaiting costs is based on a ship queueing analysis
under which the total number of shipwaiting days under the reference case,
would increase from current levels of 1,000-1,200 days to about 4,000 days
in 1985; about 3,600 days would be incurred by conventional cargo and the
remainder by containerized cargo. While this figure of 4,000 days, to be
realized if the project was not implemented, is obviously not subject to
empirical verification, some upward or downward variations of it would not
appreciably affect the project's aggregate benefits, as the average
shipwaiting costs per ton of cargo are about equal to the average lighterage
costs.
5.16      Savings from shipwaiting time are valued at US$7,600/day in the
economic analysis based on the cost of a 10,000 dwt breakbulk carrier (Table
14). Cost savings from lightering ships anchored midstream in the Chao
Phrya are composed of reductions in direct lighterage costs, costs from
losses and breakage of cargo and costs from increased ship service time; all
three savings categories combined amount to about US$12/ton of cargo.
Savings in tapioca export costs, amounting to about US$4.5/ton, are made up
of savings in land transport and ship-loading costs, offset in part by an
increase in ocean voyage costs. Tapioca passing through Sattahip will enjoy
a road transport advantage of some 80 km. Ship loading from barges in the
bay (Ko Sichang) will provide most of the bulk export benefits. However,
ocean shipping costs will increase since bulk carriers over 75,000 tons



- 31 -
calling on Sattahip cannot be fully laden due to the limitation on sailing
draft. There are no limitations on the size of vessels anchored in the bay
of Ko Sichang.
5.17      The project costs charged against the project benefits are the
capital costs and recurrent transport costs of moving containers between
Sattahip and Bangkok. The capital costs, apart from those related to land
transport (para. 5.18), comprise (a) all capital expenditures in Klong Toei
and Sattahip ports and for the new cfs at Bang Su, incurred in 1980-84, and
(b) the costs of port equipment replacement and maintenance dredging,
incurred in 1985-2000. The economic costs are financial costs net of taxes.
The capital costs and related benefits of the port development phase
following this project and serving traffic growth beyond 1985, are excluded
from this project's rate of return analysis.
5.18      As previously mentioned (para. 3.17), the Government intends to
construct a new railway line linking the Eastern Line and Sattahip to serve
the Eastern Seaboard and its hinterland, the new deepsea port and future
industrial development. Conceptually, only the economic cost of rolling
stock, close to US$20 million (early 1980 prices), can be charged to the
port project without difficulties, whereas the economic road infrastructure
cost of US$70-75 should be spread over the various future users which are at
present not yet firmed up. Somewhat arbitrarily, therefore, half of the
railways total economic capital costs, that is about US$45 million, were
debited to this ports project in the economic analysis. In addition, a
calculation was made in the sensitivity analysis under which the railway's
entire economic capital cost, about US$90-95 million, would be borne by the
project. Aside from above capital cost, there will be the annual costs of
running the container trains between Sattahip and Bangkok. These costs
(US$3.50/ton), which are partly offset by savings in ship voyage cost
between Sattahip and Bangkok (US$1/ton), are charged to the project in full.
In the event that the railway is not constructed, the Sattahip/Bangkok
transport of containers is expected to be satisfactorily handled by road for
a number of years. While the operating costs of road transport would be
somewhat greater than those of rail transport, this cost difference would be
far outweighed by the minor road infrastructure cost, mainly road
maintenance cost, which would be incurred under the road transport option.
Accordingly, the economic rate of return of this project would increase if
Sattahip was not to be served by rail.
5.19      The economic rate of return of the entire project, calculated on
the basis of above data, assumptions, definitions and methodologies is 21%
(Table 15); and the project benefits in 1983 after most of the capital
investments have been made, represent about 26% of the capital cost in the
preceding years. The project is timely, and the high economic return is
indicative of the critical stage through which the Bangkok Port System is



- 32 -
moving and the costs to Thailand's external trade and economy from not
supplying new port capacity. The global rate of return analysis has been
supplemented by calculations on individual project items which show that the
project is well composed. Investments in Klong Toei and Bang Su yield a
return of 19%, and those in Sattahip alone, 22%. Dredging at Sattahip,
which conceptually can also be separated from other investments, gives a
return of above 50%.
5.20      There are a number of risk factors affecting the proiect,
including slower than expected foreign trade development, underestimate of
Klong Toei port capacity under the reference case, and higher than expected
operating cost for land transport of containers between Sattahip and
Bangkok. None of these risks can be perceived on an order of magnitude that
they would change the basis result of the economic analysis, namely that the
project is very timely, if not overdue, and highly feasible. The numerical
results of sensitivity analyses leading to this conclusion are given in
Table 15.
5.21      For the economic analysis it has been assumed that all the
benefits would accrue to Thailand. While this is clearly the case for
avoided lightering costs and agricultural bulk export costs, it is somewhat
less certain with regard to avoided shipwaiting costs, where the benefits
might in the first instance accrue to the predominantly foreign shipping
lines. However, several points may be made here. First, above normal
shipwaiting tends to result in conferences imposing port congestion
surcharges to recover the extra costs, thereby passing the cost on to the
shippers. With consultation between conferences and shippers councils
becoming more common and conferences increasingly being required to justify
increases and surcharges to national shippers councils (as exists in
Thailand - there is also regional cooperation with the ASEAN Group), it is
increasingly likely, that conference surcharges will reflect costs. Second,
in the case of Thailand, the liner shipping services on several important
trades, e.g. between Thailand and Japan and from Thailand to Europe, are
provided by conferences covering only Thailand rather than a range of
countries in a region. Finally, although the present share of the cargoes
arriving in Thai vessels is limited, it is expected to increase in the
future. The effect on the economic rate of return of less than 100% of the
savings in shipwaiting cost accruing to Thailand was tested as part of the
sensitivity analysis (para. 5.20), and the analysis showed that even if
only 50% of these benefits accrued to Thailand, the project would still have
a satisfactory rate of return (Table 15).



- 33 -
6. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. General
6.01      During the past four years, PAT has been in excellent financial
condition. Revenues have kept pace with increased operating costs with
resulting increases in operating surpluses in each of the fiscal years
1976-79. Further, PAT has maintained a strong balance sheet with ample
liquidity and low debt to equity ratios. Commencing in 1980, PAT will
assume administrative and financial responsibility for the commercial port
at Sattahip and PAT's annual accounts will reflect the combined financial
performance of the ports of Klong Toei and Sattahip. As a start-up opera-
tion with only limited traffic initially, the port of Sattahip is expected
to experience operating losses in the early years (1980-84) of its develop-
ment. Nevertheless, with appropriate periodic tariff adjustments PAT's
consolidated financial performance is expected to remain strong. PAT's
future cash flow is projected to be sufficient to service debt, finance
current operations, provide a significant return to the Government, and make
a meaningful contribution to the Investment Program.
B. Past Financial Performance
6.02      The profit and loss statements for the fiscal years 1976-79 are
set forth in Table 9 and summarized below. The financial ratios reflect the
earnings of the period under consideration. The financial performance was
strong throughout the 1976-79 period, and the returns on fixed assets in use
(para. 6.10) were consistently higher than the 8% required under Section
5.03 of the Loan Agreement for Loan 702-TH. With tariffs constant from
1976-79, revenues increased in response to traffic increases, changes in
cargo mix and enhanced storage income due to congestion. Concurrently,
working expenses increased 57% primarily reflecting wage awards. As a
result, PAT experienced a steady improvement in operating profits and the
operating ratio was maintained at a satisfactory 70% throughout the period.



- 34 -
1976    1977    1978    1979
------ (Baht million) ------
Total operating revenue                497      579      664      834
Less:  working expenses              349      371      420      549
Depreciation                          39       40       42       42
Total operating expenses          388      411     462      591
Operating surplus                      109      168      202      243
Interest charge                         15       15       16       15
Ratios: Operating                       78       71       70       71
Times interest earned          7.3x   11.2x   12.6x   16.2x
Debt service coverage          6.2x    8.1x    9.1x   10.6x
Return on net fixed assets  8.3%   12.5%   14.7%   17.4%
Ratios required under Loan 702-TH
Debt service limitation           1.75x   1.75x   1.75x   1.75x
Return on net fixed assets          8%       8%       8%      8%
6.03       Balance sheet data for fiscal years 1976-79 are presented in Table
10 and summarized below:
1976    1977    1978    1979
-- (Baht million) ------
Current assets                           386      460      622      731
Net fixed assets                          606     577      567   1,306
Work in progress                          708     795      807      117
Other assets                               16      22       35       62
Total assets                       1,716   1,854   2,031   2,216
Current liabilities                       115     113      130      150
Long-term debt                            183     206      212      205
Net equity                              1,418   1,535   1,689   1,861
Total liabilities and equity    1,716   1,854   2,031   2,216
Ratios:  Current                        3.4x    4.1x    4.8x    4.9x
Debt/equity                   11/89   12/88   11/89   10/90



- 35 -
The current ratio, working capital and overall liquidity are ample. The
cash position strengthened from ten months to twelve months of combined
working expenses and debt service in 1976 and 1979 respectively. This topic
will be addressed in para. 6.08. PAT's build-up of cash is partly explained
through its low level of debt and consequent debt service requirements. The
long-term debt of 205 million Baht in fiscal 1979 consisted solely of the
outstanding principal for Bank Loan 702-TH. The debt/equity ratio remained
modest falling from 11/89 in 1976 to only 10/90 in 1979. In summary, PAT's
historical balance sheets have been excellent.
C. Forecast Financial Performance - Sattahip
6.04      The assumptions outlined in Annex 4 are used to develop the
financial forecasts for the port of Sattahip. Details are given in Table 11
and summarized below:
1980    1981       1982    1983   1984    1985
------------- (Baht million) ---------------
Operating revenue                 34/a      15/a       12     77      161     260
Less:  working expenses           26        38         55     86      107      149
Depreciation                      36        50         61     71       79      84
Total operating expenses          62        88        116    157      186     233
Operating surplus                (28)      (73)      (104)   (80)    (25)      27
Operating ratio (%)              182       587        967    204      115      90
Working ratio (%)                 76       253        458    112       66      57
Internal generaton of cash         8       (23)       (43)    (9)      54     111
/a  Pipe and pipe coating traffic associated with natural gas development
in Gulf of Thailand.
As with most new commercial undertakings, the port of Sattahip will
initially experience operating deficits and cash losses. However, as the
container traffic develops, the port of Sattahip's operating finances will
improve. Toward the end of the project period, the working ratio is



- 36 -
expected to diminish to a satisfactory 57% which compares favorably with a
projected working ratio of 73% for PAT's consolidated finances in 1985.
This result is due to the high capital to labor ratio implicit in container
operations. However, when depreciation is considered, the port of
Sattahip's forecast operating ratio in 1985 is excessive, reflecting the
fact that the plant and equipment to be procured under the proposed project,
while required for the forecast traffic, is capable of handling a somewhat
higher level of container traffic than is projected for 1985.
D. PAT's Consolidated Financial Performance
6.05      PAT's consolidated income account forecast is presented in Table 9
and summarized below:
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984   1985
----------------(Baht million)-------
Operating revenue                  952   1,078   1,226   1,378   1,567  1,724
Less:  working expenses            614     733      851      974   1,104  1,257
Depreciation                       100      132     154      175     187    195
Total operating expenses         714     865   1,005   1,149   1,291  1,452
Operating surplus                  238     213      221     229      276    272
Interest charge                     14       19      25      33       37      38
Interest earned                     62      60       54      60       85    115
Net revenue surplus                286      254     250      256     324    349
Payment to government and
employee bonus                   129     137      122     120      123    160
Revenue surplus to
balance sheet                    157     117      128     136      201    189
Ratio:  Operating                   75       80      82       83      83      84
Times interest earned   17.Ox   11.2x    8.8x    6.9x    7.5x   7.2x
Debt service coverage   12.lx   10.lx    9.lx    8.lx    8.3x   8.lx



- 37 -
Combining the port of Sattahip's weaker financial performance with the port
of Klong Toei's finances will result in operating ratios which are large in
relation to PAT's historical operating ratios. Nevertheless, all indices of
financial health are consistenly strong throughout the forecast period.
PAT's financial objectives of financing a significant portion of its invest-
ment program (para. 6.08), maintaining satisfactory debt coverage ratios,
and attaining low levels of financial risk (para. 6.09) are well satisfied.
During negotiations, PAT has reaffirmed Section 5.04 of the Loan Agreement
for Loan 702-TH which requires PAT not to incur additional debt if its
revenue is less than 1.75 times the maximum debt service requirements.
6.06      The estimated balance sheet summaries for 1980-85 are presented in
Table 10. The debt/equity ratios are satisfactory rising from 7/93 in 1980
to only 11/89 in 1985. The forecast current position is favorable with
working capital more than adequate to finance current operations.
6.07      Estimated rates of return on the average net fixed assets in use
for the 1980-85 period are as follows:
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Return on average net fixed
assets in use (historical costs)   15.0%  10.7%  10.3%  9.8%  11.5%  11.4%
The reduction in the rate of return in 1981 reflects the full impact of
PAT's assumption of the port of Sattahip's assets and operating losses for
accounting purposes. Thereafter, the rates of return are estimated to
remain in the 9-12% range which would readily enable PAT to achieve its
financial objectives. Accordingly, PAT has agreed that it will earn an
annual return on net fixed assets of not less than 9% in 1981-83, 10% in
1984 and 11% thereafter. For the purposes of the rate of return computa-
tion, net fixed assets is to be defined relative to the existing asset base
as presently valued plus subsequent additions. Following PAT's revaluation
of assets (para. 6.10), it was agreed that the schedule of required annual
rates of return would be appropriately adjusted in a manner acceptable to
PAT and the Bank.
6.08      Overall, the projected cash position of PAT is healthy.  A
detailed cash flow forecast for 1980-85 is presented in Table 12. The
statement below, summarizing the financial plan during the forecast period,
reveals that PAT would be able to finance a satisfactory 63% of its
investment program requirements from internally generated funds.



- 38 -
(Baht million)          %
Cash Required
Proposed project                                 1,135
Other capital expenditures                         457
1,592            100
Cash Available
Internally generated cash                        2,828
Less:  debt service                                (267)
Reductions in operating working capital             102
Payment to Government and employee's bonus    (791)
Increase in cash balance                          (869)
Internal cash available for investment            1003              63
Funds provided by Government                       279              18
Loans                                              310              19
1,592            100
During the years of heavy investment (1980 and 1981), PAT is expected to
draw down about 80 million Baht of its existing cash resources. Thereafter,
PAT's cash account is projected to increase to about 1.5 billion Baht.
Clearly, PAT will not be able to fully utilize such cash surpluses. A
portion of this cash will be used in 1984-86 for the local currency
financing of the second phase development of the port of Sattahip. In
addition, some of PAT's projected increase in cash should be distributed to
Government. At negotiations, the Bank was informed that a review by
Government of its participation in PAT's profits is presently underway. It
was agreed that the Government will forward to the Bank a copy of this
review upon its completion.
E. Sensitivity Analysis and Financial Risks
6.09      The sensitivity of PAT's projected financial performance to
changes in key assumptions and the various alternatives to be examined are



- 39 -
presented below. In each alternative, a single variable has been altered
from the base case assumptions outlined in Annex 4 with all other factors
remaining unchanged.
Alternative 1:  10% reduction in revenues due to a shortfall in
traffic;
Alternative 2:  50% reduction in storage revenue in 1982-1985 due
to accelerated response to new storage charges
effective December 31, 1981;
Alternative 3:  10% increase in proposed project costs;
Alternative 4:  Labor force growth rate of 3% p.a.; and
Alternative 5:  50% increase in inflation assumptions used for
calculating working expenses.
The impact of each of these alternatives on PAT's cash position is
summarized below:
Total
1981   1982   1983   1984   1985  1981-85
------------- (Baht million) ------------
Yearly Cash Decrease
Alternative 1                   108     123    138    138    172    698
Alternative 2                     -     138    145    164    175    622
Alternative 3                    47      50      30     18       5    150
Alternative 4                    18      42      73    111    157    401
Alternative 5                    15      67    131    217    327    757
PAT's exposure would be minimal during 1983-85, a period in which
accelerated cash accumulation is forecast. Clearly, in the event of high
inflation portrayed in Alternative 5, corrective tariff adjustments would be
made. Even in the years of substantial investment (1980-82), PAT's cash
position remains sound under the above alternatives. In alternative 1,
depicting the largest cash reduction in 1981-82, PAT's current ratio never
falls below 2.lx. Under the unlikely case in which Alternatives 1, 3 and 4



- 40 -
occur concurrently, only minor borrowing would be required to enable PAT to
maintain an adequate current ratio and cash position. In summary, PAT's
overall level of financial risk is low.
F. Revaluation of Assets and Insurance
6.10      PAT's assets have not been revalued in about 30 years with the
result that the present depreciation charges distort PAT's financial
results. Therefore, PAT has agreed to revalue its assets not later than
June 30, 1982 and at least every three years thereafter.
6.11      PAT has also agreed to provide for insurance for such risks and in
such amounts as are consistent with good commercial practice.



- 41 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreement has been reached with the Government that it will:
(a)  require the Customs Department at Klong Toei (i) to continue its
permission for movement of containers to the container yard
irrespective of the berth they are landed at in the port; (ii) to
permit movement of goods in bond from the port to approved
warehouses outside the port if unclaimed after three weeks in the
port storage; and (iii) to dispose of cargo which has remained
unsold at the normal auction for such cargo (para. 3.08);
(b)  ensure that consignees at Klong Toei can provide their own
vehicles whenever vehicles by the Express Transport Organization
of Thailand (ETO) are not promptly available (para. 3.08);
(c)  (i) ensure that the land, owned by SRT, which is required for the
complex, will be leased to the Government; (ii) hold title to the
complex; (iii) select, to the satisfaction of the Bank, an
operator for the complex for its day to day operation; (iv) lease
the complex to an operator on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank; (v) ensure availability of the complex in accordance
with the construction schedule for the project; and (vi) operate
the complex in the event a lease with a qualified third party
operator cannot be arranged (para. 3.16);
(d)  allow the road transport industry to compete for container trans-
port between Bangkok and Sattahip, and allow consignees of cargo
shipped through Sattahip to use road haulage contractors of their
own choice (para. 3.17); and
(e)  make arrangements for preparation and submission to the Bank,
promptly after project completion, of a report on the execution
and initial operation of the Bang Su complex, its costs and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it (para. 4.09).
7.02      Agreement has been reached with PAT that it will:
(a)  undertake a tariff and costing study on terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank which will be completed not later than
June 30, 1981, provide the costs of its various services and
facilities and recommend related tariffs for Bangkok and Sattahip;
and that upon completion of the study it will restructure its
tariffs in a manner acceptable to PAT and the Bank (para. 2.10);



- 42 -
(b) review its accounting system and financial planning procedures in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and
implement the agreed changes not later than December 31, 1981
(para. 2.13);
(c) reaffirm section 5.02 of the Loan Agreement for Loan 702-TH
requiring PAT to furnish the Bank with audited financial
statements within six months of the end of the fiscal year (para.
2.14);
(d) continue its policy of optimizing the use of available berth space
at Klong Toei by berthing more than 16 ships whenever this is
practicable (para. 3.03);
(e) (i) handle all containers in the Klong Toei East Quay container
yard irrespective of which berth containers are landed at; (ii)
increase port storage charges to penalize retention of cargo in
the port more than seven days, in accordance with the recommen-
dation of the port tariff study included in the project; (iii)
take appropriate steps to encourage and enable interested parties
to establish by December 31, 1981 bonded warehouses outside the
port, and expand the practice to move cargo from port storage to
approved bonded warehouse storage after three weeks in port
storage at the consignee-s expense; in the event, that such
outside bonded warehouse storage is not established, review not
later than March 31, 1982 with the Bank measures necessary for its
establishment; and (iv) keep records and statistics to monitor key
performance indicators (para. 3.08);
(f) reorganize its container yard operations at Klong Toei and make
corresponding changes to its operating department (para. 3.10);
(g) for the period from 1983 to 1985, reduce the number of berths used
for container operations at Klong Toei in such a way that the
annual shipwaiting time for all berths at Klong Toei does not
exceed 1,000 days; and for the period after 1985, determine the
number of Klong Toei container berths in agreement with the Bank
(para. 3.11);
(h) appoint consultants acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank for
preparation of bidding documents and supervision of the works and
procurement of equipment on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank (para. 4.04);
(i) execute the two civil works contracts and three mechanical
equipment procurement contracts in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines (para. 4.06);



- 43 -
(j) promptly after completion of the project, prepare and furnish to
the Bank a report on the execution and initial operation of the
project (except for the Bang Su complex), and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it (para. 4.09);
(k) reaffirm section 5.04 of Loan Agreement of Loan 702-TH requiring
PAT not to incur additional debt if its revenue is less than 1.75
times maximum debt service requirements (para. 6.05);
(1) (i) earn an annual financial return on net fixed assets in use of
not less than 9% in 1981-83; 10% in 1984, and 11% thereafter; and
(ii) adjust the schedule of rates of return after asset revalua-
tion in a manner acceptable to PAT and the Bank (para. 6.07);
(m)  revalue its assets not later than June 30, 1982 and at least every
three years thereafter (para. 6.10); and
(n) provide appropriate insurance consistent with good commercial
practices (para. 6.11).
7.03      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$47.0 mil-
lion equivalent to the Government. The loan will be for a term of 20 years
including a grace period of five years. US$15.5 million of the loan amount
will be onlent to PAT on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan.
October, 1980



- 44 -
Table 1
THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Indicative Inland Freight Traffic of Thailand by Modes la
Inland
Year        Rail /b             Road               waterways            Total
A. Tons (million)
1968          5.0               14.0                   8.0               27.0
1973          5.0               25.0                   8.0               38.0
1976          5.4               37.0 /c                8.5               50.9
1981          8.2             59.0- 66.0               8.5             75.7- 82.7
1986         10.5             91.0-113.0              11.5            113.0-135.0
1991         13.3            139.0-190.0              13.7            166.0-217.0
B.  Ton-km (million)
1968       2,000               3,500                 1,300              6,800
1973       2,000               6,500                 1,300              9,800
1976       2,500               9,700 /c              1,400             13,600
1981       3,500           15,200-17,100             1,400          20,100-22,000
1986       4,500           23,400-29,300             1,950          29,850-35,750
1991       5,700           35,600-49,300             2,400          43,700-57,400
/a  Based on 1978 World Bank draft.  Assumes implementation of Inland
Waterways Project in 1981-83. Estimates exclude coastal shipping which
in 1977 is estimated at 1.2-1.5 million tons.
lb 1968-76 actuals, 1981-1991 projections. Assumed growth rate after 1981
5% p.a.
/c  In an independent assessment, consultants Louis Berger Int., Inc.
arrived at the following tentative estimates for 1978: 61 million tons
and 7.800 million ton-kn.
October, 1980



- 45 -
Table 2
THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Government Investments in Transport During Third and Fourth
Five-Year Development Plans
(B million) /a
Third Development    Fourth Development
Mode                                     Plan 1972-76/b        Plan 1977-81/b
Roads
National                                   8,200                 7,689
Provincial                                6,800                 7,906
Local                                      1,600                 5,125
Subtotal                              16,600                20,720
Railways                                     2,470                 1,750
Inland waterways and ports                     920                 1,224
Civil aviation (including airports)            890                 4,348
Total                                 20,880                28,042
Transport as percentage of
development expenditures                      20                    11
/a In current prices.
/b Actual expenditures for 1972-76 and projected expenditures for 1977-81.
Source: National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB).
October,1980



- 46 -
Table 3
THAILAND
BAN4GKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
PAT's Principal Rates and Charges as of September 30. 1979
A. Charges Against Shipowners or Ships' Agents
1. Channel Dues (inward passage only)
Vessels of less than 500 net reg. tons               Nil
Vessles of 500 to 1,500 net reg. tons                 B 2.00 per ton
Vessels exceeding 1,500 net reg. tons                 B 3.00 per ton
2. Wharf Rates
B 1.10 per vessel net reg. ton for each call not   B 550 per lighter per
exceeding 72 hours, plus B .30 per ton for           call
every subsequent 24 hours or fraction thereof.
3. Buoyage
B 300 per buoy per 24 hours or fraction thereof.   B 200 service
charge per mooring, unmooring of a ship.
B. Charges Against Consignees
4. Inward Cargo Landing Charges
Class 1  B 17.50 per metric ton  - most general cargo
Class 2  B 22.50 per metric ton  - beer, wines, spirits, tobacco, oils,
dyes, china, textiles, etc.
Class 3  B 27.50 per metric ton  - dangerous and poisonous goods,
chemicals, furniture, cement, ores
and metals, etc.
Class 4  B 37.50 per metric ton  - vehicles, etc.
5. Outward Cargo Quay Dues
Class 1 B 37.00 per metric ton  - most general cargo
Class 2  B 50.00 per metric ton  - machinery, cement, chemicals, etc.
6. Outward Cargo Quay Dues
Class 1 B 1.25 per metric ton    - most general cargo
Class 2 B 1.60 per metric ton    - timber, gold and silver
7. Outward Cargo Ilandling Charges
Half rate of charges listed in above.
8. Storage Charges
IHolding of cargo in transit sheds is free for the first 72 hours
after completing a vessel's discharge. Thereafter charges range
from B 4 per ton per day during the first week to B 12 per ton
per day during the ninth and subsequent weeks.
October, 1980



THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Import and Export Trade (non-POL) through Bangkok Port System - By Commodities la
('000 tons)
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1990    1995    2000
Imports
Cereals                     61      135       81      105      110     120      120      130      140      140     150         -       -        -
Paper & paper-making
materials                192      266      327     300      320      350      300      275     300      260      300        -        -        -
Chemicals                  416      535      741      730      790     850      910      970   1,030   1,090   1,150           -       -        -
Crude minerals              73       48      107      100      110     115      120      130      140      150      160        -       -        -
Fertilizer                 425      621      871      750      860   1,000   1,150       800   1,000   1,250   1,500           -        -        -
Iron & steel, scrap        814   1,167   1,484   1,860   1,950   2,050   2,200   2,250   2,450   2,650   2,700                 -       -        -
Machinery & parts          221      243      267      200      210     220      240      250      260      280      300        -        -        -
Vehicles & parts           144      220      300      260     290      300      300      300      300      300      300        -        -        -
Cement                       -        -        -      290      800   1,200        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Timber                       5        9       53      140      160     180      200      230      260      300      340        -        -        -
Other                      679      716      805      754      800   1,200      880      925      970   1,020   1,060          -        -        -
Total Imports       3,030   3.960   5.036   5,489   6.400   7.585   6,420   6,260   6,850   7,440   7,960  10.500  14.000  18.000
Exports
Tapioca                  2,385   3,720   3,945   6,285   4,100   5,500   5,500   5,500   5,500   5,500   5,500                 -        -        -
Maize                    2,105   2,419   1,542   1,972   2,100   2,030   2,070   2,100   2,130   2,170   2,200                 -        -        -
Rice                       951   1,973   2,946   1,607   2,600   1,890   2,050   2,220   2,400   2,610   2,820                 -        -        -
Sugar/molasses           1,095   1,846   2,608   1,944   1,870   2,110   2,200   2,300   2,390   2,490   2,600                 -        -        -
Manufactured goods          181     280      321      491      555      575     625      690      730      805      880        -        -        -
Other                    1,811   1,827   1,454   1,283   1,455   1,704   1,819   1,545   1,575   1,605   1,630                 -        -        -
Total Exports       8,528  12.065  12,816  13,582  12.680  13.809  14,264  14,355  14,725  15,180  15.630  17,300  19,200  21,300
Total Trade        11,558  16,025  17,852  19.07   19,080  21,394  20,684  20,615  21.575  22,620  23.590  27.800  33.200  39.300
/a  The Bangkok Port System includes the Klong Toei wharves on the river Chao Phrya operated by the Port Authority of Thailand (PAT)
and other facilities on the river, collectively known as the Port of Bangkok; the commercial port of Sattahip; and a deep-water
anchorage for loading tapioca off Ko Sichang and a jetty at Mah Boon Krong (Sri Racha), which is also a deep-water facility for
loading tapioca.  The tonnages for 1975-78 are actuals; for 1979, estimates; and for the following years, projections.
Source: Sindhu Maunsell.
October 1980
4-



- 48 -
5
TRAILANP
BAMKYO1t AND SATTAHIP PoPTS PPOJECT
Import and Export Trade (non-POL) through Bangkok Port System - by Facilities, 1975-95
('000 tons)
Facilities/traffic /a            1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980          1a81       1982    1983    1Q48    18R5
Klong Toei
Imports
Containers                   220    2981 {   354         580     790      970      1,020     1,070      86n      68n     47n
Breakbulk                    2              { 3,114   2,815   2,930   3,020        2,950     3,090   3,2sn   3,480   3,57n
Subtotal                 2,209   2,981   3,468   3,395   3,720   3,990         3,Q70      4,16n   4,14n   4,l       4n
Exports
Containers                      89      249 {   223      470     610      630        680        72n     600      490     350
Breakbulk                                   {   106      110       75      80         9n        1ln     125      145      165
Bulk                            57      123     146      142     140      140        140        149     140      140     140
Subtotal                    146     372      475     722      P25      850       910        970      865     775      655
Imports & Exports        2,355   3,350   3,943   4,117   4,545   4,R40         4,p8n      5,13n   5,005   4,935   4,695
Sattahip
Imports
Containers                       -        -       -        -        -       -          -          -     24n      480     76n
Breakbulk                        -        -       -        -       -      360/b        -         40      4n       75      75
Subtotal                      -       -        -        -       -      360         -         4n      28n     555      835
Exports
Containers                       -        -       -        -       -        -          -          -     160      32n     sin
Breakbulk                        -        -       -        -       -      189/b      284/b       12      12       25      25
Bulk                             -        -       -        -       -      500        650       900   1,150   1,400   1,675
Subtotal                      -       -        -        -       -      689       934        912   1,322   1,745   2,1n
Imports & Exports             -       -        -       -        -   1,049        934        952   1,60?   2,300   3,n45
Other Facilities
Imports
TMN wharfs                     140      150     233      292     400      400        400       40n      400      4n0     400
Dolphins & anchorage           355      281     442      838 }     8    2,835      ?,050      1,66n   2,n30   2,325   2,685
Private wharves                326      548     893      064 }  '
Subtotal                    821     979   1,568   2,094   2,680   3,235        2,450      2,060   2,430   2,725   3,085
Exports /c                     8,382  11,693  12,341  12,860  11,855  12,270    12,42n    12,471  12,538  12,660  12,765
Imports & Exports         9,203  12,672  13,909  14,954  14,535  15,505    14,P70    14,533  14,968  15,385  1,0
All Facilities
Imports                        3,030   3,060   5,036   5,4R9   6,400   7,585         6,420     6,26n   6,R5n   7,44n   7,o6n
Exports                        8,528  12,065  12,816  13,582  12,680  13,809    14,264    14,355  14,725  15,ln  15,630
Imports & Exports        11,558  16,025  17,852  1q,071  lq,n8O  21,394    20,684    20,615  "1,57r  22,6"0  23,sqn
/a  Traffic:   1975-78, actutal; 1979, estimated; 1980-85, projected.
/b Pipes and pipe coating material for natural gas development project.
/c Includes exports of tapioca through deep-water anchorage at Yo Sichang and jetty at Y4ah Boon Krong.
Source:  Sindhu Maunsell.
October 1980



THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Civil Works - fUong Toei
PAT and
Government                                    Cost estimate
financed                        Baht million               US$ million
Item        Description                    1980-84    IBRD financed  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
1   2 container freight stations /a
including paving and drainage
each about 120 m x 45 n              70.0            -          70.0      -       70.0  3.50       -       3.50
2   31,000 sq m new- paving /a             13.0            -           13.0     -       13.0  0.65        -       0.65
3   10,000 sq m resurfacing /a              4.5            -            4.5     -        4.5  0.22        -      0.22
4   Concrete slab for rail trans-
tainer crane /a                       3.0            -           3.0      -        3.0  0.15       -       0.15
Subtotal                         90.5             -          90.5      -      90.5  4.52        -       4.52
Physical contingencies                 18.0            -          18.0      -       18.0  0.90        -      0.90
Cost contingencies                     17.0            -          17.0      -       17.0  0.85        -      0.85
Total                            125.5            -         125.5      -      125.5  6.27       -       6.27
/a Foreign exchange not included for items wholly purchased by PAT.
October 1980                                                                                                                        I



THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Civil Works - Sattahip
PAT and
Government                                      Cost estimate
financed   IBRD financed          Baht million               US$ million
Item         Description                   1980-84    Total  (F.E.)   Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
1   230,000 sq m resurfacing con-
tainer yard area                     72.5        -        -       72.5      -       72.5   3.63   -           3.63
2   820,000 cu m dredging and dis-
posal of spoil                       74.5        -        -       74.5      -       74.5   3.73   -           3.73
3   40-m tug berth                                     7.0    (4.0)      3.0      4.0      7.0   0.15   0.20        0.35
4   Renewal of fendering to quaywall                  35.0   (20.0)    15.0    20.0    35.0   0.75    1.00          1.75          1
5   Container freight station and                                                                                                 _
administration office /a            51.0                          51.0      -      51.0   2.55   -            2.55
6   Cate house /a                           1.4                          1.4      -        1.4   0.07   -           0.07
7   Ancillary buildings                               22.7   (11.0)    11.7    11.0    22.7   0.58   0.55           1.13
8   Drainage and sewerage /a               12.9                         12.9      -       12.9   0.64   -           0.64
9   Water supply                                       8.0    (3.0)      5.0      3.0      8.0   0.25   0.15        0.40
10   Electrical services                               17.0   (10.6)      6.4    10.6    17.0   0.32   0.53          0.85
11   Weighbridge /a                          4.0                          4.0      -        4.0   0.20   -           0.20
12   Rail truck in port area                           34.0   (20.0)    14.0    20.0    34.0   0.70   1.00           1.70
Subtotal                        216.3      123.7   (68.6)  271.4    68.6   340.0  13.57   3.43           17.00
Physical contingencies                43.0        25.0   (15.4)   52.6    15.4    68.0   2.63   0.77            3.40
Cost contingencies                     49.1       40.9   (25.3)   64.7    25.3    90.0   3.24   1.26            4.50
Total                           308.4      189.6  (109.3)  388.7   109.3   498.0  19.43   5.46    24.90
/a  Foreign exchange not included for items wholly purchased by PAT.
October 1980



TEA ILAND
BANGK'OK AND SATTAIIIP PORTS PROJECT
Mlechanical Equipment - Klong Toei
PAT and
Government                                          Cost estimate
financed      IBRD financed           Baht million               UJS$ million
Iten        Description               1980-84    No.  Total  (F.E.)  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
1   5 rubber-tired gantries           27.6       2    18.4  (16.0)   6.0        40.0    46.0  0.30    2.00    2.30
2   5/a 25-ton forklift trucks        11.2       3    16.8  (12.0)   8.0        20.0    28.0  0.40    1.00    1.40
3   3 12-ton forklift trucks          10.8       1      5.4   (4-7)   2.2       14.0    16.2  0.11    0.70    n.81
4   10 tractors                                 10    13.0  (10.0)   3.0        10.0     13.0  0.15    0.50    0.65
5   10 trailers                        4.0       6      6.0   (4.2)   3.0        7.0    10.0  0.15    0.35    0.50
6   2 10-ton forklift trucks                     2      6.0   (5.2)   0.8        5.2      6.0  0.04    0.26    0.30
7   2 30-ton top spreader
lifts /b                        16.0                            16.0      -        16.0  0.80    -         0.80
8   1 30-ton mobile crane,
22 m radius /b                 22.0                             22.0       -      22.0  1.10    -          1.10
9   2 yard hustlers /b                 2.0                             2.0       -        2.0  0.10    -          0.10
10   4 trailers /b                      2.0                             2.0       -        2.0  0.10    -          0.10
Subtotal                    95.6             65.6  (52.1)  65.0       96.2   161.2  3.25    4.81    8.06
Cost contingencies                17.6            20.4  (12.4)  14.0        24.0    38.0  0.70       1.20    1.90
Total                      113.2             86.0  (64.5)  79.0    120.2   199.2  3.95    6.01    9.96
/a 2 25-ton forklifts replaced by Item 7.
/b Foreign exchange not included for items wholly purchased by PAT.
October 1980
0D



THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTATITP PORTS PROJECT
Mechanical Equipment - Sattahip
PAT and
Government                                           Cost estimate
financed      IBRD financed            Baht million               US$ million
Item         Description               1980-84    No.  Total  (F.E.)  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
1   4 30-ton rubber-tired
gantries                         12.0       3    27.8  (24.0)    6.0        33.8    39.8  0.30       1.69     1.99
2   4 25-ton forklift trucks            8.0       3    18.0  (16.5)   4.0         22.0    26.0  0.20       1.10      1.30
3   2 20-ton forklift trucks                      2      9.6   (8.0)    1.6        8.0      9.6  0.08      0.40    0.48
4   2 12-ton fortlift trucks            6.0                              0.8       5.2      6.0  0.04      0.26     0.30
5   3 3-ton forklift trucks /a         10.5                             10.5       -       10.5  0.52      -        0.52
6   10 tractors                                  10    12.5  (10.0)   2.5         10.0     12.5  0.12      0.50    0.62
7   10 trailers                                  10      8.0   (5.6)   2.4         5.6      8.0  0.12      0.28     0.40
8   1 14-ton mobile crane                         1      6.0   (5.0)    1.0        5.0      6.0  0.05      0.25    0.30
9   1 30-ton mobile crane at
22 m radius /a                  22.0                             22.0       -       22.0  1.10    -           1.10
10   Transport vehicles, fire
engine, ambulance, navi-
gation aid, radio and
pallets /a                      17.2                             17.2       -        17.2  0.86    -          0.86
Subtotal                     75.5             81.9  (69.1)  68.0        89.6   157.6  3.40    4.48        7.88
Cost contingencies                 10.0            22.0  (19.9)   13.0        19.0     32.0  0.65      0.95     1.60
Total                        85.5            103.9  (89.0)  81.0       108.6    189.6  4.05      5.43     9.48
/a  Foreign exchange not included for items wholly purchased by PAT.
October 1980                                                                                                                             a
0r



THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Floating Equipment - Sattahip
PAT and
Government                                   Cost estimate
financed                        Baht million              US$ million
Item        Description                    1980-84    IBRD financed  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
1   2 mooring boats                        1.7             -          1.7      -       1.7    0.08      -       0.08
2   1 survey launch                        3.2             -          3.2      -       3.2    0.16      -       0.16
3   2 tug boats, 3,200 hp                69.0              -        69.0       -      69.0    3.45      -       3.45
Total                           73.9/a           -         73.9       -      73.9/b  3.69      -       3.69     w
/a No cost contingencies as all expended 1980.
/b Foreign exchange not included for items wholly purchased by PAT.
October 1980
SA
a'
ON



THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Consultants' Technical Assistance and Training
(All IBRD financed)
Cost estimate
Baht million               US$ million
Item         Description                                                 Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
1   Consulting engineering services                                      -       25.7   25.7      -        1.29     1.29
2   Technical assistance                                                 -        2.9    2.9       -       0.14    0.14
3   Studies - Erosion at Sattahip                                        -        5.0    5.0       -       0.25    0.25
4   Studies - Outline of port developments on Eastern
Seaboard:  1985-2000                                              -       15.0   15.0       -       0.75    0.75
Total                                                          -       48.6   48.6       -       2.43    2.43
October 1980
(D
Fh



THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Bang Su Container Freight Stations and Bonded Warehouses
Baht '000                     US$ million
Item                                               Local   Foreign       Total     Local   Foreign    Total
(a) Civil Works
2 - 240 m container freight stations with
necessary paving & drainage                     107,300   118,800    226,100    5,365    5,940    11,305
1 - 300 m container freight stations with
necessary paving & drainage                      73.900    79,900    153,800    3,695    3,995          7,690
4 bonded warehouses                                77,000   111,500    188,500    3,850    5,575          9,425
Road access                                         5,000      5,000      10,000       250       250        500
Subtotal                                    263,200   315,200    578,400   13,160   15,760    28,920
(b)  Mechanical Equipment
2 - 30 ton rubber tired gantries
1 - 25 ton forklift trucks
78 - 3 ton forklift trucks
for bonded warehouses
16 - 3 ton forklift trucks
10 - tractors and trailers
Subtotal                                     30,000   110,000    140,000    1,500    5,500         7,000
Consulting Services                                           -    38,000      38,000          -    1,900      1,900
Base Cost                                              293,200   463,200    756,400   14,660   23,160    37,820
Physical contingencies                                   45,000    70,000    115,000    2,250    3,500         5,750
Price contingencies                                      80,000    97,000    177,000    4,000    4,850         8,850
Total Bang Su Complex                       418,200   630,200  1,048,400   20,910   31,510    52,420
October 1980



- 56 -
Table
THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1980           1981           1982             1983             1984
6      12       6      12      6        12      6       12       6       12
Ports
Klong Toei - Civil works        ---------------------------
Mechanical
equipment    i---------------------------
Sattahip - Civil work                              ------------------------------------------
Mechanical
equipment        ------------------------------------
Floating equip-
ment              --------------
Consultant services                         ------------------------------------------------
Technical assistance and
studies                                   -------------------------
Bang Su Complex
Container freight station
1 (CFS) and bonded ware-
house 1 (BW)                                         ---------------
CFS 2 and BW 2                                              -----------------
BW 3                                                                           1----
CFS 3 and BW 4                                                                       ----------
Road works                                              ------
Mechanical equipment                                   ------------------------------------
Consultant services                                    -------------------------------------
Bank Staff
October 1980



Table 8
THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
('000 US$)
Bank fiscal year
and quarter                   Quarterly                         Cumulative
1981-    I
II-_
IV                      1,980                              1,980
1982 -    I                       3,640                              5,620
II                      3,980                              9,600
III                      3,500                             13,100
IV                      3,500                             16,600
1983 -    I                      2,600                              19,200
II                      4,600                             23,800
III                      3,100                             26,900
IV                      3,100                             30,000
1984      I                       3,000                             33,000
II                      2,250                             35,250
III                      2,750                             38,000
IV                      3,250                             41,250
1985      I                       3,070                             44,320
II                      2,680                             47,000
Bank staff
October 1980



- 58 -
Table 9
THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
PAT Consolidated Income Accounts: 1976-85
(Baht million)
Actual              Estimated                    Forecast
1976    1977    1978    1979         1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Operating Revenue
Ship handling                         61       69       78      69         75      83       91      106      120      135
Cargo handling                       281     366      430      540       602      706      836      956   1,091   1,206
Storage                              145      125     142      210       228      260      276      290      329      350
Other                                 10       19       14       15        47       29      23       26       29       33
Total Operating Revenue           497      579      664      834       952   1,078   1,226   1,378   1,567   1,724
Operating Expenses
Salaries and wages                   282     300      341      465       509      601      696      788      886      985
Repairs and maintenance               25       27       31      36         42      53       65       82       95      126/a
Fuels                                 24       29       27      29         37      48       54       64       76       93
Miscellaneous                         18       15       21      19         26       31      36       40       47       53
Total Working Expenses            349      371      420      549       614      733      851      974   1,104   1,257
Depreciation                          39       40       42      42        100      132     154      175      187      195
Total Operating Expenses          388      411      462      591       714      865   1,005   1,149   1,291   1,452
Operating surplus (deficit)          109      168     202      243       238      213      221      229      276      272
Interest charge                       15      15       16       15        14       19       25       33       37       38
Interest earned                       21      24       33       40        62       60       54       60       85      115
Net revenue surplus (deficit)    115          177     219      268       286      254      250      256      324      349
Payments to Government and
employee bonus                     48       56       85      106       129      137      122      120      123      160
Revenue surplus to
balance sheet                      67      121      134      162       157      117      128      136      201      189
Ratios: Operating
Times interest earned        78       71       70       71        75      80       82       83       83       84
7.3x   11.2x   12.6x   16.2x    17.Ox   11.2x    8.8x    6.9x    7.5x    7.2x
/a Includes dredging.
Source: PAT and Bank staff
October, 1980



- 59 -
Table 10
THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
PAT Consolidated Balance Sheets: 1976-85
(Baht million)
Actual              Estimated                    Forecast
1976     1977    1978    1979        1980    1981      1982    1983    1984    1985
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash & short-term deposits               307      386      520      623       598      540      597      854   1,149   1,492
Other                                     79       74      102      108        122      139      158      178     202      222
Total Current Assets                  386      460      622      731       720      679      755   1,032   1.351   1.714
Fixed Assets
Gross non-depreciable                     54       54       54       54         54      54        54       54       54       54
Gross depreciable                        969      971   1,002   1,777    2,718   2,919   3,326   3,625   3,819   4,010
Subtotal                            1,023   1,025   1.056   1,831    2,772   2,973   3.380   3.679   3.873   4,064
Less accumulated depreciation            417      448      489      525       822      954   1,108   1,283   1,470   1,665
Net fixed assets in operation            606      577      567   1,306    1,950   2,019   2,272   2,396   2,403   2,399
Work in progress /                       708      795      807      117        164     389      335      201       148        -
Total Fixed Assets                  1,314   1,372   1,374   1,423    2,114   2,408   2,607   2,597   2,551   2,399
Other Assets                                 16      22        35       62        62       62       62       62       62       62
TOTAL ASSETS                        1,716   1,854   2,031   2,216    2,896   3,149   3,424   3,691   3,964   4,175
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current liabilities                         115      113      130      150       173     210      250       288      324      366
Long-term debt                              183     206      212      205        191      260      342      410      434     414
Equity Accounts
Capital                                  322      318      338      348       862      892      917      942      954      954
Retained income                        1,096   1,217   1,351   1,513    1,670   1,787   1,915   2,051   2,252   2,441
Total Equity                        1,418   1,535   1,689   1,861    2,532   2,679   2,832   2,993   3,206   3,395
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY          1,716   1,854   2,031   2,216    2,896   3,149   3,424   3,691   3,964   4,175
Ratios:  Current                              3.4x    4.1x    4.8x    4.9x         4.2x    3.2x    3.Ox    3.6x    4.2x    4.7x
Debt/Equity                       11/89   12/88   11/89   10/90         7/93   12/88   11/89   12/88   12/88   11/89
/a Excess assets held in work in progress account until resolution of accounting dispute in 1978.
Source: PAT and Bank staff.
October 1980



- 60 -
Table 11
THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Port of Sattahip Income Accounts: 1980-85
(Baht million)
Estimated                  Forecast
1980       1981    1982    1983   1984   1985
Operating Revenue,
Ship handling                          2          2         2       6      11     17
Cargo handling                          1         2         9      65    138    226
Storage                                -          -         -       3       8     11
Other                                 31/a       11/a        1      3       4       6
Total Operating Revenue            34         15        12      77    161    260
Operating Expenses
Salaries and wages                    21         27        37      51      57     64
Repairs and maintenance                2          5        10      21      25     47
Fuels                                   1         2         2       8      16      28
Miscellaneous                           2         4         6       6       9      10
Total Working Expenses                26         38        55      86    107    149
Depreciation                          36         50        61      71      79      84
Total Operating Expenses           62         88       116    157    186    233
Operating Surplus (Deficit)    (28)          (73)    (104)   (80)   (25)    27
Ratios:  Operating                      182        587      967    204    115        90
Working                        76        253      458    112       66      57
/a  Pipe and pipe coating traffic associated with natural gas development in the
Gulf of Thailand.
Source:  PAT and Bank staff.
October, 1980



- 61 -
Table 12
THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
PAT Consolidated Cash Flow Data: 1980-85
(Baht million)
Estimated                   Forecast
1980       1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Cash Required
A. Capital Investment Program
Project                         232       390     324      136       53        -
PAT ongoing program             232        36      29       29       88       43
Total                       464       426      353      165      141      43
B. Debt Service
Interest                         14       19       25       33       37       38
Principal                        14        15      16       17       19       20
Total                        28        34       41       50       56       58
C.  Change in working capital           (9)     (20)    (21)    (18)    (12)    (22)
D. Payment to Government and
employee bonus                  129       137     122      120      123      160
Total Cash Required         612       577      495      317      308     239
Cash Available
A. Internally Generated Cash
Operating surplus               238       213     221      229      276      272
Depreciation                    100       132     154      175      187      195
Interest earned                  62       60       54       60       85      115
Total Internally Generated
Cash                            400      405      429      464      548      582
B.  Long-term loans                     -        84       98       85       43        -
C.  Funds provided by Government   187           30       25       25       12        -
D. Cash available; beginning of
year                            623       598     540      597      854   1,149
Total Cash Available    1,210    1,117   1,092   1,171   1,457   1,731
Cash at End of Year                   598       540      597      854   1,149   1,492
Ratios: Debt service coverage        12.1x    lO.lx    9.1x    8.1x    8.3x    8.1x
Return on average net fixed
assets in operation       15.0%    10.7%   10.3%    9.8%   11.5%   11.3%
Source: PAT and Bank staff.
October, 1980



- 62 -
Table 13
THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Container Traffic at Bangkok (Klong Toei) and SattahiP Ports
(in thousands)
Port/traffic /a           1977   1978   1979  1980   1981   1982  1983  1984  1985
Klong Toei
Inbound
Total number of
containers             27/b   47/b    59    72        76     79    64    50    34
Total number of TEU   38        63      79    97    102    107    86  , 68    47
Total tonnage          354    580      790   970  1,020  1,070   860   680   470
Outbound
Total number of
containers             24/b   42/b   ------ same as for inbound traffic ------
Of which empties       5       7     ------------- not projected -------------
Total number of TEU   35        57     ------ same as for inbound traffic ------
Of which empties       5       9      18    24       34     35    26    19    12
Total tonnage          223    470      610   630    680    720   600   490   350
Sattahip
Inbound
Total number of
containers              -      -        -      -       -      -    18    36    57
Total number of TEU    -         -        -     -       -       -    24    48    76
Total tonnage            -       -        -     -       -       -   240   480   760
Outbound
Total number of
containers              -      -        -      -       -      -    18    36    57
Of which empties       -      -        -      -       -      -      5      9    14
Total number of TEU    -         -       -      -       -       -    24    48    76
Of which empties       -      -        -      -       -      -      8    16    25
Total tonnage            -       -        -     -       -       -   160   320   510
/a Traffic: 1977-78, actual; 1979, estimated; 1980-85, projected.
/b Outbound traffic is underestimated due to statistical method.
Source:  Sindhu Maunsell.
October, 1980



- 63 -
Table 14
THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Daily Costs of General Cargo Ships /a
(US$)
Ship type
Combination
breakbulk/
Breakbulk /c       Breakbulk            container
Size
DWT                              10,000              22,000             18,000
NRT                               4,000               8,800              7,200
Capital cost                   12,000,000         24,000,000          20,000,000
Daily Port Cost
Capital charge /b                 4,400               8,800              7,340
Crew                    }
Ilaintenance            }         2,500               2,600              2,600
Stores                 }
Insurance              }
Diesel oil                          700                 700                700
Total                        7,600/c           12,100              10,600
/a Late 1979 prices.
/b Based on 20-year annuity at 12%.
/c Container feeder ship costs are greater than or equal to total break
bulk costs.
Source: Sindhu Maunsell.
October, 1980



- 64 -
Table 15
THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return
Rates of Return (%)
1. Base case calculation
Whole project                                                 21
2. Project components
(a) Klong Toei port and Bang Su only                            19
(b) Sattahip port only /a                                       22
(c) Dredging of Sattahip                                      > 50
3. Sensitivity analysis
(a) Rise by 10% in berth productivity
under Reference case /b                                   15
(b) Reduction by 10% in container berth
productivity under project case                           21
(c) Tests a and b above combined                                15
(d) Total railway capital costs attributed
to project                                                15
(e) Increase by 10% of 1985 container traffic                   22
(f) Container ship allocation at Klong Toei
under Base case: 3 instead of 2 berths
in 1985                                                   17
(g) Increase by 10% in recurrent land transport costs           21
(h) Reduction in maximum ship waiting days
(conventional cargo) under
Reference case from 3,600 to 3,000                        21
(i) Reduction in projected rise of trade
volumes between 1979 and 1985 from
24% to 20%                                                21
(j) Increase by 10% in capital costs                            19
(k) Reduction by 50% of benefits from savings in
ship waiting time                                           12
(1) No railway capital costs attributed to Project              31
/a Assuming entire project would be implemented.
/b Conventional cargo handling rates for project and reference case are assumed
to be identical: 40 tons/net gang hour for discharge over berth, and 20
tons/net gang hour for discharge over side. Assumed handling rates for con-
tainers are: 9 TEU per hour under reference case, and 15 TEU per hour under
project case.
Source:  Sindhu Maunsell.
October 1980



- 65 -
TABLE 16
THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Prices of Petroleum Products in Thailand
(US$/litre)
Product                   Retail Price          Retail Price         Opportunity
including taxesa/   excluding taxesh/   Costsc/
Regular gasoline                0.46                n.a.        )        0.30
Premium gasoline                0.49                n.a.        )
Diesel fuel-low speed           0.31                n.a.        )        0.28
high speed         0.33                n.a.        )
Aviation fuel (jet A-1)         0.45                n.a.                 0.29
a/  As of October 1980
h/ Current tax/subsidy component unavailable. In mid-1979, both
gasoline and diesel fuel were subsidized; and net subsidies were
estimated at about 5% and 10%, respectively, of retail prices
including taxes.
c/  As of July/August 1980.  Opportunity costs based on theoretical CIF
price for imports of finished petroleum products.
n.a. - not available
Source: Bank Staff
October 1980



- 66 -
ANNEX 1
THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training
for Port Authority of Thailand
1.         PAT is a well established organization with adequate staff of
high calibre. The introduction of containerized traffic has, however,
introduced new circumstances both in the accounting and operating departments
which require a reappraisal of procedures. Further, the opening of the new
port at Sattahip to commercial traffic and the increasing scale of operations
anticipated, will introduce some problems. Finally, the existing tariffs are
not properly cost based, and although this question was addressed in Loan
702-TH, PAT's cost structure has changed significantly and a new review
would be appropriate; also there is a need to revalue the Authority's assets.
Accordingly these consultant services and studies are envisaged:
(a) Technical Assistance and Training
Reorganization of container
operation and documentation        3 manmonths consultant services
Tariff study                         6
(b) Financial Studies
Accounting system and planning    to be undertaken by PAT staff
only
Asset revaluation                     "
2.         In addition, the following studies (tentatively 100 man months)
will be conducted by consultants: (a) study to prevent erosion of the
beach on the North side of the bay at Sattahip, comprising a mathematical
model; and (b) Master Plan for port development on the Eastern Seaboard to
handle traffic to the year 2000.  The studies will be financed under the
Technical Assistance to be provided under the loan, and terms of reference
will be agreed with PAT and the Government. The estimated costs of the
studies are $250,000 and $550,000 respectively.
October 1980



- 67 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Operating Efficiency Indicators
1.        Measures of port efficiency are essential to management in
assessing and improving the utilization of port resources. However, the
definition of statistical measures which adequately reflect trends in
performance in a specific port is complicated by the variations in types of
ships and kinds of cargos.
2.         The important data that should be collected for each ship and for
each category of cargo, i.e., break bulk general, unitized, liquid bulk, dry
bulk and containerized, are:
(a) date and time of arrival if ship;
(b)  name, dead weight tonnage, length, and draft on arrival of ship;
(c) ship waiting time for berth;
(d) ship service time at berth (and location of berth);
(e) date and time of departure of ship;
(f) fraction of time berthed, ship worked;
(g)  tonnage and type /1 of cargo loaded and discharged by each ship;
(h) number of gangs employed per ship per shift; number of men in each
gang; and
(i) total gang-hours worked per ship.
3.         From the above data the following monthly efficiency indicators
^an be det.ved for each of the berths in the port with indication of the
category of cargo. The suggested efficiency factors for the three more
important statistics are indicated.
/1 As categorized above.



- 68 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
Tonnage per berth    Total tonnage worked for all general    230,000 tons
(tons/ship)           cargo ships, at the berth during           (165,000 tons
period under review divided by            over the berth)
number of ships
Average storage       Total ton-days of storage divided          3 weeks
time in port          by total tons in period
(days)
Tons per              Total tonnage worked, divided by           40 tons/gang-
gang-hour net         total gross gang time less stoppages    hour over berth
(tons/iet             occuring during the gang work
gang-hour)           period which cannot be attributed          20 tons/gang-
to the gang (e.g., weather, meal          hour overside
times)                                    to barge
Waiting time          Total time between arrival and
(hours/ship)          berthing for all berthing ships,
divided by number of berthing ships
Service time          Total time between berthing and           -
(hours/ship)          departure for all ships, divided
by number of ships
Arrival rate          Number of ships arriving during a
(ships/day)           month, divided by number of days
in the month
October 1980



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Import and Export Trade (Non-POL)
through Bangkok Port System /1
A. Imports
1.         Iron and steel currently represent about 1/3 of total imports
and are projected to maintain their share with an annual average growth of
5%-6%. Thailand has not yet any basic steel making capacity of its own, and
domestic steel demand of about 2 million tons annually, at present, is
met partly from foundries supplied by domestic and imported scrap and partly
from rerolling mills using billets and ingots from the domestic foundries
and imported waste and coil. Though several studies have been commissioned
during the last 15 years on the establishment of basic Thai steel-making
facilities, it is not to be expected that either a sponge iron or integrated
steel complex will be in existence before 1985.
2.        With 0.75 million tons in 1978, fertilizer occupies the second place
in Thailand-s imports even though the Thai agriculture is one of the lowest
users of fertilizers in East Asia. Almost all requirements are currently
imported. Use of fertilizer has increased at more than 20% p.a. from 1975 to
1978 and is expected to continue at about 15% p.a. up to 1985, bringing total
demand to 2 million tons per year by 1985. Of this amount, about 0.5 million
tons have been assumed to come from domestic production by 1985, with a
startup production commencing in 1982.
3.         Imports of chemicals are presently about 0.8 million tons p.a.,
having risen at an average rate of 20% p.a. since 1975. Because of the
expected slow-down of the economy caused by liquidity problems and dampened
world trade, the import demand for chemicals is expected to rise at only about
6% to 7% p.a. up to 1985. No major domestic production capacity is expected
to come on stream before that date, but there is a possibility that a soda
ash plant, currently in the planning stage, will be built by about that year
which in the later 1980s, will completely replace Thailand's current import
of 60,000 tons annually.
4.         Imports of paper and paper-making materials have jumped at an
annual rate of 16% from about 0.2 million tons in 1975 to 0.3 million tons
in 1978. The domestic demand is expected to continue to rise at a similar
pace but a number of new mills using domestic raw materials are also planned,
whose aggregate capacity will be about 0.2 million tons a year. Import
requirements up to 1985 have therefore been projected at 1978 levels annually.
/1 Discussion of major import and export categories only.



- 70 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.         Thailand has traditionally been a net exporter of cement but the
recent construction boom has exhausted production capacity. Imports which
reached already 0.5 million tons in the first half of 1979 are expected to
grow to a level of 1.2 million tons in 1980 but to drop off completely
thereafter on account of new domestic production capacity.
6.        Machinery and parts imports have fluctuated up and down between 1975
and 1978 and are presently at their lowest level since 1975 basically due to
successful import substitution and despite a growth in domestic demand.
Resumption of import growth is however expected on account of growing sophis-
tication of demand. Vehicles and parts imports rose steeply in the mid-70s
averaging 15% p.a. but dropped from 1977 to 1978 presumably because of fuel
price development. In view of the growing proportion of locally manufactured
parts and the complete ban of imports of fully assembled cars, imports have
been projected to move up only slightly above current levels.
B. Exports
7.        Tapioca exports mostly in form of pellets have grown from about 0.7
million tons in 1965 to 6.3 million tons in 1978. While the Thai agriculture
would havc the potential for further growth in tapioca production and exports,
Thailand has agreed to limit its exports from 1980 on to the European Common
Market (EEC), its main customer, to 5 million tons a year in response to
pressure of EEC farmers on the EEC Commission. On this basis, total Thai
tapioca exports to all countries for 1980 to 1985 have been projected at 5.5
million tons a year. Exports in 1979 however are estimated at only 4.1
million tons due to unfavorable weather conditions.
8.         Export of maize, roughly 2 million tons a year from 1975 to 1978, is
projected to stay around 2.0 to 2.2 million tons a year up to 1985. The area
under maize in Thailand has increased from about 7 million rai in 1973 to 8
million rai in 1977 and is expected to reach 10 million rai by 1985, which
corresponds to an annual increase from 1973 to 1985 of about 3% p.a. Domestic
demand for maize from the animal feed industry is projected to rise even more
rapidly at about 6% p.a., thus leaving no more than about 2.0 to 2.2 million
tons for export.
9.        Until the end of the 1960s, rice has been the largest export
commodity by volume. There has been no clear trend in rice exports, which in
1975 to 1978 for example have fluctuated between 1 and 3 million ton per year
largely as a function of weather conditions. There is however a trend towards
introduction and wider use of improved rice varieties and expansion of irriga-
tion allowing for a second crop, which together in a year of normal rainfall,
will more than offset an also growing domestic rice demand. The international
market outlook for Thai rice is good due to the broadening of the market in
the Middle East and Africa and the shortages in Kampuchea and Indo-China.
Based on these considerations, rice exports, which were 1.6 million tons in
1978, are projected at 2.8 million tons in 1985.



- 71 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
10.       Sugar and molasses, by volume one of the four principal export
commodities, are a relative newcomer to the Thai agricultural scene. Sugar
production has increased eight times during the last 10 years initially to
satisfy local demand only and subsequently also to be exported. Since 1970
when exports were below 0.1 million tons, exports have risen to 2.6 million
tons in 1977 though dropped to 1.9 million tons in 1978 because of world
market oversupply and price depression. Thai export tonnages, which are
subject to the International Sugar Organization quotas, are projected to
recover gradually and to reach the 1977 levels again by 1985.
October, 1980



- 72 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
1.        The methodology and principal assumptions underlying the forecasts
are presented below:
(a) Revenues. With the exception of storage income, revenues at
Sattahip and at Klong Toei are based on traffic forecasts (see
Tables 4 and 5) and on the existing tariff schedule. For
computational purposes, a storage charge with substantial weekly
increments is assumed to be effective September 30, 1981.
Uniform tariff adjustments across the board have been assumed as
follows:
Effective Date                  Overall Tariff Adjustment
September 30, 1980                          15%
September 30, 1981                          10%
September 30, 1982                          10%
September 30, 1983                           8%
September 30, 1984                           8%
These tariff increases employed in the Bank's forecasts are not
proposals but rather indications of the order of magnitude of the
tariff adjustments which will be required to attain the agreed
financial objectives discussed in para. 6.05.
(b) Working Expenses. It is assumed that about 70 employees at Klong
Toei will be transferred co Sattahip. Otherwise, labor costs take
into account only minor increases in staff at Klong Toei. Overall
staffing levels at Sattahip are based on the following schedule:
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
No. of employees      214    255    317    390    390    390
Fuel, repairs and maintenance have been projected in line with the
growth in trade. The recent 50% increase in the cost of diesel



- 73 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
fuel is included in the forecast for 1980. In addition, it is
assumed that wage levels will be increased by 15% on September 30,
1980. Thereafter the increase in working expenses have been
projected on the basis of a 12% annual inflation in 1981-85.
(c) Depreciation on existing assets is calculated on the life and
residual value of each asset using the straight line method.
Assets procured under the proposed project have been classified
as civil engineering or plant and equipment; an average annual
depreciation rate of 3.5% has been applied to the former
classification and 12% to the latter.
(d) Interest Charges on the proposed Bank loan were forecast on the
basis of 9.25% p.a. (repayable over 20 years, including 5 years
grace).
(e) Interest Earned. Short-term deposits are assumed to earn 10% p.a.
(f) Government Appropriation and Employee Bonus' are computed to be
40% and 8% respectively of the prior year's net revenue surplus.
(g) Capital Expenditures. Cash flow calculations assumed the capital
investment program detailed in the implementation schedule and the
disbursement schedule which are given in Tables 7 and 8.
October 1980



- 74 -
ATNEX 5
THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector
A.1  "Transport Planning Unit Project"
by BCEOM in association with Robert Nathan Associates
(financed under Fifth Highway Project, Loan 870-TH),
2 volumes February 1976
A.2  "Study of Highway Maintenance and Equipment Needs"
by Kampmann, Kierulff and Saxild A/S (financed under Fifth
Highway Project, Loan 870-TH),
4 volumes December 19.'6
A.3  "Inland Waterways - Phase III, Feasibility Study"
by BCEOM-CNR with participation of UECC (financed under
Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project, Loan 1519-TH),
2 volumes December 1979
A.4  "Coastal Ports Study"
by Maunsell Consultants Ltd. (London), Coopers & Lybrand
Associates Ltd. and Sindhu Pulsirivong & Associates
(financed under Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project,
Loan 1519-TH),
2 volumes April 1980
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B.1  "Sattahip Commercial Port Study"
by Maunsell Consultants (Melbourne), Sir William Halcrow
and Partners and Sindhu Pulsirivong & Associates (financed
under Bangkok Traffic Management Project, Loan 1638-TH)
2 volumes July 1980
October 1980



THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PARTS PROJECT
|RANST    WARSI EO  PORT CA  MRINE       l              M
OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
| OFLICE OE ADVISVRS                          T                         D         SEII
(OERATTIDONSC | (ADMINISTRATION)
POR OPNGNERNG|RATERONEIll COTRLERS
DEP |   |DPT llDP  
U~~~~~~~~~~~~AREROu                                                                                                                -   -3ra|CIVLEG|[   >i X<
i  CAN NIN         REVENUESI     ISTENAL | i                  GNRL
SIT       DIV.       AUI  IS. L          V 3~EDy
Source: Po-t Anehority If Thail-nd
October 1980






.-   :  t.-  . ~~..   H. -1-.  N. A-~.: - . --                                                                           A0\\1 1 /C         12 
:: L.:  ::                   :  :::                                                                               :.-    :::  :    A  :   : : : : : : -.'1-,  NAKIHN NAYOK
BUll MA    )'~LAND~~~a                  14          KANCHANABIRI                       N        PR H_ 8 I                          f
An_B   e ljR: A             -A  H--     t0          C       C )           BNLT<    i0iamK J a X -                           <\  
Ot.:  21 .M                                                     NN-    - .T/T NAM--K
,< Ot' tI4CH~J -. i1          <                                                                                                               2
;   ..........    .  q_ 7,4rPtACSAC
N~~~~           (~~RATCHABURI
THAILAND~                                                             A*HN
Bangkok-,           t                         ~SOGHRAMUR 
I  M4'UCHt~~~~~jJ                       BAN hAT * ~~~taeme Kroaboog          -
Andcsmaar
98~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T                           A I                                           ...   ..........  <3  ]HR HNp)
4REA                                                                                                         BURT          ILA 
MA/'                                                                                              Chal Bp AN    SATTAHI
MAASIA                   M            . . 
I PACHUAP
980                        >J~~~~~~~~~HIRI KHAN
THAILAND
/                 ~~BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP
PORTS PROJECT
(-  : -  -    A/-                                          PORTS
CHUMPHON
COASTAL  PORTS
10                                         .       ' tRANONG                                                 S        CHANGWAT  CENTERS               100
.--::1;920L       Lngsuan                                             ROADS
-4---*     RAILWAYS
-     CHANGWAT BOUNDARIES
4   I t  BANDON                       _- _       INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES
?       %210  i;~~~~ponsak 11
'( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
19 ,tJ               >\            1NNKHON Sl THAMMARAT
/44\\     f   \\         j#>~~~~Pak2 Phnang
KILOME S  -ntKRAB    :     unT                                                        u \
This                                                                   Songsbe reae yteWrl ak tf or,.vt o a ote,no                                      Bt-..
jKcntang  RA\       n3
SONGKHLA
'/0  1000     i  :(:.:102:13
</~~~~~~~~~~A  TTANI
SATU{S                                      S  ai Buri
MILES                           *~~~~~~~}   -{\             r    <>~~~~~~ NARATHIWAT
!            ,              1 OOIL E                                             .     .  . . . . .>                J
6                   5 0       10                                                        ,
KILOMETERS j 2 Sna:   
.hs np has b- orpared by th. World 6-k't s taf -6--xivly for thecnnic , r--i-            ..                                                          c
bounane shwn-n &    thmp donptimp.f-nthepanof he-h.d.f Th.pn it ,..- ---..-----  -  ::- >
~~~~~~~~-tpa~ffftes.ar WjddEretohlg-ksafsfayentrornedorsme ...- ^-                           :          :  ...  V .:. .. :... A: .....:-: 
p                                                                                              ocep tmce   of  such bn~ ~~~edanes ... : -- . :V. -fi- w w , ............ ....... ...... ..... ..... .. -- .-..   . . . .. .   (
98~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   ...... .           :          
. . . . .   . .






IBRD 2791 R
JULY  1980
BANG  SU STATION
Souheln  RaIlway        GRAND                                MAKKASAN STATION
STAIO       PALACEEay,0/il0
THONB R I                                                E'-e    R {7  =_ 
MEMORIAL BRIDGEII\
THONBURI   3w7                                 1\A G O
Anchorage north of
Krungthep Bridge             M         STATO
- / Port Authority of Thailand
KRUNGT2EP/8.//     <             \< o \  (PA.T)
BRIDGE                                                   ne    An\horano     e Kng Too
IS:    Mcor,n                       KongTi         j
VMN  W h  rA                                             a 07)   9 )  Militcry Oil
~~~~~~ ~~~~Refinery
TMN Whar          Anchoaya, 
Sathuprad      3 d/ ,~j~ i t E o                       Thai Navy
PhrSil Pr    ten
SAMUT
\               i.   ~~~PRAKAN
THAILAND                               <             >i  
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT                                                      /'
PORT OF BANGKOK
LOCATION, ROAD, RAIL AND WATER ACCESS
Main rocods                                     /0
S, E | Railwc/ys                          
Anchorages                                         \
==I Bar ch        LFnnel   F                                                L
e    Light beacons                                   X      +      
*e Light buoysaligne\ 
FORT oo0ffo                  \ \            Chachoeng Sao
0100005rO  1  2       3      4                                                            \   \       Chon Buri
* 1           2       3      40                                                                       Loan Krabang
KI LOMETERS                                                       '^+              '0 
*   dark 400m0 0 0         G' map0                                       T                      L              N 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~A//S/
W:   ..k                                          ..ff WW1                                      S/
of &0 r#/0f Of
teeon ty,a wteop aatofA
Woe omok  mt as eood ayA
:.mm 00      ' /ealOo   'f       . .      '-       P-ro  eaself:                                            '         :
OY emmw or OndOZ- Pmet                                                                   essef
e,asmaptoee:errertSr o- -od :oedIe                       -         ~             -/          hnte                             -






-     DEAl   DIII                   - ____________  -I- THA LArID                                                             APP  [Y80
/7  005 =d 88                                                /tLA                         BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
/.'   R E S E R \[ '*JE D    A 1l R [ A0  SS'                // T                               PORT OF  BANGKOK (KLONG TOEI)
II                                 IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
an, Mu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,PEuyW
I   g  ::::'SEt/                                                                                                                                          \,                "f_,~~~~I 7I
Itt NC             Y                   ,_-,                                                                                                                __        '
___  __ _________________  _________           __                                   IAAA< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1<1/
K  flEAs '~~~~~~~- __  ________  _____________ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------_-'-----  -~~~~~~~~~
-          i00o,~~ K                                                     II 1111                                                                                OT5AE






iBRD 14989
.  '  CHI NA 
//  '/    >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~~   /  7  / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THAILAND~~VE
7/77777/77/7  7,),  / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"                   ~Bngkok v
/';,/  77<'  /    /       ;;.:q  ''  ~~~~~ '                                                                                                                N           INGOR
7,                                                                            .7~~.IVl  GNRk AG
7,7  77  /   7/     /7~~,7,                           -          'CTNOAENER
/  $'~~~~~~'~~-;           F7,efrre6~~~~~Y  RJ)                                                       PE   S
7/  77    /  7;~~~~~~~~~~~~*'/7/Y                                                                                       7\       '     j~~~~~~~OAG
/7/7;  '>  77~~~~~~~~~7,7/7   Li10D,
/7/ / ~K'$ /,>/'~ 77                                                              _________________                                     '\ A
77  '/,A' ~~~~~~~""~~~"    ~ ~~   Li    YARD                                  95/.           OP~~~~~~~CCENS                                                       'oh AG
>P. A             f nkN 
77,,,/,7'                                                                                   WAY        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/77  ,;./~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~/,   ,,  U                                                                                   F,50~~~~~~~~~~C-        . ;Q-O
7,                                                                                         Recreonen                 Comn,un50,10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pojc area------
;,   /  /7.   ,5~~~~~~~~;,77        577P'flQ Age0,5' nffj0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F5PopoedTew  uilin
//7'    /7    '>~~~~~  /~~77,7  ,,7/,~~~~~,  /  70A'OCTMOI       '-R'/.enoorregi,gare
7/       7                                                                                                                    "            Popoed .   ,,   oles~
7<' 7  /  7  <>7,-  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~     TOO~~~~~                             L7"~~~~~                   "'"""~~~~~LJ   nm,xPor lo~nar
7/7    /   /~~~~~~~~~~~~~7    * / ~~~~~~~~~~'  ,  ~~~~~~~~       gRE             ~~~Eisin    or  ae
7/7 7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Eitn ulig
77  ~~~~~~~~~~~7   7 7.  7  7/  W ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~        ---          uur   cila
7,7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EES20 i //477  0/
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FE //  7
/77/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d 77;  /,  h
/7/,,   7/  ,77~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



