Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY              FILE  COPY
Repont No. P-2893-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
October 30, 1980
This documeut bas a restricted distribution ad may be used by recipients only in the perfonce of
their Oficial duties. Its contents n11y not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatIon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Thai Baht (B)
B 1          =  $0.05
B 1 million = $50,000
$1           =  B 20
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)  =  1.307 cubic yards (cu yd)
1 metric ton (t)       =  0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
cfs  -  Container freight station
MOC  -  Ministry of Communications
PAT  -  Port Authority of Thailand
SRT  -  State Railway of Thailand
TPU  -  Transport Planning Unit (within MOC)
GOVERNMENT OF THAILAND
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         The Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:           $47 million equivalent.  The Government will onlend $15.5
million to the Port Authority of Thailand (PAT) on same
terms and conditions as the Bank loan.
Terms:            20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 9.25%
per annum.
Project           The proposed project will address the need for creating ad-
Description:   ditional port capacity in the Bangkok and Eastern Seaboard
area to service Thailand's growing foreign trade. Specifi-
cally, the project aims at raising the operational effi-
ciency of PAT's Klong Toei facilities at Bangkok Port
and at converting the ex-naval port of Sattahip for commer-
cial use to handle the diverted traffic in excess of
the capacity of the Klong Toei facilities. The physical
improvements included in the project consist of: civil
works at Klong Toei and Sattahip; mechanical equipment for
both ports; floating equipment for Sattahip; and construc-
tion of container freight stations and bonded warehouses
including procurement of mechanical equipment at Bang Su.
The measures to improve operational efficiency at Klong
Toei will consist of: reallocation of berths between con-
ventional cargo and container ships; and streamlining cargo
handling and container yard operating procedures. In
addition the project will provide for technical assistance,
training and financial studies to help improve PAT's
organizational efficiency; and a study for the future
development of ports on the Eastern Seaboard.
The project will improve the efficiency and cargo handling
capacity of the ports and produce savings in costs of ship
waiting days, ship lighterage, and agricultural bulk
exports. The risks associated with the project represent
the problems inherent in forecasting external trade flows
and land transport costs for container movement between
Sattahip and Bangkok. However, the project retains
sat'isfactory returns even under pessimistic risk
assumptions.
This docwnsnt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their obeGlh duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                           Local  Foreign  Total
($ million) ----
Klong Toei and Sattahip Ports
Civil works                          18.09    3.43   21.52
Mechanical equipment                  6.65    9.29   15.94
Floating equipment                    3.70    -        3.70
Consulting services                   -        1.28    1.28
Technical assistance & training    -           1.15    1.15
Base Cost                      28.44   15.15   43.59
Physical contingencies                3.53    0.77    4.30
Price contingencies                   5.43    3.42    8.85
Total Port o10rks              37.40   19.34   56.74
Bang Su Complex
Civil works                          13.16   15.76   28.92
Mechanical equipment                  1.50    5.50    7.00
Engineering consulting services    -           1.90    1.90
Base Cost                      14.66   23.16   37.82
Physical contingencies                2.25    3.50    5.75
Price contingencies                   4.00    4.85    8.85
To tal Bang Su                 20.91   31.51   52.42
Prolect Total                  58.31   50.85  109.16



- iii -
Financing Plan:
Port Works          Bang Su
Local Foreign      Local  Foreig   To tal
-------------- ($ million) ----…         -
Royal Thai Government             -       -          20.9      -       20.9
Port Authority of Thailand    37.4        3.9         -        -       41.3
IBPD                              -      15.5         -       31.5    47.0
Total                    37.4    19.4         20.9    31.5   109.2
Es timated
Disbursement:  Bank FY           1981       1982       1983      1984       1985
---------------- ($ million) ---------------
Annual          1.98      14.62      13.40      11.25       5.75
Cumulative      1.98      16.60      30.00      41.25      47.00
Rate of Return:  21%
Staff
Appraisal
Report:         No. 3044-TH, dated October 15, 1980.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP  PORTS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $47 million to help
finance the Bangkok and Sattahip Ports Project. The loan would have a
term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 9.25% per
annum. An amount of $15.5 million will be onlent to the Port Authority of
Thailand for undertaking port works at Klong Toei and Sattahip on the same
terms and conditions as the Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand - Toward a Strategy of
Full Participation" (2059-TH) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 18, 1978. The Report concludes that Thailand's rapid economic
growth over the past 15 years has led to a significant reduction in absolute
poverty, but that the poorest have lagged behind this progress. It identi-
fies the essential characteristics of these groups and points to the need
for continued overall development as well as the initiation of specific
measures to deal with the poverty problem, particularly in rural areas. It
further discusses the constraints on the successful implementation of these
policies. A Country Economic Memorandum which provides an updating of macro-
economic developments is currently under preparation. Country data are
given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        The frequent changes at the top levels of government, which have
characterized recent political developments in Thailand, have mainly reflected
differing views on Thailand-s external relations and on the political
decision-making process within the country. The Government under the prime
ministership of General Kriangsak Chomanan, formed in November 1977,
resigned on February 29, 1980, following increasing public and parliamentary
criticism of its economic policies. General Prem Tinsulanonda was elected
by the National Assembly to succeed Kriangsak as Prime Minister after
receiving the support of nearly all major political parties. General Prem-s
new government, formed on March 14, 1980, includes leaders from the political
parties which supported him. On March 28, 1980, General Prem announced his
government-s policies on a number of issues including economic and social
development. These policies place high and immediate priority on accelera-
ting rural development, raising rural incomes and on measures to improve
health and education. Particular emphasis is given to generating more jobs
and it is expected that a rural public works program similar to the 1975/76
Tambon Program will be a major element in this strategy. The Government
also intends to exert efforts to contain inflation and a more gradual



- 2 -
adjustment of energy prices is foreseen at the same time that domestic
energy resources are being developed. Reforms in monetary and fiscal policy
and efforts to improve the trade balance through improved export performance
are also called for. As discussed below, these reforms are critical to
increasing resource mobilization (especially in the public sector) and
reducing the current account deficit.
Past Trends and Recent Changes
4.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  The
average annual growth of real GDP from 1960 to 1979 was 7.9%, or about 4.8%
per capita. Real agricultural growth of nearly 5% was a leading factor
sustaining this expansion. The cultivated area increased by about 4% a year,
water control was improved, irrigation was expanded and the cultivation of
relatively new crops, including maize, cassava, kenaf, sugar and rubber, grew
rapidly. Agriculture has also been a major contributor to export growth. As
a share of GDP, domestic savings fluctuated between 19% and 24%, and total
investment between 20% and 27%. The high level of private investment
contributed to a real industrial growth of 10% per year since 1970. All this
was achieved with a limited inflow of external resources and, until recently,
the debt service gap remained quite low.
5.        The large growth in incomes over the last two decades has, however,
not been equitably distributed throughout the country, and at present there
are very significant regional differentials in incomes and access to
economic and social infrastructure. The regions are very different in terms
of topography, climate, soils, urbanization, etc., and present quite
distinct problems for future development. The Central Region, including
Bangkok, has the highest per capita income and is better served by roads,
telecommunications, schools, public health and other services than the other
three regions, the North, Northeast and South. Within the regions also
there is considerable variation: farmers who have diversified into cash
crops have generally enjoyed substantial growth in real incomes while the
incomes of those who have been unable or unwilling to shift out of
subsistence rice culture have stagnated. Recent research has shown that
inappropriate cropping patterns and agricultural techniques are major
factors in much of the rural poverty. This is most conspicuously the case
of the rainfed rice farmers in the Northeast and North. Since there is a
well-functioning labor market, the low incomes of this large group have
tended to depress unskilled wages throughout the economy.
6.        Real concern over the plight of the poor is growing, and observable
improvements in rural living standards are being seen as a major factor in
promoting political stability. In the past several years the Government has
initiated efforts to increase the flow of public resources to the poor rural
areas, including the Tambon Program of direct transfers to villages in 1976,
the drought relief program in 1977, the flood relief program in 1978, the
new village development program in 1979 and the rural employment program in



- 3 -
1980. These programs have been designed to produce quick and tangible
political as well as economic results, but considerably more attention and
resources need to be devoted to rural development if these programs are to
have lasting impact. While the absorptive capacity in rural areas has
increased since the Tambon Program of 1975-76, there is some concern about
the efficacy of crash programs in view of the resource constraints facing
the budget and the limitations of implementation capacity at various levels
of government.
7.        Thailand's balance of payments position and its trade prospects
are now less favorable than in the early 1970s. The overall balance of
payments, which recorded surpluses in 1973 and 1974, has since been running
deficits, averaging almost $500 million annually since 1977. In 1978, the
current account deficit reached $1.1 billion, or 5% of GDP, and increased in
1979 to $2.1 billion, or about 8% of GDP. The most significant changes in
the external environment have been the rapid increase in the price of
imported energy, the decline in net transfer and service payments to
Thailand and the conjunction of inflation and recession throughout the
world.
8.        To contain and finance the balance of payments deficit, the Govern-
ment has taken a number of measures to date. It has increased significantly
its borrowing from traditional sources and the Eurodollar market, and at the
beginning of 1980 raised interest rate ceilings by 3 percentage points in
order to encourage domestic savings and to curtail the flight of capital
abroad. Foreign exchange reserves have also been used extensively.
9.        The Government has also adjusted domestic prices to slow the
growth of imports. In March 1978, tariffs on non-essential imports were
raised, along with excise taxes on a number of items, notably gasoline.
Petroleum product prices were raised in January 1979, July 1979 and February
1980, for a cumulative increase of about 100% for gasoline.  Currently, the
latter-s price is the equivalent of $1.80 per gallon. After a proposed
power tariff increase of about 55% was rejected in November 1979, a lesser
tariff increase of about 38% was finally implemented in February 1980 and
another increase of 26% was implemented on October 1. A further increase is
expected to be implemented on January 1, 1981.
Development Prospects and Constraints
10.       In the coming decade, many of the positive features which helped
sustain rapid economic growth over the past two decades will continue to
contribute to future growth. These factors include a relatively equitable
distribution of rural land; responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved
technology; provision of infrastructure by the Government; and the dynamism of
the private sector in both industry and agriculture. Also, major gains have



- 4 -
been made in family planning in recent years, slowing the annual rate of
population growth from about 3% during the 1960s to an estimated 2.2% in 1979.
The target for 1981 is 2.1%.
11.       Some less favorable domestic factors are emerging, however.  As a
result of very rapid population growth in the 1960s, projected labor force
growth of 3% p.a. necessitates a high rate of job creation. Past growth has
benefited households unevenly and created further income disparities that
could threaten the social cohesion of the country. At the same time,
additional fertile land, which has supported the growth of agricultural
production and exports in the past, is becoming increasingly scarce. In view
of these factors, continued reliance on the past pattern of development may
lead to a deceleration of agricultural and overall growth in the next
decade; persistently large balance-of-payments deficits; higher rates of
unemployment or underemployment; and stagnating or declining real incomes of
the poorer segments of the population, especially in rural areas and among
unskilled workers. These internal factors are complicated by the external
factors of rapid oil price increases and recession in developed countries.
The oil price increase alone will add about $1.0 billion to the 1980 import
bill, even with no increase in import volume, and the current account
deficit is estimated to be at least 9% of GDP. The unfavorable external
situation will require major domestic adjustments and it is unlikely that
the overall growth rate will exceed about 6% in the coming years.
12.       Thailand must shift its economy from a pattern of growth based on
the extension of land under cultivation and on import-substituting industries
to one based on increasingly intensive use of land and on industries producing
for domestic and export markets under competitive conditions. At the same
time it must reduce its current account deficit and increase public savings.
Effective policies and programs will be necessary to ensure that economic
growth is maintained and income disparities reduced, or at least not widened,
during this period of transition. In the past, the Government's role has
focused primarily on short-term economic management and the provision of basic
economic and social services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth
transition, the Government will now have to undertake more coordinated
long-term policies and play a more active role in development management.
13.       Agriculture will continue to be the dominant sector since it
directly generates 30% of GDP, provides about 60% of total exports, and
employs 75% of the labor force. However, future growth of the sector will
require more intensive utilization of cultivated areas, continued diversifica-
tion of crops, improved cropping patterns and farming practices, and easier
access to agricultural inputs including credit. All of these imply an
increased government role in rural development. But while growth in the
agricultural sector may be expected to remain fairly rapid for some time to
come, the burden of sustaining future growth will have to shift progressively
to the industrial sector. Industry, construction and services will have to
provide an increasing share of employment for the growing labor force. In
1979, industrial production accounted for about one-fourth of GDP and about



- 5 -
one-third of total exports. Manufactured output, which accounted for 90% of
industrial production, achieved an export growth of 24% in 1979, almost
double the growth rate of total exports. While continued growth of
manufactured exports is essential, the large domestic market  lx.so offers
opportunities for a balanced industrial growth based on production of
consumer goods, agricultural inputs and processing of agricultural outputs
for urban consumption. Our policy dialogue will concentrate on efforts to
reduce price distortions, increase availability of credit, and eliminate
impediments to efficient production for domestic and foreign markets so that
the dynamic private sector can realize its potential for spurring growth and
creating jobs.
14.       The principal objectives of the Government's Fourth Plan (1977-81)
are to achieve 7% real growth, equitable distribution of income, reduction in
the rate of population growth, faster generation of employment opportunities
and balanced regional development. Public sector development expenditures
were to double in real terms in relation to the Third Plan. However, the
Plan addresses sectoral issues and strategies only in broad terms, and con-
crete policies and programs to meet the Plan's economic and social objectives
are not spelled out in any detail. The Government has now embarked on the
preparation of the Fifth Plan (1982-86) and the agencies of the Government
are undertaking a number of studies to help ensure that the Fifth Plan
provides an unambiguous basis for the allocation of resources and the
formulation of development policies and programs. These studies may help
identify possible areas of Bank lending for structural adjustment.
Financing Requirements
15.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public
expenditures over the next few years. This will require much greater efforts
to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past. Government
domestic revenue as a percentage of GDP (13.5% for 1975-79) is low compared to
other developing countries at similar levels of development due to low tax
rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of compliance. With
expenditures rising, the overall budgetary deficit in fiscal year 1979/80 is
estimated at above $1.0 billion, or over 4% of GDP. The Government has
achieved a modest improvement in resource mobilization through revision of the
tax structure and improved collections. Much greater efforts will be needed
in the future if the reliance on foreign financing - and thereby the deficit
on the current account of the balance of payments - is to be reduced in
relation to the size of the economy.
16.       During the coming years, the demand for external resources will
increase. Despite an average real growth of exports of over 10% and increased
domestic production of primary energy, the projected rise in the price of
imports - led by the price of petroleum - implies that large trade and
current account deficits are expected to persist through the mid-1980s. It
is estimated that a 6% overall growth rate can be maintained and the current
account deficit reduced to 4-5% of GDP by 1985 if appropriate policies are



followed, including greater efforts in implementating energy saving measures,
promoting agricultural growth and exports, reducing distortions and excessive
protection in industry, promoting more labor-intensive exports, and post-
poning major capital intensive investments until the economy can afford them.
This implies an average current deficit of $3 billion per year in 1980-85,
which will require very large amounts of external borrowing, totalling about
$18 billion net over the period.
17.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks, have
been expanding their programs to meet a part of Thailand's growing resource
requirements. The rest has been financed in the Eurodollar market and bond
markets. The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to
coordinate and approve all foreign borrowing by the public sector. The Bank
of Thailand is establishing procedures for recording private borrowing
abroad in order to keep track of total foreign debt. Current estimates of
Thailand's external borrowing requirements exceed those discussed at the
last Consultative Group meeting, and the need for continued concessional aid
is perhaps now more acute. In addition, external agencies, including the
Bank Group, have in recent years increasingly concentrated project lending
to Thailand in some sectors that have high social benefits, but low foreign
exchange savings or earnings. To achieve the level of external resource
transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in selected projects where
the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local currency
expenditures. Program and structural adjustment lending should also be
considered.
18.       By 1985, net disbursements will more than double in current terms
for both public and publicly guaranteed borrowing and private borrowing. The
debt service ratio on public debt (4.6% in 1979) will exceed 10% by 1985, but
should decline thereafter. Assuming a significant level of concessional
assistance, the debt service ratio on total public and private civilian
borrowing (currently about 15%) will rise to over 20% before declining.
Given the diversification of Thai commodity exports and the rapid expansion of
manufactured exports, these debt service requirements should be sustainable if
rapid export growth continues, more domestic resources are mobilized, and
economic stability is maintained.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
19.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of August 31, 1980, had received 57 IBRD loans amounting to
about $1,850 million, net of cancellations. The sectoral distribution of
these loans has been as follows: $364 million for transportation; $316 mil-
lion for irrigation; $650 million for power/energy and rural electrification
(including $66 million for a dual purpose power and irrigation project);
$153 million for telecommunications; $163 million for agricultural and rural
development; $109 million for urban development; $52 million for education;
and $42 million for industry. Thailand has also received six IDA credits:
two credits totalling $54.5 million for education; one credit of $25.0 million
for rural development; two credits totalling $12.5 million for irrigation



improvement; and one credit of $33.1 million for a population proiect.  In
general, Bank Group-financed projects have been carried out satisfactorily
and in accordance with expectations. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loa s, IDA credits and IFC investments as well as brief notes on the
execution of ongoing projects as of August 31, 1980.
20.        Over the past five years, the Bank has shifted its lending in
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastruc-
ture projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY74) to a
program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's efforts
to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since FY75,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications and
industry have accounted for only about 50% of Bank Group lending and more
than half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically
designed to benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending
to the agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for
about 35% of lending operations since FY75. The design of projects in
this sector has also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to
a more balanced program covering irrigation (including land development and
support services to the farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to
assist farmers outside the central flood plain (rubber replanting, live-
stock, agricultural extension, and rural development). Projects in the
social sectors which prior to FY75 were limited to three in education account-
ing for 6% of the program, have both diversified and grown. In recent years
education, population and low-income housing projects have accounted for
about 15% of the program.
21.        The findings of the 1978 Basic Economic Report and a more recent
economic mission verify the appropriateness of the shift mentioned above,
and underscore the need to move even further in designing programs which
help the rural population, particularly those farmers in rainfed areas who
have been largely bypassed by recent economic growth. In the agricultural
sector, therefore, the Bank is redoubling its efforts to develop an approach
which will help to lift the rainfed farmers out of a subsistence existence.
A combination of education, agricultural research and extension, credit and
improved infrastructure is foreseen. However, the major problem is the
absence so far of a viable package for the poorest and most remote farmers.
Expansion and improvement of irrigation systems will continue, with increased
emphasis on reaching those farmers with irrigation potential in the northern,
northeastern and southern regions. The program of transportation, electrifi-
cation, water supply and telecommunications projects will also continue to
have a rural focus. A key element of the strategy outlined in the Basic
Economic Report is the creation of jobs and stimulation of increased
economic activity outside of Bangkok. The bulk of the Bank Group's urban
and industrial lending will, therefore, be directed to projects which
enhance the attractiveness of regional cities as service centers for the
agricultural economy of those regions.  Selected projects in Bangkok will be



aimed at strengthening agencies providing essential services to the urban
population and the development of low cost, replicable programs to meet
the demands of the urban sector, particularly the urban poor, without divert-
ing scarce resources from other high-priority development needs.
22.       The Bank's strategy of placing an increasing share of its program
into projects alleviating poverty and promoting rural development will be
difficult to execute without considerable technical assistance toward
institutional development and project preparation. The Bank's regional
mission in Bangkok will continue to play a vital role in helping to identify
and prepare such projects. Promoting overall growth also has a high
priority in Thailand and is a necessary element in the poverty alleviation
strategy. The resource requirements for infrastructure development and for
developing energy and its domestic primary sources are large, and the Bank
is concentrating its remaining funds in projects where it can have a
catalytic role in effecting policy changes and mobilizing other resources.
The Bank is also expanding its support of the industrial sector through its
economic and sector work as well as selected projects in order to help
promote industrial policies which favor more labor-intensive and dispersed
activities to complement Thailand's efforts in poverty alleviation.
23.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted
to $584.3 million, as of December 31, 1979, representing about 22% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). The Bank Group's share of
public debt service payments in 1979 was 23.1%, or 7.2% of total debt
service including private debt. This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall public external debt (9.7% of GDP in 1979). In
addition, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase
over the next five years, the Bank Group's share is below 30% of total
public external debt as Thailand has diversified its borrowing program.
The Bank Group's share in total debt outstanding is expected to fall below
20%, and its share of total debt service would not exceed 10%.
24.       As of August 31, 1980, IFC had made commitments totalling about
$84 million in nine projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been
primarily in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed
at mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller
enterprises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been
enhanced by expanding private sector investment activity; consultations with
the Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may be
needed. These areas include very large and complex projects such as a
proposed sponge iron project and a soda ash project to serve the ASEAN
community; projects in the petroleum and downstream petrochemical sector;
and projects in the agricultural sector. In addition, IFC expects to
continue to help traditional manufacturing projects and to assist in
financial institutions and money market developments.



-9-
PART III - TRANSPORT SECTOR
General
25.       During the last 10-15 years, the Thai economy grew at a rapid pace
and generated a high demand for transport. Transport growth in this period
was about 8% p.a. for freight and 12% p.a. for passenger traffic; it was
supported by large Government investments for transport, mostly in road
works, and generally liberal transport policies which stimulated a competi-
tive road transport industry. Today, virtually the entire primary roads
system serving interprovincial trade is complete, and significant progress
has been made toward the build-up of the secondary roads system. Railways,
inland waterways and coastal shipping, confined to sp,_w-fic locations and
handling mostly bulk commodities, have also grown, but at a modest rate.
26.       All modes combined, freight transport in Thailand is about 50 mil-
lion tons and 14 billion ton-km per annum.   Roads generate about 70% of
ton-km, followed by railways with close to 20% and inland waterways with
about 10%.  Freight is geographically concentrated in the Northern Corridor
between the Gulf of Thailand and the North and along the traffic axes radia-
ting from Bangkok to the south and northeast. The direction, composition
and size of traffic flows reflect the country's generally rural character,
Bangkok's central location and dominance as the country's principal port and
consumption center, and the agricultural strength of the Central Region.
27.       With the progress made in developing primary and secondary roads,
future transport requirements are shifting toward extension and improvement
of tertiary roads in support of the needs of local communities, upgrading of
other modes of transport and the removal of specific capacity bottlenecks in
the national transport system, such as the Port of Bangkok. Tertiary roads
are underdeveloped and inadequately maintained. The inland waterways and
coastal shipping perform at below-attainable output and efficiency levels.
The Port of Bangkok will soon be critically congested unless new port
capacity is generated under the proposed project.
Transport Infrastructure
28.       Roads.  By traffic volumes, network length, area coverage and capi-
tal expenditures, roads are Thailand's most important transport infrastruc-
ture. The Department of Highways (DOH) competently administers and maintains
the national as well as the provincial roads systems. National highways,
the primary roads system, total about 14,000 km. They radiate from Bangkok
to the national borders, and most are paved. Built or reconstructed to
present standards in the last 20 years, many of these roads will soon
require reconstruction or upgrading because of continuing traffic growth.



- 10 -
29.       Provincial roads, the secondary roads system, total about 30,000 km.
They serve provincial needs in linking changwat capitals with larger changwat
towns. The length is currently increasing at a rate of several thousand km
per year as roads, which have been under the jurisdiction of other agencies,
are transferred to DOH. About 15,000 km, of which about 8,000 km are paved,
have had some improvements; the remainder, about 15,000 km, are tracks or
substandard earth and gravel roads, some impassable in the rainy season.
30.       In addition, Thailand has an estimated 40,000-50,000 km of tertiary
roads. The exact number is difficult to assess since inventories are incom-
plete and generally out-of-date. Standards vary between tracks and engineered
roads of various levels. Planning is deficient and maintenance, on average,
poor or nonexistent. Planning, construction methods and maintenance of
tertiary roads need to be improved, and the jurisdictions of rural roads
agencies need to be redefined. To examine these issues the Government is
undertaking a rural roads sector study with Bank financing (Sixth Highway
Project, Loan 1519-TH).
31.       Railways.  The railways are a trunk line carrier with 3,800 route
km of which 600 km are branchlines. The meter gauge lines are single track
except for some 90 km near Bangkok. The State Railway of Thailand (SRT) is
an operationally efficient and well-managed state enterprise but its
financial position is weak because of inadequate and infrequent adjustments
in passenger and freight tariffs. Under the current Five-Year Plan, and
with Bank assistance (Fifth Railway Project, Loan 1662-TH), SRT is engaged
in rehabilitation of deteriorated and obsolete plant and equipment and
extension of rail and rolling stock capacity.
32.       The Government intends to construct a new railway line between
Sattahip and Chachoengsao some 50 km from Bangkok, to serve the Eastern
Seaboard and its hinterland, the new deepsea port at Sattahip and future
industrial development.  This railway line is expected to be constructed
between 1981-1983. In the earlier years, the new line would serve mostly
the needs of Sattahip, but could subsequently become a bulk goods carrier
for the various industries expected to be developed in the port's
hinterland. The new line will also carry some passenger traffic. Total
track costs, based on final engineering completed in mid-1980, are
estimated at about $105 million and include costs of land and signalling as
well as contingencies. Rolling stock requirements for the projected traffic
in 1985 are estimated to cost about $25 million including- contingencies.
Overall capital costs summed up to 1985 are therefore about $130 million.
The Bank has expressed concern about the economic viability of the new
railway line and the appropriate timing for its construction and suggested
that the railway investments be reviewed under a study of future development
in the Eastern Seaboard area which is financed under the Bangkok Traffic
Management Project (Loan 1638-TH).  In the event the railway was not
constructed or if construction was postponed, the existing roads system
between Bangkok and Sattahip and the road transport industry would be
adequate for handling the Sattahip port's traffic.



- 11 -
33.       Inland Waterways.  Thailand has a comprehensive inland waterways
system of about 1,300 km in the Northern Corridor stretching from Bangkok to
Uttaradit in the Central Region. To utilize the inland waterways' potential
for low-co - transport, a Bank loan has recently been approved (the Inland
Waterways and Coastal Ports Project, Loan 1889-TH), under which the shallow
river sections will be deepened. The project also includes construction of
two river ports at Nakhon Sawan and Taphan Hin, and procurement of a pusher
tug barge convoy to demonstrate the operational and economic advantages of
replacing the traditional wooden barges by modern units. After completion
of the project in 1983, freight traffic of about 0.6 million tons (excluding
sand) from the project region, is expected to increase four times. Most of
this traffic consists of rice and maize.
34.       Deep-Water Ports.  Thailand has at present two deep-water ports -
Bangkok and Sattahip. Two other potential deep-water ports, Songkhla and
Phuket, are located in the south and, on the basis of a study now in progress,
the Asian Development Bank (ADB) is expected to help finance construction of
these ports starting in 1983. Virtually all of Thailand's commercial traffic
is handled through the Port of Bangkok. During the last ten years, annual
trade growth has been about 10% on average. In 1979, imports totalled 6.4
million tons and exports, 12.7 million tons. The present capacity of the
Port of Bangkok would not be able to handle the projected increases in
external trade during 1980-85. The proposed project will therefore improve
the capacity of the existing port at Klong Toei (Bangkok) and convert the
ex-naval port of Sattahip into a commercial port for container traffic and
agricultural bulk exports.
35.       Coastal Ports and Shipping.  The coastal ports, located on the
east and west coasts of the southern peninsula comprise about 40 facilities
ranging from small fishing and cargo wharves of purely local importance to
large regional ports with annual volumes of several hundred thousand tons of
cargo. About 2.0-2.5 million tons of cargo and petroleum and 1.2 million
tons of fish are annually loaded or landed at these ports. Despite recent
improvements in land transport, coastal ports and shipping remain an
essential part of the transport system in coastal areas. All coastal ports
have severe draft restrictions and are subject to continuous siltation from
riverine and littoral sources. Frequent maintenance dredging and, in some
cases, capital dredging is required but the capacity of the Harbor
Department, which is in charge of these functions, is limited due to lack of
equipment and expertise. The Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project
(para. 33) will help remedy these constraints.
36.       Aviation.  Thailand's international and domestic air transport are
centered at Don Muang airport in the vicinity of Bangkok. Airport capacity
is tight and plans are under study for the needed expansion. Two other
international airports, Had Yai near the Malaysian border and Chieng Mai in
the north, are receiving international flights. There are another 40
airfields of various sizes of which about half receive domestic scheduled



- 12 -
flights. Domestic public air transport is provided by Thai Airways, and
Thai International Airways is the international carrier. Both companies are
government-owned. Civil domestic aviation is in the order of 0.3 million
passengers and 1.2 million tons of cargo per year.
Transport Planning and Coordination
37.       The Ministry of Communications (MOC) is responsible for transport
policy, coordination and planning. During the last 10-15 years, the
Government has been able to keep transport investments generally in line
with the needs of the growing economy. These investments have, in turn,
helped to stimulate economic development. An efficient and competitive
privately-owned road transport industry has evolved. The railways are
gradually meeting the challenge of road competition and more energy effi-
cient modes, such as inland waterways and coastal ports are being developed.
Despite the Government's railway policies, there is no evidence of
significant intermodal distortions.
38.       At the recommendation of the Bank, a Transport Planning Unit (TPU)
was set up in 1974 within the MOC to act as the focal point of transport
planning and policy review. The unit, with technical assistance provided
under Bank financing (Sixth Highway Project, Loan 1519-TH), is currently
participating in the formulation of the Fifth Five-Year Transport Development
Plan (1982-86). Among the main issues it will address are the transport
policy implications of rising fuel costs. The Government has tended to pursue
a policy of shielding the economy and the public from potentially disruptive
effects of increasing international prices. This past year the Government
has raised petroleum products prices quite substantially but they are still
below those prevailing in most other middle-income oil importing countries.
Current (late 1980) prices including taxes for gasoline (about $0.69/liter),
diesel fuel (about $0.32/liter), and kerosene (about $0.26/liter), are above
the theoretical opportunity costs calculated for imports of finished
petroleum products ($0.20/liter). Another major item in TPU's work program
is a study of road user and inland waterways charges. The study is expected
to be completed in 1981.
Transport Investments
39.       During the Third Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan
(1972-76), Thailand's public sector investments in transport were about
B 21 billion in current prices. Under the ongoing Fourth Plan (1977-81),
these capital expenditures are estimated at B 28 billion. Transport's share
of public development expenditures, 20% in 1972-76, is expected to drop to
about 11% in 1977-81 because the primary road system will be virtually
complete. In both Plan periods, road infrastructure received between 75%
and 80% of all funds allocated for the transport sector. However, within
the roads subsector, some shifts are taking place, since tertiary roads have
gradually increased their share of thu roads' budget from 10% in 1972-76 to
25% in 1977-81. The 1982-86 Transport Plan is currently under preparation
and is expected to emphasize the fuller development of energy efficient
modes to reflect the Government's concern about the energy situation.
The Government is expected to continue heavy investments in roads to support
agriculture and rural community development.



- 13 -
Bank Lending to the Sector
40.        The Bank has assisted all transport modes (except civil aviation)
and has helped finance 15 transportation projects in Thaila-. -. Three loans,
totalling $20.3 million, have been made for port development. The first two
port projects were completed on schedule, and the third project, Loan
702-TH, was completed in May 1976, about two years behind schedule, largely
because of delays in awarding civil works contracts. An inland waterways
and coastal port project ($53 million) has recently been approved. The Bank
has made five loans totalling $68.7 million to help implement SRT's
development programs. Four projects have been completed satisfactorily;
about $7.5 million of the loan amount for the third proiect was cancelled
when the Government chose to purchase the locomotives through direct
negotiations.  The Bank has made six loans, the first 'I 1963 and the most
recent in 1978, totalling $261.6 million, for construction and maintenance
of national and provincial roads. In addition, about 1,300 km of village
access roads are being constructed by the Office of Accelerated Rural
Development under the Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project (Loan
1198T-TH). The first four completed roads projects were executed effi-
ciently and with substantial savings in cost. The quality of construction
throughout was good, domestic prices remained stable and there was strong
competition among contractors. However, on the fifth project there were
cost overruns and delays caused by sharp increases in prices which required
rebidding of several contracts but under the ongoing sixth project costs are
presently running close to the estimates. The sixth project has continued
assistance in strengthening road planning and maintenance in the Department
of Highways and transport planning through TPU in MOC.  It also includad
studyes leading to the preparation of projects for rural roads, provincial
roads0and inland waterways and coastal ports.
41.        Project Performance Reports.  The operations evaluation report on
Loan 626-TH (Fourth Hyghway Project) sommented that the project had achieved
its objectives; road construction costs had been overestimated as the
inflation rate was slower than anticipated and traffic had grown at a rate
higher than projected. The principal conclusions of the most recent Project
Performance Audit Report (Loan 702-TH, Third Bangkok Ports Project) were:
(a) it appeared that PAT could have financed a larger part of the project
from its own resources without endangering its financial position; (b) the
project was not evaluated in terms of its impact on urban environment and
this should be done in future; and (c) the implementation of covenants
concerned with social and administrative issues can be difficult and
time-consuming to apply and needs to be handled cautiously. In the proposed
project, a significant portion of the Klong Toei and Sattahip ports
investments are being financed by PAT. With regard to the urban environment
and traffic, the project is not expected to pose undue risks. In particular,
the project does not generate additional port-related urban traffic, though
it will direct some container traffic through Sattahip/Bang Su, rather than
Klong Toei.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
42.       Thailand's seaborne trade comprising conventional break bulk,
containerized and agricultural import and export cargo, as well as crude oil
imports, is largely (about 90%) handled by the Bangkok Port System. The
system components are: (a) the Port of Bangkok on the river Chao Phrya (Map
2791R), which handles break bulk, bulk and containerized cargo, and comprises
private and public wharves spread along some 40 km from the mouth of the
river Chao Phrya including the Klong Toei wharves which are controlled by
the Port Authority of Thailand (PAT); (b) the loading facilities at Mah Boon
Krong and the deep water anchorage at Ko Sichang for bulk agricultural traf-
fic; (c) the port of Sri Racha, for petroleum products; and (d) the proposed
Sattahip port for bulk and containerized cargo.
43.       The search during the last few years for new port sites in the
Gulf of Thailand resulted in the identification of two feasible port loca-
tions, Laem Krabang and Sattahip. In the final analysis, the Government
decided to develop Sattahip primarily on the basis of an economic comparison
of the two ports which highlighted Sattahip's sunk capital costs and its
relatively low additional development cost. The port of Sattahip (Map
14989), originally built as a military port under the control of the Royal
Thai Navy, was handed over to civilian control under PAT's jurisdiction in
late 1979. It is about 150 km from Bangkok and forms a development node for
industry in the Eastern Seaboard area. Apart from handling agricultural
bulk exports, Sattahip's principal function will be that of a container
port. While, in principle, Suttahip could as well have been developed as a
port for conventional break bulk cargo, its role as a container port has been
determined in order to minimize land transport; moving containers from
Sattahip to Bangkok, via the new container freight station at Bang Su, is
cheaper than moving break bulk cargo.
Project History
44.       The proposed project was prepared by the Sattahip Committee
assisted by a consultant from the Port of Singapore Authority and by
Maunsell Consultants (Australia) in association with Sindhu Pulsirivong
Associates (Thailand) and Sir William Halcrow & Partners (UK). The project
was appraised in February 1980. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled, "Bangkok
and Sattahip Ports Project," (No 3044-TH dated October 15, 1980) is being
distributed separately. Supplementary data are provided in Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., from September 8-17, 1980. The
Thai delegation was led by HE Prok Amranand, the Thai Ambassador and
included M.L. Jeongjan Kambhu, then the Deputy Under Secretary of State for
Communications.



- 15 -
Project Description
45.       The project comprises operational improvements designed to increase
port effi,teacy and cargo throughput in Klong Toei, physical improvements in
Klong Toei and Sattahip ports, construction of new container freight stations
(cfs) and warehouses at Bang Su near Bangkok to facilitate trans-shipment
of containers from Sattahip to Bangkok, and technical assistance and
training:
(a) Operational Improvements. The improvements relating to Klong
Toei include: (i) streamling cargo handling and container goods
operations (paras. 46 and 47); and (ii) revising the allocation
of the available berths between conventional break-bulk and
containerized cargo at Klong Toei (para. 48);
(b) Physical Improvements. The physical improvements comprise:
(i) at Klong Toei, addition of two new cfs, paving of the
container yard, and provision of new container handling equipment;
(ii) at Sattahip, dredging of the entrance channel and harbor,
improvements to fendering and yard paving; provision of a small
cfs, administrative office and ancillary facilities; and provision
of mechanical handling and floating equipment; and (iii) at Bang
Su, provision of three large cfs, four bonded warehouses, road and
rail access, and mechanical handling equipment and ancillary
facilities.
(c) Technical Assistance and Training. Under the project a program
of technical assistance and training will: (i) help PAT to
institute the necessary reorganization of PAT's conventional cargo
and container operations and its operating department (3 manr-
months); (ii) assist PAT's comptroller's department to complete a
tariff study including storage charges and thereafter revise PAT's
tariffs (6 man-months); and (iii) undertake a study to review
alternative arrangements for operating the Bang Su complex. In
addition, provision has been made for studies (tentatively about
100 man-months) to arrest minor erosion within Sattahip harbor and
to provide an outline of the location and type of port development
required on the eastern seaboard to handle projected traffic
between 1985 and 2000 (Section 2.02 of the draft Project
Agreement).
46.       Improvements to Conventional Break Bulk Cargo Operation at Klong
Toei. The improvements entail changes in existing rules and regulations
applied by the Customs Department, PAT and the Government to movements of
cargo in the port, the management of transit sheds and warehouses, and the
delivery of cargo from the port to the consignee. In addition, PAT will
actively encourage private enterprise to establish bonded warehouse(s) out-
side the Klong Toei port area and assist interested enterpreneurs with rele-
vant technical information, administrative procedures and liaison with con-
cerned public authorities (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement and
Section 3.04 and the Schedule, Draft Project Agreement).



- 16 -
47.        Improving Container Handling Performance.  Container handling is
currently handicapped by limited container yard space and inefficient yard
operations. Under the project, new container freight stations will be added
within existing Klong Toei port boundaries and responsibilities for yard
operations will be reassigned. To supplement the effectiveness of these
arrangements, PAT's operating department will be reorganized and an
information system will be introduced to record all container movements
(Schedule, draft Project Agreement).
48.        Berth Reallocation Between Conventional and Container Cargo.  To
prevent the build-up of shipwaiting time at Klong Toei, and to use available
berth capacity efficiently, the number of container berths, presently six,
will be gradually reduced and those for conventional cargo traffic
correspondingly increased. The overflow of containerized cargo at Klong
Toei will be handled at Sattahip. This berth conversion at Klong Toei will
be made at such a pace that the shipwaiting time will stabilize at current
levels, though traffic is expected to increase. It is estimated that under
the new berthing policy, the number of container berths in 1983 at Klong
Toei will be 3, and in 1985, only 2.  Thus, in 1983, Klong Toei is projected
to handle about 5 million tons of cargo, of which 3.5 million tons
(conventional cargo) is expected to pass through 15 conventional cargo ship
berths, and 1.5 million tons (containerized cargo), through 3 container ship
berths. The projected traffic in excess of 5 million tons in 1983, all of
it containerized, will be directed through Sattahip (Schedule, draft Project
Agreement).
49.       Organization and Operation of Bang Su Complex.  The Bang Su cfs
and bonded warehouse complex will handle the goods from the containers
landed at and exported through the Sattahip port. The Government will
finance the complex ($52.4 million) using Bank funds ($31.5), and it will
hold title to the complex. Land for Bang Su, which is owned by SRT, will be
made available to the Government. However, the Government intends to lease
Bang Su, after its construction, to an operator, who would be responsible
for its operation and management; and it is hoped that private entrepreneurs
can be attracted because of the excellent business opportunity which Bang Su
is expected to provide. Accordingly, the consultants, which will undertake
the engineering of Bang Su under the project, will also review the
institutional arrangements for operating Bang Su, and submit their
recommendations, including those on the suitability of specific potential
operators, by not later than December 31, 1981. Based on their
recommendations, the Government will select an operator for Bang Su, and
lease the complex to the operator on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. In the event, however, that lease arrangements with a suitable
operator could not be made, the Government would operate Bang Su itself
under its own arrangements. The Bang Su Complex will be constructed, and
begin operations in line with the completion schedule of other project
elements (Sections 4.03 and 4.04, draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
50.       Land Transportation.  The Government intends to construct a new
railway line between Chachoengsao and Sattahip during 1981-1983 (para. 32),
even though the existing roads between Bangkok and Sattahip would be
adequate to handle the Sattahip port traffic projected under Li.e project.
The only road investment required, and provided for in the project, will be
a link between Bang Su and the Bangkok Ring Road. Irrespective of the
completion of the new railway line, the road transport industry will be
allowed to compete freely for transport of containers between Sattahip and
Bang Su, and consignees of cargo shipped through Sattahip will be free to
use road haulage contractors of their own choice.
Project Cost and Financing
51.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $1)9.2 million
(including local duties and taxes) with a foreign exchange component of
$50.9 million equivalent. The estimated costs are based upon preliminary
engineering, and include physical contingencies of 20% for civil works.
Final engineering is expected to be completed only after loan signature, but
the project involves very little foundation work and only a small amount of
dredging. Unit prices are based on January 1980 prices for similar works in
Thailand. Mechanical and floating equipment prices are based upon recent
quotations. Total contingencies amount to $27.75 million, about 34% of base
costs. Price contingencies for civil works are calculated using inflation
rates of 15% for 1980, 12% for 1981 and 10% for 1982 and 1983. Those for
mechanical equipment and other direct foreign costs are based upon 10% for
1980, 9% for 1981, and 8% and 7% for 1982 and 1983. Technical assistance is
expected to involve about 110 man-months of consultant services; average
man-month costs are estimated at $10,000 equivalent including the man-month
rate, fee and international travel, plus $2,000 equivalent local allowance.
52.       The proposed loan of $47 million will be made to the Kingdom of
Thailand who will onlend $15.5 million to PAT on the same terms and condi-
tions as the Bank loan under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
between the Government and PAT (Sections 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). The proposed loan will cover 100% of the foreign exchange
requirements of Bang Su and about 80% of the foreign exchange requirements
of Klong Toei and Sattahip. It will finance about 50% of total project
costs net of local duties and taxes. The remainder of the foreign exchange
and all of the local currency requirements will be financed by the
Government and PAT.
Construction, Procurement and Disbursement
53.       PAT will undertake the project works for Klong Toei and Sattahip
ports, and SRT is expected to be appointed by the Government as the executing
agency for construction of the Bang Su complex. The project's civil works
will be executed under two separate contracts, and mechanical equipment and



- 18 -
floating craft will be procured under three separate contracts. All
contracts will be let in accordance with international competitive bidding
(ICB) and Bank Guidelines. The government intends to levy import taxes on
all items procured for the project amounting to about 15% of the total cost.
A preference not exceeding 15% of the c.i.f. price or the customs duty,
whichever is less, will be granted to local manufacturers for the
procurement of mechanical and floating equipment.
54.       The basis for disbursement for the project items financed by the
Bank will be (as a percentage of total costs excluding taxes): (a) 55% for
Sattahip and Bang Su civil works; (b) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of directly
imported equipment, 100% of the exfactory cost of locally manufactured
equipment and 65% of other equipment procured locally; and (c) 100% for
consulting services.
Port Authority of Thailand (PAT)
55.       PAT was established in 1951, within the Ministry of Communications,
as an autonomous organization responsible for operating and administering the
general cargo wharves at Klong Toei, and for the dredging and conservancy of
the navigation channel. PAT is managed by a Board of Commissioners consist-
ing of a Chairman, Port Director and nine other members; the Director is
responsible for day-to-day administration and cargo-handling operations and
is assisted by two Deputy Directors and Chiefs of the various service and
operational departments. The management of the port is generally satisfac-
tory, and the present Director and senior staff have worked closely with
Bank staff for the last 10 years. The Port of Sattahip was placed under the
control of PAT in late 1979. Both Bangkok and Sattahip ports have separate
managers and staff reporting to the Director of PAT. Separate accounts will
also be kept which will be consolidated into overall PAT accounts on an
annual basis.
Financial Position
56.       During the past four years, PAT has been in excellent financial
condition. Revenues have kept pace with increased operating costs with
resulting increases in operating surpluses in each of the fiscal years
1976-79. Further, PAT has maintained a strong balance sheet with ample
liquidity and low debt to equity ratios. Commencing in 1980, PAT has
assumed administrative and financial responsibility for the commercial port
at Sattahip, and PAT's annual accounts will reflect the combined financial
performance of the ports of Klong Toei and Sattahip. As a start-up
operation with only limited traffic initially, the port of Sattahip is
expected to experience operating losses in the early years (1980-84) of its
development. Nevertheless, with appropriate periodic tariff adjustments,
PAT's consolidated financial performance is expected to remain strong.
PAT-s future cash flow is projected to be sufficient to service debt,
finance current operations, provide a significant return to the Government,
and make a meaningful contribution to its development program. A review by
the Government of its participation in PAT's profits is presently under way.
The Government will forward to the Bank a copy of this review upon completion.



- 19 -
57.       Based on projected traffic and assumed tariff increases, the
projected annual rates of return for the consolidated operations of the
ports of Sattahip and Klong Toei are 9-12% p.a. throughout the forecast
period whic. irould enable PAT to achieve its financial objectives.
Accordingly, during negotiations, it was agreed that PAT will achieve an
annual return on net fixed assets of not less than 9% in 1981-83, 10% in
1984 and 11% thereafter (Section 4.03(a) of the draft Project Agreement).
Assurances were also obtained that a revaluation of PAT-s assets would take
place not later than June 30, 1982 and at least every three years thereafter
(Section 4.04 of the draft Project Agreement). Upon the initial revaluation
of assets, PAT and the Bank would review the adequacy of the agreed rates of
return specified above (Section 4.03(a) of the draft Project Agreement).
58.       While PAT's financial position has remained sound, its tariffs are
not cost-based with the result that there is inefficient use of port
facilities. Accordingly, PAT has agreed to complete by June 30, 1981 a
tariff and costing study under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
which would determine the costs of its various services and facilities and
recommend tariffs at the ports of Sattahip and Klong Toei (Section 2.02(b)
of the draft Project Agreement). Further, PAT has agreed to modify its
accounting system and include the impact of containers, to examine the
advisability of computerizing PAT's accounting system and to strengthen
PAT's financial planning and reporting systems (Section 4.06 of the draft
Project Agreement).
59.       The sensitivity of PAT-s projected financial peformance to changes
in key parameters was examined; the review indicates that PAT's overall
level of financial risk is low.
Ecology
60.       The only work which might adversely affect the ecology is the
dredging at Sattahip port. The dredged material will be disposed of in
shallow water for land reclamation. It will not affect fishing, which is
undertaken outside the harbor, and the fill level will be maintained below
water level, for subsequent completion when the land is required, to avoid
any risk of dust problems.
Justification, Benefits and Economic Returns
61.       Thailand-s economy grew rapidly at 8% p.a. between 1960 and 1969
and at about 6.5% to 7.5% p.a. thereafter. The growth target of 7% adopted
for the Fourth Development Plan 1977-81 has so far been exceeded, however,
largely at the expense of deteriorating balance of payments which, together
with the current slow-down of world trade, could lead to a reduction in GDP
growth during the remainder of the Plan period. The current outlook for the
Fifth Development Plan, 1982-86, is one of continuing growth but likely to be
at a somewhat reduced rate. Growth in volumes (tons) of dry cargo import,



- 20 -
following closely the trend of the economy, was between 6-7% p.a. from
1960-75, but jumped ahead of GDP with about 22% p.a. from 1975-78, largely
because of a construction boom.  From 1980-85, import growth is expected to
settle back to about 5% p.a. Export tonnages grew at over 10% p.a. on average
during the 1970s, with main contributions to the growth coming from
agricultural products such as tapioca.  In 1980-85, the export growth rate
is only expected to be about 2% p.a. because of an expected drop in tapioca
volumes to below the 1978 level.
62.       For the import forecast up to 1985, 17 major commodity groups were
distinguished, of which the most important are: iron and steel including
scrap; fertilizer; chemicals; paper and raw materials; cement; and vehicles,
machinery and parts. The first three import categories are expected to con-
tribute most to the future import growth, while others will stagnate or grow
only slowly, and cement will disappear completely from the import list. Four
export commodities, tapioca, maize, rice and sugar/molasses are projected to
continue their dominant export position with a combined export share of over
80% in 1985. Of these four, rice exports will grow the most in volume. About
30% of total break bulk cargo, imports and exports combined, will be moved in
containers.  Container traffic, starting from a low base three years ago, has
considerably increased since, but the growth rate is now expected to be
similar to that of overall external trade.
63.       Thailand's imports are expected to grow from an estimated 7.6
million tons in 1980 to 8.0 million tons in 1985, and exports are expected
to increase from 13.8 million tons to 15.6 million tons over the same
period. Break bulk and container imports and exports, which are the
critical commodities requiring new port capacity, amount to about 4.7 million
tons in 1980 and are projected at 5.9 million tons in 1985.
64.       The project benefits in decreasing order of importance are savings
in ship-waiting costs (at Klong Toei), in break bulk lighterage costs (at
Klong Toei) and in agricultural bulk export costs (tapioca at Ko Sichang).
From 1985 on, savings in ship waiting costs are estimated at close to 70% of
total project benefits. The calculation of ship waiting costs was based on
a ship queueing analysis, under which the total number of ship waiting days
would increase from the current level of 1,000-1,200 days to about 4,000
days in 1985 without the proposed investments. Savings in ship waiting days
amount to about $7,600 per ship-day. Savings from lightering cargo amount
to about $12/ton and are composed of reductions of direct lighterage costs,
of costs from losses and breakage of cargo and increased ship service time.
Savings in tapioca export costs, in the order of $4.5/ton, are made up of
savings in land transport and ship loading costs, offset in part by an
increase in ocean voyage costs.
65.       The project costs consist of:  the capital expenditures for Klong
Toei and Sattahip ports, the new cfs and part of the new railway line between
Sattahip and Bangkok on the assumption that it will be built according to
the Government's schedule; and the recurrent land transport cost for



- 21 -
containers. Only one half of the railway cost for track and rolling stock
were charged to this project, since the railway, if constructed (para. 50),
is also expected to be required in support of the industrial development
planned along the Eastern Seaboard.  The project costs are fL-1cial cost,
net of taxes.
66.       The economic rate of return on the entire investment package is
21%. The high return reflects the critical stage through which the Bangkok
port system is passing and the potential economic losses to Thailand's
external trade and economy. Investments in Klong Toei and Bang Su complex
alone yield a return of 19%, and those in Sattahip, with an improved Klong
Toei and Bang Su complex in place, 22%. If the capital investments for rail
transport were excluded, the project-s economic return wouald be 31%. There
are a number of risk factors affecting the project, inoililing slower than
expected foreign trade development, underestimate of Klong Toei port
capacity under the reference case, and higher than expected land transport
cost for container movements between Sattahip and Bangkok. However, even
under fairly pessimistic risk assumptions, the project retains a
satisfactory return.
67.       For the economic analysis it has been assumed that all the benefits
would accrue to Thailand. While this is clearly the case for avoided
lighterage costs and avoided agricultural bulk export costs, it could be
argued that a part of the ship-waiting costs would be absorbed by the
foreign shipping lines. However, it is expected that severe port congestion
would be fully reflected in port congestion charges, and that lower
congestion levels would be built into the shipping rates, which are
increasingly made the subject of consultations between shipping lines and
Thai shippers councils. Further, the percentage of cargo carried by Thai
vessels is expected to increase in the future. To test the significance of
this benefit assumption in the sensitivity analysis, an arbitrarily high
benefit reduction by 50% was made; even in this case, the project would have
a satisfactory rate of return of 12%.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Port Authority
of Thailand, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately.
In addition to the special conditions listed in Section III of Annex III, an
additional condition of the effectiveness of the proposed loan is that a
subsidiary loan agreement has been executed on behalf of the Kingdom of
Thailand and PAT.



- 22 -
69        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
October 30, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                                                  ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVk GES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ.  KM.)                                                       -  MOST RECENT ESTIMTIE)
TOTAL            514.0
AGRICULTURAL     179.6                                MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Ab   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC   LATIN AMUICA & CARIJRAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 100.0       210.0    490.0                 894.8                  1384.1
ENERGY CONSUNTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)     64.0       247.0    327.0                 842.4                  1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    26.4         35.7      44.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 12.5        13.2      14.1                 39.1                    63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      68.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       103.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. NM.                       51.0        69.0      88.0                376.1                   28.1
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    204.0       251.0    251.0                2350.4                   51.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.7        46.2     43.4                 40.4                    41.4
15-64 YRS.                        52.6        50.8      53.6                 56.2                    34.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.7         3.0       3.0                  3.4                    3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.8         3.0       2. 7                 2.4                     2.7
URBAN                              4.6         3.7       3. 6                 4.1                     4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.0         44.0      32.0                 28.7                    34.8
CRUDE DEATH SATE (PER THOUSAND)     17.0        12.0       8.0                  7.9                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.2       2.2                  1.9                     2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..        203.0/c  644.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         27.4      40.0                 39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          92.0       100.0     134.0                116.9                  106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REOUIREMENTS)                   96.0       103.0     105.0/d              108.9                   107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          43.0        50.0      49.0/d               60.3                   65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       10.0        15.0      14.0/d               18.8                    33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     15.0         9.0       6.0                  5.3                     8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    51.0        57.0      61.0                 63.0                    63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..         86.0/e   68.0                  52.8                   66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        17.0      22.0                 42.4                    65.9
URBAN                               ..         ..       49.0                62.1                    80.4
RURAL                               ..         ..       12.0                 29.7                   44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        17.0     40.0                  52.8                    62.3
URBAN                               ..        65.0      58.0                 71.1                   79.4
RURAL                               ..         8.0      36.0                42.4                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          7800.0      8420.0    8169.0               4120.1                  1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    4900.0      3340.0    3542.0                2213.6                 1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1351.0/f    880.0      816.0               819.4                   480.3
URBAN                               ..       350.0
RURAL                              ..       1136.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        31.0      33.0                28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.5uj       5.8       5.5
URBAN                              5.3 f       5.9       5.5
RURAL                              5.6/f       5.8       5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..        2.4
URBAN                               ..         ..        2.2
RURAL                               ..         ..        2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         ..
URBAN                               ..        63.07       ..
RURAL                               ..        13.0



-24-                                                     ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL IDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE4CES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )
MDST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  b    1970 /b ESTIHATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBIAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 83.0        81.0      83.0                  98.6                    99.7
MALE                 88.0        85.0      86.0                  99.2                   101.0
FEHALE               79.0        77.0      79.0                  97.7                    99.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 13.0        17.0      27.0                  55.5                    34.4
MALE                 16.0        20.0      28.0                  60.7                    33.5
FEMALE               10.0        14.0      20.0                  49.9                    34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S OF SECONDARY)    19.0        24.0      13.0                  13.7                    38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           36.0        35.0      30.0                  34.6                    30.5
SECONDARY                         20.0        16.0      21.0                  28.5                    14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       68.0        79.0      84.0                  85.8                    76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGUR CARS PER THOUSAND
POPMLATIOS                         2.0         5.0       6.4                   9.0                    43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         6.0        78.0     131.0                 118.9                   245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.3         7.0      18.0                  39.4                    64.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 11.0        24.0        ..                    ..                    63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..       1.7                   4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FURCE (THOUSANDS)   13529.2      16658.8  20985.6
POLE  (PERCENT)                   48.3        47.3      47.0                  36.8                    22.2
AGRICULTERE (PERCENT)             83.7        79.9      77.0                  51.9                    37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 4.4         6.0       8.0                  21.9                    23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               51.3        46.6      45.6                  39.1                    31.5
MALE                                52.7        49.3      48.6                  48.5                    48.9
FEMALE                              49.8        43.9      42.6                  29.6                    14.0
ECONOHIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.9         1.1       1.0                   1.1                     1.4
INCOME DISTRIIWTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8/h      23.8     14.0/1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.9/h      49.7L   42.2/L-
L0WEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.2/h       6.11j     7.6/-
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.9/h      15.9L    19.1/1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..    159.0
RURAL                              ..          ..    106.0                   192.1                   190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    115.0                     ..                   474.0
RURAL                              ..           ..    110.0                  182.5                   332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..         ..       15.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      34.0                  33.2
Not available
Rot applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-eighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970 between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Government program only; /d 1976; /e 1964-65; If 1962; /A Percent of population in Bangkok metropolitan
area; /b 1962-63; /I 1968; /1 Preliminary data for 1975-76; due to lack of data on national basis, the
methodology for aggregating the available regional data overstates incomes of low income groups and under-
states incomes of higher income groups. Thus, this data is not suitable for any analytical comparisons.
April, 1980



- 25 -                                                                             ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATOR                                                                  Page    3            of    5
Noe;Althoughrthe date ore dr-e  fc, acute.. geea,lly jadgad the  -et authoritativ.etga  reliable, it ahold also he acted nbanthe boY   r cc be iee-
attoalyeo,.aeheh          oefaa  the lack of aftedudiead dafeitlone sad  -aopte cead bY differee.              oeriat Icllcin 'he data.  Ia   et  ut    c
there,  saal o  asrio  rdeec of eagttada, indicate irgadd, cad  ara         -rio     rtela  -aJor diffa .rre  htetroucrlee..
The taera    goas  r  (%) the  -as  auctr  groap of the cabicut ....stey sed (2) a caunar  group sigh goahet higher ecog   oe    h-a thef.. tooe   ge-P
of th-ajo   cer   ecp   o  -ce,inal Nurpla  oti1 Reportere" grow  ejeeg 'Middle 1ous  Nort  Africa seA Nfiddle tatM   tec  hoa hI cab                  e cI atooe
oeoutoaaffialtisci .  Yr the referegac grou.p dena the avrga         .r  ppltalatln waighted Itvith_tit Isuefa   ah tdi.etar aid eb-v  oly thee at
lacert half of the countries in a groap hoc data for tht iadicatar.  Si-c  the tarsag  of t-nries a.su   the inditutore  dorda at the                     "" aala tlc    If
date and i  oat aaif.-. caution suet be eercieed iu enlata8 ea-Soege  of cue ledleatar to arather.  These  Ivtege   ar                 yceiti conpariac tie cui-
of cur   di-at-r at I tia   -g the couNtry end raferene. group..
LASt ARiM  lthcaasd  qahe.)                                                                 ropealcticope  re- eccice - topuoutt- ocdoc-.          ,c -rn   cruet...  ccI.  Ply
Total - To ct   or1 e  Itro  -oprietg 1,ad eraaaad inla  acieeo,re.                          -cla   qoe 1.ida.dro     ar.a.obc               .....rctae   len
toe ceopa, pctuc-a. earlet cad hitchr gard-a  or tc lie fallow; 1977 deta.                aac and f eal  graduate  uue  pruclcul ocur, tad uccccnaa
IPRPf  CAPITA(0)  - CUP Pe capita -rat.nt     at curot earktproeel-                         urban, aa      Havl  div  Idd by thale reapcic theofhynoIbe
colord by use ceociu   rhed as World Neak Atlee (1976-70 haeial; 1960,                      avilable ia public aad private general cad ..ertelard hospital oud ra-
19)0,oed 1910 data,                                                                         hbiliet.taneetr.             pitul  ar   calesnepr.ao                  tfr
ENERGY CONSUMTION PIR (APTA - A ... 1of.-r.i.1  -ears gre ne  inalade.  Natal hoepitale, hoevr, i-eoda heale,h cad aedict.
sad hnce,petrleus  aetral ge aa  hyda-.  ueleo  n lgeatbharel ee-             eatcrc act pees-tnly  tnffed hy a phyaliac. (hut by e aedi-ut t..rtetuat
trotlic kilagras  of a-d equivalent Par ca.pita;190,  91,ad iN7N                            care,   dwife, aIe.) whib offer ti-pattit   ,ecndteeeodyoIde
POPltt,ATION AND aIiM. NTATIITICY~tale ir-lde WHIgo  peiccipul get.re1 end ap:reLu1eu   hopIal,ud r-1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                        h..~~~~~opitole localI or rarat hePatal  ned  edicu1 ard -arv - ci   -r-ec
Totl Peoltio.  id-carfelliae)- Au of July 1; 1960. 1970, gad 1979               Ad,  aun   arNeita1 Ned - TotlvI            e   faseloac  rdrhee
date.                                                                                     ftru  huep,itale dtiddhtecosheo  hda
UrbanPeuale   par-cn  of  otal  - Betio of urban to  Metl papalatloe;                                         li.    yt.
difeet dcfiteieog   of urban areas say       t  rpsrability of data               HOUSING
sngcneiac; 1960, 1970, cad 1979 dat.                                              honrng lie. of Ito...hold frora.... ..r hrehll-ite,chc   a ore1-
PPorlattan Prolcati...                                                                      A hbe hesba-d Iessleecof a greap of individuals who cheer fiing qoate
Popuatio  le  ear  00- Coeret population projcntiane are baa..d an 1980              and their sae  sas   A huseder or lodger soy or nay act be ioclndad Ic
total Ppopletiun by age cad eec and chair  -treaity ead fertility rates,                the bhseheld far  ct.te.tica1 eurpe  -
Prjcinpaaaeefr eattally eaI casete  othree levelI.... ctr                   Akercc c.broreeconr   e-_del, oratb Pacderc  -
lea-l, uvd fas1l  life  -ap-ct-ey ebialitiag at 77.5 yeate.  The perc-                  d-eliag.   rsetol.Delacnldrc-etcraecno 
1rtac  far fertility rate alche  trelocering decliee in                                  -.e...Pi.d Payre.
fertiiyccriat   oacla    n   utfely                   plannt ._=1   .o,.r,:1,,--ing pefarneec.  A....e tc fleeneicito feecau  of deolliane    icu,  chc.cdrou 
tadh coctry lb thee acignud ace of neat tire cosbiaetiaee of sartality                  Cneeae   elig   thslcicyittaoqAOeOc
and feeility treads foe penJettian p-rpoec.                                             of natel. aebe, end rural d-1liigeeecpectiaelp.1111
Sntaii..aty_etoai tnIaecclnay pupolatiac there le c- grathciecc
'he birth care it eq.uI to the death rate, ted ale  the age etruatare  c-    toccATas
salts c-caiot.  Thia is u-hisod caly after fertility rtsdcief                         Adjueted farulleeci Nati
the repl-ceon  le-1 of colt nt repoadactioa rate, ohc Zeah  araaice                     Piayeba      otl.aeedfsl  -  teto ,rlecdfal
of -aaacrepl.... itceif   cil.Tic stationery  pepolnalac eee wa                           eelisac  of al   geaetepiarPena
acinatud o  the huela of thepoetdeaaivcisof the  oolta                                    prisary choI-g        pa  hcire  carnally 1 o-lodT.    ch..dr..   acd  -
cthe per  101,  ed tIIec  of dcica of fertility rate to replace-,                       yIv   o   dutd far  iffrn   sgh   fpleyeoonn
Iear saionary  Ioultarl  rea.. ed - The year  h..c a.ta..nary papaletiec                    outrire. cu   aiverIteIII edctonr       roiersyece   1   ec
Poriet-lan        ~.. hua dtiS tecudary aehual -total, sale and _fesaa   Coeputedacn;rcad
Poe o.  e. -Oldpsacpcplatoa pr auareIttoarer Ial  uotuealof           dacttee raqaieee at Il..at four yeera of a'ppr-nd ProryIcaeci
total area,        p.provides gersral, kile...ael, cc ehcetber trofopigidactroc..oc.lf--c,pcplb
caiyof 12 to 1  year  ofa.a..re.o.e.eccre  te.                 rer
Pereo  ha  caiaerlelad - Cenitd ec abooe Per aetoutl  ud                                     eldad.
ooly.                                                                  Voragiocal eneallaree fecrecat of setayndacyp)- dt-yIorotcoo te  beelfne iccI
Poelatioc Ac    cote  focn)-Children (0-14 peers),  o-kiag-sgo  (15-                           inalod   eble,ldceu,e -tbec  rogaadn    cen  cdp
I   eeal  ad retired (A)  enre end aer) as per-atagee of sid-ya   aa                      eaya   sdprsnco  aecdar   nttto
lstiao; 1960, 1977, and 197  dai..Peltehrrto-ecao   a   eodr-ttlsoem    tcidi
Poroliia  Granth Mate (oercea.      oal-unc  geotb r.... of total aid-                      prieary cad sec.ondary'lbone  dicidod by oabera nhtcbenI   i
yerpopeacan  fur 190Al   96-I  ud191 ,                                                   aeepadin   oas
Ponlc C rceth Auaf"rr      t              A'hu .. anua  grnth rates of -rh- PtPO-       Adl ltrayraefg             ee)-Literate edelte fable or  -rd a-d -rlt.)
lucot  for I950-60, 1900-70, cad 1970-78...aap..e.ertage of total adolt popcletico eged 15 years acd n-te
Crude acerb MRac iee tbcoesad)  An..caI lice birtha par thousand of aid-peep
apuPlai;  1960, 1970, and 197  data.                                                  cwo
leuda lath MRat   pear thocaud) - hAu...l deathe Pee tha..e.rd of rid-year                  caanr ut  fPete thousand papoletian) - Pe...r-gec cae  -oPri- cat-
yyltc;1967. 1970, and 1797  dar.tcr   ctn.esta  rgtcros.oldc  scaca    ccv   a
Irona aerendocilco tata-loetage ousher of daughirres oceut nh  ~~~~bear i.  illgry vehicls.
Ire-c-1u e-ycd-ctio  peroi   heeperis..ce. prua...t  gA-apecif~ Icfe-                    udla R..eeloere fPear aacn   oaal I-Alcpco   eocc    ccd
tilcty cacao; ucoalytin-peer ecteeseding ta 1960, 1977,..ud 1977.                         bctdhet.togenr             . puli 2pelritoorud ofl tpaclctoc e--ide f.ell--
of bleci-nt-Ir   decicen nudeaupceo  ci..naI faulty plannIng pOOgea-                      ..a ia effect; dutu far petter Ye.a,. acy ocr hrcnaaieaoesa
Yanilyfplutlulea(aca   fccidarc   - Poccotece of  -arned                                     ceatcice aba1iahad li-sac.
e_o   fcal-arn   ge15A   aua   b   c nbirth-caoeeol deylo    to                         TV Or-i-ers free thocand parolatical  - TV rccr-nec  tar broad-uacc
all en-riad  -aeI i un  age gtoop.                                                        garlpbipethncdapaio;aldeolcnudIVr-cior
PFOOD AND N1TIJTAIIN                                                                           in  tuiie  ad in YIte  whe.t reistrarl- of TV ariacu
L.de  of Food Prod-actc  teeCah  f1969-7l'10l   -            :.dIIo per.ta pita  Icos     ttweer iclccft  thauadrriaca       bo   huocnneca
ecadorlat  f allfood  cunadilee   Prodctioneacloec ced an  fee .-cd      tian of 'dailyR genral  atecnspe,dfi.adsaehcIno                          hpb
oo                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lication dcoated prisarily to recordinSg .enr.  ce1 a    It  c coneidec-d
cccocu-dar ya    aca   Coseditiaacoaer peary" gooda (e.g. augar-e-cI                   to he "dallyr if it aper, a  leasttecrlneael
icteu  o                        pcul icaedhraodcntaofenohret    eg.cfe   a              Cioeg tA .e.a Attendeece pe  Ceelta puIa       ae   ntr  oleo
reuayeco loedi   Ageegucap   p   tdcio ofech -otry te be...d Olricketa cold dutitg the yea,Piecbud aeg udni-e-t  cc deln-hr   oee
cuceol  ncrgepedocre pI_ ueightc; l96l-65, 1970, cad 1970 dai.t.i
Pec  -oelca soel .o clie  (perc...s of caieutf-Ceepoted fron                              .ad vobile oIte
roerg9y eqoicol-t of cet food aopplieeaIbeaconry  e   cpita                         OR  fl
Po   u.Acoilabla auppliec  -epele  oeci beodotion  iaao   va                     Total Labor cc   tocna       coaclyadepcnc   oloa
cuitIr  coed ta food peoce...ing, and lc....eo    dicarih~otico.  Rcq. ira-        Defait i-a  in ri...acc_tirl  raar toecccpyralr; 0171Cr,-191 acd
atti  .cr.ea ate, d by PAt h..ecd on phyacolgalnesIcecanl acti-                        1978 detOs.
cod tet dioorlbccinn at popalaci-c, uod aoig 17 peecrt to  artec                       aiotr   pcat      ao   cr  It-ect,g  fcrnc,tc c  and
tceod.lean; 1961-65, 1970, ard 1977 date.                                           fiehiag at pe-cactge of total IebIc force; 1967,. 1971 and 1978doa
Perca "Plilaci   cpoen(rn   e  dyc) - Pratolo c..oteot of per capita                    Lcdbsic              foeec)-LhrPrer It eiicf,ctooni.ccltcrn
cct eoyy  ifedpe   ayr          utcPply of food is dafined  a aboce.  ce-               so   lcrct,ctradgsa   ecnaeo   cu   an   or,PI
qciconco.foa tnt all ..octcieu establiahed by USDA pecoide foe ticinos                  19d  ued1970rt deta.r.d...p--                        oi.1   b,f -
alocn   i  lgaao 6     crl  roet        p leedy andpr  Stgras  of seinel sed     Pset1iolc-dc cue(ecec-ccl  gl,sdfeuePeceIdlnc
polr patut,of  hic  1  gras oh-old he urinal  roti.  Thea. etaad-                 Pctiyaeaeapov    attl   ae,odfnl   ao 
urds aer lowr than thoar of 75S.gan  cf rtetl prorlud23guaof                            eretagoitc of r..ra... ntld ed fesale popolatior  ialnrrepcicy
Aorld Pcnd lorcey; 1961-65, 1971 aod61,  1977-   1975data. ~
rcnod Fenuo     nl ad   polu6   lv gen  pe1     a;9   91AS797       o   97 daa.       tnnui led        fc Ratio- RTio.  Itf IapLaiO  coe   Iad    adoe
Child fuaro 1-41 Hoit.   ncr   ee   hcaa   - Ac-ul de-aPatiucd le                           to the outa1 IuIar forr..
cSe gro II 1- 1 eae ;to childeec ia this age genop; far noet deoclopiag c....
in_ data dcrloed -toelfr rublual 1960, 1970 and 1977 data.                            INOOcE DISTRIBtTION
HEALTH                                                                                       ercrc;t.sacof rtv:te  1-on  Ihoth iac-ual d hind) -  ~o-
Li                 -b- of y..r. of lif. r-i.ig                   5fper~~~ t, rich..t 20 percet, poornet 20 pe--e, and   --ccn   40  --cec
at birth; 1960, 197  an  198ddta
Ift  orairRate lee  hb.a.d).  Ano-a  d-atha of iofsoo   odrdoon  year    EOEOI    IT ~nR1ri
Sfafe er  hnadlc    it                                                              iiT~irbseTl t. Pa-et locte. Cree  (U1S$               ocel-a   cn  co 
Nebceofoe  ofp her  etecto  paoltles -ieohoahapbi                                          Rur-Al. t celatlac picety i-aelee   cco   hr   bianetel-                p
icoai   curapatlcae    atrr  te   11rtotioahuc  a   e                         osof    ocn   f  h-cor.    eutlnlcadcir   ec   Ie  cc
nooideeda  iviagd oldietcda-oeahle  tcce      or f   tha  hts.d blarocal       d tair.  lydq.t  dtPI                              iI  .-f. ee--,
reaanouhe accru  acold iply tha  the houeecte c  tenrsatth  bonbod             ev l er   dotetie  ihcocc   lic   nccoae
do -char  in , I...d a r .    boureolpertofte  s  to                   te             .tlztad Pecultion neP          bolt n-cclcecleetlcyr~   ±A
-a, 1ccarnod.dcrytifcbcancoa-rcccofopote Inecuarcalhoaconlryc.
crod--ierfrocr   toal  chanoIdceol  ercdyvacat
cioc    octoadnneuc  byZ  ar-horQUre  ccts cc. rho car e                                                                        hyrt. ion             ,     P
ccc yr dec  od cml br catellalcooc



-26-
ANNEX I
Paee 4 of 5
2942       2070        2974        L977          978 La~      1979                    2940        %5?         1         r*i ;;,{l g                1990 *4.r
797 I1.oS! 80 797% PrIc-.
..~~r7.. do...2 Ic  ,,Odo*2  4,843.8   20. 323.0   10. 712.0   24,480.0    28,138.9    29, 390.3   20,692.9   20,204.7             7.7          7.9         7.1          7.0        28.
2.  7..Io. 270.. of 2r.d.  -44.3  42.9  -041.7    -978.       2, 208.9     ~~~~~~~~.23a.4   -2.473.0   -2.942.9                                                        2.
7.  C*~~.. do...21c  Inc...  4,~799.31    0,1340.    L0.206.1   L5.707.4    17.030.0    2.1.          9.2.9       7,939            7.2          7.          7.0          7.0         9.
0.  ~   .7...  -1.012.2   .2.214.9   -0.908.4   -4.204.9    -0,07.9    -0,077.4        0222.2   -8.044.0           0.1           4.1         9.0          9.7         24.
F.""::      oIe    0  OO        -.4.9 -.2.    -30,300.7   -7299                  -,048.9    -3.839.0   -4.039. 1   -.194. 2.            7.I          4.3         8.0          8.8         22.0
2., 701                  ~~~~~~     ~~~110.0  471 .9  398.4  932.1        847.9    -2239        -.02.    -2.4799.3                                                               2.0
M. TOT                          2.497. 2    2.308.7    3,492.0    3,337.1        3,947.4      3,4.         .00        4027            49           87           9993                     22.2
S. . 2E*0 0l.t.u
-Sp  of 2(MP)
I   Ax,t.2t..~.                       0"I2        0.4         0.301       0.232        0.,272       0.244       0.039       0.,22
7. 90 0.2-0                           0. 402      0422        0.0         a.3          0.30         0.432       0.,432      0.437
7. (1..7970   2 001
Too plo.2d..                4443        4804        9240I130                 940         2224         220.04     22.40          0.4          22.          7.0.
2.2o2pl.4 I9,477                           47 2       20.20       22.2730 147.44S               6       249.92      224.72          .             .          .             .
3.  Io,;-o  2r.l1d. 2nd..                7.2        01.98:      46.47       783           7800         704         73.4        70.98        -2.9          .,2         2.2          0.2
C.D3) doflolo  2030                   00.2        423         03.44      209.82       a1.          230.00      143.00      204.32          0.2          4.0         7.3          a.0
0. 424.L *03 -- .4.2 02               20.80       20.98       204O2.0                   03
2. 501gl,d 2.dA00C,t.                                 294-77    2977.79    2979-93        494:E9
2.  2C09                                             3.04        3.32        1.0 s         .07
2.  2.or  *10202                                      2          0.9         0.90         0.9
3.  Aoo*cn2o.    00*P4                               0."4        0.22L       0.22         0.24
A  . 2*-p2-120/ 0t                                   0.27        0.242       0.2          0.2
4.                                                  Ow"2.,/OP02  0.24        0.27         0.:28
7.  9.np,   4/009                                     .04        0.0         0.00         0.3
E. 70t244   Lbo. 7.1l.   ft4d0042v24, 2 94 2070                                 lb-                                     :TLouJ.                    ML. 0    4r  b
I-4,1.2oo2...                                                 4.0S"        32.3                     23.4         9.730                                     4.
2.  d240                                                        4.442         la.4                      2.           .                           .27        334.7
3.  Secolo..                                    0.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S388  38.3          2.91       24.4                          2.9370      2 30. -4
Tot& .ib....4.                                         14.309       200.0                     17.7       100.0                            920       200.0
F. Pbl22* Olocc. (I of 409) (C.o2no2  C..n.                           2970        1974         Jj9"        2976        .i!Z. jj     979
3.  C--on   -pdf....                                  l0.0        22.4        20.7         22.1        23.0        22.8        23.
4. 02.-344.    1232.                                              .2        3.,           I.0         0.4         2.2        2.4
0.   -102 p,432, 24- -484                             4.3          7.7        3.9          4.0          0.3         0.4         S.3
C. 942   -442   2       t0.2  U0$ .224524.0                          222.0       428.         7227         33.7 . 923.0    1.224.0
72 .2 *02422.90,2. 2-r. Mrs)                      8.3         8.          94.0 0L22.2                         29.7        20 .2
/p  Al  ornt.r.  pft....



. o                            0                            °                             <o   £,  nnoo                   a cv 'o  0o  -s
.'..0 0           o       oo o o g -                                                                                                '      |           - °o woo __ wo_   _   _   _o 8_g     ooo g   o   o o,-0~   .oo .      o       ooo                          -
o.003y v00     oo_>*|  --w>=°- *o<   00 ,                                     O    000    00000m  -"  o*'   °<0 °                    8-                            -. *'               ' g00 °. 8 _IC 3-. ot° °
00                                             WW;O__ <'.0  0    ;3 ~ .. o  0,0       0030'          00'00'Oj           oo0 o       '  90 oo _ o _                 Yo                ~ 3~ ___ _  ___                         _' 00I
So-  I                        -1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
o  o ~' 0  ~I~2   *~"31                          o ooo.  ooo    0'                  00<00   0_w'                        -         0'°  0o soooo0'  0 __00                                                  0.  ° 00 &_                              
0_0.                          I _ _  _  _w
6 L Z_ Z0.o.o          0 °.°-    ' 0. .                                                        .'...0...  . .                 0-9        0       0000' o                  0" o
Z. 6    ~            S±                                  o                       .-                                                              0      
.        . .-. . . .0.0. .0...    .    . . .
0   0   0  --    0   .4             0~~~~  --      600          6                                                                .        . .'.    0. ~ 0   , .   ."   - .                                ,9          0.
o-5                                                  .4           0    0                                            22    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .0 . 00 .. . 
'0  0.0.  3  g..o.  -.'ooooro".9                              0                           0         0'          -                                                        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.      .   '..900 . . 
0   .  --  0  0'00-  00<000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    0                   0 0 0                                                    0.                                                   0..    ..   
n°                                                                                                                                                                          _ 00t 2  0_ 00  00  o~ 0     ° ° °      .° ° 0               
Or o0                                                                                                                                                                               _ 30  -  0 0d' O....   ,,, 0  flI  0  .°   °  °        .           n'



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND /a
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of August 31, 1980)
Loan or                                                                 Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                  Less Cancellations
Number Year         Borrower                          Purpose      Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-six loans and one credit fully disbursed                    471.67    5.49        -
822   1972   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education      15.40        -    1.66
864   1972   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           37.00        -    0.41
369   1973   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education          -   19.50    1.35
461   1974   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation         -    7.00    0.34
977   1974   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          75.00        -    2.77
992   1974   Industrial Finance Corporation
Thailand                             Industry       11.70        -    0.20
1149  1975   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    95.00         -   61.53
1198  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rural Dev.    21.00(TW)   -    8.10
1199  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Livestock       5.00(TW)   -    2.49
1243  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rubber         50.00        -   23.55
1253  1976   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           26.00        -    3.90
1271  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education      31.00        -   17.67
1327  1976   Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand                             Industry       25.00        -    4.41
1393  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Agriculture   28.00        -   17.13
1468  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    55.00         -   32.01
1485  1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          50.00        -   17.66
1492  1977   Industrial Estates Authority of
Thailand                             Industry        4.80        -    2.04
767   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Population         -   33.10/b 32.74
1519  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Transport.   110.00         -   50.38
1527  1978   Provincial Electricity Authority        Rural Elect.  25.00        -   19.23
1556  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Housing         8.60       -    7.19
S-10  1978   Natural Gas Organization of
Thailand                             Natural Gas    4.90         -    0.09
1620  1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           90.00       -   90.00
1630  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    17.50        -   17.02
1638  1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Urban          16.00       -   13.61
1662  1979   State Railway of Thailand               Railways       16.70       -   16.13
1690  1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          80.00        -   78.38



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
Loan or                                                                  Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                   Less Cancellations
Number   Year          Borrower                    Purpose            Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
913       1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Education               -    35.00   34.92
929       1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Agriculture             -    25.00   24.74
1752      1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Extension        40.00    -       39.79
1770      1979   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand          Power                80.00             80.00
1773      1980   Petroleum Authority of          Natural Gas
Thailand                       Pipeline          107.001d          107.00
1787      1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Irrigation           80.00            80.00
1816      1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Credit           19.00    -       19.00
1852      1980   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand        Power                72.00    -        72.00
1870      1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Housing              29.00    -       29.00
1889      1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Inland Waterways   53.00              53.00
Total                                                         1,850.22            125.09
of which has been repaid                                      229.25    0.36
Total now outstanding                                         1,620.97  124.73
Amount sold /c                        68.63
of which has been repaid            46.61                      22.02
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                1,598.95  124.73
Total undisbursed                                               967.35   94.09
/a This summary includes Bank Group loans/credits signed as of August 31, 1980.
/b Of which $3.1 million is Norway grant participation.
/c Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.
/d Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 million).



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of August 31, 1980
Amounts ($ million)
Year       Company               Type of Business          Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.      Materials                0.3.        -      0.30
1964/  Industrial               Development                   -    0.39       0.39
1970     Finance Corporation      Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group        Cement and
1975/                             Construction
1978/1979                         Materials               28.33    4.24      32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company      Money and Capital
Limited                  Market                      -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                  Processing               2.50    0.20       2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries         2.00       -       2.00
1979/  Bangkok Glass Industry
1980     Company, Limited       Glass Containers           4.85    0.34       5.19
1979   Siam City Cement         Cement and Construc-
Company, Limited         tion Materials          36.00    4.00      40.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                -    0.15       0.15
Total gross commitments                            73.98    9.61      83.59
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                          49.04    2.56     51.60
Net held by the Corporation                        24.94    7.05      31.99
Total undisbursed                                   6.00        -      6.00



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of August 31, 1980)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4
Million Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22,
1972; Original Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Current
Closing Date: July 31, 1980
Although the technical assistance and educational aspects of the
project are largely on schedule, civil works are about three years behind
schedule with consequent delays in furniture and equipment procurement. The
delays in civil works result from delays in contracting architectural consul-
tants, completing tender documents, and awarding contracts. These delays also
reflected ineffective management which improved after the formation of a
commission of senior officials to coordinate project implementation. The
specialist services program under the project is nearly completed. Recommen-
dations of experts for improvement of teaching, research and extension
activities are considered worthwhile and have been implemented by the
university staff. All the fellowships have been awarded and training mostly
completed. Total project cost has exceeded appraisal estimates by about 36%.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Original Closing
Date: June 30. 1978; Current Closing Date: September 30,
1980
All project components are virtually completed except the Teacher
Training Colleges (TTC) component which is about three years behind schedule.
Good progress is generally being made in the pedagogical development of
project components except at Songkla University where the attraction of
teaching at Bangkok universities is resulting in high staff turnover.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9. 1977: Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory and is expected
to be completed ahead of schedule. All civil works have been tendered and
most contracts awarded. More than half of equipment and furniture has been
procured. Nearly all fellowships have been awarded. Staff training programs
are on schedule but need to be improved, as does supervision by the Ministry
of Education of its nonformal education programs.
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education ProJect; $35 Million Credit of June 28, 1979;
Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
Good progress is being made in project implementation: (i) the
Central Procurement Unit has been established; (ii) sites for all first phase
institutions have also been acquired, and construction of this phase is
expected to be completed by mid-1981; (iii) Phase I sketch plans and lists for
most furniture and equipment have also been prepared; and (iv) technical
assistance consultants have been identified and partly contracted.
Loan No. 864 First Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December
5. 1972: Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31. 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31. 1980
The project is lagging a few months behind the revised time schedule
established in 1975 due to delays in procurement. The Bank loan is fully
committed and as of August 31, 1980, $0.4 million remains to be disbursed.
Nearly all of the local telephone network expansion has been completed.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million Loan of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31. 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement action on
all Bank-financed items is complete. The Bank loan is fully committed and
$22.1 (96%) had been disbursed as of August 1, 1980. Local telephone network
expansion is a few months behind schedule. The project is now expected to be
completed by the end of December 1980, 11 months behind schedule, and to be
fully disbursed by September 1981.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to a delay in the borrower's decision on standardization of
switching equipment and cables, action on procurement is a year behind
schedule. Waiting lists have been introduced in all telephone areas and
procedures for giving new connections revised. Progress on implementation of
other project components is satisfactory. The TOT's financial condition
remains good.
Loan No. 1519  Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project:  $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date:  June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress is generally satisfactory. Procurement of maintenance
equipment is under way, and all contracts have been awarded. Construction
on over 5% of project roads is well under way, with most contracts on
schedule.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress on project implementation is satisfactory. The financial con-
dition of the State Railway of Thailand remains weak, and the Bank has urged
the Government to fulfil its obligations by implementing the necessary tariff
revisions.
Loan No. 1889 Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project; $53 million loan
of August 27, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This loan is not yet effective.
Credit No. 461  Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project:  $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project will be completed three years behind schedule as a
result of initial delays in appointing consultants and in procuring
earthmoving equipment. Work on rehabilitation of main canal systems has been
completed and the pace of construction of tertiary canals has improved
considerably. The current estimate of project cost is $30.3 million, compared
with $12.5 million at appraisal. This increase is due to inflation being
higher than foreseen at appraisal, the decision to provide new tertiary canals
over an area of 34,700 ha rather than the 21,500 ha assumed at appraisal, and
the adoption of higher standards for tertiary development than envisioned at
appraisal. The higher costs are compensated by increases in projected
commodity prices and the economic rate of return is now estimated at 24%
compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress on the rainfed rice component, earlier
affected by management difficulty in integrating the work of several different
disciplinary groups, is now satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date: May 9,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
The consultant's contract was signed in March 1979. Work by
contract is delayed but "force account" work began in early 1980. However,
progress has been slow due to delay in equipment procurement and recent
shortages of cement and fuel.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Major civil works are about one year behind schedule, but project
completion is still expected by mid-1984. Construction work on the diversion
dam is progressing well and works are expected to be completed by end-1980.
About 4,500 ha of on-farm development was completed in 1979 and about 5,000 ha
will be completed this year. All studies financed under the project are
proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is progressing satisfactorily. Rehabilitation
and on-farm development works on about 13,000 ha are expected to be completed
in 1980, bringing the total area developed to 35,000 ha, which is in
accordance with the appraisal estimate. A monitoring system is being set up
and the project is now served by the National Agricultural Extension Project.
Loan No. 1787 Eleventh Irrigation Project; $80 Million Loan of
January 17, 1980; Effective Date: April 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This loan became effective on April 2, 1980. Progress on implement-
ation is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 28, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
After a delay of one year in appointing consultants, satisfactory
progress is being made on the engineering of village roads. The first con-
tract for construction of 114 km has been completed and work is more than 50%
complete on two contracts for a total of some 300 km for village access roads.
Works on other contracts are expected to begin soon. The road maintenance
program under the project is doing well. Procurement problems have delayed
the water supply components, but most of the drilling equipment has now been
delivered, drilling crews have been recruited and are being trained. The
rural electrification component has been completed, and progress on agri-



-35 -                ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
cultural extension and land settlements is satisfactory. After a slow
start-up, the Upland Crop Improvement Component is progressing satisfactorily.
The program anagement, with the assistance of a recently appointed program
advisor, has undertaken a critical review of past work and is gradually intro-
ducing an innovative program of research to help solve the problems of upland-
crop farmers in the Northeast.
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Reasonable progress has been achieved during the first year of
project implementation, given the difficulties which have been encountered
in regard to budgeting, contracting and staffing. IDA staff are giving close
attention to these problems in an effort to help resolve them. In cases
where works have been delayed, no serious consequences will result.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of February
27. 1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976: Closing Date: June
30, 1981
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily but disburse-
ments remain about eighteen months behind appraisal estimates. The seed
production and pasture development programs are progressing well and the
loaned-bull and artificial insemination program, hitherto hindered by the
delay in importation of cattle, are improving.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14. 1977; Closing date: June
30, 1981
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement diffi-
culties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in agreeing on the
formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. Implementation is
improving, however. Staff constraints have delayed completion of the
socio-economic survey of rubber smallholders.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Supervisory staff have been appointed in all 33 project provinces,
and remaining vacancies are expected to be filled by end-1980. The quality of
training, particularly that for subject matter specialists, can be further
improved. Efforts to rectify shortcomings in the quality of leadership and
technical support are being made in the weaker provinces. Excellent extension
results have already been achieved, in particular through the extensive use of
small pumps for dry-season cropping by small farmer groups, and in improve-
ments in home gardens. The civil works program is about two years behind



-36 -                   ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
schedule because of high inflation and, until recently, the low unit cost
ceilings for civil works set by the Budget Bureau. It is expected that
contracts for all remaining civil works will be awarded before October 1980.
Procurement of vehicles, equipment and materials is on schedule.
Disbursements are lagging through the delays in the civil works program.
Consultants continue to provide excellent assistance.
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date: December 18, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This loan became effective on December 18, 1979, and implementation
progress to date is satisfactory. Supervisory staff have received training
but there is a shortage of qualified candidates for Extension Agent posts.
Loan No. 1816 Agricultural Credit Project; $19 Million Loan of
April 30, 1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Preparation for project implementation has been somewhat slow, but
responsible agencies expect to expedite implementation by October when the
Thai fiscal year begins.  The EEC has agreed to provide a grant of $3.5
million to finance the cooperative training program; this decision was made
after the Bank loan was signed.
Loan No. 977 Srinagarind (Ban Chao Nen) Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million
Loan of April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Civil works under the project are nearly completed. The
installation of the turbine generating units is expected to be completed on
schedule.  Project costs are likely to be about 30% higher than appraisal
estimates, due mainly to additional grouting work required beneath the main
embankment.  The progress on resettlement has been satisfactory, and all of
the families affected have now been resettled.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closinw Date: December 31, 1982
The construction of the main civil works is proceeding satis-
factorily. The initial delay was caused by slow mobilization of the
contractor and poorer than expected rock conditions at the downstream ends of
the diversion tunnels. Orders for all major equipment (financed by the Kuwait
Fund) have been placed. Construction for the resettlement component is
progressing according to schedule. Disbursements are generally in line with
appraisal estimates.



- 37 -                ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan No. 1527 The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
After an initial delay in procurement, progress on project
implementation is satisfactory.
Loan No. S-10 Natural Gas Development Engineering Project, $4.9 Million Loan
of July 28, 1978; Effective Date: September 25, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is close to completion. In July 1979, the Borrower, the
National Gas Organization of Thailand, was taken over by the Petroleum
Authority of Thailand who is the Borrower for a loan of $107 million for the
Second Gas Pipeline project (Loan No. 1773-TH). Loan No. S-10-Th would be
refinanced under Loan No. 1773-TH.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Effective Date: May 23, 1980.
Closing Date: June 30. 1984
This loan became effective on May 23, 1980.
Loan No. 1773  Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; $107 Million Loan of
February 15, 1980: Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1770  Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project; $80 Million Loan of
June 17, 1980; Effective Date: September 17, 1980;
Closing Date: February 28. 1985
This loan became effective on September 17, 1980.
Loan No. 1852  Mae Moh Lignite Project; $72 Million Loan of
June 17, 1980; Effective Date: September 17, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This loan becane effective on September 17, 1980.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress is generally good with only minor delays in implement-
ation. Current cost estimates for civil works are below appraisal esti-
mates.
Loan No. 1870 National Sites and Services Project; $29 Million Loan of
August 8. 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30. 1982
After an encouraging start, the project's overall progress has
slackened. The most pressing concern is to strengthen the role of OCMRT in
guiding project implementation. The policy package featuring area road
pricing has made little progress in gaining acceptance. Recently, a healthy
dialogue on the role of various agencies took place that may help to push
the implementation of the project. Tangible progress to date has been the
completion of bus lanes and the technical success in the installation of a
computer-controlled traffic signal scheme.
Loan No. 1492 The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project; $4.75
Million Loan of December 5, 1977; Effective Date: March 24,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
On-site infrastructure has been progressing. The unsatisfactory
condition of an access road has been brought to the Government's attention
for necessary action. Bunding, drainage, and three of the four deep wells
have been completed. Substantial progress is being achieved in road
construction, sewerage, and water distribution. Land sales have been very
encouraging with nearly all of available plots either firmly committed or
being negotiated, and are well ahead of appraisal estimates. These sales have
been achieved at an average sales price of B 300,000 per rai, as compared to
projected sales price of B 250,000 per rai in the appraisal. In order to
accommodate substantial demand for the Export Processing Zone, IEAT has
enlarged this area to 30 ha. The estate's full development has nearly
been achieved.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Loan No. 992 Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974: Original Closing Date: September 3
1978; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's financial condition
continued to be good. The loan is fully committed and nearly disbursed.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1981; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The loan commitment rate was initially slower than expected.
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27, 197
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
Due to initial staffing problems, key project activities were held
up initially and major elements of the project are about six months behind
schedule. The Ministry of Public Health is, however, taking appropriate
action to strengthen project management, improve coordination and remove
impediments to implementation.



- 40 -
ANNEX III
THAILAND
BANGKOK AND SATTAHIP PORTS PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 18 months
(b) Agency which prepared the project: the Sattahip Committee
and consultants financed with the Bank Loan 1519-TH;
(c) First presentation to the Bank: September 1979
First mission to consider the project: October 1979
(d) Departure of the appraisal mission: February 1980
(e) Completion of negotiations: September 1980
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: December 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) institution of measures for operational and physical improvements
at Klong Taei and Sattahip (para. 45);
(b) modifications in existing procedures to improve both break bulk
and container yard operating procedures (paras. 46 and 47);
(c) reallocation of berths between conventional and containerized cargo
at Klong Toei to contain congestion (para. 48);
(d) the Government will ensure that necessary land for the Bang Su
complex is made available by SRT. The Government will provide
financing for the construction of the complex and make arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank for its operation (para. 49);
(e) agreement to ensure adequate transportation of containers between
Sattahip and Bang Su; permit consignees to choose haulage
contractors of their own choice (para. 50); and
(f) a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered between the Government
and PAT (para. 52).



IBRD 2791 R
JULY  1980
BANG  SU STATION
'Southern Railwoy       GRAND                                MAKKASAN STATION
THONB3URI M    PALACE                  _  ii
STATION     ll           L        
THONBURI                          475                                                 O W
AnRchortge north of
Krungthe, BridW e              A       STAT               0
Port Authority of Thailand
(P.A T)
KRUNGTHEP                                                                /
Moo,~--. Ancnchoreg
Bar ~       ~         fs chgpnnel
TMN PWhO,RTyaI O
LOCATIONG,L ROFD TRAI/ L ANDWAEAC55                           / <
= =ea Or BarOd  ch  l @. 1/B                                             \hoe
Le tOC Tt ION, RtoO A   RIA            WT          CE
B Jr channel                                           H2   s    /      L     A  
FO    T                                     Ch00h oe rgSao
0             1nsOs ben/werr 2e   3/ 4     5                                                                 Choa  Bud
Weffirsst,^rrStul¢47vels^,r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ oe  Krrbang
th,t crtrivehwe oKILOMETERS                                                                    A             S tichip
rhe ,  to tthiCh t 5 brt.                                    I ~       ~    \\
rl a,t"  ntf si voudss 
do no;=         _hp fW






IBRD 14989
X'  /  /  //                            '     /       77-' (A  NA    ARLlS
)THAILAND * (V  T
/   //        /                                                                                                                                                                                       hAdo-a
7/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x  7, ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~      ~      TG Er
CO"ITAINER                     GENERAL CA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sa                                                al 
7                                                                                                                                                                ALAYSIA  Sac~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TH ILA C
/                                                                                                                          7,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A GO    ADSTA I   NORT     SRJEC
77  PT  ~ ~ ~~~~~                   .,               OPEN STORAGE     ~     ~      POR   O            STTHI
/  <77  /  7'>'  LI   ~~~~~~~~~~\\S 9-'  <~~~~~~  7/'  'b'"                            '-0-             -~~~Proectare
'7/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   /7~~~~~~Pooe  nwbidn
"  77                      flSieInt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Degngae
AORiCOLTURA1 67  LI5                                                     WhJciafu.IWA~~~~~~~~~~~ropsedNT  ligt jple
Por  bonaryn,,~0,
Existing port arfea
Existing buildings
Future    ,orailway
/7  /17/7   "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
METERSHA  LAND0                       40        0
Z,                                                                                                FEET 6           560~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANKK    N   SATTAHI  PORS   ROEC
PORT O  SATAHI



