E 0      TS ]  LOAN NUMBER 1918-TH
Loan Agreement
(Bangkok and Sattahip Ports Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                         /9    , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1918-TB
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   /         , 1980, between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
(B) the Project (except for Part D thereof) will be carried
out by Port Authority of Thailand (hereinafter called PAT) with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to PAT part of the proceeds of the
Loan as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated June 30, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and PAT of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;


﻿-2-
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and PAT pursuant to Section
3.02 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement; and
(c) "Bang Sue Complex" means collectively the facilities to
be provided at Bang Sue under Part D of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty-seven million dollars ($47,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and twenty-five hundredths per cent (9.25%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. PAT is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions for expenditures
in respect of goods and services required for the Project (ex-
cept for Part D thereof).
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out or cause to
be carried out Part D of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and transport practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause PAT to perform in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action necessary or
appropriate to enable PAT to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance. In particular, the Borrower
shall:
(i) cause its Customs Department to: (A) continue to
permit PAT to move contairers to the container
yard for handling wherever they are landed in the
port of Klong Toei and move goods in bond from the
port of Klong Toei to bonded warehouses outside
such port, if such goods remained unclaimed for
three weeks in the port storage and (B) dispose
of unclaimed cargo which has remained unsold at the
normal auction for such cargo; and


﻿-4-
(ii) ensure that consignees at Klong Toei can provide
their own vehicles whenever the Express Transport
Organization of Thailand cannot promptly provide
the required vehicles.
(b) The Borrower shall relend an amount equivalent to
fifteen million and five hundred thousand dollars ($15,500,000)
out of the proceeds of the Loan to PAT under a subsidiary loan
agreement to *be entered into between the Borrower and PAT, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherw-se agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or v ire the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the prep-
aration of bidding documents, supervision of civil wo-ks and
procurement of equipment for Part D (1) of the Project and in
the carrying out of the study included in Part D (2) of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
required for Part D of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and work and procure-
ment schedules for Part D of the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of Part D of the Project (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
required for Part D of the Project and financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part D of the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall, promptly after completion of the
Project but in any event not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, prepare and furnish, or cause
to be prepared and furnished, to the Bank a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Loan Agreement, the performance by PAT and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Project Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in Part D of the Project and shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to Part D of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned


﻿-6-
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or 'benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Part D of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out such Part of the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) operate and maintain
or cause to be operated and maintained all facilities included


﻿-7-
in Part D of the Project and from time to time make or cause to
be made all necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accor-
dance with sound engineering, financial and management standards;
and (ii) take or cause to be taken all practical steps which may
be necessary to maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises which are necessary or useful for the foregoing
purposes.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, as soon as practicable
after the completion of the study included in Part D of the
Project but at any event not later than December 31, 1982 or
such other date as the Borrower and the Bank may agree, imple-
ment the recommendations derived therefrom in a manner satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Bank. In particular, in case
the Bang Sue Complex shall be operated by the third party or
parties: (i) the Borrower shall retain title to such Complex; (ii)
the Borrower shall establish to the satisfaction of the Bank
the suitability of such third party or parties for the operation
of the Bang Sue Complex, taking into account, inter alia, its
or their managerial, financial and operational qualifications;
(iii) such Complex shall be leased from the Borrower to such
third party or parties under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Bank; and (iv) such third party or parties
shall assume and perform the obligations of the Borrower provided
in Section 4.03 hereof as if they were its or their own obli-
gations.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and PAT.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by PAT, and is legally binding upon PAT in accordance
with its terms; and


﻿-8-
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PAT and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and PAT in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date 46A44         g4   /     , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Under Secretary of State for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok 2
Kingdom of Thailand
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINANCE                             TH-2823
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By //
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                                      6P6
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories and Sub-categories
of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and Sub-
category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category and Sub-category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) For Parts A, B and
C of the Project
(a) Civil works              3,500,000       55%
(b) Mechanical               6,000,000       100% of foreign
equipment                               expenditures
for directly
imported items,
100% of the ex-
factory cost of
locally manu-
factured items
and 65% of the
cost of other
items procured
locally
(c) Consulting ser-          2,500,000       100%
vices and
training
(d) Unallocated              3,500,000
Sub-total       15,500,000


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(2) For Part D of
the Project
(a) Civil works             16,000,000       55%
(b) Mechanical               5,650,000       100% of foreign
equipment                               expenditures
for directly
imported items,
100% of the ex-
factory cost of
locally manu-
factured items
and 65% of the
cost of other
items procured
locally
(c) Consulting               1,900,000       100%
services
(d) Unallocated              7,950,000
Sub-total       31,500,000
TOTAL   47,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods and services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,


﻿- 12 -
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Sub-category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Sub-category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Sub-category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then
allocated to another Sub-category within the same Category and
which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Sub-category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category or Sub-category is inconsis-
tent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank
under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to increase port efficiency and cargo
throughput and consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   at Klong Toei
Addition of two new container freight stations ("cfs"),
paving of the container yard, and provision of new
container handling equipment.
Part B:   at Sattahip
Dredging of the entrance channel and harbor and improve-
ments to fendering and yard paving; provision of a
cfs, railway track, administrative office and ancillary
facilities; and provision of mechanical handling equip-
ment and floating equipment.
Part C:   Technical Assistance and Training
Technical assistance and training program to: (i) help
PAT to institute the necessary reorganization of PAT's
conventional cargo and container yard operations and
its operating department and review the progress there-
of, by December 31, 1981; (ii) assist PAT's Comp-
troller's department to undertake a tariff (including
storage charges) study; (iii) conduct studies to arrest
erosion within Sattahip harbor; and (iv) provide an
outline of location and type of port development re-
quired on the eastern seaboard to handle projected
traffic between the years 1985 and 2000.
Part D:   at Bang Sue
(1) Provision of two cfs about 240 m-long and one cfs
about 300 m-long, about four bonded warehouses,
mechanical equipment, rail and road works and
ancillary facilities.


﻿- 14 -
(2) Study to review alternative arrangements for
operating the Bang Sue Complex and make recom-
mendations thereon, such study to be completed
not later than December 31, 1981.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning July 1, 1986
through   July 1, 2000                     1,565,000
On January 1, 2001                              1,615,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years                               1.40%
before maturity
More than three years but not                           2.75%
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                             5.00%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                          7.40%
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                         8.30%
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years before                         9.25%
maturity


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   Civil works shall be procured under two separate contracts,
namely: (1) Sattahip civil works; and (2) Bang Sue civil works;
and mechanical and floating craft shall be procured under three
separate contracts, namely: (i) transtainer cranes; (ii) forklift
trucks; and (iii) tractors and trailers.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 18 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Kingdom of Thailand may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Kingdom of Thailand if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Kingdom of Thailand equal
to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 19 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more and all contracts for
mechanical equipment:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower or PAT, as the
case may be, shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text
of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising proce-
dures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modi-
fications in the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued
to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower or PAT, as the case may be, shall, before a final decision
on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to
which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the
consultants referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement or
Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement, as the case may be, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
or PAT, as the case may be, and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower or PAT, as the case may be, shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
or PAT, as the case may be, and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this L        day of         19, 18d
FOR SECRETARY


