OFFICIAL    LOAN NUMBER 1918-TH
L UM~N~
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Bangkok and Sattahip Ports Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PORT AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
Dated                        (9    , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1918-TH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   . e9                      , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and PORT AUTHORITY OF THAILAND (hereinafter
called PAT).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Kingdom of Thailand (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-seven million
dollars ($47,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that PAT agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set
forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and PAT, an amount equivalent to fifteen
million and five hundred thousand US dollars (US$15,500,000) out
of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan
Agreement will be made available to PAT on the terms and condi-
tions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS PAT, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PAT shall carry out the Project (except for
Part D thereof) described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement


﻿-2-
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and transport
practices.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist PAT: (i) in the pre-
paration of bidding documents, supervision of works and procure-
ment of equipment as required for Parts A and B of the Project;
and (ii) in the carrying out of Part C of the Project, PAT shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) the tariff study included in Part C of the Project shall
be completed by June 30, 1981 and upon completion of such study,
PAT's tariffs shall be revised in a manner satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) PAT undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by PAT to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, PAT shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 2.05. (a) PAT shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project (except for Part D thereof), and any material modifi-
cations thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) PAT: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (except for Part
D thereof) (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the


﻿-3-
proceeds of the Loan onlent by the Borrower to PAT, and to dis-
close their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project (except for Part D thereof)
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
onlent by the Borrower to PAT and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concern-
ing the Project (except for Part D thereof), its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan onlent by the Borrower to PAT and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) In order to assist the Borrower in performing its
obligation provided in Section 3.05 (c) of the Loan Agreement,
PAT shall, promptly after completion of the Project (except
for Part D thereof), prepare and furnish to the Borrower a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Borrower shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project
(except for Part D thereof), its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by PAT and the Bank of
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes if the Loan.
(d) PAT shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of PAT and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. PAT shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, PAT shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) PAT shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project (except for Part D thereof), the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.
(b) PAT shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project (except for Part D thereof), the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by PAT of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PAT
Section 3.01. PAT shall at all times conduct its business
and operations and maintain its financial position in accordance
with sound financial and commercial practices under the supervi-
sion of qualified and experienced management.
Section 3.02. PAT shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. PAT shall: (i) operate and maintain its
facilities,, equipment, floating craft and other properties,
and from time to time make all necessary renewals and repairs
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
port management standards; and (ii) take all practical steps which
may be reasonably necessary to maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in
the conduct of its business.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PAT shall follow operating procedures in accordance with the
requirements provided in the Schedule to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PAT shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. PAT shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)


﻿-5-
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of PAT and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PAT shall from time to time take or cause to be taken all such
measures (including but not limited to adjustments of its tariffs)
as shall be required to produce an annual rate of return of
not less than: 9% in fiscal years 1981-83; 10% in fiscal year
1984; and 11% thereafter. A revision of these rates of return may
be agreed upon by the Bank and PAT after the completion of the
first revaluation of PAT's assets pursuant to Section 4.04 hereof.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated in
respect of each fiscal year of PAT by relating
net income for such year to the average of the net
values of PAT's fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of such year;
(ii) the term "net income" means all operating revenues,
except dividend and interest income from long-term
investments, less all operating expenses;
(iii) the term "operating expenses" includes: direct
costs of operation, administration, overhead and
adequate maintenance expenses; straight-line
depreciation based on the useful life of assets;
but does not include interest and other charges on
debt and remittances to the Borrower's Treasury;
and
(iv) the term "net value of fixed assets in operation"
shall be the gross value of fixed assets in oper-
ation, less accumulated depreciation, as valued in
accordance with methods of valuation acceptable
to the Bank and PAT.
Section 4.04. PAT shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1982
and at least once in every three years thereafter, have its fixed
assets revalued in accordance with sound valuation principles
satisfactory to the Bank and PAT; and (b) furnish the Bank with a
full report within two months of completion of such revaluations.


﻿Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PAT shall not incur any debt unless the amount of its net cash
revenue in the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or in a
later twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence, which-
ever amount is the greater, shall have been at least one and
three-quarter times the maximum debt service requirements in any
succeeding fiscal year on all debt of PAT, including the debt to
be incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) the term "debt" means all indebtedness of PAT maturing
by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a contract, loan agreement or other
instrument providing for such debt;
(c) the term "net cash revenue" means the difference be-
tween: (i) gross revenues from all sources, adjusted to take
account of PAT's tariffs in effect at the time the debt is to be
incurred even though they were not in effect during the fiscal
year or other twelve-month period in which such revenues accrued;
and (ii) operating, administrative and maintenance expenses,
excluding depreciation and interest and other charges on debt, but
including taxes (if any), and Treasury remittances;
(d) the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any),
interest and other charges on debt; and
(e) whenever it shall be necessary to value, in terms of
the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the rate of exchange
at which such other currency could, at the time of such valuation,
lawfully be obtained by PAT for the purposes of servicing such
debt or, if such other currency is not so obtainable, at a rate of
exchange reasonably determined by the Bank.
Section 4.06. PAT shall review its accounting system and
financial planning procedures and implement, by December 31, 1981
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and PAT, the recommendations
to be derived therefrom.


﻿-7 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date 'upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of PAT thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify PAT thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
.Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
For PAT:
Port Authority of Thailand
Bangkok
Thailand
Cable address:                      Telex:
PAT                                PAT TH 82171
Bangkok
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of PAT may be taken or executed by its
Director or such other person or persons as the Director shall
designate in writing, and the Director shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
dRegional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
PORT AUTHORITY OF THAILAND
By                             R      n
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
PAT's Operating Procedures
The operating procedures required under Section 3.04 of the
Project Agreement shall be made as follows:
A.   General
PAT shall:
(i) continue to optimize the use of available berth space
at Klong Toei by berthing more than 16 ships whenever
it is practicable; and
(ii) reorganize its operating department as may be necessary
to conform with the revised operations in B and C
below.
B.   For Conventional Break Bulk Cargo Operations
PAT shall:
(i) not later than December 31, 1981, review with the
Bank means of reducing the average storage time at Klong
Toei, including but not limited to, application of the
proposals of the tariff study to be undertaken under
Part C of the Project;
(ii) take appropriate steps to encourage and enable in-
terested parties to establish by December 31, 1981
bonded warehouses outside the port and expand the
practice to move cargo to such outside bonded warehouse
at its consignee's expenses after three weeks in port
storage. In the event that such outside bonded ware-
houses are not established, PAT shall, not later than
March 31, 1982, review with the Bank such measures as
shall be necessary for their establishment; and
(iii) (a) for the period from early 1983 until the end
of 1985, limit the number of berths used for
container operations at Klong Toei in such a way
that the annual ship waiting time for all berths at
Klong Toei shall not exceed 1,000 days; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) after 1985, limit the number of berths used for
container operations at Klong Toei in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank and PAT.
C.   For Containerized Cargo Operations
As soon as the new container freight stations ("cfs") are
available but in any event not later than December 31, 1982, PAT
shall:
(i) streamline the operations of its container yard and
services on the following basis:
Operation                           Responsibility
(a) Off load/load ship;                  Ship's agent
(b) Operate yard for all                 PAT or single
shipping companies using            agent appointed
the port;                           by the shipping
companies
(c) Operate cfs;                         PAT
(d) Operate new open area for            PAT or single
stuffing containers (approxi-       agent appoint-
mately the area of new paving       ed by PAT
provided under the Project); and
(e) move containers unloaded from        PAT
combo ship on the West Quay to
the East Quay container yard
for unstuffing/stuffing as is
the present practice
(ii) document each movement of a container: (a) into the yard
from the ship; (b) from the yard to the location of the
various services referred to in para (i) above and
return to yard; and (c) from the yard to the ship;
(iii) make supplementary sheds Nos. 2 and 3 behind the West
Quay available as cfs when necessary according to the
present practice; and


﻿- 11 -
(iv) limit the number of containers any shipping company can
retain in the container yard between consecutive sail-
ings of their companies' ships to the number of con-
tainers it requires to conduct its export trade.
D.   Performance Indicators
PAT shall maintain records and statistics on the following
performance indicators:
Description               Method                       (Indicator)
Tonnage per     Total tonnage worked for all general  230,000 tons
berth (tons/    cargo ships, at the berth during
ship)           period under review divided by
number of ships
Average stor-   Total ton-days of storage divided      3 weeks
age time in     by total tons in period
port (days)
Tons per        Total tonnage worked, divided         40 tons/
gang-hour net   by total gross gang time less stop-   gang-hour
(tons/net       pages occuring during the gang work   over berth
gang-hour)      period which cannot be attributed     20 tons/
to the gang (e.g., weather, meal      gang-hour
times)                                overside to
barge
Waiting time    Total time between arrival and
(hours/ship)    berthing for all berthing ships,
divided by number of berthing ships
Service time    Total time between berthing and
(hours/ship)    departure for all ships, divided
by number of ships
Arrival rate    Number of ships arriving during a
(ships/day)     month, divided by number of days
in the month


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /    iday of           198&.
FOR SECRETARY


