Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19503
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
THIRD ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(Credit N-0100-MOZ)
June 29, 1999
Macroeconomics I
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.f



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Metical (Mt); plural: Meticais
1996 US$1 = Mt 11,294
1997 US$1 = Mt 11,546
1998 US$1 = Mt 11,856
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCM          Banco Comercial de Mo,ambique
BPD         Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CFM         Caminhos de Ferro de Mogambique
EMRO        Economic Management Reform Operation
ERC         Economic Recovery Project
ESAF        Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
ESW         Economic and Sector Work
FMR          Financial Management Review
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
HIAL        Higher Impact Adjustment Lending
HIPC         Heavily Indebted Poor Country
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
IERP        Industrial Enterprise Restructuring Project
IISR         Impediments to Industrial Sector Recovery study
IMF          International Monetary Fund
INE         National Institute of Statistics
MoU          Memorandum of Understanding
MPF          Ministry of Planning and Finance
RPRP         Railways and Port Restructuring Project
SERC         Second Economic Recovery Project
SPA          Special Program for Africa
TERC         Third Economic Recovery Credit
VAT          Value Added Tax
Vice President:         Callisto E. Madavo, AFRVP
Country Director        Phyllis Pomerantz, AFC02
Sector Manager:         Sudhir Shetty, AFTMI
Team Leader:            Manuela Ferro, AFTMI



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOZAMBIQUE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(Credit N-0100-MOZ)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY.i-iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .................................. 1-13
A. Background ......................................................                 I
B. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives ................................................ 1
C. Achievement of Program Objectives and Assessment of Outcomes ............... 4
D. Major Factors Affecting the Program .................................................. 8
E. Program Sustainability ...........................     ............................ 8
F. Bank Performance.                                                                 9
G. Borrower Performance ......................................................      10
H. Future Operations ......................................................         10
I. Key Lessons Learnt ......................................................        11
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ................................. .....................  14-22
Tablel: Summary of Assessments ........................    ..............................  14
Table 2: Related Bank Operations .......................... ............................  15
Table  3:  Project Timetable ...................................................... .  16
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual             . .   16
Table 5: Key Indicators, Actual and Projected, 1996-99 .................. .         17
Table 6: Updated Matrix of Actions Supported by the TERC ........................ 18-20
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants            ......................................... 21
Table 8: Bank Resources: Actual Staff Inputs          ................................. 22
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions              ........................................ 22
APPENDICES
A. ICR MISSION AIDE-MEMOIRE
B. BORROWER EVALUATION REPORT
C. BORROWER COMMENTS ON ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in tie
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



MOZAMBIQUE
THIRD ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT (TERC)
(Credit No. NO1O-MOZ)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Economic Recovery
Credit (TERC) in Mozambique for which an Interim Fund Credit (NO I 0-MOZ), in an amount of
SDR 69.1 million (US$100 million equivalent), on standard IDA terms, was approved on
February 4, 1997 and made effective on May 21, 1997.
The Credit was a two-tranche operation. The first tranche, released upon effectiveness,
was fully disbursed by June 10, 1997. The second tranche was released on March 31, 1998. The
Credit closed on December 31, 1998, as envisaged in the original Board documentation.
This ICR was prepared by David Bruns, Economist, AFTMI, under the supervision of
Manuela Ferro, Economist and Task Team Leader, AFTM1, and reviewed by Sudhir Shetty,
Sector Manager, AFTMI, and Phyllis Pomerantz, Country Director for Mozambique. The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR with its own evaluation of the program and
their contribution is included.
Preparation of this ICR began in March, 1999. It is based on discussions with Bank staff,
Government officials, private sector, and on the President's Report, the Credit Agreement, and
other materials in the project files.



THIRD ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT (TERC)
(Credit No. N010-MOZ)
Evaluation Summary
i.    Background In 1987, with the economy virtually paralyzed by civil war and by
a failed experiment with central planning, the Government of Mozambique initiated a
wide-ranging economic reform program that involved a shift towards market-oriented
policies and a redefinition and reduction of the role of the state in the economy. Since
then and with substantial assistance from the international community, a peace agreement
was reached in 1992 and the Government has successfully steered the resettlement of the
displaced population, the demobilization of 80,000 troops, the return to democracy, and
the recovery of Mozambique's economy.  Four IDA adjustment operations have
supported the Government's economic reform efforts until 1995. These credits have
supported the Government's reform program in key areas: price decontrols; liberalization
of the foreign exchange market; budgetary reallocations toward the social sectors; and
privatization of enterprises and financial sector reform.
ii.   The results of the economic transition were good, with real GDP growth
averaging 7 percent annually between 1987 and 1995. However, growth was uneven and
the industrial sector continued to contract until 1995. Furthermore, difficulties in
controlling quasi-fiscal deficits associated to the state-owned banks caused inflation to
remain high, threatening the sustainability of Mozambique's growth path.
iii.   Program Design and Objectives. The TERC was the Bank's fifth adjustment
credit to Mozambique. Like the Second Economic Recovery Credit (SERC) before it and
the Economic Management Reform Operation (EMRO) after it, the TERC was conceived
as part of a sequentially-designed program of support-with important elements being
built upon and developed over the course of previous operations. TERC design also
benefited from Economic and Sector Work (ESW) and from close collaboration with
IMF staff. The TERC reform program focused on two main areas: (i) macroeconomic
management and (ii) supply response measures. Macroeconomic management measures
included the privatization of majority shares in the two state-owned banks, Banco
Comercial de Mogambique (BCM) and Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento (BPD),
strengthening of banking supervision, the adoption of a budget reforn program, and
measures to limit indirect subsidies to enterprises. Supply response measures included
the rationalization of the tariff and indirect tax system, monitoring of the impact of
cashew sector liberalization, and the restructuring of Caminhos de Ferro de Mogambique
(CFM), the state port and railways company.
iv.   Preparation, appraisal, and supervision of the TERC were strongly influenced by
the Africa Region's Higher Impact Adjustment Lending (HIAL) Initiative. The HIAL
encourages fewer and relatively simple formulations of policy conditionality. The need
for greater selectivity was also a lesson learned in Mozambique's previous adjustment
operations. As a result, the TERC had only five conditions for second tranche release,
and relied instead on key policy decisions and measures that were implemented up-front,
prior to negotiations.



v.    Results of the TERC Program. Overall the TERC was highly successful in
achieving its twin objectives of improving macroeconomic management and generating a
greater and broader supply response. From 1996 throughout 1998, economic indicators
portrayed strong growth with increased macroeconomic stability. Growth accelerated
and became more broad-based, with industry, agriculture and services, all growing on
average at 9 percent annually or above.
vi.   In the specific policy areas that the TERC supported, the outcomes were also
generally successful. Privatization of BCM and BPD improved control of monetary
policy and was instrumental in reducing inflation from over 50 percent in 1994 and 1995
to the single digits in 1997 and 1998. It also resulted in a more competitive financial
sector offering increasingly diversified banking services.
vii.   Coupled with an overhaul of customs administration, the simplification and
rationalization of the import tariff and indirect tax regime led to a broadening of the tax
base, increased access to raw materials and capital goods, and increased trade flows with
the region and the rest of the world. Coupled with the acceleration of the privatization
program, these reforms contributed to the recovery of the industrial sector, which grew at
an average rate of 20 percent between 1996 and 1998.  The foundation for the
introduction of a broad-based VAT has been set and implementation initiated in June
1999.
viii. The TERC supported the Government's initial efforts to develop a more
comprehensive and transparent budget. In 1997, a new Budget Law was passed defining
the scope and procedures for preparation and approval of the budget, and the 1998 budget
was formulated in accordance with it. Among the changes in the 1998 budget were the
implementation of a new system of classification of expenditures and the development of
a medium-term expenditure framework. The result has been an increase in transparency
that permits improved budget programming.
ix.   The process of concessioning CFM's port terminals, port services and railways to
the private sector is ongoing. The evaluation of bids for the port services, terminals and
rail lines in the Maputo Corridor was completed in 1998 and separate Memoranda of
Understanding (MoU) were signed with private sector parties, but negotiations have yet
to be concluded. It is expected that the proposed IDA Railway and Port Restructuring
Project (RPRP) that was successfully negotiated in April 1999 will support the
conclusion of the concessioning of all ports and railways and the restructuring of CFM.
x.    Summary Ratings. A key feature for the overall positive outcome of the TERC
was the Government's strong ownership and commitment to the implementation of the
reform program and the continuity of both Government and Bank staff involved in
implementing the reforms. The summary ratings (Table 1) are:
Achievement of objectives:   highly satisfactory
Program sustainability:     likely
Bank performance:            highly satisfactory
Borrower performance:        highly satisfactory
Assessment of outcome:       highly satisfactory
ii



xi.   Main conclusions and lessons are:
*  Few, but selective conditions result in greater impact. Excessive conditionality often
contributes to the failure of adjustment programs in Africa. The TERC contained
only 5 second tranche conditions. Fewer, more selective conditions enabled both the
Government and the Bank to focus on those measures that were critical to sustain and
further the adjustment effort.
*  Borrower commitment to the adjustment program is critical for success. The main
element in the success of the TERC program was the Government's strong
commitment to the overall reform program and the TERC program in particular.
Ownership was built early on through ESW, relatively lengthy project preparation
that included consultations with the private sector, and fewer and selective objectives
and conditions .
4 A gradual approach allows for consensus building and sustainability of reforms.
Strong borrower commitment does not imply that there were not disagreements
between the Government and the Bank on the pace or sequence of reform. However,
the slower pace that was advocated by the Government generated greater ownership
and no backtracking and, in the end, a very rapid and sustained transition.
•  Continuity of staff boosts commitment and sustainability.  The involvement of
Government and Bank staff who were familiar with the objectives of the overall
reform program as well as the implementation experience of previous adjustment
operations was useful in avoiding pitfalls experienced in previous operations and to
ensuring that implementation matched the original aims envisaged during program
design.
* Close collaboration with the IMF contributed to appropriate sequencing and
complementarity of structural and macroeconomic reforms. Complementarity of
TERC and other IDA-supported operations on the one hand, and the IMF's ESAF
program on the other, strengthened the linkages between macro policies and structural
reforms and facilitated a greater overall impact than if programs had been
implemented separately.
* Macroeconomic outcomes are closely related to structural problems.  The poor
management of the two state-owned banks, combined with weak supervision and
control by the central bank, was a major source of macroeconomic instability in the
economy. The links between macroeconomic stability and structural reform were
clearly evident following the privatization of majority shares in the two state-owned
banks which stemmed sources of monetary leakage and contributed to a drastic drop
in inflation.
iii



PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1. A difficult transition to independence in 1975 was closely followed by the
introduction of a system of central planning and civil war. A large share of the economy
subsequently fell into the hands of the state where inefficient, and frequently
inappropriate, management resulted in sharply declining commercial orientation and
productivity. The civil war made much of the countryside ungovemable and production
plummeted while much of the productive, social and physical infrastructure was either
destroyed or deteriorated at an alarming rate. Mozambique emerged from the civil war in
1992 with over one quarter of its population displaced and some of the lowest social
indicators in sub-Saharan Africa. In the following years, with large financial and
technical assistance from the international community, the government successfully
steered the resettlement and economic reintegration of the displaced population, the
demobilization of 80,000 troops, and the return to democracy.
2. The political changes over the past decade were preceded and supported by equally
significant economic transition. A series of four IDA adjustment operations between
1987 and 1995 supported the Govemment's efforts to stabilize and jumpstart the
economy. These credits provided support in key areas: price decontrols; liberalization of
the foreign exchange market; budgetary reallocations toward the social sectors; and
privatization of enterprises and structural reform of the financial sector. The overall
impact of the structural reform program was positive, facilitating a shift towards market-
oriented policies and a redefinition and reduction of the role of the state in the economy
that arrested the economic decline of the earlier 1980s. Nevertheless, while real GDP
growth averaged 7 percent per year between 1987 and 1995, growth was very uneven
across sub-sectors of the economy. The cessation of hostilities and good weather boosted
agricultural production, but industrial output continued to decline until 1994.
Furthermore, the sustainability of the recovery was threatened by macroeconomic
instability. In 1995 and 1996, annual inflation rates averaged around 50 percent.
B. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
3. The TERC, the fifth World Bank adjustment credit for Mozambique, aimed to sustain
and broaden the economic achievements of previous operations. The credit was designed
to complement the IMF's ESAF program approved in 1996, and support the
Government's reform agenda outlined in the Policy Framework Paper for 1996-98 and
the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) approved by the Board in November
1995. The broad elements of the CAS included: i) restoration of a stable macroeconomic
framework and removal of cross-cutting impediments to growth through private sector
development, improved public sector management and increased attention to
environment and gender; ii) human resource development; and iii) promotion of high
growth potential sectors, in particular agriculture and transportation.



4. The design of the TERC was underpinned by Economic and Sector Work (ESW) and
lessons learned under the previous adjustment operation. The 1995 Impediments to
Industrial Sector Recovery (Report No. 13753-MOZ) identified distortions from the tax
and tariff structure, weaknesses in customs administration, and poor management and
high levels of indebtedness in state-owned industrial enterprises as principal factors
leading to poor industrial performnance and recommended tax and tariff rationalization
and the acceleration of privatization. Until 1994, implementation of the SERC was
failing to produce improvements in the health of the financial system through the
Government's preferred option of restructuring of the state-owned banks, instead of
outright privatization or closure. Further, IDA identified monetary leakages from the two
state-owned banks as the major source of inflationary pressure and urged the privatization
of the state banks. Finally, the 1996 Fiscal Management Review (Report No. 15890-
MOZ) highlighted that Mozambique's budgetary system was inadequate to the task of
allocating domestic and external resources to meet policy aims and recommended a
phased approach to develop an improved budgetary system.
5. The TERC reform program focused on two main areas: (i) macroeconomic
management and (ii) supply response measures. Macroeconomic management measures
included the privatization of majority shares in the two state-owned banks, Banco
Comercial de Mocambique (BCM) and Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento (BPD),
strengthening of banking supervision, the development and adoption of a budget reform
program, and reforrns to limit indirect subsidies to enterprises. Supply response measures
included the rationalization of the tariff and indirect tax system, monitoring of the impact
of cashew sector liberalization, and the restructuring of Caminhos de Ferro de
Mo(ambique (CFM), the state port and railways company.
Macroeconomic Management
6. Financial Sector Reform. By early 1995, inflation remained high and it had become
evident that a gradual restructuring and recapitalization of BCM and BPD would fail to
stop monetary leakages through the banking system. Loan losses were on the rise, the
state-owned banks were illiquid (particularly BCM), and borrowing on overdraft from the
central bank was on the increase, contributing to inflation pressures. Faced with a
deteriorating situation, the Govemment announced its intentions to privatize majority
shares in the two state banks. Given the monetary leakages identified as emanating from
BCM and BPD, the linkages between a healthy financial sector and a growing private
sector, and the previous efforts paid to financial reform by earlier adjustment efforts, the
choice of this objective was appropriate for the TERC. BCM was privatized upfront,
prior to negotiations. As the poor financial situation of BPD led to concerns over the
likelihood of the bidding process leading to the identification of a buyer, the condition of
second tranche release could not be the actual privatization of the BPD. Instead, the
suspension of BPD's lending operations as a state-owned institution was made a
condition of second tranche release.
7. Budget Reform.  The Fiscal Management Review  (FMR) highlighted that
Mozambique's budgetary system was inadequate and unable to cope with the needs of an
expanding expenditure program. Designed as a system to centrally control specific
2



expenditure items, it was not suited to the task of allocating resources to meet policy
outcomes, nor adequate to the task of managing and directing large (around US$550
million a year) external aid flows.  The initial phases in the development and
implementation of a long-term budgetary reform strategy were thus made a part of the
TERC.
8. Indirect Subsidies to Enterprises. Although direct subsidies to enterprises were
reduced to less than one percent in 1996, implicit subsidies continued and were a source
of fiscal pressures. Implicit subsidies to enterprises continued to be provided in the form
of non-payment of taxes, counterpart funds of foreign exchange sales from balance-of-
payments support, and onlending of funds from external sources (credits and grants) on a
grant or below-market rate basis. While the Government had already set up an account
and monitoring system for counterpart fund receipts, the extent of on-lending of
Government funds was difficult to assess, as monitoring remained inadequate. Further,
the terms and conditions varied widely across loans. As a first step towards rationalizing
and reducing these practices, the TERC supported the determination of the overall level
of disbursements, as well as their associated debt service. In addition, the TERC
supported the issuance of guidelines for setting the terms and conditions of funds lent to
commercial borrowers as well as the establishment of a stricter system of accounting,
monitoring, and collection of funds on-lent to enterprises.  The estimation of
disbursements and debt service due under on-lending agreements and issuance of
guidelines on terms and conditions was a condition of second tranche release.
Supply Response
9. Tariff and Indirect Tax Rationalization and Customs Reform. Until 1995,
uneven collection of domestic and import taxes and a wide array of exemptions resulted
in an erratic structure of effective protection. The Impediments to Industrial Sector
Recovery Study (IISR) identified negative rates of protection ranging from minus 35 to
440 percent, especially for manufacturing. In addition, the study recommended the
acceleration of the privatization program, to be supported by IDA under the Industrial
Enterprise Recovery Credit. To correct these anomalies, the TERC supported a reform
package to reduce customs duty rates (especially for materials and capital goods) and to
reduce and improve monitoring of import tax exemptions. Implementation of the
improved trade regime was to be complemented by an overhaul of customs
administration, which would reverse the deterioration of customs services. Because
Mozambique had what amounted to a double sales tax regime, with a cascading turnover
tax plus a broad-based consumption tax, the TERC also supported changes in the indirect
tax system. In particular, it supported the critical steps necessary for replacing the
turnover tax with a Value-Added Tax (VAT) and a reduction in scope of the consumption
tax. Two of the TERC's tranche conditions referred to this component, namely that the
Borrower would (i) establish a system to reconcile all import taxes due and paid and
carry out reconciliation for six months and would (ii) submit the VAT law to Parliament.
10. Cashew Liberalization. Cashew is one of Mozambique's key export crops with
potential for growth, poverty reduction, and foreign exchange earnings. The IISR had
identified that restrictions on exports of raw cashews caused producer prices to remain
3



low, discouraging production. The Government initiated a liberalization of the sector in
1995 and reduced export restrictions, however strong resistance to further liberalization
arose from the processing sector. As part of a Special Program for Africa (SPA) Gender
Pilot, the TERC program supported the analysis and monitoring of the cashew sector to
assess liberalization's effects at the farm level, especially among women. The analysis of
cashew policy was an appropriate way of generating information on rural households and
of increasing awareness about the positive implications of liberalization.
11.  CFM Restructuring. In the pre-independence period, the transit corridors had
generated about US$75 million (or US$250 million in current prices) a year, or about half
of total exports of goods and services. A steady decline in traffic levels, establishment of
alternative routes in South Africa, and growing inefficiency in the ports and railway
system followed the war. More recently, growing interest to develop the corridors has
led to Mozambique regaining market share, but poor management and CFM's limited
financial capacity remained severe constraints to further improvement. The TERC
supported a restructuring plan for CFM that would boost a supply response in the
transport and export sectors by promoting the private concessioning of Mozambique's
southern transit corridor.  A second tranche condition, designed alongside IDA's
transportation sector staff, was that the Government would complete the evaluation of
bids regarding the granting of concessions of the port of Maputo and connecting railway
lines.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES AND ASSESSMENT OF OUTCoMEs
12. The specific impact of the TERC is difficult to assess in isolation because it was
part of a broader program of reforms, which was implemented satisfactorily by the
Government. Nevertheless, the TERC-supported reforms were critical steps in the overall
program which, coupled with other structural reforms such as privatization, and a
generally favorable external environment, including substantial inflows of external aid
and good weather, helped stabilize the economy and encouraged vigorous growth (Matrix
of Reforms in Statistical Annex Table 6). The Government's track record in reform
implementation, including TERC supported reforms, allowed Mozambique to qualify in
1998 for debt relief under the HlPC Initiative.
13. Economic Performance. From 1996 throughout 1998, economic indicators have
portrayed strong growth with increased macroeconomic stability.  Since 1996, the
economy has experienced double-digit growth rates (Table 1). Growth has been broad-
based, with all sectors growing at over 8 percent on average over this period. The
industrial sector, in particular, reversed the previous contractionary trend, to grow at an
average 20 percent a year over the past three years. Merchandise exports have increased
by 42 percent over the period, owing to increases in export volumes and prices of key
commodities such as prawns, cashews, and cotton. Monetary leakages have been
controlled, enabling annual inflation to fall from more than 50 percent in 1994 and 1995
to less than 10 percent in 1997 and 1998 (Figure 1).
4



Table 1: Average annual growth rates (percent)
1987-1995           1996-1998
GDP at market prices          5.3                 10.1
GDP at factor cost            3.8                 10.7
Agriculture                5.4                 8.6
Industry                  -0.4                 20.3
Services                   5.4                 8.8
Sources: MPF, INE, and staff estimates.
Figure 1: Inflation Rates, 1992-98
80.                   _._.
70 
60                       ... .
5 0            ~.;:1.~.::'                             ___    nnual average
.....|.... End of Period
30                              .
20                                         .. 
10                                 4.           4
0
1992   1993   1994    1995   1996   1997   1998
Source: INE
14. Performance Indicators. During TERC preparation and appraisal, performance
indicators were identified in order to define expected results and assess actual outcomes.
In most cases, these indicators show an improvement in outcome (Table 2). Overall,
taxes on goods and services increased in real terms and as a share of GDP and while
average nominal duty rates declined by almost half, the broadening of the tax base
allowed collections rates to improve. Disbursements under onlending agreements have
declined, repayments increased, and new agreements are fewer and made increasingly on
commercial terms. Cashew producer prices have increased and so have exports of both
kernel and raw cashews. Budget coverage of grant project financing, while improving,
remains a problem. The choice of coverage of external grant- financed projects as a
performance indicator was inadequate for the TERC, as the budgetary reforms it
supported focused mostly on the programming aspects of the budgetary process.
Following on the recommendations of the FMR, efforts to identify and account for such
flows in the budget were made an area of focus of the following adjustment operation, the
Economic Management Reform Operation.
5



Table 2: Performance Indicators
1996              1997               1998
Millions   % GDP  Millions  % GDP  Millions   % GDP
of US$            of US$             of US$
Taxes on goods and services   161       5.7      217       6.3      253       6.5
Turnovertaxes                 88       3.1      115       3.4      132       3.4
On domestic goods            77       2.7       96       2.8      110       2.8
On imports                   11       0.4       20       0.6       22       0.6
Consumption taxes             35       1.2       37       1.1       47       1.2
Tax on intemnational trade     61       2.2       70       2.0       80       2.1
Disbursements under           24.8              21.7                7.9
onlending agreements
Re-payments under              2.0              23.7               24.2
onlending agreements
Transport foreign exchange    59.1               62.8              58.3
earnings
1992/93  1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97  1997/98
Cashew exports, of which      15.7     19.3      15.3     46.8     29.3      33.3
rawnut exports               6.5     16.9      5.6      29.4     15.1      13.9
kemel exports                9.2      2.5       9.7     17.4     14.2      19.4
Cashew producer prices        250       230      340      321       349      431
($/MT)
Sources: Ministry of Planning and Finance (tax revenues and onlending); Bank of Mozambique (transport
foreign exchange earnings); Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Tourism (cashew exports); Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries (cashew producer prices).
Improved Macroeconomic Management
15.  Financial Sector Reform. Privatization of majority shares in the two state-owned
banks led to an almost immediate drop in inflation as monetary leakages from banks to
state-owned enterprises were stemmed and Government gained tighter control of
monetary policy. Privatization also led to increased competition, diversity and efficiency
in banking services. There are currently six commercial banks, a credit cooperative bank,
a leasing company, a venture capital company, several investment bank representatives
and approximately 20 exchange houses. The combined market share of BCM and BPD,
which was 71 percent in 1995, declined to around 60 percent by late 1998. However,
interest rates have been slow to decline, as the average interest rate has dropped from 46
percent in 1997 to 22-25 percent in 1999 (with only 1 percent inflation in 1998). The
removal of bank-by-bank credit ceilings, to take place in 1999, is expected to intensify
competition among banks and contribute to the reduction of interest rate spreads. The
use of the bad check register and the credit bureau established at the central bank also
will contribute to reduce operating costs to banks and therefore this spread.
16.  The privatization of the two state-owned banks has done much to improve the
health of the financial sector. Effective supervision will now be crucial to maintain its
stability.   The Basle Committee's minimum  recommended prudential ratios are
increasingly being applied and are expected to be observed by all banks by March 2000.
6



The observance of prudential ratios with regard to foreign exchange exposure will also be
tightened. The supervision department also plans to improve the timeliness and rigor
with which commercial bank accounts are compiled and raise the minimum standards for
internal control of commercial banks.
17. Budget Management Reform. In 1996, the Government completed and adopted a
comprehensive Expenditure Management Reform Strategy. A new Budget Law,
approved by the National Assembly in 1997, was the first major step in implementing the
reform strategy. It defined the scope, design and procedures for preparation and approval
of the budget, including a new system of budgetary classification that presents
expenditures according to economic, functional, and institutional classifications, and
defined the process through which the consolidated state accounts are audited and
submitted to the National Assembly. The 1998 Budget, formulated in accordance to this
new law, harmonized the recurrent and capital budget fiscal years and reclassified all
expenditures according to a new classification system. The result was a significant
increase in the level of transparency in the budget that has enabled closer monitoring and
evaluation of programmed expenditures, and has opened up and permitted a meaningful
debate about the relative priorities of government.
18. Coverage of the accounting system was extended to all public institutions and types
of transactions, and legal and systematic regulations were prepared that eliminated the
previous dispersion of regulations.  Capacity building and computerization was
undertaken at both the provincial and central levels, with more than 1,000 staff trained in
1997 to support the implementation of the new budget classifiers and to operate the
increasingly computerized accounting system. For the first time, the Government intends
to close the 1998 budget's consolidated accounts (Conta Geral do Estado) and present
these accounts to the Administrative Tribunal for auditing and to the National Assembly
by end-1999.
19. Indirect Subsidies to Enterprises. In early 1998, guidelines were issued that
standardized the terms for new on-lending agreements. The definition of terms includes
interest rate, grace period, repayment period, and bearer of exchange risk; subsequent
agreements on funds lent to commercial enterprises have followed these guidelines.
Disbursements under onlending agreements are now routinely monitored, debt service
profiles estimated, and collections increasingly enforced. As a result, annual repayments
to the Treasury between 1996 and 1998 have increased from US$2 million to US$24
million and disbursements have declined from almost US$25 million to around US$8
million. Debt service payments are estimated to be about US$25 million annually over
the next five years.
7



Generating a Supply Response
20. Tariff and Indirect Tax Rationalization and Customs Reform. Rationalization
of the import tariff has reduced trade-weighted import duties from 18 to 11 percent and
the number of rate categories from 7 to 5. Despite the decline in statutory rates, the
rationalization of the tariff, coupled with curtailments in exemptions and an overhaul of
customs administration, has led to an increase in the tax base and an improvement in
collection rates from less than 6 percent in 1996 to around 9 percent in 1998. The
consumption tax was narrowed in scope and rates lowered. In 1997, the general revenue
law was revised to allow for the introduction of a broad-based VAT. The VAT,
introduced in June 1999, has a single rate of 17 percent, few exemptions, and a zero rate
on exports.
21. Improvements in the trade and tax regime were accompanied and supported by
improvements in administration. In 1996, an improved pre-shipment inspection contract
was established and, in 1997, a specialized private company was hired to manage
customs for a period of three years. The pre-shipment inspection company initiated a full
reconciliation of import taxes due and paid in 1997, a condition of second tranche release
for the TERC, allowing for the identification and eventual reduction of discrepancies
between taxes assessed by the pre-shipment inspection company and effectively collected
by customs. The combination of the improved pre-shipment inspection, customs
management by a specialized company, and reduction of import tax exemptions has not
only yielded higher collection rates but also an increase in the efficiency and
transparency of a key government office.
22.  Together with the acceleration of the privatization and enterprise restructuring
program, the rationalization of tariffs and the improvements in customs administration
have  contributed to significant industrial recovery.  Between 1992 and 1995,
manufacturing GDP declined an average of 1.2 percent per year. Following the reforms
and albeit from a low base, value added in the industrial sector has witnessed annual
growth rates of 20 percent between 1996 and 1998.
23. Monitoring of Cashew Liberalization. . With the support of the Bank, the
Ministry of Agriculture -and Fisheries undertook a baseline household survey in 1997 and
a follow-up monitoring survey in 1998. A first report, presented at a meeting of the
Cashew Working Group in April 1999, highlighted the benefits that rural households,
including the nearly twenty percent headed by women, have gained from liberalization.
Producer price data show that prices paid to farmers have increased from US$250 per
metric ton in 1992/93 to US$431 in 1997/98, an increase of more than 70 percent (Table
2). At the same time, export revenues grew from an annual average of US$17 million
over the years 1992/93 and 1993/94, to US$31.3 million in 1996/97 and 1997/98. Higher
producer prices stimulated increased activity and competition in trading and lowered
trader margins to the benefit of producers. However, there is strong resistance to further
liberalization from processing factories and the Govemment has suspended the reduction
in the export tax and the export tax now stands at 14 percent.
8



24. CFM Restructuring. The process of concessioning the port of Maputo and
connecting railways to the private sector is ongoing. The evaluation of bids for
concessioning the ports and rail lines in the southern corridor, a condition of second
tranche release, was completed in March 1998 with a small delay. Separate Memoranda
of Understanding (MoU) were signed with private sector parties for the port and railway
concessions, however negotiations have not yet been concluded. Progress has been
achieved in: (a) the concessioning of the terminals in the port of Beira, Mozambique's
second largest city, and the concession is already operational; and (b) signing of an MoU
with a private consortium for the concession of the port of Nacala and the connecting rail
lines. As with the southern corridor, final negotiations for the northern (Nacala) system
have not been concluded. The proposed Railway and Port Restructuring Project
(FY2000), negotiated in April 1999, is expected to support the conclusion of restructuring
and concessioning of CFM.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROGRAM
25. The significant progress made in attaining macroeconomic stabilization and high
growth was facilitated by reforms supported under complementary IDA operations and
three successive IMF ESAF annual arrangements as well as by strong external technical
and financial support and a favorable extemal environment. The Government accelerated
the pace of privatization (supported by IDA under the Industrial Enterprise Restructuring
Credit) which had a direct positive impact on the recovery of the industrial sector.
Improved donor coordination in the development of Sector Expenditure Programs in
health, education, roads and agriculture supported the TERC's efforts to improve
budgetary management. Good weather and high prices for key commodities such as
prawns, cashews and cotton encouraged vigorous growth, while low oil prices and the
decline in the South African rand kept imports lower. And finally, the flows of external
assistance continued to be large over the period, averaging approximately US$550
million a year (around 20 percent of GDP) between 1996 and 1998.
E. PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
26. Having restored macroeconomic stability and growth, the challenge for
Mozambique is to capitalize on the gains achieved so far to sustain and further reforms
that will bring about sustained and equitable growth. The significant government
ownership of the reform agenda that has been evident in the TERC and its preceding
operations bodes well for the sustainability of reforms. Furthermore, the momentum and
benefits generated by debt relief under the HIPC Initiative will significantly boost the
macro reform program as well as government efforts in rebuilding the country's human
resource base. However, a key test of the Government's ownership, and to the
sustainability of reforms, will come in the run up to Mozambique's next Presidential and
Parliamentary elections, which are expected to take place in late 1999. To date, there
appears to be no indication of politically inspired spending or backtracking on difficult
reforms.
9



27. Any up-beat assessment of Mozambique must, however, contain several cautionary
caveats. Despite increased growth and macroeconomic stability, substantial fiscal and
external imbalances remain and the economy is highly dependent on foreign aid; severe
human resource capacity constraints exist that affect both the civil service and private
sector; entry into certain activities such as telecommunications or key air transport routes
remain closed; and the rehabilitation of key physical infrastructure has only begun. The
reform agenda thus remains long and hard, and Mozambique will continue to require
technical and financial external assistance over the medium run.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
28. The Africa Region's Higher Impact Adjustment Lending (HIAL) initiative,
developed and disseminated about the same time as the TERC was designed, influenced
the preparation and supervision of the TERC. The MAL encourages fewer and relatively
simple formulations of policy conditionality under the theory that a limited menu
encourages a more complete dialogue and greater government ownership and
sustainability. The MAL initiative provided a useful guide in designing the ThRC and
gave additional focus to the Bank's work.
29. The Bank's identification and preparation of the TERC were highly satisfactory.
The TERC's policy objectives were built on previous adjustment operations as well as on
focused pieces of ESW and complemented structural reforms being supported under
separate operations. For example, privatization of the two state-owned banks brought to
fruition the significant efforts begun in the previous adjustment operation. ESW findings
defined the agenda for tariff and indirect tax rationalization, privatization, and budget
management reform. Borrower commitment had been demonstrated in earlier adjustment
operations and was further cultivated during a relatively long preparation process that
focused on building consensus for the direction, content and pace of reforms. Dialogue
with the private sector was undertaken to solicit their views and build their understanding
of the need for reforms. In the end, this wider commitment resulted in no backtracking
and a remarkably rapid pace of change.
30.  The subsequent appraisal of the TERC was highly satisfactory. In line with greater
selectivity advocated under the HIAL initiative as well as lessons learned from previous
adjustment operations, just five conditions were identified for second tranche release.
The TERC emphasized the upfront (prior to negotiations) implementation of key policy
decisions and measures. This was the case of the privatization of the largest state-owned
bank, the rationalization of the indirect tax regime, and trade reform.  Appraisal
emphasized consensus building and included an additional (post-appraisal) mission that
was undertaken when disagreements developed between the Bank and the Government
on the extent and pace of trade liberalization. The unforeseen mission to develop a
compromise created a two-month delay in appraisal, but the Bank's acceptance of a more
gradual approach contributed to better will between the Bank and Government. Finally,
the appraisal and post-appraisal missions benefited from close collaboration with IMF
staff. The appraisal mission included a Fiscal Affairs staff, and the post-appraisal
mission coincided with an LMF mission.
10



31. Supervision of the TERC was highly satisfactory. Supervision missions were
coordinated with IMF missions to negotiate the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) and IMF
reviews, as well as missions to prepare the preliminary and decision point documents that
led to Mozambique's eligibility to debt relief under the HIPC initiative. The first
supervision mission identified areas of needed correction, including revisions to process
through which the reconciliation of import taxes due and paid was being carried out and
the need for improved coordination between the Ministry of Planning and Finance and
the Central Bank for monitoring of funds disbursed under onlending agreements. The
mission's suggestions were adopted by Government, improving policy implementation.
The second supervision mission covered all areas in detail, focusing on overall
macroeconomic performance and attainment of second tranche conditions.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
32. Borrower preparation was highly satisfactory. Just as Bank preparation had
recognized the achievements of previous operations, Borrower preparation also
emphasized the need to build on and further past successes. The Government encouraged
and actively led consultations with the private sector regarding changes in the tax and
trade regime. Disagreements between the Bank and Borrower were rarely on the direction
of the reform, but rather on the pace of liberalization. For example, the Government
agreed on the need for trade liberalization, but bulked at the rapid pace at which the Bank
proposed declines in duty rates and argued that a slower pace would generate greater
acceptance on those parts of the private sector adversely affected.
33. With Government commitment high throughout program implementation, all
conditions were met and no waivers requested. Implementation benefited from the
appointment and retention of informed and dedicated staff in the key Ministries
responsible for carrying out the reforms. Since many of the TERC policies were efforts
that began in earlier operations, the presence of staff familiar with the objectives and
implementation experience of the overall reform program was extremely useful in
avoiding pitfalls or possible resistance to the additional policy change.
El. FUTURE OPERATIONS
34. The Economic Management Reform Operation (EMRO), the following adjustment
operation, builds on the progress made under the TERC, and focuses on improving the
sustainability and efficiency of public service delivery and improving the business
environment for sustained, private-sector led growth. Measures to improve the structure
of the revenue mobilization and the incentive regime for private sector include further
indirect tax reforms, trade liberalization, and rationalization and simplification of import
procedures. Measures to improve expenditure and budgetary management include
formulation of a medium-term expenditure framework that reflects increased allocations
to priority sectors, improved linkages with the macroeconomic framework, identification
of recurrent expenditures now in the investment budget, and identification and
classification of off-budget flows. The EMRO, an IDA grant in the context of the HlPC
Debt Initiative's interim measures, was approved by the Board on December 10, 1998
11



and made effective February 17, 1999. Implementation has proceeded well. By mid
June, 1999, all conditions had been met and the operation is now fully disbursed.
35. The proposed Railway and Port Restructuring Project (RPRP) will invigorate the
restructuring and private concessioning of remaining CFM port terminals, services and
rail lines. Key components of the RPRP include: adoption of a new corporate structure
for CFM; the retrenchment or redeployment of surplus staff, and finalization of the
private concessioning of remaining port services, terminals, and railway lines throughout
the country. The RPRP is expected to be effective in late 1999.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
36. Lessons Learned. The main conclusions and lessons learned are:
*  Few, but selective conditions result in greater impact. Excessive conditionality often
contributes to the failure of adjustment programs in Africa. The TERC contained
only 5 second tranche conditions. Fewer, more selective conditions enabled both the
Government and the Bank to focus on those measures that were critical to sustain and
further the adjustment effort.
•  Borrower commitment to the adjustment program is critical for success. The main
element in the success of the TERC program was the Govemment's strong
commitment to the overall reform program and the TERC program in particular.
Ownership was built early on through ESW, relatively lengthy project preparation
that included consultations with the private sector, and fewer and selective objectives
and conditions.
*  A gradual approach allows for consensus building and sustainability of reforms.
Strong borrower commitment does not imply that there were not disagreements
between the Government and the Bank on the pace or sequence of reform. However,
the slower pace brought greater ownership and no backtracking and, in the end, a very
rapid and sustained transition.
*  Continuity of staff boosts commitment and sustainability.  The involvement of
Government and Bank staff who were familiar with the objectives of the overall
reform program as well as the implementation experience of previous adjustment
operations was useful in avoiding pitfalls experienced in previous operations and to
ensuring that implementation matched the original aims envisaged during program
design.
.  Close collaboration with the IMF contributed to appropriate sequencing and
complementarity of structural and macroeconomic reforms. Complementarity of
TERC and other IDA-supported operations on the one hand, and the IMF's ESAF
program on the other, strengthened the linkages between macro policies and structural
reforms and facilitated a greater overall impact than if programs had been
implemented separately.
12



* Macroeconomic outcomes are closely related to structural problems. The poor
management of the two state-owned banks, combined with weak supervision and
control by the central bank, was a major source of macroeconomic instability in the
economy. The links between macroeconomic stability and structural reform were
clearly evident following the privatization of majority shares in the two state-owned
banks which stemmed sources of monetary leakage and contributed to a drastic drop
in inflation.
13



PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Adijevemen o   bi's         Ssatal         Partial     Ngiil              I
. . ..... ......  - , ,  .   . - ... -       .- .               - ..     .. .....   .
.~~~~ . . . . . . . .    ---. .- Y
Macroeconomic Policies             X
Sector Policies                    X
Financial Objectives               X
Institutional Development          X
Physical Objectives                                                          X
Poverty Reduction                               X
Gender Concerns                                 X
Other Social Objectives                                                      X
Environmental Objectives                                                     X
Public Sector Management           X
Private Sector Development         X
B. Program Ssaibili  :           Lik        j    Unlike-y           Uniet ain
x
Identification                      X
Preparation Assistance              X
Appraisal                           X
Supervision                         X
Dl. Borrower Pin nc:e   IHighly Sitisf       '  CSi      try -e::--         i
Preparation                         X
Implementation                      X
Covenant Compliance                    -               X X
Oucme               ia  HIS Acory
E. Asesmn ofgy                  Satisfactory    Unaifatr  . v  .  . vot
x
14



Table 2: Related Bank Operations
Economic Recovery   Supported early phase of      FY92        Completed
Credit              financial sector reform,
particularly separation of
central bank from BCM, and
liberalization of exchange rate
Second Economic     Promoted macro-stability,     FY95        Completed
Recovery Credit     financial sector reform,
privatization, and improved
management of public
expenditures
Capacity Building in   Capacity building in budget  FY93      Completed
Legal and Public    management
Sector Management
...  IF
Industrial Enterprise  Finance rehabilitation of  FY90        Under
Recovery Project    industrial sector and provide             implementation
technical assistance for
privatization
Financial Sector    Develop and strengthen        FY94        Under
Capacity Building   financial sector institutions,           implementation
Project             including training of central and
commercial bank staff and legal
professionals at BM and MPF
FDllowmg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4;;l9otd'';'0'2;ll
Economic            Continues budget reform       FY99        Under
Management Reform  towards developing MTEF and               implementation
Operation           improving budget coverage;
supports further tax and tariff
rationalization, including VAT
and reduction in duty rates
Railway and Port    Promote restructuring and     FY2000      Appraised 2/99;
Restructuring Project private concessioning of CFM            negotiated 5/99
Enterprise          Provide support to local firms,   FY2000  Appraised 3/99
Development Project  including technical learning,
institution building and term
financing
15



Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification                          n.a.                January 15, 1994
Preparation                             n.a.               November 5, 1995
Appraisal                               n.a.                 June 28, 1996
Negotiations                            n.a.               December 16, 1996
Letter of Development Policy            n.a.               December 26, 1996
Board Presentation                      n.a.                February 4, 1997
Signing                                 n.a.               February 20, 1997
Effectiveness                     February 28, 1997          May 21, 1997
First Tranche Release             February 28, 1997          May 21, 1997
Second Tranche Release           December 31, 1997          March 31, 1998
Closing Date                      December 31, 1998        December 31, 1998
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal estimate      l_50             j         100
Actual                         47_79              94_34
Actual Cumulative              96_ 94%
Date of final disbursement                   March 31, 1998
16



Table 5: Key Indicators, Actual And Projected, 1996-99
(% unless otherwise indicated)
Real GDP Growth                                 7.1       11.3      12.0       9.7
Total Investment/GDP                            19.1      19.1      20.4      35.5
Gross National Savings/GDP I/                   0.4       6.7        4.2      10.7
Export Growth (merchandise in US$)              29.8       1.7       7.9      18.6
Import Growth (merchandise in US$)              22.2      -2.9      14.3      60.8
Current Account Balance after grants (% of GDP)    -14.8  -8.6     -12.3      -22.4
Total Revenues/GDP                              10.8      11.6      11.5      11.8
Total expenditure and net lending/GDP           21.1      23.9      22.1      24.9
Fiscal deficit before grants/GDP               -10.1     -11.9      -10.7     -13.0
Consumer Price Index (annual avg.)              44.6      6.4        0.6       1.5
Extemal Debt Service/exports \1                 27.7      18.2      19.0      16.9
1/ Includes all transfers
2/ Includes assistance under HIPC from 1998 onwards
Sources: MPF, INE, and World Bank staff estimates
17



Page I of 3
Table 6: Updated Matrix of Actions Supported by the TERC
The Reform Agenda Supported by the TERC
CAS        Policy Area         Specific Measures                         Status
|Objectives I                 I                                         I 
Restore macroeconomic stability
Financial Sector     split commercial bank from central bank.  1992
prepare BCM for sale (completed portfolio    1996
review, contracted sales advisor)
privatization of BCM                     1996 (Condition of
Negotiation)
distribution of BPD Sales Prospectus    1996 (Condition of
Negotiation)
privatization of BPD,                    1997
BPD will cease to exist as lending institution   (Condition of Second
Tranche)
conduct loan portfolio review of BCM and  1996
BPD
conduct off-site and on-site supervision of all  initiated in 1996
banks on a regular basis
Exchange rate        liberalize and unify exchange rate.      1992
Fiscal reform        introduce three-year rolling investment  done regularly since
program (PTIP)                           1989
produce budget for passage by Parliament  done regularly since
1993
adopt Sector Investment Programs in health,   done in health and roads,
roads, agriculture, education, and water  education, and water
(1996-97-98)
develop a Fiscal Reform Strategy that covers  1996 (Condition of
budgetaryframework, accounting system;  Negotiation)
aid management.
develop a medium-term expenditure        1998
framework
18



Page 2 of 3
CAS         Policy Area       | Specific Measures                          Status
Objectives                                                                 S t l t
Customs Reform      establish customs reform unit                  1995
contract pre-shipment inspection service      1996
contract private fimn to manage and modernize  1996; contract
customs administration for three years        started in 1997
Private Sector
Development
Price Liberalization    eliminate administered retail and wholesale prices    Done
eliminate minimum producer prices             done, with the
exception of
cotton
Privatization        privatize and/or restructure over 1,200 commercial   done by mid-
and industrial firms, including 87 large enterprises   1999
complete privatization of small and medium-scale   expected mid-
enterprises                                   1999
Enterprise Subsidies   reduce budget subsidization of public enterprises to  1993
less than one percent of GDP
limit indirect subsidies to enterprises through non-   Ongoing
payment of counterpart funds, credits at below
market rates, and on-lent funds etc
estimate the level of disbursement and debt service  1997 (Condition
due offunds on-lentfrom donor sources to      of Second
enterprises                                   Tranche)
Business            revise investment code of 1993                 done (1995)
Environment                                                        1996
establish and revise mandate of Center for    1996
Promotion of Investment
simplify procedures to register and operate   1997 onwards
businesses
Trade and Tariff    rationalization and reduction of import tariffs  1991
Reform
eliminate discretionary exemptions            1996 (partialy
done)
19



Page 3 of 3
lCAS        t Policy Area       Specific Measures                            Status
Objectives |I Mese
further rationalize indirect taxes by lowering the    1996
average nominal duty rate and reducing the scope  (Condition of
and level of the consumption tax              Negotiation)
establish and carry out a system for complete  1997 (Condition of
reconciliation of all import taxes due and paid  Second Tranche)
submit VAT law to Parliament                  1997 (Condition of
Second Tranche)
Introduce VAT                                 June 1999
review duty exemptions regime for exporters   to be done
Promote High Growth Potential Sectors
Agricultural reform;   eliminate quantitative restrictions on exports of raw    1995
cashew subsector     cashew
reduce export tax to 20 percent                1995
reduce export tax to 14 percent                1996
phase out the export tax                       reduced to 14%
design a monitoring survey of cashewfarmers    1996 (Condiion of
Negotiation)
analyze the results of the cashew monitoring survey   1997
Transport reform     establish a Board for CFM and appointed members.   1995
railway and ports
subsector
Private concession of sugar, coal and citrus terminals  1994-95
at Maputo Port
Adopt restructuring plan for CFM               1996
Issue bids for the concession of the port services,  March 1997
remaining port terminals, and railway lines at CFM-
South
Complete the evaluaton of bids for the         1998 (Condition of
concessioning of the port services, remaining port   Second Tranche)
terminals, and railway lines at CFM-South
20



Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
X =.._Se 8 ..  .           ..
Schedule 2    Borrower has ceased lending operations of  Condition met
(a)       BPD as a state-owned institution.
(b)       Borrower has established a system  for Completed
complete reconciliation of all import duties
due and paid and carried out reconciliation
for six months.
(c)       Borrower has: i) completed estimation of   Completed
level of disbursement and debt service due
under on-lending agreements with
enterprises which are recipients of funds
on-lent from donor sources; and ii) issued
guidelines for setting terms and conditions
for on-lending to commercial borrowers.
(d)       Borrower has submitted the Value Added   Completed
Tax (VAT) law to Parliament.
(e)       Borrower has completed the evaluation of   Completed with small delay
bids regarding the granting of concessions
of the port services and railway lines of
CFM (South)
21



Table 8: Bank Resources - Actual Staff Inputs
bCg,.f .,,,,,&t jyl               S;0,,,, Wek                     USVO'''''rj'.s',s
Preparation to Appraisal                     81.3                     165.3
Appraisal                                    24.3                      51.2
Negotiations through Board Approval           4.8                      12.3
Supervision                                  16.2                     44.1
Completion                                    12.0                    26.3
TOTAL                                        138.6                    299.2
Table 9: Bank Resources - Missions
M       B     3~~~hq"  .b$ . ..... ..'s.....
-.s5. H.t::..s <'':S -r:. .  . N- s- .i::i :;r -.SSgf peZrison  i)is -i iF ieldZ<
Identification       November, 1995        5 persons            18 days
Pre-Appraisal        April, 1996           6 persons            18 days
Appraisal (I)        July, 1996            7 persons (WB) and 1  16 days
person (IMF)
Appraisal (II)       September,1996        1 person             10 days
Supervision          July, 1997            1 person             5 days
November, 1997       4 persons             9 days
Completion           April,1999            3 persons            14 days
22



The World Bank
THIRD ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT (TERC)
(Credit No. NOIO-MOZ)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
AIDE MEMOIRE
May 4, 1999
1. The implementation completion report mission for the Third Economic Recovery
Credit (TERC) took place from April 13 to May 4, 1999. The World Bank team
consisted of Manuela Ferro (Economist and task team leader), Jehan Arulpragasam
(Economist), Sherri Archondo (Financial Sector Specialist), and David Bruns
(Economist).' James Coates, World Bank Resident Representative in Mozambique,
provided general guidance and participated in the final meeting with the Government.
This aide-memoire summarizes the main conclusions of the mission.
2. The mission met with staff from the Ministry of Planning and Finance and UTRA, the
Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism, the Bank of Mozambique, Crown Agents,
Intertek Testing Services, and private sector importers. The mission is grateful for their
assistance and inputs into the discussions held during the course of this evaluation.
PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
3. Background Since 1987, the Government has been implementing a wide-ranging
program of economic stabilization and structural reform, involving a shift towards
market-oriented policies and a redefinition and reduction of the role of the state in the
economy. Initial reforms aimed at creating a market-based system for the allocation of
foreign exchange, reducing import restrictions, separating the Bank of Mozambique from
Banco Comercial de Mo ambique (BCM), liberalizing internal trade, eliminating
minimum prices, and reorienting expenditure to priority sectors such as health, education,
and roads. The Government's decision in 1995 to fast track the privatization of the two
state-owned banks marked the turning point in the reform program. Since then, the pace
of reform accelerated markedly, in particular in the areas of privatization, tax and trade
reform, and budgetary management.
4. Reform Program Supported by the TERC. A set of key measures implemented in
1996, 1997, and early 1998 and supported by the Third Economic Recovery Credit
(TERC) contributed to both improvements in macroeconomic management and the
acceleration  of growth.   The reform  program  focused  on  two  main  areas:
l The mission was combined with three other Bank missions: the joint World Bank-IMF Policy Framework
Paper 1999-2001 negotiations mission (co-led by Jehan Arulpragasarn, WB, and Jurgen Reitmaier, IMF),
the Economic Management Reform Operation supervision (led by Manuela Ferro), and the Debt
Sustainability Analysis mission for debt relief under the HIPC initiative (led by Jeffrey Katz).
1



(i) macroeconomic management and (ii) supply response measures. Macroeconomic
management measures included the privatization of majority shares in the two state-
owned banks, Banco Comercial de Mo ambique (BCM) and Banco Popular de
Desenvolvimento (BPD), strengthening of banking supervision, the adoption of a budget
reform program, and reforms to limit indirect subsidies to enterprises. Supply response
measures included the rationalization of the tariff and indirect tax system, monitoring of
the impact of cashew sector liberalization, and the restructuring of Caminhos de Ferro de
Moqambique (CFM), the state port and railways company. Key policy decisions and
measures were implemented up-front, prior to negotiations. This was the case of the
privatization of the largest state-owned bank, the rationalization of the indirect tax
regime, and trade reform. Throughout program implementation, all conditions were met
and no waivers requested.
5. Assessment of Outcomes. The specific impact of the TERC cannot be assessed in
isolation because it was part of a broader program of reforms, which was implemented
satisfactorily by the Government. This program was outlined and made public in
successive Policy Framework Papers from 1996 through 1998, and was supported with
substantial technical and financial assistance from the World Bank, the International
Monetary Fund, and other development partners. The reforms supported by the TERC,
however, were critical steps in the reform program which, coupled with other structural
reforms such as privatization, and a generally favorable extemal environment (including
substantial inflows of external aid and good weather), helped stabilize the economy and
encouraged vigorous growth.
6. From 1996 throughout 1998, economic indicators have portrayed strong growth with
increased macroeconomic stability. Since 1997, the economy has experienced double-
digit growth rates and inflation dropped below 10 percent. Growth has been broad-based,
with industry, construction, and services, all growing at over 10 percent on average over
this period. Agriculture grew at almost 9 percent annually, owing to improved expansion
of planted areas and favorable weather. During 1996-98, merchandise exports increased
by 42 percent, owing to increases in export volumes and prices of key commodities such
as prawns, cashews, and cotton. Nevertheless, merchandise exports have remained below
the levels attained in the early 1980s. Imports grew slowly over the same period, on
account of lower import prices and strong import-substitution activity. Nonetheless, in
1998 the value of imports amounted to almost four times the value of exports.
EVALUATION AND ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECriVES
7. In the specific policy areas that the TERC supported, the outcomes were generally
satisfactory:
A. Macroeconomic Management
8. Financial Sector Reform. In 1992, the central bank embarked upon a program of
financial sector reform, key steps of which were directly supported by two IDA
adjustment operations, the Second and Third Economic Recovery Credits. The first
2



steps, taken from 1992 through 1995, included the separation of the central bank from the
Banco Comercial de MoVambique (BCM) and the deregulation of entry into banking and
insurance activities. In addition, regulations were adopted on bank licensing, capital
adequacy, provision policies and exposure limits. These developments helped provide a
sound legal and regulatory basis for the development of a competitive and well-
diversified financial sector.
9. The policy decision to privatize majority shares in the two state-owned banks was a
difficult one for the Government to take, but one that yielded substantial dividends. The
TERC supported the privatization of BCM, which was concluded in July of 1996, and the
cessation of lending activities by BPD as a state-owned institution. A majority share of
BPD was subsequently sold to private investors.
10. The outcomes of the privatization of the two state-owned banks have been very
favorable, opening the way for improvements in the health of the Mozambican financial
system as well as in the Government's ability to control quasi-fiscal deficits. and
monetary policy. Over the past several years, Mozambique's financial system has
transformed itself from an oligopolistic, government-dominated structure into a more
diversified and competitive system. While the banking system in 1987 consisted of two
state-owned banks, there are currently six commercial banks in the market which offer
increasingly innovative banking services; a credit cooperative bank has been established
by Mozambican businessmen; a leasing company, a venture capital company, several
investment bank representatives and approximately 20 exchange houses. The combined
market share of BCM and BPD, which was 71 percent in 1995, declined to around 60
percent in late 1998. Banks now offer current accounts in local and foreign currencies,
term deposits (up to 366 days), checking (in local and foreign currencies), automated
teller machines and in the near future, credit cards will make an appearance. Banks have
made substantial investments in training and computer technology. The majority of the
banks have linked most of the branches electronically.
I 1. The increased competition and lower inflation rates have led to increased efficiencies
in banking services. However, interest rates have been slow to decline. Since 1997, the
average interest rate has dropped from 46% in 1997 to 22-25% in 1999 (with only 1
percent inflation in 1998). The removal of bank-by-bank credit ceilings, to take place in
1999, is expected to intensify competition among banks and contribute to the reduction of
interest rate spreads. . The use of the bad check register and the credit bureau established
at the central bank in 1998 also will contribute to reduce operating costs to banks and
therefore this spread.
12. Banco Comercial de Mocambique was privatized in 1996 and remains the largest
bank in the sector in terms of assets (43%), deposits (35%) and credit (47%). Since then,
the bank has strengthened credit policies, improved internal and external training,
committed substantial funds to computerization and is developing market segmentation
strategies. BCM continues, however, to be overloaded with personnel, which increases
its costs of operation and therefore the costs of capital to consumers; currently, it has
3



2,500 staff. As the computerization process continues, it is estimated that the bank will
need a reduced number of staff.
13. The sales prospectus for the sale of 51% of Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento was
distributed prior to negotiations of the TERC and BPD was privatized and ceased to exist
as a lending institution in September 1997, which fulfilled one of the conditions of
second tranche release. A majority share is now owned by an international partner and
40 percent remains with the state. The bank subsequently changed its name to Banco
Austral (BA) in an effort to change its image. New strategies and policies were
implemented during 1998 to bring the bank into a structure appropriate to compete in the
financial markets. Credit policies have been strengthened, including the introduction of
credit authorization limits for branch and regional managers. Branch managers can
approve credit up to US$5,000, on a secured basis, while regional managers can approve
credit up to US$20,000. The number of branches has already been reduced from 112
branches and 70 savings institutions to 108 branches and 38 savings institutions. The
program for 1999 is to further reduce the number of branches to 81 by end-1999 and have
less than 10 savings institutions, while adopting a system of mobile banking to reach
those areas that need financial services but are unable to support banking services on a
permanent basis.
14. Banking supervision is being strengthened and will continue to be crucial for the
development of a stable and healthy financial sector. The Basle Committee's minimum
recommended prudential ratios are increasingly being applied and are expected to be
applied to all banks by March 2000, when the restructuring of BCM and BPD will be
finalized. The observance of prudential ratios with regard to foreign exchange exposure
will also be tightened. The supervision department also plans to improve the timeliness
and rigor with which commercial bank accounts are being compiled and to raise the
minimum standards for internal control of commercial banks.
15. Budget Management Reform. Since 1996, the Government has been involved in a
comprehensive program to reform budgetary allocation and management with the
objective of ensuring medium term sustainability and efficiency of expenditures. The
reform process, involving significant collaboration between Govemment, the Bank, and
other donors was based on the findings and recommendations of the 1996 Fiscal
Management Review and led to the development and implementation of a medium-term
Expenditure Management Reform Strategy.
16. Under the TERC, the Government completed and adopted a comprehensive
Expenditure Management Reform Strategy (EMRS) covering the areas of budgeting and
budget preparation, expenditure programming and aid management, budgetary execution,
accounting, debt management and auditing. The aims of the EMRS were to:
* increase transparency, comprehensiveness, efficiency, and rationalization of public
resources;
* allocate resources according to the policies and priorities established by the
Government, including resources from external sources;
4



*  ensure the sustainability of expenditure options.
17. The new Budget Law, approved by the National Assembly in 1997, was the first
major step in implementing the reform strategy. It defined the scope, design and
procedures for preparation and approval of the budget, including a new system of
budgetary classification that presents expenditures according to economic, functional,
and institutional classifications.  It also defined the process through which the
consolidated state accounts (Conta Geral do Es/ado), including the accounts of
financially and administratively autonomous institutions, will be audited and submitted to
the National Assembly. The 1998 Budget, fornulated and presented to the National
Assembly in accordance to this new law, harmonized the fiscal years of the recurrent and
capital budgets and separated all expenditures according to a new classification system
based on an economic, functional, institutional and territorial breakdown. The result was
a significant increase in the level of transparency in the budget that has enabled closer
monitoring and evaluating of expenditures, and has opened up discussion of whether
existing allocations support the stated priorities in each of the sectors.
18. Analysis undertaken during development of the EMRS indicated that Government's
accounting system no longer corresponded to its needs and that frequent ad-hoc changes
introduced over the years had worsened the situation. Lack of technical capacity,
incomplete flows of information, and obsolete procedures in budget execution made it
difficult for Government to reconcile or close accounts at the end of the year. The TERC
supported Government's implementation of a new budget classification system in the
execution and accounting processes. Coverage in the accounting system was to be
extended to all public institutions and types of transactions, and legal and systematic
regulations were prepared that eliminated the previous dispersion of regulations.
Perhaps most importantly, a process of capacity building and computerization was
undertaken at both the provincial and central levels, with more than 1,000 staff trained in
1997 to support the implementation of the new budget classifiers and budgetary norms
and to operate the increasingly computerized accounting system. The Government
intends to close the accounts of the 1998 budget and present the annual Con/a Geral do
Estado to the National Assembly and the Administrative Tribunal by end-1999.
19. Reforms also commenced in the areas of financial and performance auditing since
1996. The statutes and regulations of the General Finance Inspectorate were reviewed in
1997 and legislation governing internal auditing was updated. Creation of new audit
delegations in Beira and Nampula expanded coverage, while preparation and
dissemination of manuals detailing audit routines and procedures improved the
comprehensiveness and quality of audits. Additional steps are expected during 1999 and
2000.
20. The next phase of reforms under the Expenditure Management Reform Strategy,
following the closure of the Third Economic Recovery Credit, are being supported by the
Bank's next adjustment operation, the Expenditure Management Reform Operation
(EMRO). Measures supported by the EMRO include steps to further improve budgetary
coverage and classification, to develop and adopt a new accounting system, including a
new chart of accounts, and to elaborate a medium term expenditure framework aimed at
5



rationalizing, prioritizing, and improving the sustainability of government expenditures.
21. Indirect Subsidies to Enterprises. Although direct. subsidies to enterprises have
been substantially reduced, from 12 percent of GDP in 1986 to less than 1 percent in
1996, implicit subsidies continued to be provided. Until the mid-1990s, onlending of
Government funds (grants and credits) obtained from external sources to enterprises and
rediscount and refinancing activities by the central bank at below market rates were the
two key channels used to provide implicit subsidies to enterprises. Furthermnore, the
terms applied to funds lent to enterprises varied widely across loans. Defining guidelines
and enforcing limits to be followed and, in due course, putting an end to these practices
became therefore an important task to control quasi-fiscal pressures.
22. To this end, the TERC supported the strengthening of accounting, monitoring, and
sanctioning systems,, as well as the improvements in information flows between the
Treasury and the central bank to monitor disbursements under onlending agreements
(Acordos de Retrocessdo). As a first step to improve the management of these funds, the
TERC supported the determination and analysis of the overall level of disbursements, as
well as the debt service associated with these disbursements, so as to ensure proper
monitoring and repayment to the Treasury. In addition, the TERC supported the issuance
of guidelines for setting the terms and conditions of funds lent to commercial borrowers
as well as the establishment of a system of accounting, monitoring, and collection of
funds onlent to enterprises.
23. Substantial progress has been achieved in this area. In early 1998, guidelines were
issued that standardized the terms for new onlending agreements and new agreements on
funds lent to commercial enterprises have followed these guidelines. The definition of
terms includes: interest rate, grace period, repayment period, and bearer of exchange risk.
Disbursements under onlending agreements are now routinely monitored and debt service
projections estimated. Between 1996 and 1998, annual repayments to the Treasury have
increased from US$2 to $24 million, and disbursements have declined from almost
US$25 million to around US$8 million. Debt service payments are estimated at between
US$24 and US$27 million over the next five years. The mission urged the Government
to enforce collections of debt service, without which onlending will simply constitute a
transfer from the Government budget to enterprises.
B. Supply Response Measures
24. Tariff and Indirect Tax Rationalization and Customs reform. In 1996, the
Government adopted a package of reforms to switch reliance from trade taxes collected
on a narrow international trade base, toward a broad domestic consumption base. With
this objective in mind, critical steps of this package were to prepare the move into a tax
system with few low duty rates, no exemptions, a set of selective excises, and a Value
Added Tax.
25. In late 1996 and in the context of the TERC, trade and indirect taxes were rationalized
to remove existing impediments to domestic supply recovery and external
competitiveness. On the trade side, these impediments included negative protection for
6



producers of consumer goods, which resulted from tax evasion on imports of consumer
goods and relatively high duty rates on goods in which tax evasion is more difficult such
as bulky inputs and capital goods. On the indirect tax side, a wide range of goods was
subject to double taxation, through a cascading turnover tax and a consumption tax.
26. The TERC supported a major rationalization of the import tariff. The average import
duty was reduced from 18 to 1 1 percent, the number of rate categories was reduced from
7 to 5, exemptions were curtailed, and the classification structure was improved. The
rationalization of the tariff and the reduction in statutory import duty rates allowed for an
expansion of the tax base which, coupled with the overhaul of customs administration,
led to increased collections. Import duty rates of collection increased from less than 6
percent to around 9 percent, even thought the statutory rate declined substantially.
However, the dispersion in the tariff between the rate for final goods (35 percent) and
others (7.5 for intermediate goods, 5 .percent for capital goods, and 2.5 for raw materials)
remained high. After the TERC program was implemented and with support from the
following adjustment operation, the EMRO, the Government further reduced the top duty
rate to 30 percent in April 1999 and is expected to further reduce it in early 2002. Import
surcharge rates, which exist for four lines in the tariff (cement, sugar, and steel tubes and
plates), are expected to be reduced shortly and should be removed over the medium-run.
27. The TERC also supported reforms on the indirect tax side. The consumption tax was
narrowed in scope and rates lowered. In 1997, the general revenue law was revised to
allow for the introduction of a broad-based VAT. The VAT will have a single rate of 17
percent, few exemptions, and a zero rate on exports. During 1997 and 1998, the
Government accelerated preparations of its tax administration and launched a broad
training package throughout the country. The replacement of the turnover tax with a
VAT and the transformation of the consumption tax into a narrower set of excises will
complete the reform on indirect taxes. This is expected to take place on June 1, 1999.
28. Customs reform was initiated in 1996 in response to the deterioration in the
performance of customs services, including trade facilitation, and import tax collections.
The customs reform program was supported with technical and financial support from the
World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and the United Kingdom. Three years
after the first steps were taken, the financial and technical resources invested in this effort
are yielding positive results. In 1996, an improved pre-shipment inspection contract was
established with Inchcape Testing Services (ITS), and in 1997 a specialized private
company, Crown Agents, was hired to manage customs for a period of 3 years. The
ongoing overhaul of customs involves a comprehensive program of modernization,
restructuring, and retraining and is headed by a Government unit (Unidade T&cnica de
Reestrutura9iio das Alfdndegas, UTRA) reporting to the Minister of Planning and
Finance.
29. In 1997, the pre-shipment inspection company initiated a full reconciliation of import
taxes due and paid, based on the appropriate documentation (Clean Report of Findings-
Import Duty Report and the Despacho, the customs clearing document), a condition of
second tranche release for the TERC. This allowed for the identification of discrepancies
7



between taxes assessed by the pre-shipment inspection company and effectively collected
by customs. The analysis of reconciliation results and the re-evaluation of the rationale
and legislative basis of the various exemption regimes on import taxes, an important
cause of lost revenue and negative rates of protection for certain sectors of the economy,
resulted in the reduction and improved monitoring of import tax exemptions. The
combination of the improved pre-shipment inspection, customs management by a
specialized company, and reduction and monitoring of import tax exemptions yielded
increases in collection rates. Most importantly, they contributed to an increase in
efficiency and transparency in the performance of a key government office.
30. The management contract with Crown Agents comes to an end in December 1999,
after which it is expected that technical assistance to customs will continue to be
provided. A modified contract with pre-shipment inspection was introduced in January
1999, according to which only a subset of all imports are to be inspected by PSI prior to
shipment to Mozambique. This subset of imports will be defined according to two
components: a high risk category of imports, as defined by a number of criteria that
include goods on highest duty rate categories and risk importers, and a randomly selected
number of import operations. In order to ensure the sustainability of the reforms
introduced at customs, efforts must be continued after the end of the contract with the
management company. This, combined with continued simplification and reduction of
import duty rates will contribute towards maintaining performance and transparency at
customs.
31. Cashew Liberalization. Commencing in 1994, the Government commenced a
program of liberalization of the cashew sector with the objective of inducing a supply
response. In 1994/95 a quantitative restriction on cashew exports was replaced with a
graduated export tax, which it lowered annually from an effective rate of above 25
percent of the FOB export value in 1994/95 to 14 percent of the FOB value in 1996/97, a
level at which it has been maintained since,
32. Under the Third Economic Recovery Credit, as part of a Special Program for Africa
(SPA) Gender Pilot, the TERC supported the Government's analysis and monitoring of
the cashew sector and the effects of liberalization at the household level, especially
among women. With the support of the Bank, the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
undertook a baseline household survey in 1997 and a follow-up monitoring survey in
1998. A first report, incorporating the results of the 1997 survey, was completed by the
Ministry of Agriculture and the World Bank in 1998 and was presented to the main
stakeholders in the sector at a meeting of the Cashew Working Group in April 1999. A
final report, to include the results of the 1998 survey, is to be completed in June 1999.
33. CFM Restructuring. The process of contracting private management for CFM's
port terminals, port services and railways in the southern corridor is ongoing, but taking
longer than originally envisaged. The evaluation of bids for the concessioning of port
services, remaining port terminals and rail lines in the Maputo Corridor, a condition of
second tranche release for the TERC, was completed in March 1998 with a small delay.
Separate Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) were signed with three private sector
8



parties. However, negotiations have yet to be concluded. Regarding the Limpopo and
Goba rail lines as well as the marshalling yard and workshops, a MoU was signed with
Consortium 2000 in July 1998, but negotiations have not been concluded yet. On the
port side, a MoU was signed in October 1998 with the Maputo Harbour Consortium but
negotiations have not been concluded yet. Negotiations with South Africa's Transnet
regarding the Ressano Garcia line were cancelled and CFM is seeking a private sector
partner to continue operating the line.
34. Progress has been achieved in concessioning most port terminals in the Maputo and
Beira ports. Memoranda of Understanding have been signed with private consortia for
the management of the Nacala port and rail systems, and private operators are being
sought for the Beira-Machipanda and Sena lines and the Beira maritime services. Next
steps include the restructuring of CFM into a holding company, downsizing of its work
force, unbundling its shareholding in concession companies and other residual assets
ownership and management functions. All three corridors are expected to be under
private operation by mid-2000.
FOLLOW UP REFORMS
35 . Having restored macroeconomic stability and growth, the challenge for the
Government of Mozambique is to capitalize on the gains achieved so far to further
reforms in those areas that will bring about vigorous and equitable growth over the
medium run. Reforms undertaken within the general context of the 1998-2000 Policy
Framework Paper and specifically those fiscal reforms supported under the follow up
adjustment operation, the EMRO, are aimed at improving the sustainability and
efficiency of public service delivery.
36. The EMRO builds on progress made on reforms supported through previous
adjustment operations, in particular the TERC, which successfully helped stabilize,
reform, and jump-start Mozambique's economy. This operation supports the continued
implementation of a favorable macroeconomic framework and focuses on reforms aimed
at improving the sustainability and efficiency of public sector operations, with a special
focus on fiscal reform, and improving the business environment for sustained, private-
sector led growth. Measures to improve the structure of the revenue mobilization and the
incentive regime for private sector include indirect tax reforms, trade liberalization, and
rationalization and simplification of import procedures.  Measures to improve
expenditure and budgetary management include formulation of a medium-term
expenditure framework to reflect increased allocations to priority sectors, identification
of recurrent expenditures now in the investment budget, and identification and
classification of off-budget flows.
37. In the future, efforts will need to continue focusing on reducing the substantial
imbalances in both the fiscal and external accounts. Imbalances on the fiscal accounts
remain large, although largely financed by external flows. If these imbalances persist
over the long run, they will pose risks to sustained macroeconomic stability and growth.
In the short and medium run, foreign financing through grants and concessional lending
9



can allow the Government to continue expanding expenditures on priority sectors and
activities. However, with about half of the budget financed through foreign savings and
an overall balance before grants of around 11 percent of GDP, there is a need to address
the issue of fiscal sustainability through a continued and gradual increase in public
savings.
38. On the supply side, continuing to foster a broad-based supply response will require
that the Government continue to implement reforms to encourage private sector entry in
key sectors such as domestic and international transportation (maritime and aviation), rail
and ports, electricity generation and distribution, and telecommunications. Should a
slowdown in the pace of reform in these sectors occur, it would impose large economic
costs on the private sector and the population. It would furthermore discourage economic
integration within the country and strengthen the perception of geographical disparities in
growth and service delivery.
39. On the external side and while exports have been growing in recent years, the value
of imports was almost four times that of exports in 1998. Increasing domestic production
and exports will thus require a continued effort to reduce the anti-export bias. These
efforts should focus on continuing to open the trade regime through a reduction in
protection of consumer goods, reducing export fees and taxes, and maintaining a
competitive exchange rate.
10



REPUBLICA DE MO(4AMBIQUE
MINISTERIO DO PLANO E FINANCAS
Subject: EVALUATION OF TERC
In February 20, 1997, the Government of Mozambique and the Intemational
Development Association  signed the Interim  Fund  Development Credit
Agreement for the Mozambique Third Economic Recovery Credit NO100-MOZ
(SDR 69.1 million).
The Third Economic Recovery Credit (TERC) would support the Government's
reform agenda as outlined in the Policy Framework Paper for 1996-98 and the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Mozambique (CAS) approved by the
Board in November, 1995.
The TERC would focus on structural and policy reforms aimed at strengthening
macroeconomic management, chiefly through further financial and fiscal reforms,
and at generating a rapid and sustainable supply response, by removing key
impediments to growth.
The operation would consist of the following:
1. Macroeconomic Management Measures
(i)   Financial sector reform;
(ii)   Budget management reform;
(iii) Indirect subsidies to enterprises;



2
2. Supply Response Measures
(i)   Tariff and sales tax rationalization;
(ii)   Cashew liberalization;
(iii) CFM restructuring.
A set of key economic measures supported by TERC and implemented in 1996,
1997, and 1998, contributed significantly to improvements in macroeconomic
management and the acceleration of growth as previously targeted.
With reference to evaluation and achievement of objectives, it is worth
mentioning that, in general terms, the outcomes were satisfactory, in all areas
supported by the Third Economic Recovery Credit.
1. (i) Financial sector reform- in order to strengthen monetary control and
building on the financial sector policies started under the SERC, the TERC
supported the privatization of the two state-owned banks, the BCM and BPD,
and reinforced banking supervision.
With privatization of BCM in 1996 and of BPD in September 1997, the banking
sector is now fully in private hands. The number of financial institutions operating
in the country are as follows:
- Seven commercial banks which offer innovative banking services, one
Leasing company, some investment bank representatives, a credit
cooperative bank, one Leasing company, and approximately 20 exchange
houses.



3
In terms of recent financial sector improvements, it is worth noting that the
combined market share of BCM and BPD which was 71 percent in 1995,
declined to around 60 percent in 1998, banks now offer current account in local
and foreign currencies, credit cards will be introduced in the near future, the
majority of banks have linked most of the branches electronically, and banks
have made substantial investments in training and computer technology.
1. (ii) Budget Reform - under the TERC the Government of Mozambique has
embarked on an extensive programme of reform of the country's budgeting
system (Expenditure Management Reform Strategy - EMRS). The
programme of reform covers resource allocation and strategic expenditure
planning; budgeting; budget execution and management; debt management;
public accounting; and auditing.
The central objectives of the EMRS are to improve coverage and transparency in
the management of public expenditure; to ensure the efficiency and effectiveness
of public expenditure programmes in the pursuit of policy objectives; and to
guarantee fiscal sustainability in the long term.
As a consequence of the implementation of the budget reform, the level of
transparency of the budget increased significantly. The main achievements can
be summarized, in the following:
a) The resource allocation and programming have increasingly come to be
based on new methods, namely the MTEF and introduction of sectoral
planning;
The introduction of integrated sectoral planning approaches has brought a
fundamental transformation of the process of resource allocation. By
adopting a "Sector-Wide Approach", these sectors are already having a
positive impact on the general management of public resources. Another
positive aspect is that a review of the public investment programme takes
place in the course of the preparation of integrated sectoral programs,
which necessarily seeks to reformulate existing programs and projects on
the basis of a coherent and inclusive sectoral approach. At the same time,
the public investment programme has also been under scrutiny through a
general review of the current credit portfolio of the public investment
programme



4
b) The implementation of the Budget Framework Law has created an
environment conducive to the efficient and transparent execution of the
budget. Aside from establishing the necessary budgetary framework, the
Government has undertaken a wide range of measures aimed at
rendering the budgetary system more efficient.
c) Improvements in the systems of public accounting are critically linked to
the budgetary reforms being implemented in other areas. Within this
strategy, a new accounting system is being introduced gradually.
d) The EMRS identifies human and institutional capacity as central pillars in
the implementation of the reform. In this context a process of capacity
building at central, sectoral, and provincial levels, with a training of more
than 1.000 staff has been developed. The training efforts have sought to
support the implementation of the new budget classifiers and budgetary
norms, and the computerization of the respective systems.
1. (iii) Indirect subsidies to enterprises to Enterprises- the TERC supported the
issuance of guidelines for setting the terms and conditions of funds lent to
commercial borrowers as well as the establishment of a system of
accounting, monitoring, and collection of funds previously lent to enterprises.
To ensure proper monitoring and repayment to the Treasure, the TERC
supported the determination and analysis of the overall level of disbursements,
as well as the debt service associated with disbursements.
In terms of substantial progress achieved, it is worth noting that between 1996
and 1998, annual repayments to the Treasure have increased from US$ 2 million
to US$ 24 million, whilst disbursements declined from US$25 million to US$8
million.
2. (i) Tariff and indirect tax rationalization - the TERC supported the first phase
of the tariff reform whose main objectives were to:
a) rationalize the tariff structure trough the introduction of a classification
of products according to the degree of transformation;
b) reduce protection to avoid domestic supply inefficiencies; and
c) broaden the tax base, by reducing exemptions and strengthening the
customs services.
In  1996, a new  customs code was implemented  whose  main
achievements were the following:
a) reduction in the average duty rate from 18% to 11%;
b) reduction in the number of duty rate categories from 12 to 5;



5
c) introduction of the duty rate categories according to the degree of
transformation of the products;
d) reduction of the average consumption tax from 6% to 3%;
e) widening of the incidence of circulation tax from an average rate of
1.9% to 3%.
As part of customs reform other actions include:
a) reduction of exemptions granted under the investment law - from a
situation where all products were exempted to a situation were these
exemptions are granted only to capital goods;
b) set up of a new system for controlling exemptions which includes
exemptions reflected on Clean Report of Findings issued by the pre-
inspection company;
c) introduction of a full reconciliation system between taxes assessed and
effectively collected.
With the ultimate objective of switching revenue reliance from trade taxes toward
a broad domestic consumption tax base the Government began preparations for
the introduction of VAT. In 1997, the general revenue law was revised to allow for
the introduction of this tax and the training and preparation of tax administration
took place during the period 1997/98. In April 1999 VAT was launched and made
effective in June/99.
In 1997, a specialized private company, Crown Agents, was hired to manage
customs for a period of three years. During this period new laws were prepared
aiming at the modernization and simplification of custom procedures,
computerization, new careers for customs officers and the recruitment and
training of customs staff. The bulk of these changes will be finished by December
1999. The new trained officers will take the management of customs by that time.
It is foreseen that the technical assistance will go on though on a declining basis.
3. (ii) Cashew liberalization- cashew is one of Mozambique's key exports with
high potential for growth, poverty reduction and foreign exchange earnings.
The TERC supported the Government's analysis and monitoring of the
cashew sector and the effects of liberalization at the household level,
especially among women.
With support of TERC, the Ministry of Agriculture undertook a household survey
in 1997, the first report of this study was completed by World Bank and the
Ministry of Agriculture in 1998 and presented to the stakeholders of the cashew
working group in April 1999. Another report which will include the 1998 survey
results will be completed in June 1999.



6
4. (iii) CFM restructuring- the TERC has been supporting the implementation of
the Government's restructuring strategy for CFM. Progress has been
achieved in concessioning port terminals in the Maputo and Beira ports.
As already mentioned, in general terms, the outcomes were satisfactory in all
areas supported by the Third Economic Recovery Credit.
s i   I   i z   2



FAX 0258 1 430258   MPF D D PLBLICA                     P01
REPIBLICA DE MOCAMBIQUE
MNSTtRIO DO PLANO E FINANCAS
GABINETE DO MINISTRO
N4EiGVM/MPF/99
Maputo, June 28, 1999
Ms. Phyllis Pomerantz
Country Director,
Southern Africa Department
The World Bank,
1818 H. Street, N. W.
Washinvgtun D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Subject: Mozambique - Third Economnc Recovery Credit (TERC)
(Credit NNOI0-MOZ)
Implementation Conpletion Report (ICR)
Dear Ms. Pomerantz,
With reference to the final evaluation of the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR), as requested in your letter dated June 21, 1999, we would like
to inform that its content is consistent with the former Government of
Mozambique evaluation of TERC and already sent to the World Bank,
therefore, it can be distributed to the Boardfor discussion.
Best regards,
eL Q,°H
Lauisa Dies Diego
Vice Minister of Planning and Finance



