Report No. PIC1880
Project Name                   Mozambique-Third Economic Recovery (@) 
Credit (TERC)
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Economic Management
Project ID                     MZPA35922
Borrower                       Government of Mozambique
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Planning and Finance
Date of this PID               February 3, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date       July 1996
Board Date                     February 4, 1997
Background
In 1987, the Government of Mozambique embarked upon a wide-ranging
reform program aimed at establishing the basis for sustained economic
growth and poverty reduction. After fifteen years, the war ended in
1992 and Mozambique's first multi-party elections were held in October
1994, returning power to Frelimo. Significant reform has already taken
place. Price controls and quantitative restrictions on external trade
have been essentially removed, and since 1992 the exchange rate is being
determined by a unified market for foreign exchange. Over 600 out of
about 1,000 state-owned enterprises have been privatized. However, the
macroeconomic framework remains unstable and structural reform,
especially in the financial and fiscal sectors, is far from complete.
Objectives
The Third Economic Recovery Credit (TERC) seeks to support the
Government's reform agenda as outlined in the Policy Framework paper for
1996-98. The agenda targets broad-based, poverty-reducing growth
through (i) the restoration of a stable macroeconomic framework; (ii)
the development of the private sector; (iii) the promotion of high
growth potential sectors, such as agriculture and transport; and (iv)
the development of human resources to ensure long term growth and
welfare. Within this broad strategic agenda, the TERC will focus on
structural and policy reforms aimed at strengthening aggregate demand
management, chiefly through further financial and fiscal reforms, and at
generating a rapid and sustainable supply response, by removing key
impediments to growth.
Description
This will be the fifth adjustment credit for Mozambique since 1988.
The proposed credit will consist of two broad component s (i) demand
management measures; and (ii) supply response measures. The first area
will be concerned with financial sector reform (the privatization of the
two state banks) and fiscal management (budget management, indirect
subsidies to enterprises). The second will concentrate on removing key



impediments to growth through further rationalization of sales taxes and
tariffs, cashew liberalization, and restructuring of CFM - the
parastatal running the national ports and railways.
Environmental Aspects
The recommended environmental assessment category is C. The
proposed operation does not have a direct environmental impact.
Implementation
The credit will be disbursed through Bank of Mozambique, in two
equal tranches, upon compliance with the conditions, yet to be defined.
Simplified disbursement procedures under adjustment credits will apply.
The Ministry of Planning and Finance will be responsible for
coordinating the implementation of the reform program agreed under the
credit. In addition to monitoring a number of economic indicators, the
proposed operation will support a system to monitor the poverty and
gender impact of cashew liberalization. As such, this adjustment
operation will be one of the three gender impact pilots supported within
the SPA initiative.
Financing
The amount of the proposed IDA credit is US$100 million. As a
balance of payments support operation, the proposed credit will finance
1009 of the foreign exchange costs of eligible imports.
Benefits and Risks
The credit will assist in meeting Mozambique's financing
requirements during 1997 and the first half of 1998. In addition, it
will support the implementation of key structural reforms needed to
restore macroeconomic stabilization and to ensure sustained growth. The
cashew liberalization component will have a direct poverty impact as it
will enhance the earnings of over one million farmers. Potential risks
are linked with Mozambique's weak institutional and managerial capacity,
which may slow down execution of several components of the program, and
some opposition from special interest groups. The Government has
achieved a great deal in mitigating these risks by informing the public
in general about the benefits of reform and by actively seeking
consultation with the private sector and other stakeholders.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 2 -



Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 7, 1997.
- 3 -



