Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16683
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
LOAN 3077-TU
May 30, 1997
Agriculture and Regional Development Division
Central and Southern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    Turkish Lira (TL)
1989 US$1    =    TL   2,027.0
1990 US$1    =    TL   2,930.1
1991 US$I   =    TL   5,079.9
1992 US$1    =    TL   8,564.4
1993 US$1         TL  14,472.5
1994 US$1    =    TL  38,726.0
1995 US$I         TL  59,650.0
1996 US$1    =    TL 94,756.0
April 1997 US$1         TL 126,950.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CU (R)      Capacity Utilization (Rate)
EU      European Union
ETC      Export Trading Company
FE      Foreign Exchange
FERIS      Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme
FSAL       Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GNP       Gross National Product
GOT       Government of Turkey
HB      Halk Bank
IGEME       Export Promotion Center
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FRR      Financial Rate of Return
PCI(s)     Participating Credit Institution(s)
SMI 11     Second Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Project
SPO      State Planning Office
SYKB       Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi (Industrial Investment and
Credit Bank)
TCZB       Turkiye Cumhuriyet Ziraat Bankasi (Agricultural Bank of the
Republic of Turkey)
TSKB       Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi (Development Bank of
Turkey)
TURKEY FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Vice President               Johannes F. Linn
Director                     Kenneth G. Lay
Division Chief/Manager       Michele de Nevers
Staff Member                 Franco Lucca



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT (LOAN 3077-TU)
CONTENTS
PREFACE .................
EVALUATION SUMMARY............................
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ................................ .I
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES .................................2
Sector    P olicy     O bjectives . ...........  ....................................................................................... ................................................ 2
Financial and Physical Objectives ...2..............................
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .................................4
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .................................7
E           . BANK PERFORMANCE .................................8
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .................................8
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .................................9
H. FUTURE OPERATION .................................9
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED.9 
J. PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES ...............................1...0.... 0
PART 11: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Tables:
I:      Summary of Assessments
2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
3:      Project Timetable
4:      Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
5:      Project Financing
6:      Economic Costs and Benefits
7:      Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
8:      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
9:      Bank Resources: Missions
10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Appendices:
I .     Mission's Aide-Memoire
2.      Government's ICR
3.      Plan for Project Operation
4.      Loan Disbursements
5.      Japanese Grant Fund Expenditures
6.      Map IBRD No. 24903R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT (LOAN NO. 3077-TU)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agroindustry
Project, Turkey, for which Loan 3077-TU in the amount of US$150 million equivalent
was approved on May 30, 1989 and made effective on October 10, 1989.
The Loan was closed on April 30, 1997, compared with the original closing date
of December 31, 1995. Final disbursement under the institutional development
component took place in April 1997. The loan was fully disbursed.
Cofinancing for the Technical Assistance component of the Project was provided
by a Japanese Grant Agreement in the amount of Yen 607.5 million.
The ICR was prepared by Franco Lucca, Task Manager, Agriculture and Regional
Development Operations Division in the Central and Southern Europe Departments of the
Europe and Central Asia Region. It was reviewed by Michele de Nevers, Division Chief
and George Zaidan, Project Adviser. The Borrower's contribution was prepared by the
Undersecretariat of Treasury and is attached (Appendix B). Its contents have been
considered in the preparation of this ICR. Written contributions were also provided by
the Fisheries Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs
(MARAIGDAPD); the Export Promotion Center (IGEME); Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Ziraat
Bankasi (TCZB), Turkiye Halk Bankasi (THB), Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi (SYKB),
and Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi (TSKB). They are available in the regional files.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in
October 1996 and continued during the completion mission of March 1997. It is based
on material in the project file and data collected during that mission. The Treasury and
the implementing agencies contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing views
reflected in the mission's aide-memoire and reflected in this ICR, by preparing their own
evaluation of the Project's execution, and by commenting on the draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT (LOAN NO. 3077-TU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
i.    Introduction: The US$ 150 million IBRD loan for the Agroindustry Project in
Turkey was approved in May 1989 and made effective in October 1989. The borrower
was the Republic of Turkey. Cofinancing for the Technical Assistance (TA) component
of the Project was provided by a Japanese Grant Agreement of Yen 607.5 million.
Executing agencies were four Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs) for the Loan; and
the Ministry for Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA) and the Export Promotion Center
(IGEME) for the TA component. The loan was closed on April 30, 1997 and the
Japanese Grant Agreement on June 30, 1997, considerably after the initial platned
completion date of December 31,1995.
ii.   Project Objectives. The Project objectives, which stemmed from the
Agroindustry Sector Survey (Report No. 6890-TU) were: (i) to increase the output of
agroindustry through the financing of investments to improve capacity utilization in
existing facilities and to establish new facilities; (ii) to improve the capabilities of the
Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs) to carry out financial restructuring, and appraisal
of investments for agroindustrial Projects; and (iii) to strengthen agroindustry through the
establishment of an institute for marketing training and for planning in the fisheries sub-
sector. The project was supplementary to the financial sector restructuring efforts of
FESAL II (2694-TU), and supported the Bank's strategy for (i) assisting the development
of the agricultural sector and increasing its commercial orientation; (ii) increasing
Turkey's exports; and (iii) strengthening financial intermediaries.
iii.   Project objectives relating to the sector were realistic with one exception. The
specific objective of the PCIs concentrating on restructuring ailing enterprises was
unrealistic - it was always more likely that they would want to use incremental long term
credit to finance their stronger clients, as the latter was more profitable and less risky.
iv.   The institutional development objectives for the PCIs were relatively limited,
focusing on improving their capabilities in the appraisal of agroindustrial sub-projects
and the design of financial restructuring packages. The fisheries component was aimed at
establishing planning capabilities in the Ministry of Agriculture directed toward defining
sector strategies and investment projects; while the marketing training objective was to
improve the marketing skills of agroindustrial enterprises in order that they would
become more competitive.



- 11 -
v.    Achievement of Objectives. The Sector policy objectives were substantially
achieved. They were aimed at: (i) improving the capacity utilization of enterprises in the
agroindustry sector through the financing of viable sub-projects; (ii) designing training
prototypes for improving the agroindustrial competitiveness; and (iii) establishing a
capability in MARA for sector planning in the fisheries sector.
vi.   Financial and physical objectives were related to financing viable and productive
investments in the agroindustrial sector in order to help enterprises to increase their
capacity utilization and output, improve their financial position and enhance their
standing in the market. These objectives were fully achieved although it is noted that
Loan funds were used for normal investment purposes in sound enterprises -
modernization, expansion, rehabilitation and not for restructuring of enterprises in
distress. Overall, the Loan of $150 million financed 95 sub-loans with an average size of
$1.6. million, compared to 250 sub-loans at $0.6 million envisaged in the SAR. At
appraisal, it had been envisaged that PCIs would contribute a further $57.5 million and
beneficiaries, $200 million. In the event, the PCIs' contribution was zero, but the sub-
borrowers provided $373 million, with the net result that total investment in sub-projects
amounted to $524 million, some 28% higher than the $409 million envisaged at
appraisal. Generally these investments were viable, yielding average FRRs of 28%.
Incremental annual output resulting from investment under the Project is estimated at
$600 million and capacity utilization on firms supported by the Project has increased by
about 25%.
vii.   The objective of strengthening the PCIs' capacity to carry out financial
restructuring and appraisal of investments for agroindustrial projects was achieved,
although sub-loans did not deal significantly with the restructuring of ailing enterprises.
TA funds which were provided to the banks were used in 1990 by Turkiye Cumhuriyet
Ziraat Bankasi (TCZB) and Turkiye Halk Bankasi (THB) and again by THB in 1996. Of
the $500,000 provided for PCI training, $293,200 were used with the remainder re-
allocated to the credit component. The implicit objectives of improving the financial
position of PCIs, were achieved in that debt to equity capital adequacy and collection
ratio covenants were all complied with. However, THB developed financial problems
stemming from its involvement with activities on behalf of Government and was being de
facto excluded from making further loans under the Project.
viii.  The objective of implementing the Marketing Training Component was achieved.
A study to design and test training prototypes best suited to improving the marketing
skills of agroindustrial enterprises was made. It was found that one-on-one consultancy
was the most appreciated training method. Accordingly, a portion of the funds remaining
in the Japanese Grant was directed toward training professionals in consulting techniques
and rendering consultancy services through local consultants to some 59 small and
medium export enterprises.
ix.   The Fisheries Support Program provided inputs for establishing fisheries planning
capacity. It carried out a series of studies on resources practices and markets and
supported both (i) the drafting and ongoing negotiation of a Convention on the Living



- iii -
Resources of the Black Sea; and (ii) the establishment of a Sector Strategy Task Force to
review the results of the studies and surveys and formulate recommendations for future
sector policy. It had also been expected to prepare investment projects, if appropriate, for
which support from international donors including the Bank was to be requested. Overall,
the Fisheries support program achieved its basic objective of preparing studies and
recommendations for sector policy but did not fully establish planning capacity in MARA
or prepare any projects.
x.    No ERR was calculated for the total Project, the usual practice for a credit project.
However, the appraisal reports prepared by the PCIs for individual sub-projects showed
ex ante ERRs ranging from 15% to 60%. A post investment evaluation carried out by the
PCIs on a sample of 11 sub-projects representing about 25% of Project investment
revealed ERRs ranging from 20% to 60% with an average of 29%. Most investments
involved additional employment, and extrapolation from the survey suggests that the
project probably created about 3,000 jobs.
xi.   Major Factors Affecting the Project. The Project was identified and prepared in
1987, but because of an issue between the Bank and GOT on agricultural interest rate
policy, processing was slow with appraisal in spring of 1988, negotiations in May 1989
and effectiveness in December 1989. Disbursements were initially satisfactory, reached
$38.0 million by the end of FY92 but then slowed to reach only $52.0 million, or one
third of the appraisal estimates by the end of FY95. After an amendment to the Loan
agreement, in December 1994 which defined agro industry more flexibly, allowed free-
standing working capital subloans, made foreign currency borrowing more market
oriented, and provided for equipment leasing and pre-export finance the speed of
disbursement picked up to a cumulative $135.3 million by the end of FY96 and full
disbursement in FY97. Disbursements under the Japanese Grant started only in FY92
with the result that the two components financed by it benefited from the depreciation of
the USdollar vis-a-vis the Yen.
xii.  Project implementation was influenced strongly by the macro-economic
environment, particularly the relationship between inflation and interest rates. Inflation
persisted at high levels throughout the project period, averaging over 70%, with the
exchange rate devaluing to compensate. Initially, Project loans were at the government
determined Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme (FERIS) rate, based on the three-
month Treasury bill auction rate. These oscillated wildly and were high in real as well as
nominal terms due to GOT's heavy deficit finance requirements. Another flaw of the
FERIS mechanism was the inadmissibility of prepayments. In 1992, GOT announced an
investment incentive program offering subsidized loans to alleviate the investment
climate which had deteriorated considerably in the wake of the Gulf Crisis. In 1993 the
Bank decided to stop approving sub-loans which were to be used in a blend with
subsidized credit from GOT. This was decided for all credit lines operated in Turkey,
i.e., SMI II, PICP, and Agroindustry with a view to inducing GOT to change the
incentive program. GOT, however, did not react until 1995 when the costs of the
program became clearly unaffordable and its scope was reduced considerably.



- iv -
xiii.  The end-1994 restructuring (para xi) coincided with the beginning of a strong
recovery in investment. By mid- 1995, the economy was doing well and exporters in the
agroindustry sector (which was now redefined to include textiles) were anxious to expand
and take advantage of their increased access to the European market. The effect was a
major increase in sub-loan demand, virtually all for foreign currency loans at market
related rates.
xiv.  Project Sustainability. The credit component of the Project can be rated
sustainable. During implementation the commitment of GOT to carry out the Project in
accordance with the agreements was re-established when subsidized credit was limited to
special schemes such as environmental projects. Recycled funds from net sub-borrowers
repayments will be used for the same purposes as the initial loans for several years to
come and now that subloans are denominated in foreign exchange, strong demand is
likely to continue. Interest levels adequately protect against capital erosion and interest
margins to the PCIs coupled with the excellent recovery rate of over 99% make project
lending profitable to them, and therefore sustainable. The Project is also sustainable from
the point of view of the sub-borrowers. They have greatly benefited from the investments
made under the Project and have developed a good sense of financial discipline. Having
modernized their plants and increased capacity utilization and production they are
expected to continue to prosper.
xv.   The Marketing Training Activities will need further infusion of support funds to
become sustainable. The pilot operations have demonstrated the value of training and
consultancy and an awareness has been created that such services are not free. If funds
can be lined up to continue the effort through the establishment of an institute for
marketing and consultancy training for a nationwide coverage or regional coverage
through the Chambers of Commerce or the Exporters' Unions and higher contributions
can be raised from participating enterprises, the effort could become self-supporting in
the long run. To make the Fisheries Component sustainable, new funds would have to be
made available for the services of the Program Coordinator and the Sector Strategy Task
Force since the budget of the Fisheries Department of MARA is not presently sufficient
to pay for the necessary expertise.
xvi.  Bank Performance. The Bank's performance at preparation and appraisal was
satisfactory. The Bank's missions had the necessary expertise to translate the findings of
the Agroindustry Sector report of 1987 into a workable project. The design of the Project
was kept simple and the selection of the PCIs was based on the knowledge that TCZB,
THB, and SYKB had the largest portfolio in agroindustry. The definition of agroindustry
was kept intentionally narrow at appraisal and negotiations but was widened during
implementation to include also secondary processing of cotton in spinning and weaving.
xvii.  During implementation, supervision was regular, staff continuity was maintained
and the relationships between supervision staff and implementing agency staff was
excellent. The Treasury maintains that the Bank could have been more flexible in
permitting the utilization of Loan funds in a blend with subsidized credit. Although
supervision staff tried to achieve a compromise on this, Bank Management adhered to the



principle of not supporting subsidized credit. The Bank was flexible, however, in
agreeing to the successful restructuring of the Loan at the end of 1994.
xviii. Borrower Performance. The performance of GOT and the implementing agencies
was highly satisfactory in some aspects, satisfactory in others and deficient in some. The
performance of the PCIs in carrying out the credit operations and meeting the financial
covenants agreed under the Project was highly satisfactory. Treasury also helped in its
power to ensure a smooth operation of the credit line. However, its efforts to meet THB's
claims for duty losses from various activities carried out for GOT were unsatisfactory.
Frequent changes in personnel resulted in less than satisfactory support from MARA for
the fisheries component. The performance of Project consultants in general was
satisfactory. The major covenants related to the institutional development and financial
strength of the PCIs, were met. Compliance with covenants is highly satisfactory.
xix.  Assessment of Outcome and Future Operation. The Project achieved nearly all of
its objectives. Its outcome is satisfactory, despite the delays in implementation caused
mid-way by economic factors. A plan of operation for the Project's future operation has
been agreed with GOT, MARA, the PCIs and IGEME and is contained in Appendix C.
xx.   Key Lessons Learned. Several lessons can be learned from the project: (i) Firms
whose earnings are effectively "dollarized" prefer and can manage foreign-currency debt.
They prefer the stability of borrowing in US$ and DM to the highly fluctuating interest
rates under the FERIS arrangement. (ii) in high inflation economies acceptable and even
high economic and financial benefits can be obtained if lending activities are sheltered
from the effects of inflation through appropriate interest rate mechanisms; (iii) free-
standing permanent working capital loans can be as important tools to help restructure
agroindustrial companies in distress as investment financing; (iv) lending mechanisms
should be kept simple so that sub-borrowers understand their obligations; and (v) if
problems arise between the Bank and the Borrower, solutions should be sought and
agreed quickly after the emergence of the problems. As it was, two years of inactivity
generated significant real and opportunity losses for the Borrower.
xxi.  Program Objective Categories. Although the Project had no program objectives,
it made significant contributions to private sector development, through investment and
training and to the environment by promoting environmentally acceptable practices in
agroindustry and drafting an environmental law for aquaculture.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT (LOAN 3077-TU)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The Project objectives as stated in the Loan Agreement were: (i) to increase the output
of agroindustry through the financing of investments to improve capacity utilization in
existing facilities and to establish new facilities; (ii) to improve the capabilities of the
Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs) to carry out financial restructuring of, and appraisal of
investments for, agroindustrial Projects; and (iii) to strengthen agroindustry through the
establishment of a capacity for marketing training and for planning in the fisheries sub-sector.
2.    The Project was intended to support the Bank's strategy for (i) assisting the
development of the agricultural sector and increasing its commercial orientation; (ii)
supporting Turkey's efforts to increase exports; and (iii) strengthening financial intermediaries
and increasing their areas of competition. It was considered to be supplementary to the efforts
to restructure the financial sector in Turkey assisted by the Second Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (FSAL II, Loan No. 2964-TU) which became effective in June 1988.
3.    The specific objectives stemmed from the Agroindustry Sector Survey (Report No.
6890-TU) of 1987 which reflected the fact that there was a serious bottleneck caused by lack of
long-term credit in the system. This was seen as inhibiting the potential growth of the sector
which was identified as having strong export opportunities. The driving force in agroindustry
was and still is the private sector, which requires efficient banks to deliver the necessary credit.
Export marketing was relatively undeveloped and this too was identified as a key constraint to
expanding the sector. Fisheries had also been recognized as potentially very important in
Turkey, but the planning capacity within MARA, necessary to set effective policy and support
fisheries development was weak.
4.    The Project objectives relating to sectoral investment were broad and realistic.
However the objective of restructuring ailing enterprises was unrealistic because the PCIs,
which are profit-seeking banks, have generally used long term credit to finance their stronger
clients, thereby minimizing their risk.
5.    The institutional development objectives for the PCIs implementing the Project
covered improving their capabilities to appraise agroindustry sub-projects and to design
financial restructuring packages for subborrowers. They were appropriate, and sufficient
because the more general conditions for PCI strengthening had already been covered under
other Bank operations, particularly FESAL II.
6.    The objective of establishing a capacity for marketing training was relevant to the
sector in that-there was a need to improve the marketing skills of agroindustrial



- 2 -
enterprises in order to make them become more competitive. In fisheries, the objective of
establishing planning capabilities in MARA directed toward defining sector strategies and
investment projects was appropriate and realistic.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
7.    The attainment of objectives can be summarized as follows: (a) sector policy
objectives were substantially achieved; and (b) financial, institutional development, and
physical objectives were achieved, although it is noted that Loan funds were used for normal
investment purposes in sound enterprises - modernization, expansion, rehabilitation and not
for restructuring of enterprises in distress.
Sector Policy Objectives
8.    Sector policy objectives were aimed at: (i) increasing the output, capacity utilization
and commercial orientation of enterprises in the agroindustry sector through the financing of
viable sub-projects; (ii) designing training prototypes for improving the competitiveness of the
agroindustry sector; and (iii) establishing a capability in MARA for planning in the fisheries
sector.
9.    The credit disbursed to the sector resulted in both new enterprise establishment and
increased output from existing firms. In aggregate, incremental annual output resulting from
investment under the Project was estimated at sub-project appraisal to be. $600 million. This
is the equivalent of about 0.5% of total output from the sector. Capacity utilization on pre-
existing firms supported by the Project was estimated ex ante to increase by 30%. The actual
achievement was 25%, as calculated from a random sample of subborrowers.
10.   The Marketing Training Program and Supplementary Consultancy Services were
effectively implemented and so should have a lasting impact on the agroindustry sector.
Training prototypes have been designed and tested, local consultants have been trained and
additionally consultancy services have been rendered to small and medium-sized
agroindustrial enterprises in two pilot areas.
11.   The activities in the Fisheries Component resulted in a series of surveys which had
some impact on policy making in the sector. However, the final outcome of this component
was short of the desired goal of preparing a comprehensive fisheries project oriented towards
improvement of the environment and institution building in MARA and other elements of the
sector.
Financial and Physical Objectives
12.   The main financial objective of the Project which aimed at financing viable and
productive investments in the agroindustry-industry sector was fully met, although it took
substantially longer than planned. The amount of Loan funds used for this purpose exceeded
the amount envisaged at appraisal, because most of the non-credit elements of



- 3 -
the Project were switched from World Bank Loan to Japanese Grant financing, thereby
freeing up a further $6.7 million to be used as credit. Overall, the four PCIs used the
Loan of $150 million to make 95 sub-loans with an average size of $1.6. million as
compared to 250 sub-loans at an average size of $0.6 million envisaged in the SAR. At
appraisal, it had been envisaged that PCIs would contribute to the total amount loaned to
beneficiaries to the extent of $57.5 million. In the event, their contribution was zero.
Conversely, however, the sub-borrowers own contribution was substantially higher than
originally expected. It amounted to $373 million rather than $200 million which had
been estimated at appraisal. Overall, total investment in sub-projects amounted to $524
million, some 28% higher than the $409 million envisaged at appraisal. Generally these
investments were viable, yielding average FRRs of 28%.
13.   The objective of strengthening the PCIs capacity to carry out financial
restructuring and appraisal of investments for agroindustrial projects was achieved,
although for sound commercial reasons, investment under the Loan did not deal
significantly with the restructuring of ailing enterprises. TA funds which were provided
to the banks were used in 1990 by TCZB and THB for consultants ($109,000), to train
the respective bank staff in the appraisal and supervision of agroindustry sub-projects,
and in 1996, by THB for training abroad of managers and professionals in appraisal
techniques ($184,200). Thus, of the $500,000 provided for PCI training under the Loan,
$293,200 were used. The remaining $206,800 was re-allocated to the credit component.
All training programs were reported to have been successful. The success of this Project
element is evident from the professional quality of the appraisal reports for sub-projects
submitted by the PCIs to the Bank for approval. Furthermore, there have been several
examples of successful financial restructuring, in particular increasing capital through
public offerings, of projects initially supported under the Loan by the PCIs.
14.   The Project also had implicit financial objectives related to improving the
financial position of PCIs, both in terms of reaching adequate net worth as percentage of
average risk assets and to building up provisions for bad debts that were in line with the
prudential regulations issued by the Central Bank. These financial objectives were fully
reached, i.e., debt to equity and capital adequacy as well as collection ratio covenants
were complied with. However, during Project implementation THB developed financial
problems stemming from its involvement with activities on behalf of Government. These
difficulties were brought out in the audit reports by the external auditors and dealt with by
the Bank in the framework of the SMI II Project. Since 1995 THB has been de facto
excluded from making further loans under the Project.
15.   The objective of implementing the Marketing Training Component was achieved
through initial studies carried out by a joint venture of two management consulting
companies with a sub-contract to the Middle East Technical University in Ankara. The
aim of the study was to design and test training prototypes best suited to improving the
marketing skills of Turkish agroindustrial enterprises and to enhance their
competitiveness. Among the training prototypes tested, one-on-one consultancy was the
most appreciated. Accordingly, a portion of the funds remaining in the Japanese Grant
after the completion of the Pilot Marketing Training Study was directed toward helping to



- 4 -
establish a consultancy profession in two regions of Turkey and rendering consultancy
services through local consultants to small and medium enterprises. Some 46 local
professionals from private business and local universities were trained in delivering
consultancy services with the help of a foreign consulting firm. These then provided
professional consulting services to 59 exporting companies operating in the agroindustry
sector. These services were well received and generally resulted in an improvement in
the competitive position of the beneficiary firms. The total contribution of the Japanese
Grant Fund to the Marketing Training Component was $2.7 of which $1.4 million went
to the implementation of the Pilot Marketing Training contract, $0.8 million to the two
Supplementary Consultancy Programs, and $0.5 million to program management.
16.   The Fisheries Support Program provided inputs for establishing fisheries planning
capacity. Within this, the following studies were carried out: (i) Survey of the
Mediterranean, Aegean and Marmara Sea Demersal Fish Resources; (ii) Study on
Aquaculture Site Identification; (iii) Inland Fisheries Survey; (iv) Study on Fish
Marketing; and (iv) Lagoon Rehabilitation Study. Additionally, the program supported
the drafting and negotiation of a Convention on the Living Resources of the Black Sea,
the services of various Program Coordinators and the establishment of a Sector Strategy
Task Force which is to review the results of the studies and surveys and formulate
recommendations for future sector policy. It had been expected to prepare investment
projects, if appropriate, for which support from international donors including the Bank
was to be requested. Due to frequent changes in Government and in MARA personnel
and ensuing changes in sector policy, the Task Force was only established in October
1996 and recommendations regarding sector policy and investment projects are expected
only during 1997. Overall, therefore the Fisheries support program achieved its basic
objective of preparing studies and recommendations for sector policy but was somewhat
deficient in achieving the goal of establishing a planning capacity in MARA, because of
the long delays that occurred. Funds which had been earmarked for the Fisheries
Component but not fully used were reallocated to the Marketing Training Component.
17.   No ERR was calculated for the total Project, the usual practice for a credit project.
However, ERRs were calculated for individual investment sub-projects. The SAR stated
that ERRs for sub-projects had to be at least 15%. The appraisal reports prepared by the
PCIs for individual sub-projects showed ERRs ranging from 15% to 60%. A post-
evaluation exercise carried out by the PCIs on a sample of 11 sub-projects representing
about 25% of Project investment reveals that actual ERRs range from 20% to 60% with
an average of 29%. These reports indicate that the Loan helped to finance about $500
million in incremental investment and to create 3,000 full-time jobs.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
18.   The Project was identified and prepared in 1987 in the wake of the Agroindustry
Sector Survey (6890-TU) which had brought out sectoral potential for strong growth in
exports and had highlighted the problems of low capacity utilization. Project appraisal
took place in spring of 1988, but further processing was held up until 1989 because of the
lack of agreement between GOT and the Bank on interest rate policy in the agriculture



sector. This issue had surfaced after the appraisal, in 1986, of the Third Agricultural Credit
Project (Loan 3090-TU). Only after agreement had been reached on how real interest rates in
the agricultural sector for lending in local currency were to be set, did the two projects go
forward to negotiations in May 1989. The Project was approved by the Board in the same
month and became effective in December 1989 after a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with three
PCIs had been concluded by the Treasury. Commitments started speedily thereafter and
disbursements reached $38.0 million by the end of FY92. However, due to the reasons given
below (paras. 20-23), the speed of disbursements slowed down considerably, and by the end
of FY 1995, cumulative disbursements were only $52.0 million, or one third of disbursement
estimates. In December 1994 the Loan agreement was amended to make it more flexible in
terms of definition of agroindustry and permitting free-standing working capital subloans. As
a result the speed of disbursement soon picked up so that $135.3 million had been disbursed
by the end of FY96 and full disbursement was achieved in FY97. To accommodate the slow
disbursement between 1992 and 1994, the closing date had to be extended twice, by one year
and by four months, respectively.
19.   Because of the late availability of funds from the Japanese Grant, disbursements under
the Pilot Marketing Training and Fisheries Components started only in FY92, initially at a
very slow pace because it took considerable time to conclude the contracts with the various
consultants for the marketing training program and the fisheries surveys. This had the effect
that the two components benefited from the depreciation of the USdollar vis-a-vis the Yen
(para. 22). The closing date for the Japanese Grant was extended in line with that of the Loan,
except that the last extension was granted until June 30, 1997 in order to be able to complete
the Second Supplementary Consultancy Program and some ongoing activities under the
Fisheries Component, i.e., work on the Black Sea Convention, an extension of the Lagoon
Rehabilitation Study and support to the work of the Strategy Task Force.
20.   Project implementation was influenced strongly by the macro-economic environment,
particularly the relation between inflation and interest rates. The inflation rate which was 70%
in 1988 persisted at high levels through the 1990s, averaging over 70% and reaching a level of
80% at the end of 1996. The exchange rate increased along similar lines. From TL 1,875 for
one US dollar in January 1989, to TL 17,204 in January 1994, climbed in four months to TL
33,408 and reached TL 126,600 at the end of March 1997.
21.  Initially, Project loans were at the FERIS interest rate which was based on the three-
month Treasury bill rate. It oscillated wildly due to the high inflation rates and the need for
GOT to finance its deficit by offering attractive real rates to the general public and the banking
sector for its bills and notes. Auction rates and thus FERIS rates were considerably higher
than inflation rates. An additional factor contributed to the oscillations of the FERIS rate. A
three-month Treasury bill rate was not available in all three-month periods because GOT held
auctions only for notes of longer maturity. In these instances the six-month Treasury bill rate
was used, and because six month interest rates are generally higher than three month rates, this
placed an additional burden on customers. Another flaw of the FERIS mechanism was the
inadmissibility of prepayments. The PCIs requested in both cases that the FERIS
Administration find acceptable solutions to the issues but no decisions were taken.



- 6 -
22.  In the wake of the Gulf crisis, the economic situation in Turkey deteriorated to an
extent that reduced considerably all investment activity. To overcome this situation, GOT
announced an investment incentive program in the spring of 1992 which caused further delays
in investments because the potential investors took a "wait-and-see" attitude as they wanted to
avail themselves of subsidized loans rather than of costly FERIS loans. In the second half of
1993 the investment climate started to improve again partially as a result of the issuance of a
high number of investment encouragement certificates and an ensuing increase in requests for
subsidized loans submitted to the banks. There still would have been scope for disbursing
FERIS sub-loans blended with subsidized credit from GOT incentive schemes since payments
under these schemes were small and came usually after a long waiting period. However,
because of these incentive certificates, in 1993 the Bank decided to stop approving sub-loans
which were to be used in a blend with subsidized credit from GOT. This was decided for all
Bank financed credit lines operated in Turkey, i.e., SMI II, PICP, and Agroindustry with a
view to inducing GOT to change the incentive program. GOT, however, did not react until
1995 when the program became unaffordable and no further approvals for subsidized credit
were granted.
23.   With the very high nominal and real rates, using debt financing for investment projects
was unattractive, even though under FERIS half of the interest could be capitalized during the
grace period. The mix of effects of the Gulf war, the ensuing inflation which brought the
FERIS rate to unprecedented levels peaking in July 1994 at 158% and the ineligibility of
projects benefiting from the incentive program of GOT slowed down disbursements under the
Project considerably. From the end of 1991 to the end of 1994 only $10 million were
disbursed.
24.  In 1994, GOT and the Bank' agreed on restructuring the Loan to take account of the
changed circumstances and to accelerate Loan disbursement. The amended Loan Agreement,
signed on December 29, 1994 contained the following changes: (i) the definition of
agroindustry was expanded to include additional operations in the textile sector; (ii) the
interest rate base for foreign exchange loans as single-currency loans in US dollars or Deutsch
Marks was made more market-oriented and no longer tied to the World Bank pool rate; (iii)
free-standing permanent working capital loans were allowed; and (iv) loans for equipment
leasing and pre-export financing were also permitted. These changes, together with an
improvement in the investment climate in 1995, contributed to the full commitment of the
Project's funds by the end of 1996. At some point during the implementation there were
doubts about the commitment of GOT to carry out the Project. However in 1994 when
subsidized credit was limited to special schemes such as environmental projects, and
additionally GOT and the Bank agreed on a restructuring of the Loan, the Project got back on
track and it was successfully implemented.
25.   The Japanese Grant was Yen 607.5 million when the grant was made to cover the TA
part of the Project. The Government of Turkey was the administrator. In 1993, on request of
the Bank the Turkish Government agreed to take out Yen 25 million (equivalent to about.
$200,000) from the total and to include this amount in a separate Grant Agreement for which
I Similar agreements were negotiated for all Bank-supported credit lines in Turkey.



the Bank became the administrator. This amount was used to pay for specialized consultants
in the field of marketing, agroindustry and fisheries. During implementation, the US$
depreciated against the Yen from an exchange rate of Yen 188 per US$ when the Grant was
agreed to about Yen 90 in 1995 and about Yen 120 in March 1997. The net result of this was
that in dollar terms, the total Grant disbursed for the Pilot Marketing Training and Fisheries
Components of the Project (Yen 582.5 billion) grew from $3.10 million to $5.42 million.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
26.   The credit component of the Project financed sustainable investment which generated
high profitability with FRRs averaging 28% and highly satisfactory recovery rates. Recycled
funds available from excess of repayments from sub-borrowers over repayments by PCIs to
the Treasury, will be used for the same purposes as the initial loans. Now that subloans are
denominated in foreign exchange, the present strong demand for these funds is likely to
continue.
27.   In terms of the financial viability of the PCIs themselves and the profitability of the
subloans, the Project would also be sustainable. The interest spread of 3% to the PCIs under
FERIS and the flexible interest margin for foreign exchange loans,typically at about the same
level, are adequate.The recovery rate of over 99% is excellent. The PCIs met all financial
covenants in all years but one of the implementation period and the two PCIs using the
recycled funds are in a strong financial position. After the financial crisis of 1994, TSKB for a
short while did not meet the debt to equity covenant. However, this was swiftly corrected
through an increase in capital. All PCIs had a stronger capital adequacy picture in 1996 than
in the first year of Project implementation in 1989. Since TCZB and THB made sub-loans
only under FERIS, there is no recycling of Loan funds by these two PCIs.
28.   The capabilities of the PCIs in the appraisal, supervision and monitoring of lending
activities are adequate and the various credit and project evaluation departments deal
efficiently with sub-projects using recycled funds and funds from potential follow-on projects.
The interest rate mechanisms developed for the Project ensured that there was no erosion
through inflation of funds repaid from sub-borrowers. Sub-loans under FERIS carried a
sufficiently high interest rate to cover inflation losses and foreign exchange sub-loans have to
be repaid in foreign currency thus keeping the original value intact. The ProiPct is also
sustainable from the point of view of the sub-borrowers. They have greatly benefited from the
investments made under the Project and have developed a good sense of financial discipline.
They have modernized their plants and increased capacity utilization and production. They
are expected to continue profitable activities and development.
29.   The Marketing Training Activities will need further infusion of support funds to
become sustainable. In the pilot operations a good start has been made to demonstrate to
small and medium enterprises in the agroindustry sector the value of training and consultancy
and an awareness has been created that such services are not free. The effort could be
continued through the establishment of an institute with nationwide coverage as recommended
by the consultants, with the long term aim of making it self-supporting through increased
contributions from companies.



- 8 -
30.   To make the Fisheries Component sustainable, MARA would have to train its
scientific staff to achieve a better counterpart participation in the planning and design
activities. Also, the Task Force would finally have to resume work on a regular basis to
translate the findings and recommendations of the various studies into realistic policy.
However, new funds would have to be made available for the services of the Program
Coordinator and the Sector Strategy Task Force since the present budget of the Fisheries
Department of MARA is not sufficient to support the necessary expertise.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
31.   The Bank's performance at preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The Bank's
missions, staffed with professionals having appropriate technical expertise, adequately
transformed the findings and recommendations of the Agroindustry Sector Survey into a
preparation report. The design of the Project was kept simple and the selection of the PCIs
was based on eligibility and experience, as TCZB, THB, and SYKB had the largest portfolio
in agroindustry. An issue developed with the definition of agroindustry whose scope at
appraisal and negotiations was kept intentionally narrow to achieve the desired targeting. It
included processing, packaging, transportation, handling, storage and distribution of food,
beverages, animal feed, tobacco, and sawmills, leather tanneries or processing of raw cotton
and agricultural inputs. During implementation the definition of agroindustry was extended to
include also secondary processing of cotton in spinning and weaving. This helped to
accelerate Loan disbursements.
32.   Bank performance during the implementation phase was satisfactory. Supervision
missions were fielded at regular intervals twice per year, staff continuity was maintained and
the relationship of the Bank staff with the Treasury and implementing agency staff was
excellent. The Treasury maintains that the Bank could have been more flexible in permitting
the utilization of Loan funds in a blend with subsidized credit; particularly because in the
Minutes of Negotiation the Bank had insisted in recording that "GOT intends to take all such
measures as may be required to make access to the benefits under the investment incentives
regime available for Investment Projects." Supervision missions made great efforts to achieve
a compromise on this but Bank Management believed that it was more important to adhere to
the principle of not supporting subsidized credit. The Bank was flexible, however, in agreeing
to the successful restructuring of the Loan at the end of 1994 (para 24).
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
33.   The performance of GOT and the implementing agencies was highly satisfactory in
some aspects, satisfactory in others and deficient in some. As discussed earlier, the
performance of the PCIs in carrying out the credit operations and meeting the financial
covenants agreed under the Project was very satisfactory. Also the Treasury helped to ensure
a smooth operation of the credit line. The efforts of GOT to meet THB's claims for duty
losses from various activities carried out for Government were unsatisfactory. The quality of
Project management by the PCIs in general was quite good. In particular, performance by the
various credit departments were found highly satisfactory.



-9-
34.   The performance of Project consultants in general was satisfactory. The consultants
who imparted training to the staff of TCZB and THB and the consultants who trained local
consultants under the Supplementary Consultancy Program performed particularly well. The
joint venture of management consultants that carried out the Pilot Marketing Training started
off well but got caught in delays through personnel management issues. The consultants
involved in the studies under the Fisheries Component delivered excellent work.
35.   The major covenants related to the institutional development and financial strength of
the PCIs. Since all of them were met, compliance with covenants must be rated highly
satisfactory.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
36.   The Project achieved nearly all of its objectives but took longer than planned to be
executed. The delay was caused by a very difficult economic environment and problems
between the Bank and the Borrower concerning subsidized credit. As of November 1994, the
Project would have been rated unsatisfactory, but since then, performance has been highly
satisfactory. This leads to an overall rating of satisfactory.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
37.   A plan for the future operation of the Project has been agreed with GOT, MARA, the
PCIs and IGEME. It contains the following arrangements: (i) regarding credit it sets out how
the reflow of funds to the PCIs will be used in lending for similar purposes until all funds have
been repaid to GOT as specified in the legal agreements; (ii) regarding fisheries activities it
contains the intentions of MARA on how to use the findings and recommendations of the
studies financed under the Japanese Grant and to keep the Bank informed about planned
investments in the fisheries sector ; and (iii) regarding marketing training it contains the
agreement that IGEME, jointly with the Chambers of Commerce and the Exporters' Union of
Izmir will continue the efforts started under the Project and make an attempt to institutionalize
the training and consulting services as proposed in the Pilot Marketing Training Program
study.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
38.   Several lessons can be learned from the Project and its results: (i) Firms whose
earnings are effectively "dollarized" prefer and can manage foreign-currency debt. At the
beginning of the Project it was thought that investors would be averse to borrowing in foreign
exchange. However, with rising inflation and the increasing need of GOT to borrow funds,
FERIS interest rates started to fluctuate wildly and investors preferred the relative interest rate
stability of borrowing in US$ and DM, despite the fact that repayment obligations for
principal increased along with the rate of exchange; (ii) in high inflation economies sound
economic and financial benefits can be obtained if lending activities are sheltered from the
effects of inflation through appropriate interest rate mechanisms. Government risk insurance
schemes do not seem to be the right mechanism to enable lending in local currency; (iii)



- 10-
lending mechanisms should be kept simple so that sub-borrowers understand their obligations
- borrowers much preferred interest rates linked to LIBOR, with which they were familiar to
rates linked to the Bank's pool rate, which they did not fully understand; (iv) if problems arise
between the Bank and the Borrower, negotiated solutions should be sought right after the
emergence of the problems.
39.   The Bank's agreement to make free-standing permanent working capital loans was
very important in that it made contributions to the financial soundness of enterprises hard-
pressed to control the cost of their expenses under inflationary conditions. The availability of
free-standing working capital loans at the outset of implementation could have been an
important tool to reach one of the Project objectives: helping to restructure agroindustrial
companies in distress.
J. PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES
40.   Although the Project had no program objectives, it made significant contributions to
private sector development and safeguarding the environment objectives. As all sub-loans had
exclusively private sector beneficiaries, the Project contributed to private enterprise sector
efficiency by financing modernization and replacement investments and thus increasing
capacity utilization. Private sector performance was also enhanced by the successful
implementation of the marketing training program and the related supplementary consultancy
programs. On the environment, the Project contributed in two areas: (i) All sub-projects
financed under the Project followed environmental guidelines and thus contributed to
introducing environmentally acceptable practices into agroindustry; and (ii) the studies in the
fisheries sector that were related to aquaculture and inland fisheries led to the drafting of
environmental legislation for aquaculture which is currently being discussed between s all
related ministries, i.e., MARA, the Ministry for the Environment and the Ministry of Tourism.
It is anticipated that this will become law within the next two years.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT (LOAN 3077-TU)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Tables:
1:     Summary of Assessments
2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
3:     Project Timetable
4:     Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
5:     Project Financing
6:     Economic Costs and Benefits
7:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
8:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
9:     Bank Resources: Missions
10:    Status of Legal Covenants






Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial        Negigible        Not applicable
Macro Policies                      E               E                 E                  0
Sector Policies                                                      [                  [0
Financial Objectives                0               E                 Cl                E
Institutional Development           0               E                [                  E
Physical Objectives                 0               E                 E                 E
Poverty Reduction                   El              El                E                  0
Gender Issues                       E                E                E                 0
Other Social Objectives                             El                El                0
Environmental Objectives           E                 0                E                 E
Public Sector Management            a               E                 El                0
Private Sector Development          0               El                E                 E
Foreign exchange earnings           0               E                 E                 El
(Continued)



B. Project Sustainability             Likely                    Unlikely                   Uncertain
(/)                ~~~(/)                      (/)
Highly
C. Bank Perfomiance                  satisfacto                Satisfactorv                Deficient
(1)                      (1)                        (1)
Identification                      I                         EI
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal                            El
Supervision                                                   L                          El
Highly
D. Borrower Performance              satisfactor               Satisfactory                Deficient
(1)()                                               (/)
Preparation                          El
Implementation                       a0
Covenant Compliance                                           [I                         [ I
HighHh
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfatoy      Satisfactorv    Unsatisfacty       unsatisfactorv
(E)             (E)               (E)(



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title         Purpose                Year of Approval        Status
Preceding operations
Livestock Development  Support genetic improvement      1985           ICR issued
Project               of livestock
Following operations
Guarantee for         Bank support and guarantee to     1997             Under
Development Banks     assist the Development                           preparation
(SYKB-TSKB)           Banks SYKB and TSKB issue
bonds for equivalent of $200
million. Funds to be used to
finance agroindustry, and
small and medium industrial
enterprises.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)         01/88                 02/88
Preparation                                        06/88                 06/88
Appraisal                                          12/88                 01/89
Negotiations                                       04/89                 05/89
Board Presentation                                 05/89                 05/89
Signing                                            06/89                 06/89
Effectiveness                                      12/89                 12/89
Project Completion                                 03/96                 05/97
Loan Closing                                       12/95                 04/97



Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95           FY96      FY97
Appraisal estimate   10,000   13,000   52,000   87,000  127,000   150,000       -
Actual              2,803   15,398   38,045   45,600   51,068    52,209   135,325   150,000
Actual as %         28       118      72        52       40       35         -
of estimate
Date of final disbursement: April 28, 1997.
Table 5: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate         Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                (US$ million)
Item                            Local  Foreign   Total       Local  Foreign   Total
costs   costs               costs   costs
1. IBRD                           -     150.0   150.0          -      150.0   150.0
2. Financial intermediaries      57.5     -       57.5         -        -        -
3. GOT                           1.2      -       1.2         1.2       -       1.2
3. Sub-borrowers                200.0     -      200.0       373.0      -      373.0
Total                           258.7   150.0   408.7        374.2   150.0   524.2



Table 6: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Rates of Return (ERRs). Specific estimates of the project's ERR were not made at
appraisal; PCIs were required to demonstrate the economic viability of individual projects which
had to show ERRs in excess of 15% (except for projects specifically aimed at environmental
amelioration). An analysis of the ex ante rates of return on investment projects for SYKB and
TKSB, which accounts for 81% of Investments indicated a weighted average ERR from 53
projects of 29%. Ex post evaluation on eight of these (which had ex ante ERRs of 33%) resulted
in an average ERR of 30%.
Ex Ante ERRs and FRRs for Investment Projects In SYKB and TSKB (represents 72% of Loan & 81% of Project Investment)
No   Investment  Av. ERR At    Range            Av. FRR At    Range
(US$'000)    Appraisal                     Appraisal
SYKB            40    191,598       36%      18% -117%             45%       22% - 99%
TSKB            13    232,684       23%       14% - 57%            23%       15% - 62%
Overall         53    424,282       29%                            33%
Ex Post ERRs and FRRs for Sample Investment Projects in SYKB and TSKB (represents 21% of Loans for Investment)
No   Investment  Av. ERR At   Av. ERR                  Av. FRR At   Av. FRR
(US$'000)    Appraisal   Ex Post                  Appraisal    Ex Post
SYKB            6      57,484       33%         31%                       44%         31%
TSKB            2      12,406       29%         27%                       34%          25%
Overall         8      69,890       33%         30%                       42%         30%
Employment Impact. At appraisal, the project was expected to invest in relatively labor
intensive projects with an incremental cost per job usually not exceeding US$25,000. Estimates
of additional jobs made at the time of PCI appraisal was for a total of 3,678 jobs from the
Investment Projects at a cost per job of $134,000.
Estimates of Full Time Job Creation (at Sub Project Appraisal)
No.      Disbursement           Investment           Jobs          Cost/Job
(US$'000)            (US$'000)                          (US$'000)
SYKB            40             56,158              187,416           2,159            87
TSKB            13             52,111              232,684             944           246
TCZB             6              6,285               13,832             355            39
THB             20              9,858               59,707             220           271
TOTAL           79            124,412              493,639           3,678           134
Ex post analysis indicated slightly more employment creation than had been expected at sub
project appraisal. On the eight projects reviewed, 492 full time jobs were created at a cost per
full time job of $142,000, compared with sub project appraisal expectations of 391 jobs at
US$176,000 per job.



Table 7: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                  Revised                    Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks    US$         Weeks        US$            Weeks       US$
Through Appraisal          60.0    180,000                                    57.0       171,000
Appraisal-Board            36.6    102,450                                    34.9        97,720
Board-Effectiveness        35.5     99,000                                   33.8         94,640
Supervision               200.0   600,000                                   234.6        703,800
Total              332.1    981,450                                  360.3      1,067,160



Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating"       yeso
Stage of project cycle      Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem. a evelopig           ypoble of
Year   Persons  Field                        status       objectives
Through appraisal          12/88     3       30      E, F, N
Appraisal-Board           06/89      1               E
Supervision 1             06/89      3       15      E, F, N           1             2
Supervision II            06/90     4        50      E, F, N, F        1             2             M
Supervision III            12/90     1       5       E                 1             2             M
Supervision IV            05/91    4         23      E, F, Fi, N       I              I
Supervision V             04/92     4        30      AC, E, Fi, N     2               1            M
Supervision VI            09/92     2        6       Fi               2               1            M
Supervision VII           01/93      3       27      AC, Fi, F        2               1
Supervision VIII          06/93      3       20      AC, F, Fi        2              3             M
Supervision IX            02/94     4        30      AC, F, F, Fi      2             3             M
Supervision X             08/94      3       20      AC, F, Fi         1             3             M
Supervision XI            04/95     4        22      AC, F, Fi         1             3
Supervision XII           09/95     4        20      AC, F, F, Fi      I              I            M
Supervision XIII          09/95     4        26      AC, F, F, Fi      I              I            M
Supervision XIV            10/96    3        26      AC, F, Fi         I              I
Completion                02/97      2       14      AC, F             I              I
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:    3 - Key to Types of Problems:
AC = Agricultural Credit Spec.       I = Minor problems                  F = Financial
E = Economist                         2 = Moderate problems              T = Technical
F = Financial Analyst                 3 = Major problems                 M = Managerial.
Fi =Fishery Specialist
N = Marketing Specialist



Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance                                                                                                     OD 13.05 - ANNEX D5
ECA - Europe & Central Asia Regional 0                                                                                                                                       Page:  I
ECI - ECA: Country Department I                                                                                                                         Run Date: 03/31/97 at 10.23.08
ECIAR - Agriculture & Regional Devip Opr
Form 590 Date: 11/18/1996
Project ID: TR-PE-9056    - AGROINDUSTRY
Original      Revised
Covenant              Fulfill      Fulfill
Class(sa   Status      Date         Date      Description of Covenant                                 Coemments
Agreement: AGROIN Loan Number: IBRD -30770
Text Reference: 2.03
10            SOON    12/31/1995  04/30/1997  Closing date shall be 12/31/95.                           Postponed by 18 months to April 30, 1997.
Text Reference: Schedule 4 A.3.
03           C                                  From the loan amount allocated for subloans,            Fixed allocations have been abandoned.  De facto
Borrower shall allocate $71.4 M to TCZB, $42.8 M    allocations through use of pool will be:  SYKB
to SYKB, and $28.6 M to THB.                            $72.0 M, TSKB 61.6 M, TCZB $6.3 M, THB $9.9 M,
Training $0.3M.
Text Reference: 3.01(b)
01           C                                  Each PCI shall have (i) its records/accounts/           Audit reports for 1995 received with clean audit
financial statements audited by independent            opinions.
auditors, (ii) furnish Bank(A) certified copies
ofits ausited financial statements and (b) audit
report by auditors no later than 9 moo, for TCZB
and 6 mos. for each PCIs and (iii) furnish Bank
other related information.
Text Reference: Japanese Grant 2.03
02,05,03,11  NYD                   06/30/1997  Closing date shall be 6.30.94 or later date that    New extension by six months to 6/30/97.
Administration declares.
S ta tus:
C    - Complied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
NYD  - Not Yet Due                                                                                                                                                            H



Appendix 1
AIDE MEMOIRE                        Page 1
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT (Loan 3077-TU)
Implementation Completion Mission of March 1997
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    A World Bank Mission consisting of Messrs. F. Lucca, G. Ozdora (IBRD), P. Harrison
and J. Diister (consultants) visited Turkey from February 23 to March 7, 1997 to carry out the
Implementation Completion Mission for the Agroindustry Project (the Project). The Mission
held discussions with officials of: the Undersecretariat of Treasury; the Fisheries Department of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA/GDAPD); the Export Promotion Center
(IGEME) in charge of the Pilot Marketing Training Program and of the Supplementary
Consultancy Program (SCP); the Chamber of Commerce and Exporters' Union of Izmnir; the
management and staff of Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Ziraat Bankasi (TCZB), Turkiye Halk Bankasi
(THB), Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi (SYKB), and Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi (TSKB)
to discuss the Project achievements and the operational plan. Additionally, in order to verify the
initial Project results and the impact of the consultancy services financed under the Japanese
Grant Agreement, the Mission visited some beneficiaries of PCI loans and of consultancy
services rendered under the Second Supplementary Consultancy Program (SCP II).
2.    The Mission wishes to express its sincere appreciation for the cooperation and the
courtesies extended to it and all previous missions during the Project implementation phase by
officials of the Government of Turkey (GOT), the management and staff of the PCIs, and the
many Project beneficiaries visited. In carrying out its activities the Mission was fully supported
by the Bank's Resident Mission in Ankara.
3.    The Project will close on April 30, 1997. The objective of the Mission was to: (i)
discuss with GOT and the implementing agencies the contributions to the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) prepared by them; and (ii) collect data for the preparation of the Bank's
ICR.
4.    The ICR marks the transition of the Project from implementation to its future operation.
It is intended to assess: (a) the degree of achievement of Project objectives; (b) prospects for the
Project's sustainability; (c) Bank and Borrower performance; (d) Project outcome; and (e) the
plan for the Project's future operation.
5.    This Aide Memoire records the views of the Borrower, the implementing agencies and
the Bank on Project implementation and operation including the operational plan which is
attached as Annex 1. The Mission's findings regarding the views of the Bank are subject to
confirmation by the Bank's Management.



Appendix 1
Page 2
6.    A wrap-up meeting chaired by the Head of the World Bank Department in the Treasury,
Mr. A. Erden, was held on March 7, 1997 with representatives of MARA, the PCIs, and IGEME
in attendance.
Project Implementation
7.    Project Closing and Disbursements. The Loan will be closing after two extensions on
April 30, 1997, 16 months after the planned closing date. The remaining funds in the Loan
account of $1.05 million will be disbursed by the PCIs by April 30, 1997. Annex 2 shows the
disbursement situation as of February 14, 1997 and the final allocation of funds to the various
Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs). As of this date, 99.3% of all Project funds had been
disbursed. At closing, SYKB will have onlent 48% of the Project funds, TSKB 41%, THB 7%
and TCZB 4%.
8.    Cofinancing. The Project was cofinanced by a grant from the Japanese Government to
support the technical assistance components of the Project, i.e., studies in the fisheries sector and
the Pilot Marketing Training Component that was extended into the Supplementary Consultancy
Programs I and II. The latter is still ongoing and to allow for its completion, the Japanese Grant
Agreement has been extended to June 30, 1997. The disbursement position of the Japanese
Grant Agreement as of February 28 and the likely position at the close of disbursements is shown
in Annex 3.
9.    Formulating and Attaining of Project Objectives. It is the view of the Borrower as
represented by the Undersecretariat of Treasury and the implementing agencies that the Project
had clear objectives which were as follows: (i) to increase the output of agroindustry through the
financing of investments to revitalize existing capacity and to establish new facilities; (ii) to
improve the capabilities of the Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs) to carry out financial
restructuring of ailing enterprises and appraisal of investments for, agroindustrial projects; and
(iii) to strengthen agroindustry through the establishment of a capacity for marketing training and
for planning in the fisheries sub-sector. These objectives are considered realistic and attainable
with one minor exception: The implied expectation that PCIs would play a leading role in
restructuring ailing enterprises within the frame work of the Project was unrealistic. While they
were willing at the time of appraisal to enter into financial restructuring of companies they in fact
were not inclined to incur higher than normal financial risks. The Mission concurs that the
implicit objective of restructuring enterprises in distress was over-ambitious given the fact that
the PCIs had to focus on maintaining sound portfolios. It was noted that the explicit objective of
improving the capacity of PCIs in restructuring agro-businesses was achieved. PCIs, however,
provided assistance to enterprises in the context of their normal activities by floating equities and
substituting short-term expensive exposures with long-term working capital finance.
10.   In the view of the Mission, the design of the Project was appropriate for achieving its
physical and financial objectives. However, the PCIs and in particular TSKB hold that the
definition of agroindustry was too narrow in the beginning and contributed to the slow pace in
disbursements. The PCIs also indicate that the FERIS mechanism proved in retrospect to have



Appendix 1
Page 3
been a bad choice because persistent high inflation and budget deficits which had to be financed
through heavy borrowing led to three-month Treasury bills, which were the basis for the
calculation of the FERIS rate, resulting in excessively high real interest rates. The PCIs pointed
out that they did not use the option to make subloans in foreign currency initially because rates
were too high in comparison to LIBOR rates and the Bank's currency pool system was too
complicated to be understood by investors. Also, there was no prepayment option for the sub-
borrowers which made lending under FERIS unattractive.
11.   Achievement of Objectives. Main sector policy objectives aimed at: (i) increasing the
capacity utilization of enterprises and agroindustrial output through the financing of viable sub-
projects; and (ii) improving the competitiveness of the agroindustry sector, were achieved. The
institutional objectives of the PCIs in terns of improving their appraisal capabilities and
enhancing their financial position as expressed in the financial covenants referring to capital
adequacy, debt to equity and recovery ratios were fully achieved or exceeded.
12.   The three TA components achieved substantially their objectives. The TA for banks was
used by TCZB and THB for successful training programs. The objectives of the fisheries
component were properly designed and oriented in that they were aimed at improving
environmental, marketing and institutional aspects of fishery production. Of specific importance
were surveys on environmental and legislative aspects of aquaculture; a survey on the domestic
and export marketing problems; a survey of management and rehabilitation strategies for coastal
lagoons. An important aim of the component was to establish a Task Force to determine sector
policies and investment resulting from the studies and to prepare a comprehensive fisheries
project to be possibly financed by the Bank. The impact of the Component was positive in terms
of recommendations but marginal in terms of applications in the sector. This was mainly due to
the need of training of MARA's personnel to be in a position to absorb effectively and implement
the recommendations produced by the surveys. It was also due to the difficulties inherent in the
formation of the Task Force, somehow due to the reluctance of other agencies and ministries to
participate in it. Overall, the Component has pointed out the direction for an action plan and
policy measures to be taken in the sector. Follow-up by the GOT along the indicated directives
is desirable and hopefully will be undertaken.
13.   The Marketing Training Component consisted of a Pilot Marketing Training Study
and the two Supplementary Consultancy Programs. The Study designed and tested training
prototypes suited to improving the marketing skills of Turkish agroindustrial enterprises and to
enhance their competitiveness. Among the training prototypes tested, one-on-one consultancy
was found to be the most attractive. Accordingly, a portion of the funds remaining in the
Japanese Grant was directed toward helping to establish a consultancy profession in two regions
of Turkey and rendering consultancy services through local consultants to small and medium
enterprises. The two consultancy programs using one-on-one consultancy were highly
successful. IGEME points out that its participation in the management of the Pilot Marketing
Training Component was a real challenge for them. While the initial program carried out with
the objective to develop and test training modules and make recommendations for an



Appendix 1
Page 4
institutionalization of the effort did not meet all expectations, the two added supplementary
consultancy programs proved highly beneficial for all participants in the enterprise and
consultancy sector.
14.   Monitoring & Evaluation. The PCIs carried out regular monitoring of their subloans as
their normal supervision activity. Additionally, an evaluation exercise on a representative
sample of eight medium- and long-term subloans was undertaken. This covered some 25% of
total Project investment by two of the PCIs and confirmed that the projects financed were
economically very sound. The average ERR, weighted by investment, was 29%, with individual
project returns being between 21% and 60%. FRRs were slightly lower on average, being 28%
in real terms and varying from 20% to 60%. PCIs benefited by making adequate spreads on the
Loan and have been successful in loan collections under the Project. Although investment was
generally for sector modernization, it still resulted in some additional job creation. On the basis
of the PCIs' survey, one job was created for every $53,000 of the Loan - pro rata basis, this
suggests about 3,000 total jobs have resulted from the Project.
15.   Major Factors Affecting the Project. In 1992, GOT announced an investment incentive
program offering subsidized loans to improve the investment climate that had deteriorated
considerably in the wake of the Gulf crisis. Consequently, the Bank decided to stop approving
sub-loans which were to be used in a blend with subsidized credit from GOT despite no
provision for such an action having been made in the Loan Agreement. GOT contends that the
Bank decision not to allow blend financing under the Agroindustry Project was against the spirit
of the agreements reached during Project negotiations where the Bank encouraged GOT "to
make access to the benefits under the investment incentives regime available for Investment
Projects appraised by PCIs and found eligible for subloans..."
16.   Disbursements under the Project were at a very low level from the end of 1991 as result
of the Gulf war and the ensuing persistent inflation which brought the FERIS rate to a peak of
158.4% in July 1994. The situation was aggravated by the financial crisis of January 1994 which
was triggered by short foreign exchange positions of the banking system and led to a devaluation
of the TL against the US dollar of 131% in the four months January to April 1994. To help
remedy the situation, an agreement was reached between all parties at the end of 1994 that the
Project should be restructured in a way that: (i) expanded the definition of agroindustry to add
additional operations in the textile sector, (ii) made the interest rate base for foreign exchange
loans as single-currency loans in US dollar or Deutsche Mark more market-oriented; and (iii)
permitted the PCIs to make free-standing permanent working capital loans and loans for leasing
of investment items and pre-export finance. These changes, together with an improvement in the
investment climate in 1995, contributed to a full commitment of all Loan funds by the end of
1996. The Treasury emphasizes that the Bank showed a high sense of innovation and degree of
flexibility in the negotiations that preceded the restructuring and led to the amendment of the
loan documents in December 1994.



Appendix 1
Page 5
17.   The Treasury and the PCIs also indicate that the cooperation with supervision missions
fielded in regular intervals twice per year during the implementation phase was satisfactory and
led to an effective relationship with Bank staff. The Mission points out that this was greatly
facilitated by always including a Project Officer from the Bank's Resident Mission in the
supervision effort.
18.   The Mission assesses the performance of the PCIs as good although THB was de facto
excluded from the Project because it could not meet all of the Bank's eligibility criteria set for
the Project.
19.   Project Sustainability. The Mission rates the credit component of the Project as
sustainable. PCIs met all financial covenants in all years but one of the implementation period
and recovery rates are excellent. Sub-borrowers greatly benefited from the investments made
under the Project and have developed a good sense of financial discipline. The interest rate
mechanisms developed for the Project ensured that there was no erosion of banks' capital through
inflation. Furthermore, many sub-borrowers have continued to expand further following
successful performance under the Project.
Project Operation
20.   Annex I to this Aide Memoire contains the Operational Plan that has been agreed
between GOT, the PCIs, MARA, and IGEME. In accordance with this plan, the PCIs will
continue to supervise the Project portfolio to ensure an efficient use of the funds made available
under subloans and will use the reflow of funds from subloans for similar purposes.
Contribution of the Borrower to the ICR
21.   The Mission discussed with the Treasury and the PCIs the draft reports that have been
prepared as their contribution to the ICR. The reports represent a valuable contribution in terms
of shedding light on the implementation of the Project. The reports will be added as annexes to
the Bank's ICR. The Bank's ICR will be sent for comments to GOT. The comments received
will also be annexed to the Bank's report before it is submitted to the Bank's Board.
Key Lesson Learned
22.   Among the lessons learned the following appears to be the most important: A credit
project, if designed properly, can achieve its objectives in terms of economic and financial
benefits even in an inflationary environment.
Ankara, March 6, 1997



Appendix 2
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PRIME MINISTRY
THE UNDERSECRETARIAT OF TREASURY
General Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations
Ref: B.02.1.HM.O.DEI.O1.02-152 - IJ4b  2 (2 ' 8 6       Ankara...) 2   I .Y   VW
Ms. Michele de Nevers
Chief
Agricultural and Regional Development Division
Europe and Southern Europe Departments
The World Bank
Dear Ms. de Nevers:
Re: ICR of the Aproindustrv Proiect Loan no. 3077-TU
Please find attached the comments by the Undersecretariat of Treasury as
the borrower of the above-mentioned loan on behalf of the Government of Turkey on
the Implementation Completion Report for the Project financed by the said loan that
we received from the Bank in 1989.
We would like to thank you and your colleagues for the close cooperation and
collaboration achieved during the implementation of this successful and highly
beneficial Project. Looking forward to continuation of this good working relationship
with the Bank in the future, too,
E C 2 A W Log#:     (
Date Rec'd:                               Sincerely yours,
CountrylLn/Cr #:
- DISTRIBUTION      _
Division Chief:
Task Manager:
Other(s):                         7    XIv
ACTION TAKEN
Date:  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Type:
By:
B. *en ASMAN
Encl.                                       Ac ng Deputy
Director General
cc. Mr. Frederick Temple, Chief, RMT



Appendix 2
Page 2
COMMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT (LOAN NO. 3077-TI)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
This report presents the overall view of the Government of Turkey (GOT) as represented
by the Undersecretariat of Treasury on the outcome of the above Project. Detailed comments on
the Project results have been included in the contributions of the participating agencies to the
ICR. We basically concur with the findings and opinions of these institutions.
The agencies that are involved in this Project are the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Affairs (MARA), the Export Marketing Promotion Center (IGEME) as the agencies that used
the associated Japanese Grant to undertake valuable work regarding different aspects of
agroindustrial businesses and TSKB, SYKB, THB, and TCZB as the participating credit
institutions (PCIs) to lend the funds provided on to the private sector enterprises that used mainly
agricultural inputs for manufacturing.
The main targets of the Project have been to strengthen the agricultural input based,
small-sized industry by increasing their chances to access commercial credits by providing funds
through banks directed to that purpose only and at the same time by supporting their efforts to
pursue sound and profitable projects through assistance provided by the PCIs' project evaluation
departments and the World Bank experts.
Among the purposes was also encouraging the involved PCIs to work with the
agroindustry sector by assisting the institutional development of the banks involved and
strengthening the credit allocation system. This was to be achieved by making investment credit
available through the banking system.
Although the targets did not change, the types of areas eligible for  credit, like
manufacturing, working capital etc. and accordingly the disbursement rates changed greatly over
the life of the Project and to achieve this, the LA has undergone five amendments in six years
with some of them not related with financial matters and the third and fourth being quite
comprehensive in scope. The implementation period has also been extended twice with the
agreement of the Bank for 16 months in total.
When we look at the background that led GOT to collaborate with the Bank on this
Project, we see that in 1 980s, GOT policies aiming to improve the performance of the economy
and the measures adopted in this respect had the purpose of strengthening the credit institutions
and increasing credit supply to the agricultural and industrial sectors of the economy. The
Agroindustry Project (Loan 3077-TU) is one of the projects GOT and the World Bank
collaborated with a view to help realize those objectives in that area.



Appendix 2
Page 3
The Agroindustry Loan in the amount of US$150 million equivalent was approved in
May 1989 and made effective in October 1989. GOT signed Subsidiary Loan Agreements with
three banks, initially, TCZB, SYKB, and THB and authorized them to evaluate projects and
disburse funds at the terms and conditions set out in the SLAs. The banks were to make the
repayments to GOT at the terms that GOT had to repay the World Bank.
Also, Project Agreements were signed between the PCIs and the World Bank which
helped the PCIs as a reference document while evaluating the projects for sub-loans. In line with
the development targets of GOT, the private sector enterprises eligible to use credit under the
project were to aim to improve their productivity and capacity utilization or to establish new
facilities in that sector.
Another important part of the Project was realized through provision of technical
assistance (TA) for (i) marketing training and (ii) planning in the fisheries sub-sector. Initially,
$6.7 million were earmarked for this purpose in the Loan, however, since the Japanese
Government made available a grant for TA, this amount was transferred to the credit category
toward the end of the Project. Thus, all but $0.3 million of the Loan of $150 million was used for
financing subloans to agroindustrial enterprises, mainly for expansion and modernization
investments.
Project disbursements had a slow start-up: Following a review of the allocations to the
three PCIs, ar the end of 1992, it was concluded that initial allocations to TCZB and THB were
already set too high. This situation, coupled by a request from TSKB which had to participate in
the Project as an additional PCI, led to reallocation of funds among the four PCIs.
Following the restructuring in 1995 the allocations were also reviewed again and revised
as necessary. A a result, the balance of Project funds including those originally earmarked for
TA, was transfered to a pool to be disbursed on a first come-first served basis by the PCIs. Thus,
the final adjustments resulted in the allocation of funds as follows: $72.1 million for SYKB,
$61.4 million for TSKB, $9.9 million for THB, and $6.3 million for TCZB.
The remaining $0.3 million was spent by THB and TCZB for training of their staff to
increase capacity in project evaluation and lending to agroindustry sector.
Regarding the efforts made to restructure the Project throughout 1994 and ending with an
amendment to the LA in late 1994, one of the underlying reasons was the Foreign Exchange Risk
Insurance Scheme (FERIS) which covered the foreign exchange risk for subloans made in local
currency. It was observed, as time passed that there were either conflicts or differences in the
degree of flexibility between the provisions of the LA and the provisions laid out in the
regulations of FERIS Scheme that were published in 1980s.
The strict procedures of this mechanism, coupled with prohibitively high interest rates
based on three-month Treasury bills in the wake of the Gulf crisis turned out to be unattractive



Appendix 2
Page 4
for investors starting from 1992. Consequently lending through the PCIs came to a virtual
standstill. To remedy the situation, GOT in 1992 announced an investment incentive program
offering a range of financial benefits to investors which included small amounts of subsidized
credit. The funds provided under this program had been very limited and some investors who
intended to increase the amount of funds they could use to invest by blending funds from the two
sources could not achieve that, either.
Under the then-prevailing circumstances, it was seen that the private sector avoided for
some more time investing in especially agroindustry sector, which is by nature, highly dependent
on the quantity and quality of agricultural production.
Also, it became strikingly apparent that the Loan did not allow disbursements on anything
other than brand new or modernization investments whereas the investors needed funding for
working capital and leasing or trade in order to run their establishments. As a reaction, upon
consensus with the World Bank and the PCIs, GOT decided to restructure the Project with the
objective to accelerate Loan disbursement.
In the amendment of December 29, 1994 to the Loan Agreement: (i) the definition of
agroindustry was expanded to include additional operations in the textile sector; (ii) the interest
rate base for foreign exchange loans as single-currency loans in US Dollar or Deutsche Mark was
made more market-oriented; (iii) free-standing working capital loans were allowed; and (iv)
loans for equipment leasing and pre-export financing were also permitted. These changes,
together with an improvement in the investment climate in 1995, contributed to a full
commitment of the funds by the end of 1996.
We would like to emphasize that the Bank was also highly willing and helpful to us in
our intensive discussions with the PCIs while searching for approaches to be adopted and
changes to be made to the LA prior to the restructuring.
In this context, a new tool also became functional by means loans offered to investors in
currencies other than TL, mainly in USD and DEM, which was not available under the FERIS
Scheme although it had been included as an option in the LA.. The exchange risk was now born
by the investors. Also, early repayments by the investors to the PCIs was allowed upon request
and under certain conditions which was not allowed under the FERIS Scheme, either.
Although this process took some time to be finalized, causing the disbursement rates
remain at quite low levels for about two years, the Project was finally structured in a way that
put the funds in great demand from the PCIs and the private sector investors which helped the
Loan, the undisbursed balance of which still amounting 95 million USD in mid-1995, to be used
up in almost 20 months. In this, the experience gained by the PCIs also played an important role.
The PCIs were effective in achieving their objectives. They improved their appraisal capabilities
and complied with legal covenants requiring sound financial structure and reporting.



Appendix 2
Page 5
During the implementation period, a total number of 95 subloans were financed with the
proceeds of the Loan. The economic impact of the credit component of the Project has been very
positive. It provided much-needed long-term funds to sub-sectors in need of investment capital,
benefiting both the sub-borrowers and the financial structure of PCIs handling the Project.
A post-Project reappraisal of some 25% of total Project investment by two of the PCIs
confirms that the projects financed were economically very sound. The average ERR, weighted
by investment, was 29%, with individual project returns being between 21% and 60%. FRRs
were slightly lower on average, being 28% in real terms and varying from 20% to 60%.
PCIs benefited by making adequate spreads on the Loan and have been successful in loan
collections under the Project. Although investment was generally for sector modernization, it
still resulted in some additional job creation. On the basis of the PCIs' survey, one job was
created for every $53,000 of the Loan - pro rata basis, this suggests about 3,000 total jobs have
resulted from the Project.
Although being implemented in difficult economic situations, the Project clearly
supported investment in niches of high export and development potential and through sound
financial institutions. This indicates that despite World Bank excessive concern for macro-
economic equilibrium, lending to efficient export-oriented enterprises is financially viable and it
helps the process of economic restructuring.
The TA components also achieved their objectives. The TA Loan funds for banks were
used in 1990 and 1996 by TCZB and THB to carry out successful training programs related to
sub-project preparation and appraisal.
The Fisheries Survey financed by the Japanese Grant achieved its objective of preparing
studies which provided recommendations for sector policy. It included five studies (survey of
demersal fish resources, reconnaissance of marine fish culture, survey of inland fisheries
including potential sites for aquaculture, fish marketing for domestic consumption and export,
and lagoon rehabilitation) some of which were carried ot in cooperation with JICA and others
with competent companies in this sector selected through ICBs. The Grant also financed the
services of program coordinators and establishment of a sector strategy task force on fisheries.
Also, in relation to the outcomes of the studies and as a result of the experience acquired
during those studies MARA assisted in drafting and negotiating a Black Sea Fisheries
Convention which is a very important development considering the increasing marine pollution
in the region and a high number of countries with coasts on the Black Sea.
Although, because of MARA's repeated reorganizations and changes in management, the
impact was less than expected, it can be said that, through these activities it helped to establish a
planning capacity in MARA. The initial intention of the TA program on the fisheries survey had



Appendix 2
Page 6
been to form the basis for a fisheries Project, and MARA has recently established an Advisory
Council and a comprehensive fisheries sector strategy is under preparation for the time being.
The Marketing Training Component was administered by IGEME which chaired a
Steering Committee with representation from the private sector and universities. It consisted of
the Pilot Marketing Training Study carried out by a joint venture of two management consulting
companies with a sub-contract to the Middle East Technical University in Ankara. The study
provided designs and tested training prototypes suited to improving the marketing skills of
Turkish agroindustrial enterprises in order to enhance their competitiveness especially in the
international markets.
This experience, however, was not totally positive, because the consultant firm, due to
changes in personnel assigned to the Project and delays in presenting the final report, was less
effective than expected. Providing management support to small and medium agro-enterprises
besides their access to credit facilities is considered necessary and important.
However, this exercise had aimed at the beginning to come up with a decision as to
whether such programs should be pursued by a certain agency in a permanent manner or the
private sector should manage to get training once the correct sources of information are made
available to them. This conclusion has not been arrived yet, and as GOT, we would have liked to
see that the TA had also been a tool in consolidating efforts to this end in this sector in an
institutionalized manner.
The supervision missions of the World Bank were fielded at regular intervals twice per
year and their staff reached a good working relationship with the implementing agencies that was
conducive to the attainment of the Project objectives. In this regard we would like to express our
appreciation to the staff of the World Bank including the Resident Mission for the effective
support and cooperation during the implementation of this Project, and for their close
collaboration and creative thinking to bring about a maximization of Project benefits and impact.
Overall, we would consider the performance of the Project as highly satisfactory despite
the delays in implementation caused mid-way by external economic factors coupled by the
inherent deficiencies in the lending mechanisms and the narrow coverage of the Project as
adopted at the beginning, which became more apparent under the changing economic conditions.
The following important lessons have been learned: (i) Entrepreneurs prefer to borrow
in foreign exchange at relatively stable interest rates in a highly inflationary economy; (ii) a credit
project, if designed properly, can achieve its objectives in terms of economic and financial
benefits even in an inflationary environment; (iii) FERIS was not the right mechanism to use for
the Project purposes.
Now that all parties have gained enough experience on design and implementation of
such a project, it would be necessary and easy to implement a project that will meet the need for



Appendix 2
Page 7
a source of funds at commercial rates but under a project approach in an area where credits are
usually scarce. A repeater credit line is in demand by the current and new PCIs and sub-
borrowers and GOT might consider to meet the requirements if demands persist.



Appendix 3
Page 1
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT (Loan 3077-TU)
Plan for Project Operation after June 30, 1997
Project Objectives
1.    The Project objectives as stated in the loan agreement were: (i) to increase the output of
agroindustry through the financing of investments to improve capacity utilization in existing
facilities and to establish new facilities; (ii) to improve the capabilities of the Participating Credit
Institutions (PCIs) to carry out financial restructuring of, and appraisal of investments for,
agroindustrial projects; and (iii) to strengthen agroindustry through the establishment of a
capacity for marketing training and for planning in the fisheries sub-sector. The SAR (paras 2.19
and 5.01) provides further details. It states as primary objective "to promote the financial
conditions in individual enterprises which will revitalize existing capacity" and "...to increase
output, employment and foreign exchange earnings through the expansion and modernization of
the agroindustry sub-sector".
2.    The project was explained in the SAR as being needed to support the Bank's strategy for
(i) assisting the development of the agricultural sector and increasing its commercial orientation;
(ii) supporting Turkey's efforts to increase exports; and (iii) strengthening financial
intermediaries and increasing their areas of competition. It was considered to be supplementary
to the efforts to restructure the financial sector in Turkey assisted by the Second Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (FSAL II, Loan No. 2964-TU) for which the Letter of Development Policy was
agreed in March 1988 and which became effective in June 1988. The FSAL II contained
covenants regarding: (i) the strengthening of the banking system through the introduction of
prudential regulations that required specified levels of equity and provisions for bad debts,
establishment of a mechanism to restructure insolvent banks and action programs to restructure
state-owned banks; and (ii) improvement in the interest rate structure, including an increase in
preferential lending rates to positive levels in real terms.
3.    The institutional development objectives for the PCIs referred to improving their
capabilities to appraise agroindustry sub-projects and the design of financial restructuring
packages. Covenants in the Project related to financial strengthening and the continuation of
organizational and human resource development.
4.    It was a sector policy objective specified in FSAL II to bring about positive interest rates.
For the Agroindustry Project, the issue of achieving positive real rates was resolved by using the
Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme (FERIS) mechanism. Under FERIS, the Governrient
converted the proceeds of foreign loans into TL-denominated loans with a variable rate set at the
average of the three-month Treasury bill rate over the preceding three months. Additionally, the
option of lending in foreign exchange through the Bank's pool rate was offered. Since there was
no use of the foreign exchange option under the pool rate, GOT agreed in 1994 to convert the
pool of currencies to single-currency sub-loans to the PCIs.



Appendix 3
Page 2
5.    The fisheries and agroindustry sector objectives of the Project as expressed in the LA
were as follows: In fisheries, the objective was aimed at establishing planning capabilities in the
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARA) directed toward defining sector
strategies and investment projects. In marketing training the objective was to improve the
marketing skills of agroindustrial enterprises in order to become more competitive.
6.    These objectives remain valid for the operational phase, i.e., the phase after the
implementation of the project and the full disbursement of the project funds. Since the PCIs
have the opportunity under foreign exchange lending (not under FERIS) to roll over the funds
obtained for a certain number of years, the backflow of funds will be used to continue lending
activities for similar purposes until all funds have been repaid to GOT as stated in the Loan
Agreement. Equally important, the institutional development of the PCIs will continue along the
lines that were started in this and other projects supported by the World Bank. Regarding
fisheries activities it is the intention of MARA to use the findings and recommendations of the
studies financed under the Project by a Japanese Grant. Regarding marketing training it is the
intention of IGEME, possibly in cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce and the Exporters'
Union of Izmir to continue the efforts started under the Project and make an attempt to
institutionalize the training and consulting services as proposed in the Pilot Marketing Training
Program study.
Project Achievements during Implementation of Credit Program
7.    The Project will close after two extensions on April 30, 1997, 16 months after the
planned closing date. After necessary account adjustments and the reimbursement of funds in
the Special Account (SA) by the PCIs, MARA, and IGEME to the Bank the final disbursement
figures in the individual categories of the Loan and the Japanese Grant are set out in Annexes 2
and 3.
8.    The financial and physical objectives related to financing viable and productive
investments in the agroindustry sector to help enterprises to increase their capacity utilization and
output, improve their financial position and enhance their standing in the market were fully met.
Overall, the four PCIs used the Loan of $150 million to make 95 sub-loans at an average size of
$1.58 million. Of these, 55 sub-loans for $47.0 million were made under FERIS where the
foreign exchange risk was with the Government, the balance of 40 sub-loans for $102.7 million
as foreign exchange loans for which the foreign exchange risk was with the ultimate
beneficiaries.
9.    The three TA components estimated to cost $8.65 million consisted of training for PCIs,
fisheries surveys and a pilot marketing training program. Loan financing was substituted by
financing from a Japanese Grant. All three components achieved substantially their objectives.
The TA for banks was used by TCZB and THB for training of bank staff in the appraisal and
supervision of agroindustry sub-projects. The actual cost was $0.325 million. The Fisheries
Component supported various surveys for marine and inland fisheries, the drafting and
negotiation of a Convention on the Living Resources of the Black Sea, the services of various
Program Coordinators and the establishment of a Sector Strategy Task Force that is to review the



Appendix 3
Page 3
results of the studies and surveys and formulate recommendations for future sector policy. It was
also expected to identify investment projects for which support from international donors
including the Bank was to be requested. The actual cost of the entire program was $2.7 million.
10.   The Marketing Training Component administered by IGEME consisted of the Pilot
Marketing Training Study aimed at designing and testing training prototypes that are best suited
to improve the marketing skills of Turkish agroindustrial enterprises and to enhance their
competitiveness. These objectives were achieved. Among the training prototypes tested, one-
on-one consultancy was found to be the vehicle most appreciated by enterprises in this regard.
Accordingly, a portion of the funds remaining in the Japanese Grant after the completion of the
Pilot Marketing Training Study was directed toward helping to establish a consultancy
profession in two regions of Turkey and rendering consultancy services through local consultants
to small and medium enterprises. Two Supplementary Consultancy Programs were designed and
implemented by IGEME funded by the Japanese Grant Fund with increasing contributions of the
enterprises that received consulting services. Selected local consultants from private business
and from local universities were trained with the help of a foreign consultant. Both programs
were highly successful, about 46 local consultants were trained and had the opportunity to work
in the consultancy profession and 59 companies operating in the agroindustry sector received
consultancy services and improved their competitive position in the market. The total
contribution of the Japanese Grant Fund to the Marketing Training Component was 2.7 million
of which $1.4 million went to the implementation of the Pilot Marketing Training contract, $0.8
million to the two Supplementary Consultancy Programs, and $0.5 million to program
management.
Future Project Operations
11.   The Loan was made to the Government of Turkey (GOT) for 17 years including five
years of grace period. Onlending maturities to the PCIs depend on the type of investment
financed. Under FERIS sub-loans are made for periods up to ten years including three years of
grace and repayment by the PCIs to GOT is at identical terms, i.e., no possibility of revolving the
funds exist. For sub-loans made in foreign exchange, maturities to sub-borrowers are up to ten
years including three years of grace for investment projects, up to eight years with no grace
period for permanent working capital. The PCIs have thus the opportunity to revolve the part of
the foreign exchange repayments from client that exceeds their repayment obligations to GOT.
12.   The legal agreements stipulate that the backflows of funds will be used for simil4r
purposes. The PCIs confirm that they intend to follow this agreement and make loans to
individual sub-borrowers for similar purposes until all funds have been repaid to GOT. It is
likely that the bulk of funds to be reinvested will be used to finance permanent working capital
and investment loans. In this sense this Plan of Operation foresees that the Loan will continue to
benefit the agroindustrial subsector. PCIs intend to supervise the portfolio of sub-loans
outstanding in accordance with the agreed procedures until all funds have been repaid.



Appendix 3
Page 4
13.   Regarding the institutional development it will remain one of the PCIs' main objectives to
firther strengthen their financial position and to maintain compliance with the financial
covenants set out in the legal agreements.
14.   Regarding fisheries activities it is the intention of MARA to use the findings and
recommendations of the studies financed under the Japanese Grant for sector policy and strategy
recommendations to be worked out by the Sector Strategy Task Force and to keep the Bank
informed about planned investments in the fisheries sector that could be supported.
15.   Regarding marketing training it is the intention of IGEME to continue the efforts started
under the Marketing Training Component of the Project and make an attempt to institutionalize
the training and consulting services as proposed in the Pilot Marketing Training Program study.
It is also the intention to cooperate with the Chambers of Commerce and the Exporters' Union of
Izmir in this respect.
Ankara, March 6, 1997



Agroindustry Project
Loan 3077-TU
Loan Disbursements
Actual as of                Expected                  New Total          Allocation
PCI                    Feb. 14, 1997              Apr. 30, 1997                Allocation        In Percent
.______________________        Apr. 30,  1997        of Total
$S000                     $ '000                     $ '000
SYKB                        S71,277,552.00                $857,677.30             $72,135,229.30       48%
TSKB                        $61,237,000.00                $192,000.00             $61,429,000.00       41 %
THB                          $9,857,769.28                      $0.00              $9,857,769.28         7%
TCZB                         $6,284,846.22                      $0.00              $6,284,846.22        4%
TA                             $293,155.20                      $0.00                $293,155.20        0%
Subtotal                   $148,950,322.70              $1,049,677.30            $150,000,000.00      100%
SYKB needs $814,020 to honor its commitments of which $46,483 are in the SA
TSKB needs $192,000 to honor its commitments. All disbursements are expected to be completed by March 31, 1997
There is a difference of $
_                   ___                                              [   _ 
3/1 2/97                                                                                                                          ,C



Agrolndustry Prolect Jopamsa Giant und
Act uJ and &pcted spanflte
A                        B              C              D             E             F             G          H
2 Name of                              Buget fact.       Amount       Raehring      Of Which       Amount       New Tote
3 Subproject or Activity              Additons as of    Spent es of    Amount       Comeratwtd     N"ded           wdget
4    .                                    0.1595         2.28.97                     of22_ _   o22.97  to June 1997  RaquA0ed
5                                          US$            US$            USJ          US$            USS           US$
6  t._Fisheies                                                                                         _
7Survey of aquaculture sites                288,177         288,177            0             0              0  _288,177
B Aquaculture legislation                  _9,78S            69,785            a             0              0       59,785
Inland water survey                        501,373         501,373            0             0              0      501,373
10 Marketing study                           544,000        533,943        10.057            0               0     533,943
11 Black Sea convention                      140,193        100,193        40,000            0          30,000      130,193
2 Programn Coordinator                     359,981         304,982        54,999        5,500           5,500     310,482
13 Laaoon survey                            563,158         552,774        10,384       10,384          10.384     563,158
14 Extension of Lagoon Project               113,622              0             0            0         113,622      113,622
15 Translation and printing of studies       93,956          93,956             0            0          20,000     113,956
16 Strategy task force expenditure            15,000          1,271        13,729            0          13.729       15.000
17 Eqiipment and stationary                       0          10.090            0         1,825           1,825       11,915
18 Contingency                                    0               0            0             0           5,000        5,000
19 Subtotal l                              2,679,245      2,446,544       129,169       17,709        200,060    2,646.604
20 II. Pilot Makrting StudY
21- Mercer Management Contract             1,484,000 ___1,452,610  ___1.,390                 0              0    1,452,810
22 Project Mgt. and Support                  474,044        463,708        26,400       26,400          26,400     600,444
23 Suppi. Consultancy Program Phase r       446,928         436,519        10,409            0              0      436.519
24 Suppl. Consultancy Program Phase If      350.000               0       350,000      128,194         315,000     315,000
25 Contingency                                50,000              0        60,000            0           4.013           0
26 Subtotal                      _         2,804,972      2,352,837       468,200      154.594        345,413    2.704.572
27 Grand Total                             5,484,217      4,799,381       597.369      172.303         545,473    5,351,176
28
29 Jao. Grant Fund Total Yen             582,500,000    524.812,107   57.687.893
30 in US$ Equivalent                                 (ea of 3.5.971       472,852      172.303         545,473
31 IGEME disbursement Febnuary                            _                 2,250
32                                                                        470.602
33 AmGount in SA MARA                                                      35,490                          _
34 Amount In SA IGEME                                                      39,382_
35 Estimated Remaining Balance                                  _         545,473      300.549              0        _
36
37   Notr5s:                -__-_____                                                           ____ _ ___
38 Fisheries Component:_
39 One more meeting for Black Sea Convention to be financed.            ____
40 The amount for Program Coordinator has been decerased because he _esigned 12.31.96. Arnount indicated is lor Assistant
41 Contingency may be used for equipment or miscellaneous other items,  I  _    7             I                                                          >
42 To take account of the items disbursed by the World Bank in February, the tollowing items in the budget have been reduced:
43 For MARA: 81ack Sea Convention, printin of reports, and contingencies. For IGEME: Program for SCP II and contingencies.  __ __
+              _                      vW                     _             _ ,      _  _                       __                    ,,       vcies
46 The remaining amount in Yen at March 3, 1997 has been divided by the current eachanUe rste of Yen 122 to *1.  __   __      . _     _ _                 X
47 The emounts stting In the two SAs have been added.  I                  I             I                     I
3/t 1/97
JAPG-M97



IBRD 24903R
30                                        35.                                                      40                                   GEORGIA,  ,   .  
BULGARIA                                                                                        5e                                                                           GEORG
BLACK SEA                                                                                                                 '   -          j
EOIt*  NRXIASEU                                                       (                                                                                     V     7~~~~~DZ GLDM(DOZ
-                                              -                       '                                                           cm ~~~2,EARMENIAI
S- d i  ;  ~ S~                                                     t /               -  E    0             
GREECEO~~~.   7   ~~      SM. V         >OcL                   ;*--Q               -      .                      TOW-j<..     ~ -       ~    ONV
SEA  , -*-9    (AVON ............I..ZUAt.      * D ,S P9ART,_ A
~~~~~MDTRANGEAN S 2Egni  1CUU..A MAO   ROADS
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                                                                                                                                    I SLAM    SIC
< ,,/ lilnsklx ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TU                                                                      R         K         E        Y        0
e;   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~      ,/                        j                                             - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
m. oom o b   d                 MILES 0       5*0       100        1|50             -J9                                                                                      NENTOA  BOUNDARIES
~~ ~~                                                                                                                                                     INTERNATIONALC~ A                              RA
The 0cM1 0cc 0c. cm r~,.   KILOMETERS 0   511   100   150   200   250                CYPRU                                                                                 Pro v/nce nomes are the some as proVince copitois.
0' ocOc0~I                                                                                      35- *                                                     30-
-   I                                   |                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH 1994









IMAGING
Report No.:          16683
Type:      ICR



