Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Al/ 3 - -7 7 ^t
R*wt No. 7653-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
MAY 10, 1989
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Re,ional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in tbe performance of
t   ;ir     i   P-   !' I.  * It   _ .     ,  .-  .  .     a  *   .   I     .



CUI RENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit - Turkish Lira (TL)
1981    1983      1985      1986      1987    1988      19R9      1989
----------------------  January ------------------------    March
US$1 = TL   91.0   191.14   451.4    586.5    752.93  1150.0   1875.0   2027.0
ABBREVIATIONS
CU(R)        -        Capacity Utilization (Rate)
EC           -        European Community
ETC          -        Export Trading Company
FE           -        Foreign Exchange
FERIS        -        Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme
FSAL         -        Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP          -        Gross Domestic Product
GNP          -        Gross National Product
GOT          -        Government of Turkey
HB           -        Halk Bank
IGEME        -        Export Promotion Center
IRR         -         Internal Rate of Return
PCI(s)       -        Participating Credit Institution(s)
PPF          -        Public Participation Fund
PSBR         -        Public Sector Borrowing Requirement
RUSF         -        Resource Utilization Support Fund
SEE(s)       -        State Economic Enterprise(s)
SMI II       -        Second Small and Medium-Scale Industry Project
SPO          -        State Planning Office
SYKB         -        Sinai Yatirim ve Yredi Bankasi (Industrial
Investment and Credit Bank)
TKB          -        Turkiye Kalkinma Bankasi (Development
-          Bank of Turkey)
TCZB         -        Turkiye Cumhuriyet Ziraat Bankasi
(Agricultural Bank of the Republic of Turkey)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE (iNLY
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                                        i-iii
I. INTRODUCTION
11. AGROINDUSTRY SUBSECTOR                                                    2
A.  Role and Performance   ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  2
B.  Prospects for Future Growth . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               4
C.  Government Policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               6
D.  Role of the Bank  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               8
III. FINANCIAL SECTOR                                                        10
A.  Financial Intermediaries   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             10
B.  Financial Sector Reform    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             11
C.  Financing for Agroindustry  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              13
IV. PARTICIPATING CREDIT INSTITUTIONS                                        15
A.  Eligibility Requirements for PCIs . . . . . . . . . . .              15
B.  The Agricultural Development Bank (TCZB)  . . . . . . .              16
C.  The Industrial Investment and Credit Bank (SYKB). . . .              17
D.  Halk Bank . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  18
E.  Expected Later Participants:   Iktisat Bank and TKB. . .             19
V. THE PROJECT                                                               20
A.  Project Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             20
B.  Project Components   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             21
C.  Project Costs and Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . .              24
VI.      THE LOAN                                                            25
A.  Terms and Conditions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              25
B.  Administrative Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              26
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                       28
A.  Benefits    .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .   .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .  28
B.   Risks    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  29
VlIl. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                             30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
ANNEXES
Annex 1      The Agroindustry Subsector Appendix, Tables 1-29 ........  32
Annex 2      Scope of Information Required from Enterprise
for Subproject Appraisal .78
Annex 3      Project Appraisal Summary Information Required
for Free Limit Subprojects .                              80
Annex 4      Project Appraisal Report Outline for Projects
Above Free Limit ...................................... 84
Annex 5      Pilot Marketing Training Program ........................ 87
Annex 6      Terms of Reference for Assistance to PCIs ............... 101
Annex 7      Investment Financing Costs .............................. 102
Annex 8      Fisheries Resource Development Survey ................... 109
Annex 9      Participating Credit Institutions ....................... 116
Annex 10     Documents Available in Project Files .................... 121
MAP          IBRD - 21322
This paper is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission in
November-December 1988 and a Preparation Mission in April-May 1988, comprising
Messrs. R. Hunt, H. Gassner and C. Woodruff (Bank) and H. Gencaga and D. Quinn
(consultants).



-i-
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAIAL REPORT
L LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Bonower:              Government of Turkey (GOT)
Beneficiaries:        Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs), including the
Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB), Halk Bank (HB),
Industrial Investment and Credit Bank (SYKB), and
additional banks which may be deemed eligible at a later
date, the Ministry of Agriculture, and private
agroindustry enterprises.
Aumount:              US$150 million equiva'lent
Terms:                Repayable in 17 years, including a five-year grace
period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Teris:      The Government would onlend the loan proceeds (excluding
$6.7 million for a fisheries development survey and a
marketing training component) to the PCIs. Aside from
$0.5 million for technical assistance to the PCIs (to be
onlent on the same terms as the Bank loan), proceeds of
the loans to the PCIs would be onlent to private
agroindustry subboriowers. Each loan to a PCI would be
repayable on a schedule based on the composite
amortization of its subloans under the project. The
subborrowers would be given an option to borrow either in
local currency under the Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance
Scheme (FERIS) or in foreign currency. For subloans in
local currency the Government would onlend Bank funds to
PCIs on FERIS terms which includL a 3X spread for the
PCIs and a variable interest rate based on the average
rate of three-month Treasury Bills. The PCI would onlend
such funds to subborrowers on the FERIS terms plus a 21
commission. For subloans in foreign currency, the
Government would onlend the Bank funds to PCIs at the
Bank interest rate, and the PCIs would onlend such funds
to subborrowers at this rate plus a spread of up to 42
p.a. The maturity of the subloans would normally not
exceed ten years including a maximum grace period of
three years.



-ii-
Proleet Descriptn:      The proposed project is designed to support the
expansion and modernization of Turkey's agroindustry
subsector. Capacity utilization is low in many
enterprises due to over-indebtedness and/or technogical
obsolescense and poor marketing, particularly of
exports. The project also focuses on increasing
utilization of existing capacity through incremental
investment and financial restructuring, combined with
training to improve marketing.
The project would comprise lines of credit to
participating PCIs and technical assistance components
for institutional development in some participating
banks, a fisheries survey, and a pilot training prcgram
in international marketing, with emphasis on agro-
industry enterprises. The line of credit would finance
the direct and indirect foreign exchange costs of
subproject investment and permanent working capital
requirements in: (i) processing, packing, storage,
transportation and distribution of food, beverages,
animal feed, tobacco, sawmill products, leather
tanneries, and raw cotton; (ii) transportation,
storage, and distribution of agricultural inputs,
including seeds, fertilizers, and farm equipment; and
(iii) quality control equipment and specialist
consultants (in technology, finance, and marketing).
Benefits and Risks:     Increased utilization of existing capacity and expanded
output, employment and exports, increased market
outlets and earnings for primary agricultural producers
and improved portfolio performance in PCIs are the
major benefits. While there is a risk that adverse
economic developments could jeapordize subsector
performance, the Government and the Bank are closely
monitoring a program of economic reforms. Other risks
are the possible slow pace of enterprise restructuring
by the PCIs and the inability of enterprises to
appreciate and adopt appropriate marketing strategies.
Training and consultant input are provided to reduce
these risks. There may b- initial resistance from
potential borrowers to the switch from fixed to
variable interest rates under the FERIS scheme, but the
advantages of the new arrangements should become
evident if the Government's anti-inflation policy
induces downward movement in these rates.



-iii-
Fhna mchu Plam: 1 /
Local                Foreign                 Total
-----           US$ Million--- ---
IBRD                         0                    150.0                  150.0
PCIs                        57.5                    0                     57.5
GOT                          1.2                    0                      1.2
Private Investors          200.0                    0                    200.0
Total           258.7                  150.0                  408.7
Estimated Disbursements:
(IBRD Loan Only)
Fiscal Year                1990      1991     1992      1993      1994      1995
------------------US$ Million -…
Annual                      10        13        29       35        40        23
Cumulative                  10        23        52       87       127       150
1/ If grant financing should become available for the fisheries survey and
marketing training components (estimated foreign exchange cost $6.7
million), corresponding amounts from the Bank loan would be reallocated for
agroindustry subloans through PCIs.



TURKEY
A,GROINDUSMY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01     This project originated in a Government request to the Bank to
undertake a review of measures needed to revitalize Turkey's agroindustry
subsector. The Green Cover draft report of this review ves discussed with the
Government, banks, and industry in January-February 1988, at which time a
possible agroindustry project was identified, and Government approval was
obtained for detailed preparation. A preparation mission visited Turkey in
April-May 1988, followed by an appraisal mission in November-December 1988.
1.02     Agroindustry is the single largest subsector in Turkey's
manufacturing sector, contributing 30% of manufacturing output, and 192 of the
sector's exports. Much of agroindustry capacity was developed prior to 1980
during a period when Turkey was following an import substitution industrial
development strategy. Since the establishment or expansion of many of these
industries was financed by foreign debt at an overvalued exchange rate, and
assuming continuation of policies of nominal domestic interest rates and
import protection, many were unprepared for the stabilization policies of the
1980s based upon realistic exchange rates, positive interest rates, and a more
open economy. Problems of excess capacity continued into the 1980s, due to
over-optimistic market forecasts aud inadequate appraisal by financing
institutions. This was aggravated by investment incentives which encouraged
new capacity over upgrading of existing capacity, and which heavily favored
investments in less developed areas. High inflation caused s_vere
decapitalization, while high real interest rates caused a scarcity of
investment capital available, leading to a rapid increase in short-term debt,
high financial charges, and reduced profitability.
1.03     Some enterprises were able to adjust to the new situation and regain
a measure of financial health through exporting. Agroindustry 3xports have
grown at an average of 15X per year over the past ten years. While export
markets opportunities for Turkey's agroindustries remain generally
constrained, exports of particular products (olive oil, fruit juices, tomato
paste, and fresh and processed fruits and vegetables) in which Turkey has a
demonstrated comparative advantage, are projected to grow at high rates
(10-251 p.a.), offering substantial opportunities to firms which havfe
successfully adjusted to the new conditions. Many other firms, however, did
not have the managerial ability in such areas as marketing and product quality
or the financial strength to cope satisfactorily with the changed
circumstances. Much of the industry is still facing serious financial
problems, and is not in a position to take advantage of opportunities for
exports and growth.
1.04     Firms which have already adjusted to the changed co.aditions can
benefit from additional resources by expanding to take advantage of available
market opportunities.  For other potentially viable enterprises, it is



-2-
necessary to promote this adjustment process. This will, in some cases,
require changes in management, foreclosure of non-performing loans and sales
of assets to new firms. Turkish bankruptcy law and banking traditions in the
past have acted as a constraint on such adjustments. Strengthened prudential
regulations in connection with FSAL II, particularly on loan classification
and provisioning, are expected to provide both the internal resources
necessary to finance write-offs and the transparency necessary to motivate
banks' managements to improve portfolio performance.
1.05     The project would include lines of credit for onlending by
participating credit institutions (PCIs) to private sector agroindustry
enterprises and supporting technical assistance components. The lines of
credit would finance the direct and indirect foreign exchange costs of their
loans to agroindustry committed over a three-year period. The technical
assistance component would:
(a) develop the participating bank's capabilities to carry out financial
restructuring and assess the key strategies and business plans of
enterprises, and review the marketing components of subprojects;
(b)  test and develop training teclniques in international marketing, with
emphasis on agroindustry marketing; and
(c) finance a marine fish resource survey to provide a basis for
long-range planning for development of this industry.
If technical assistance grants should become available to assist in financing
items (b) and (c) above, the corresponding amounts would be reallocated for
additional agroindustry credit.
1.06     Government and the Bank are in agreement on subsectoral development
objectives and on the strategy to achieve them, i.e., liberalization and
concommitant enterprise restructuring. The proposed project would bring
together the PCIs and agroindustry enterprises to promote an orderly
expansion, restructuring and modernization of the subsector, including a
financial restructuring of some of the enterprises when needed, and a
substantial strengthening of marketing, particularly of exports.
II. AGROINDUSTRY SUBSECTOR"'
A. Role and Perfcrmance
2.01     In view of the agroindustry subsector's strong links to both the
agricultural and industrial sectors, it features prominently in the
Government's plan to expand exports and sustain economic growth. In the Fifth
Five-Year Plan (1985-1989), agroindustry ranks among the Government's three
priority development areas, along with tourism and mining. It represents the
largest individual subcomponent of the entire manufacturing sector and
provides a vital export marketing outlet for Turkey's strong and diversified
raw material base. Turkey's agroindustries have also been identified in Bank
-l' More detailed subsector information is given in Annex l.



-3-
sector work as having a good medium-term growth potential, with a comparative
advantage in many products. While recent performance has not lived up to
expectation for the reasons noted in paragraph 1.02, average export growth in
the 1980Os (151 per annum) has been excellent, and several products with
opportunities for further rapid export growth have been identified.
2.02     Agroindustries account for over 70% of the consumer goods portion of
manufacturir.1 output and over 30Z of total manufacturing output. Flour and
E           flour products represent about 362 of output, followed by meat at 181, fruit
and vegetable products at 12S and dairy products at 101. The value added of
agroindustries, as a proportion of agriculture, grew from 201 in 1975 to 401
in 1985. Agroindustry value added grew at about 52 per year during the 1980s,
as compared to 9S growth for total manufacturing.  Since 1980 agroindustry
investment has varied from 7% to 131 of total manufacturing investment.
!            2.03     The Istanbul Chamber of Commerce shows average agroindustry capacity
utilization for the Istanbul Region (where capacity utilization is above the
national average) in the 72-752 range between 1982 and 1986.  SPO's nationwide
capacity utilization figures by product in 1987 ranged from 34% for meat
processing to 951 for animal feed. Informal estimates of nationwide capacity
utilization by TSKB for 1987 and 1988 show some improvements in 1988 for fruit
juice and tomato paste; otherwise, the 1988 levels are similar to those of SPO
for 1987. Average capacity utilization figures are lower because they include
some plants which are non-viable, due to outdated technology or poor
location. Other pocentially viable plants are working below capacity due to
financial problems and shortage of working capital, ineffective marketing
strategies or plant bottlenecks. Meanwhile, other firms with good management
and appropriate technology have high capacity utilization rates, with
opportunities for further expansion.
2.04     Under the more open economy of  he 1980s, a 15% per year growth of
agroindustry exports was offset to some extent by agroindustry imports which
grew at 121 per year from 1980 to 1987. Nevertheless, the subsector's
favorable net trade balance increased by 2.72 per year over the past ten
years. While exports to the EC and North America doubled in real terms
between 1975 and 1984, their combined share of subsectoral exports fell from
611 to 331. The share of exports going to the Middle East expanded rapidly
during this period f=om 5% to 451. The large share of exports to the Middle
East exposes agroindustry to significant fluctuations due to oil price changes
and political developments such as the prolonged (and recently concluded)
Iran-Iraq war. The EC market, while more stable, is subject to a variety of
quota restrictions and variable levies which reduce opportunities for export
expanion. Tobacco represented 231 of subsector exports in 1985, with
processed meat, fruit and vegetable products, edible oil (particularly olive
oil) and processed nuts combined representing an additional 45%. Import
shares are more skewed, and dominated by oils and fats (561), with processed
meat (141) a distant second.
2.05     The private sector dominates the food subsector, with about 70% of
sales in 1985. The public sector (particularly in tea and alcoholic
beverages) held a 601 share of the 1985 beverage market and an 87% share in
the tobacco market. There are six SEEs involved in agroindustries in tobacco
and alcoholic beverages, tea, sugar, milk and dairy products, meat and fish,



-4-
and animal feed. Tea and tobacco were opened in 1985 to private investors,
while competition with the private sector exists in beer, dairy products,
meat, fish and feed. Another form of public sector involvement are the 21
sales cooperatives, which are owned by farmer-members but have managers
appointed by the Government. They are involved in the processing and
marketing of such products as olive oil, hazelnuts, figs, raisins and cotton.
During high production years, they act as Government intermediaries in price
support programs. Their technical and financial management is weak and they
have incurred heavy losses, requiring the Government to underwrite arrears on
Government-guaranteed loans. The private sector is fragmented among a large
number of small family-owned firms. The larger manufacturing and trading
companies do not play a dominant role, but are often leaders in setting
quality standards for the other producers to match. Their marketing skills
and networks are frequently better developed and their size and reputation
make them good candidates for joint ventures with foreign companies. Since
1980, foreign investment has been encouraged, and approved foreign investment
proposals in food and beverages have averaged about US$20 million per year
from 1980 to 1985.
2.06     Since 1984, the financial performance of the subsector has been
poor. A review of the financial statements of 47 agroindustry enterprises for
the period 1984 througb 1987 showed that gross margins remained in a narrow
range of 25-29Z during this period, sales increased by 351 in real terms and
operating income by 60X. However, during the same period, depreciation
charges in constant TL have increased by 722 and interest expenses have
inereased by 1221. The companies in the sample incurred losses in 1985 and
1986, and in 1987 profit was only 50Z of what it had been in 1984. While
operating return on total assets ranged between 17% and 231 during this
period, this was clearly inadequate to compete with other investment
opportunities, given the prevailing level of interest rates. The capital
structure of the group changed significantly during the period with long term
debt increasing by 591 and equity dropping from 421 of total capital employed
to only 351, despite a 271 increase in real terms in paid in equity. An of
the 1987 financial statements of a sample of 73 companies indicates that 58 of
the companies might not qualify for more debt. The foregoing indicates that
poor overall earnings performance, coupled with high interest rates, have left
many agroindustrial enterprises under-capitalized and uncreditworthy. Thus,
many firms in the subsector require financial restructuring to improve the
debt-equity ratio to become creditworthy and obtain investment and working
capital. In addition, the sector must generate higher returns on capital
employed through better management, marketing, and technology. In the case of
extremely distressed companies, it is likely that financial restructuring
could also result in a change in ownership and management, while some closures
seem inevitable.
B. Prospeets for Future Growth
2.07     Domestic Demand.  Over the rext five years domestic demand for
various agroindustry products is expected to increase by 2.51 to 5X per year,
taking account of population growth, income growth, and rural-urban
migration. Growth of domestic demand is constrained by strong competition
from fresh produce, generally available throughout the year.



-5-
2.08     ExgRut ProSP   b   As part of the agroindustry subsector review
(para 1.01) an export market survey was carried out which identified key
opportunities and constraints to export expansion. From the findings of the
survey, a matrix has been prepared (Annex 1, Appendix, Table 6) which
establishes Turkish export market prospects, product by product."' This
analysis projects export volume to increase through 1990 by over 202 per annum
for olive oil and fruit juices, by 102 p.a. for tomato paste, and processed
fruit and vegetables, and by 41 p.a. for processed fish. Based on this
analysis, a review of the past performance and future prospects of individual
Turkish products in various export markets, and an assessment of the existing
processing systems for the various products, ,ruit juice concentrate (apple,
apricot, citurs, etc.), tomato paste, fresh cut lamb and mutton appear to
offer the best export opportunities. Potential export markets for these items
have been identified. Olive oil shc-ws some prospects, particularly in the
Egyptian and possibly the U.S. markets. However, it faces strong competition
from EC producers who control over 90% of t:ie world market. Processed fish,
fruit, vegetables, and meat also have some export growth opportunities.
However, to take advantage of these opportunities, the subsector will need to
address several constraints hindering its export business. Among these, the
most important relate to quality control, packaging, product promotion,
personal marketing contacts, and reliability of delivery. These constraints
are to a large extent an outcome of the inward-looking strategy of the 1970s
which focused principally on the domestic market.
2.09     Future Investment.  Current low capacity-utilization rates will
obviously dampen new investment demand in some product lines. However, some
of the existing capacity is not viable for technical reasons or poor location,
and some capacity may remain out of production due to failure of the involved
parties to reach agreement on measures for resolving the enterprises'
financial problems. Hence, even for some products with apparent low capacity
utilization, there is a need for investment to increase capacity. In
addition, even in viable plants, new investment is needed to replace
obsolescent equipment or to take advantage of technological advances. This is
recognized by SPO, who, despite their relatively low projections of caracity
utilization (Annex 1, Appendix, Table 9), do not exclude agroindustry from
eligibility for standard investment incentives for both new and incremental
capacity. Investment expected to receive such incentives during 1989 is
estimated by SPO at TL 77 billion in total and US$20 million in foreign
exchange.2/ SPO investment incentive certificates for agroindustry
investment3' as a share of Turkey's total annual investment declined from 52
in 1984 to 1.3% in 1987, in line with the decline in manufacturing investment
as a share of total investment (231 to 151) (Annex 1, Appendix, Table 16).
The decline results from increasing non-manufacturing industry public sector
investment (crowding out) as well as, in the case of agroindustry, difficult
"    Since the survey, additional export opportunities have arisen as European
importers seek new sources of processed fruits, fruit juices, and
vegetables to replace traditional sources in South Africa.
2'   The specific product groups benefitting in terms of investment amounts
and capacity increases are detailed in Annex 1, Tables 13 to 15.
3/   These exclude public sector investment, which are financed from the
budget.



-6-
business conditions. Because of growing public sector deficits, Government
may be expected to restrain public sector investment in the future, permitting
the private sector share to rise. The numnber and value of investment
incentive certificates may underestimate total annual investment in
agroindustry, due to the difficulty in obtaining such certificates by
agroindustry (para 2.13). Thus, actual investments supported by certificates
provide the basis for a conservative estimate. Total fixed investment in
manufacturing as a share of GDP is expected to remain constant (24-25X)
through 1997, and real GDP growth is expected to be about 5Z annually over the
same period. Thus, total investment and investment in food and beverages
would grow at about the same rate as GDP. Based on the 1987 investment
incentive certificate level of TL179.2 billion (US$209 million), annual
investment in agroindustry would average about TL200 billion (US$240 million)
between 1987 and 1992. The average foreign exchange content of SPO sanctioned
investments from 1984 through 1987 was 451, which would give a foreign
exchange investment requirement of about US$100 million annually.
C. Government Policies
2.10     Financial Sector PoUcies.  Government policy impinges explicitly on
the agroindustry subsector in three areas: financial sector policies,
investment incentives, and trade incentives. Macro-economic policy, through
liberalization of interest and exchange rates, has also had a substantial
effect on agroindustry and enhanced the impact of policies in these areas,
particularly financial sector policies. Past inadequate standards in, and lax
enforcement of, banking regulations allowed poor financial discipline and
non-accountability to prevail and led to serious deficiencies in investment
appraisal and imprudent lending practices. The change from negative to
positive real interest rates under macro-economic liberalization greatly
worsened the effect of the impruaent lending practices on bank portfolios.
Expanded trade opportunities under liberalized exchange rate policies were
limited to those firms with a sound financial structure, while those carrying
a foreign exchange risk suffered severe losses. Inadequate standards in loan
classification, provisioning, interest accrual, loan concentration, and
reporting, all permitted the resultant poor loan portfolio performance to be
disguised. The combination of indiscipline, non-accountability, and lack of
transparency in the financial sector relieved bank managements from having to
focus on portfolio performance, thus permitting continued worsening of the
situation.
2.11     Measures to strengthen these prudential regulations, develooed in
connection with two Bank Financial Sector Adjustment Loans (FSALs I and II),
now provide the means to remedy the portfolio performance problem. Improved
transparency (accounting, auditing, and classification), combined with adequate
provisioning requirements, make it costly for management to avoid disciplining
errant borrowers. Transparency permits rational portfolio assessment, which
impacts negatively on the resource mobilization capacity of poorly performing
banks, bringing further pressure on management for improved financial
performance. At present, non-performing loans in Turkey's banking system are
high, 6Z of assets at risk by the previous classification standards and likely
to be higher under the new standards. FSAL II is expected to assist
Government in providing public banks additional funds which would permit
adequate provisioning and appropriate writing off of non-performing loans.



-7-
The proposed Agroindustry project focuses on the issue of assisting to bring
non-performing assets in the agroindustry subsector back into production.
2.12     The financiaL restructuring of enterprises within the agroindustry
portfolios of the participating banks will need to proceed on a case by case
basis, since provisions are negligible, collateral and guarantees are
uncertain, and there is no active market for these assets. If negotiation is
not feasible, action may be precipitated in each case by the banks calling the
non-performing loans and/Jr refusing additional credit to the non-creditworthy
firms. Although domestic financing only is required for enterprise
restructuring (financing of purchase of assets or equity contributions in
enterprises undergoing restructuring), involvement by the Bank is seen as an
important catalyst in this restruct ring process. The financial sector
reforms under FSAL I and II will create a generally receptive climate for the
process since requirements for loan classification and provisioning provide
incentive for banks to take action to resolve the problems of non-performing
loans. The project itself will ensure that, for the agroindustry portfolio of
these banks, the process is orderly, speedy, and accomplished with minimum
economic dislocation. In the absence of the specific Bank project
involvement, the needed restructuring of the subsector will be a long-drawn
out process, involving substantial revenue foregone through protracted
under-utilization of fixed assets (capacity), as restructuring of financial
institutions under the FSAL will not have direct impact on the subsector.
2.13     Accessto Investment Incentives.  Despite progress in recent years in
Governjment policies and procedures aimed at reducing distortions, the bias
against small scale industry investment remains. This is due mainly to the
minimum size of investment eligible for incentive certification, ranging from
about $80,000 equivalent in less developed regions to about $400,000
equivalent in more developed regions. The bias is particularly felt in
agroindustry, where investment is often small, especially for incremental
investments aimed at plant modernization and balancing. Such minimum size
requirements promote an inefficiei.t industrial structure, favouring creation
of new capacity over incremental expansion. Other biases of the system favour
capital intensity, resulting in over-capitalization. Also, there is a minimum
export obligation which constrains the appraisal/approval process and the
judgement of the banks. Depending on size, location, composition and export
orientation, incentives presently available can amount to as much as 852 of
total investment.- This induces distortions in resource allocations, both
within agroindustries subsector and between it and other industrial
subsectors. While the administrators of the incentives system, SPO, Office of
Encouragement and Incentives, receive investment appraisal reports, assessment
is limited to an administrative check on the size, composition and location of
investment; viability assessment is excluded. This is appropriate for SPO,
since many of the direct incentives are intended only as corrections of
macro-economic (interest rates and trade policy induced) distortions and there
is no intent to have bureaucratic involvement replace private sector judgement
in investment selection. SPO
l' Including the value of corporate income tax and import duty exemptions.
To the extent that the investments would not be implemented without the
incentives, these tax exemptions are cost-free to Government.



-8-
leaves project appraisal entirely to lenders; its approval of an investment is
in no sense an endorsement of the financial or economic viability. Despite
this, many publicly-owned lenders, including TKB and TCZB, are restricted to
financing only those investments which have been approved by SPO for the
investment incentives and have regrettably tended to interpreted SPO's
approval as a positive assessment of investment viability. Accessibility to
the scheme remains a problem, particularly for potential agroindustry
investors, because of a lack of scale economies and low capital intensive
nature of the subsector. The total value toregone of the incentive packages
is sufficient to bias investment away from agroindustry. For lenders, this
lack of accessibility limits the scope of their agroindustry portfolios and,
thus, portfolio performance.
2.14     The Government has indicated its intention to make available the
normal benefits under the incentive system to investments approved for
financing under the project which meet all requirements other than minimum
size. This is desirable so as to avoid discrimination against small
investments in the current investment incentive system and in the absence of
any recasting of the system prior to project implementation. Under the
project, the investment appraisal process will be upgraded to include
individual rather than proforma economic and financial analyses. Assessment
of enterprise objectives, strategies, and implementation programs and
capacities (management, marketing, and technology) underlying the cash flow
projections would be examined in detail and sensitivity analysis would be
carried out. This will ensure that only potentially viable investments are
financed.
2.15     Anti-Agroindustr Export Bias.  The domestic taxation and export
rebate system, which provided negative protection to agroindustry and positive
protection to most other industries, thereby leading to a bias against the
former, is now being phased out. The replacement system, VAT, is neutral and
provides for tax rebates for all exports, including indirect exports. Inputs
imported directly for export production are exempt from taxes. However,
imported inputs of indirect exporters had limited access to such exemptions,
with documentation requirements which may have impeded use of the mechanism.
The Central Bank has recently developed a domestic letter of credit system
whereby export incentives, including VAT rebates, can be automatically
channeled to indirect exporters, without additional documentation. This will
also aid in financing production of indirect exports. Preferential short-term
renewable export credits (for up to 5X of FOB exports at 40% interest) have
replaced export tax rebates. To qualify for this low-cost credit, a minimum
export volume of US$ 100 million is required. This appears designed to foster
the trading house approach to exports. However, the export finance incentives
will now become available for the first time to indirect exporters through the
domestic letter of credit system. Consequently, overall export assistance to
the subsector may have been increased under the latest regime.
D. Role of The Bank
2.16     Prior Bank Involvement.  Prior Bank lending for agroindustry
comprises: (i) $27 million as a component of the first Agricultural Credit
Project (Loan 1248-TU) made to TCZB in 1976; (ii) about $135 million to
finance loans for packing houses, cold storage facilities, and refrigerated



-9-
trucks and $4.5 million for short-term working capital loans made by TCZB,
under the First and Second Fruit and Vegetables Projects, respectively (Loans
762-TU and 1967-TU); (iii) $5.5 million for mohair processing plant and
improvement to Government-owned meat and processing plants and about $11
million for poultry processing and feed facilities of farmers-owned companies
under the Fifth Livestock Project (Loan 1862-TU); and (iv) about $23 million
for construction of Government-owned sugar factories under the State
Industrial Enterprise Finance Project (Loan 1998-TU). In addition, the Bank
financed a Livestock Products Study under Loan 1862-TU and a Fruit and
Vegetables Master Plan under Loan 1967-TU, and included agroindustry
enterprises in study, financed under Loan 2400-TU (Technical Assistance for
State Economic Enterprises, of potential for privatization of state
enterprises. More recently the Bank undertook an Agroindustry Subsector
Review, which was completed in July 1987.
2.17     The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) for Loan 1248-TU,
reported that the agroindustry projects which were supported under the Loan
appeared financially and economically viable. However, due to sub-borrower
unwillingness to borrow under arrangements requiring them to bear the foreign
exchange risk, and extensive delays until the Government and the Bank agreed
on arrangements under which the Government assumed the exchange risk, little
funds were disbursed under this component until 1985 and 302 of the funds
allocated for it were eventually cancelled. The PPAR also noted that the
Government's investment incentive policy appeared to have strongly influenced
TCZB's agroindustry lending decisions and resulted in the over-expansion of
some industries.  The PPAR for Fruit and Vegetables I, Loan 762-TU, found the
transport companies financed to be well managed and the equipment well used,
but the packing/cold storage facilities had significant problems due to lack
of adequate management. Only about 40% of the funds provided under Fruit and
Vegetables II, Loan 1967-TU, for working capital financed were utilized, which
TCZB reports was due to sub-borrower reluctance to accept the delays required
for World Bank approval of subprojects. The poultry processing and feed
facilities and the mohair processing plant (under Loan 1862-TU) and the sugar
factories (Loan 1998-TU) were successfully completed and appear to be
operating satisfactorily. The component for improved meat processing
facilities (Loan 1862-TU) was cancelled, based upon revised Government
policies which did not favor expansion of state enterprise activities.
Project completion reports have not yet been issued for the poultry, mohair,
and sugar investments.
2.18     Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The proposed project would support
the Bank's strategy for (i) assisting the development of the agricultural
sector and increasing its commercial orientation; (ii) supporting Turkey's
efforts to increase exports; and (iii) strengthening financial intermediaries
and increasing their areas of competition. Government and the Bank are in
agreement on subsectoral development objectives and on the strategy to achieve
them, i.e., liberalization and concomitant enterprise restructuring. The
Bank's unique contribution to this process would be as a catalytic agent in
bringing together within the project the parties with a clear stake in the
future of the subsector (the agroindustry enterprises and the participating
banks), defining their roles in subsectoral development and promoting
implementation of key elements of the subsector strategy, i.e. financial



-10-
restructuring and development of the marketing function. The Bank's support
of the project is critical for the active and growing invovement of the PCI8.
2.19     Promect Objectives and Relation to the Subsector.  The primary objective
of the project is to increase output, employment and foreign exchange earnings
through the expansion and modernization of the agroindustry subsector. To
accomplish this, those poor-performing enterprises with potential for success
will need to be restructured so as to resolve their problems, while the better
performing enterprises should be encouraged and assisted to further improve
their operational efficiency and to expand capacity. At present, Turkey has a
pressing need for increasing foreign exchange earnings and reducing the
external deficit. Both of the major productive sectors, agriculture and
industry, are expected to contribute substantially to these goals. The
proposed project would foster agroindustry growth, without requiring
significant budget support from the Government. Project incremental output
would also contribute to expanding domestic consumption of processed food
products, thereby substituting for potential imports.
Dm. FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Financial Intermediaries
3.01     The financial sector of Turkey is diversified in terms of
institutions, but has limited market depth and is small in relation to the
level of economic development of the country. M2 is only about 232 of GDP.
The banks are the dominant financial insti.utions. They hold about 93Z of the
total financial assets outside of the Central Bank. Other financial
institutions include credit cooperatives, social security institutions, and
insurance companies. Capital and money markets are small and the equity market
is only a few years old. The capital market is supplemented by a number of
Government controlled special purpose funds, including the Housing Development
Fund, the Public Participation Fund (PPF) and the Public Partnership Fund.
3.02     Banking Sector.  There are 40 private commercial banks (24 domestic
and 16 foreign), but the 13 public sector banks account for roughly half of
total banking assets. The government-owned Agricultural Credit Bank (TCZB),
which is the largest bank, accounts for about a quarter of total banking
sector assets. The four largest banks (TCZB and three private banks) account
for half of the banking sector assets. Thus, despite the multiplicity of
institutions and the recent entry of 12 foreign banks, the banking sector is
still highly concentrated. Since 1980, the sector has shown substantial
growth. Total bank assets grew from TL 1,730 billion in 1980 to TL 15,990
billion in 1985 or in 1985 constant terms, by 94% from TL 8,236 billion to
TL 15,990 billion.
3.03     In addition to the commercial banks, there are 2 private development
banks whose operations are guaranteed by the Government, one public
development bank, and one Ex-Im bank. The two private development banks (TSKB
and SYKB) and the public development bank (TKB, formerly DESIYAB) cater
exclusively to private sector companies.



-ll-
3.04     SpeCial Purpose Funds.  The Public Participation Fund (PPF) is, among
other things, responsible for the di,estiture of the Government's equity in
various enterprises, as well as the equity shares held by TCZB in a large
number of agroindustry companies. It is also responsible for supervision of
management of companies intended for divestiture.  Thus, it is expected that
the PPF will play an important role in the financial restructuring of these
companies.
B. Financial Sector Reform
3.05     Financa Sector LAues.  Financial sector issues were first addressed
by the Bank under the first Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL I). Under
that loan, action was taken by Government to reform the interest rate
structure and reduce the volume of preferential credits. Government also
strengthened bank supervision and examination procedures, while the banking
sector created a banking institute (CIBS) to train bankers in modern banking
practices. Government also acted to develop and expand the money and capital
markets. As a result of these reforms, the primary and secondary markets for
Treasury bills and commercial papers have expanded, as have the listings and
trading activities in the stock exchange. Auditing of banks, under guidelines
and directives issued by the Central Bank, was initiatepi, commencing with
their 1987 accounts.
3.06     Agenda for Future Reforms.  Despite progress in reforms under
FSAL I, it is still not possible for the financial sector to adequately
provide for the credit needs of the private sector. While the financial
health of many of the banks improved during 1988, many banks still have a
serious problem of non-performing loans to borrowers who were unable to cope
with the very high real interest rates and the high costs of adjusting to a
more liberalized environment. FSAL II, approved by the Bank in July 1988, is
designed to follow through on the reforms under FSAL I and deepen the reform
!          process.  FSAL II concentrates on programs to remedy five areas of concern,
namely:  (a) the Government's large fiscal deficit and its impact on the
financial sector, (b) subsidies through preferential interest rates, (c) the
high cost of non-preferential loans; (d) the financial health of the banking
sector, and (e) the underdevelopment of capital and money markets.
3.07     Deficit Reduction.  Action on fiscal policy is needed in order to
reduce the high interest rates on commercial loans, and Treasury and corporate
securities, and the consequent crowding out of the private sector from the
credit markets. The Government aims to bring down the fiscal deficit over a
reasonable period of time, thus reducing the public sector borrowing
requirement (PSBR) from 8.21 of GNP in 1987 to 5Z in 1989.
3.08     Preferential Interest Rates.  The Government is also planning to
reduce gradually the volume of selective credits at preferential rates and to
increase the preferential rate to positive levels. Though this condition was
satisfied in mid-1986, since early 1987 some rates, notably those for
agricultural loans, have become negative due to rising inflation.
3.09     Non-Preferential Interest Rates.  Non-preferential lending rates have
remained high in real terms. When the prime rate on short term commercial
loans reached 99% in early 1988, the banks' average cost of



-12-
deposits was around 511. The difference between the average cost of funds and
tL. lending rate can be explained by the following provisions: (a) the cost
of reserve and liquidity requirements (25.21 net), (b) operating costs (91),
(c) RUSF and transaction taxes (8.52), and (d) an average profit margin of
41. As discussed in the previous chapter, real lending rates at such levels
are a major deterrent to new manufacturing investment. Worse yet, they
restrict the degree of utilization of existing agroindustry capacity, when, at
the margin, the cost of financing stocks of inputs, finished goods and
accounts receivable exceed the marginal return on these activities. Also the
effect of continued high financial charges on debt/equity ratio and debt
service coverage makes firms non creditworthy so that regardless of marginal
return versus marginal cost no credit is extended. As lower inflation and
fiscal deficit targets are met, Government plans to alleviate the pressures on
interest rate margins by gradually reducing reserve requirements and
eliminating the RUSF and transactions taxes.
3.10     Strengthening ofthe Banking System.  In the past, most bank lending
has been through current account advances which do not carry a fixed maturity
date. Though interest is payable quarterly, it is often capitalized, thus
increasing the size of the loan. When a borrower reaches his authorized line
of credit, the bank. simply increase the amount of credit authorized. With
interest rates on such credits exceeding 1001, this process is often
repeated. In many banks, the provisions for potential losses in connection
with such lending have been totally inadequate, with the banks reporting
profits and paying taxes and dividends from income that may never be
realized. The major banking sector reforms already introduced under FSAL II
are contained in new decrees which will (a) establish improved guidelines for
banks concerning loan classification, income recognition and loan loss
provisioning; (b) set forth instructions on the treatment of non-performing
assets and the restructuring of public sector banks; and (c) set out new
standards for capital adequacy, risk and exposure levels and limits. The
decrees concerning loan classification, the treatment of non-performing loans
and the restructuring of public sector banks were issued in April 1988.
3.11     Strengthening Financid Markets.  Although significant progress has
been achieved in this area as measured in terms of the growth of the primary
market for fixed income securities as well as corporate equities, there are
still impediments to the orderly growth of the market, the most important
being the lack of external auditing of firms selling securities. In
accordance with agreements under FSAL, the Government has made arrangements to
require audits by external auditors for all companies issuing securities to
the public.
3.12     Release ofthe Second Tranche under FSAL H.  Relative to the reforms
discussed above, release of the second tranche will be conditional on:
(a) achieving the macroeconomic targe.s (particularly the PSBR) indicated in
the Letter of Macroeconomic Policy; (b) satisfactory performance in reducing
the spread between lending and deposit rates; (c) achievement of positive real
interest rates on preferential credits; (d) completion of a plan for the
introduction of a risk asset-capital ratio; and (e) completion of a study, and
submission of draft legislation to parliament, concerning the creation of an
independent institutional mechanism to restructure financially insolvent
institutions, including the purchase of their non-performing assets and the
takeover or transfer of ownership of such assets.



-13-
3.13     The proposed project would complement the operations under the FSALs
by strengthening agroindustry activities and portfolio performance of the
participating banks through the financial restructuring of individual
agroindustry enterprises.
C. Financing for Agroin
3.14     Sources Of Finance.  The major term lenders to agroindustry in Turkey
include TCZB, and the two development banks, SYKB and TKB. All three banks
have requested a line of credit under the project. While TCZB is funded by
its deposits, the two development banks must rely on multilateral and
bilateral sources of funding and the rediscounting facilities of the Central
Bank. Term lending by other commercial banks is limited and is funded almost
solely by the rediscounting facilities of the Central Bank or more recently
from lines of credit made available under IBRD loans. The limited resource
mobilization capability of the development banks and the limited term
transformation by the commercial banks, combined with the high levels of
public sector borrowing have led to a decline in the volume of industrial
investment credit over the past three years. The high levels of public sector
borrowing also forces the private sector to pay extremely high real interest
rates for the revolving loans needed to finance inventories and accounts
receivable.
3.15     Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance.  Given the rapid rate of
depreciation in the value of the Turkish Lira (TL) due to high rates of
inflation, and the large losses sustained by foreign exchange borrowers from
the devaluations of the 1980s, there is almost a total unwillingness of
borrowers to take on medium and long term credits repayable in foreign
currency. In 1985, the Government introduced the Foreign Exchange Risk
Insurance Scheme (FERIS). Under FERIS, the Central Bank converts the proceeds
of foreign loans into TL denominated loans with a fixed rate of interest and
term of 8 years, without a prepayment option. The FERIS interest rate, which
was normally adjusted every six months, was set with the aim of keeping the
fund in approximate balance ovet the life of the loans. In connection with
FSAL an understanding was reached that the FERIS interest rate would be
adjusted during these semiannual reviews based on inflation over the past 12
months and projected inflation for the next 12 months. However, this fixed
rate FERIS continues to be vulnerable. Should inflation not decline as
expected, FERIS could prove costly to the Government. On the other hand,
should inflation decline more rapidly than anticipated, large number of
sub-borrowers, locked into high real rates, could willfully or unwillfully
default, aggravating distress in the financial system, or force prepayment,
passing on losses to FERIS.
3.16     Since the conditions that led to the establishment of FERIS still
hold today, the Government's view is that it is not yet time to abolish FERIS
despite the risks cited above. However, FERIS would be modified to replace
the fixed rate with a variable rate scheme. This would help minimize the
risks of FERIS for both the Government and sub-borrowers. The variable rate
would be revised quarterly and the new announced rate would affect not only
new subloans, as in the former fixed rate scheme, but all outstanding subloans
contracted under the variable rate option. The floating rate would be set at
the average of the three-month Treasury bill rate over the preceding three



-14-
months. This would adequately capture movements in inflation and other market
factors. Placing FERIS on a variable rate basis only would be a condition of
effectiveness.
3.17     Cost of Capital. Given the current high level of inflation,
commercial banks, in order to cover their costs and allow for a miniuwm
profit, must charge borrowers an effective interest rate of 140X (Annex 7,
Table 1). The required spread over the banks' current average cost of funds,
is around 70S, of which 48X covers the net cost of reserve requirements, while
the rest covers operating costs, profit margin and taxes. If inflation were
gradually brought down from 70S in 1988 to 151 over a period of 7 years, the
effective rate would fall from 1401 to 431, assuming no change in reserve
requirements, and the real interest rate would fall from 341 to 241 (Annex 7,
Table 1).  Presumably, rates would fall even further as reserve requirements
were relaxed.
3.18     Reserves, as a major public sector financing resource, have driven
real interest rates up to the current level of 341, crowding out the private
sector from the market for credit and reducing the level of private sector
investment. In turn, the cost of equity capital has been driven up, as the
return available from investing equity in industry or commerce must be at
least as high as the return that can be immediately achieved, risk free, by
simply using equity to reduce or retire a company's outstanding commercial
credits.
3.19     Commercial bank credits are only available for short-term lending and
at very high interest rates. The only source of funds for long-term loans are
foreign credits provided under FERIS, or rediscount funds supplied by the
Central Bank for onlending through development banks. The e.fective rates for
such long-term loans under the former fixed rate FERIS scheme were quite low
in real terms, 10.7% before taxes, but could be as low as -5.4% if all
interest expense could be used to reduce income taxes payable (Annex 7, Tables
1 & 7). Under a floating rate FERIS the real cost of funds is preojected to
be 51, before taxes, and - 9.31 after taxes (see para 3.21). In investment
project financing, these preferential credits are blended with high cost
equity capital and commercial credit. The blend rate will determine the cost
of capital and hence the minimum financial rate of return required to justify
the project. The higher the cost of capital, the lower the level of private
investment.
3.20     The blend rate can be quite reasonable, around 8.2% in real terms,
for investment by existing enterprises which are large and profitable, but
almost prohibitively expensive, at around 29X, for smaller, marginally
profitable, agroindustries enterprises or start-up ventures (Annex 7, Tables 4
& 5). The differences in the cost of capital, as perceived by different
investors, is mainly the result of the tax system.
3.21     The inherent bias in favor of large profitable companies, typical of
many taxation regimies, is aggravated in Turkey by the high rates of
inflation. Large and profitable companies can make use of interest expense
deductions, including interest capitalized under FERIS, to reduce their taxes
payable. Due to the high inflation premium built into current interest rates,
repayment of principal, in real terms, is tax deductible. Internal cash
generation can eliminate the need to raise equity. This makes smaller



-15-
enterprises and potential market entrants less competitive. Until interest
rates decline in real terms, bringing down with ttlem the cost of equity
capital, it will be difficult to form new ventures for investment in
agroindustry, especially for large investments. These will only be carried
out by existing profitable large enterprises. For small enterprises,
investment will focus on incremental improvements to existing facilities,
since these projects can generate the needed high return.
IV. PARTICIPATING CREDrr INSTITUTIONS (PCIs)
A. Eligibility Criteria for PCIs
4.01     Under the proposed project, Bank funds would be channelled initially
through three participating credit institutions (PCIs), namely:
(a) The Agricultural Development Bank of Turkey (TCZB), a Government-
owned development and commercial banking institution;
(b)  Halk Bank (HB), a Government-owned commercial bank; and
(c) The Industrial Investment and Credit Bank (SYKB), a privately-owned
development bank.
Loan arrangements also permit other PCIs to be added to the project by mutual
agreement of the Government and the Bank. Such PCIs would have to demonstrate
to the satisfaction of the Bank: (i) that they have adequate agroindustry
appraisal capacity; and (ii) that they meet the financial conditions in para
4.02 below or that they had a time-bound plan which would enable them to meet
these criteria in a manner acceptable to the Bank. The Turkish Development
Bank (TKB) (formerly the State Industry and Labor Investment Bank--DESIYAB), a
Government-owned development bank, may qualify as an eligible PCI at a later
date, and participate in the project. Financial appraisal and development of
conditions for participation of TKB could not be completed due to its recent
merger with the former Tourism Bank.  In addition, the Government .s seeking a
suitable mechanism for onlending to private sector commercial ban1s. When
developed, this would permit eligible banks to enter the proje.t as PCIs at a
later date. Such a mechanism permitting use of Bank funds by private sector
commercial banks would be expected to be a condition for the proposed FY90
Industrial Exports II Loan.
4.02     Financial Conditions for particiDation and Financial Covenats. Except as
otherwise agreed, each PCI would have to submit annual audit reports,
including a certification by its external auditors that it is in compliance
with the following financial covenants under the project: (a) a minimum
collection ratio on all its medium and long-term loans of 751 (except for
TCZB, which would be required to have a minimum collection ratio of 70S for
loans made prior to January 1, 1989, and 851 for loans made after that date);
(b) a minimum debt-service-c3ver ratio ' of 1.1 to 1 for SYKB and 1.2 to I
for other PCIs; (c) a capital adequacy ratio as required by the Banking Law
for commercial banks (including a ratio of net worth to total resources of not
less than 61 by 1991), or a 10 to 1 maximum debt-equity ratio for
'' See definition in Annex 9, para 14.



-16-
development banks; and (d) provisions for bad and doubtful debts as required
under the Provisions Decree of May 1988. The financial condition of SYKB and
Halk Bank was appraised in November 1988 in connection with the proposed
Second Small and Medium Scale Industry Project (SMI-II), while TCZB's
financial condition was appraised in August 1988 in connection with a proposed
Third Agricultural Credit Project. The findings are summarized in Annex 9 and
are available in the Project Files. In addition to the above requirements,
TCZB and HB would have to have completed their portfolio audits and made
adequate provision for non-performing loans in accordance with Turkish Banking
law to participate in the project. Assurances have also been received that
the Government would strengthen TCZB's equity base to reach a ratio of net
worth to average total resources of at least 62 by the end of 1991, and would
provide TCZB by December 31, 1989 negotiable bonds (at a variable interest
rate equal to the average rate on six-month Treasury bills) to compensate TCZB
for overdue amounts under loans to sales cooperatives made with Government
guarantees.
B. The Agricultural Development Bank (TCZB)
4.03     TCZB, with 1,151 branches, is the largest and oldest bank in Turkey
and represents about 262 of the total rescurces of the deposit banks operating
in the country. TCZB has acted as a financial intermediary in earlier Bank
projects, including the Agricultural Credit and Agroindustry Project (Loan
1248-TU of May 1976) and the recently completed Second Agricultural Credit
Project of June 1983. It would be responsible for loans to farmers under a
proposed Third Agricultural Credit Project expected to be presented to the
Board this fiscal year. It is TCZB's policy to allocate at least 80% of its
iending to agriculture, including agroindustry. While lending to farmers is
at preferential interest rates set in accordance with Government directives..
its lending to agroindustries has in recent years been at rates which
correspond to the interest rates of other banks. Since June 1984, TZCB is
only permitted to accept agroindustry loa applications for projects which the
State Planning Organization (SPO) has found eligible for investment incentives.
4.04     TCZB has the largest private sector agroindustry portfolio, which at
the end of 1987 consisted of 241 loans totalling TL 93.3 billion. Of these,
146 loans, totalling roughly TL 79 billion, had arrears either of principal or
interest, of which TL 69 billion have been lent to only 14 companies. At the
end of 1987, TCZB also had equity investments totalling TL 15.4 billion in 21
agroindustrial companies. Over the period 1983 through 1987, TCZB received
dividends totalling only TL 1.1 billion on these equity holdings, although no
dividends were received fc., the years 1986 and 1987.  In May 1988, many of the
equity holdings of TCZB were transferred to the Public Participation Fund
(PPF) which manages the sale of Government-owned equities to t;.e private
sector. More than half of the equity portfolio and some of the outstanding
loans represent assets acquired when TCZB took over the operation of three
bankrupt private sector banks, with any losses from this takeover guaranteed
by the Gove-nment.
4.05     TCZB's Project Evaluation Department has 62 higher level staff,
including 38 engineers and 9 economists. The Department is organized into six
project evaluation and monitoring teams, each of which is headed by a team
leader who is an engineer and includes three other engineers and one
economist. Six Assistant Directors oversee the six teams plus a research,



-17-
price analysis and data collection team which has its own leader, four
engineers and an economist. A team is assigned to each project and is
responsible for the appraisal and subsequent supervision. An appraisal report
is prepared for each project. In the past, very few projects were rejected
once the decision was made to proceed with appraisal. The Project Completion
Report (dated April 1986) for The Agricultural Credit and Agroindustry Project
noted that TCZB had rejected only four out of some 200 loan applications for
projects which had been accepted for SPO investment incentives (see para 2.13).
These projects were not rejected on the basis of their viability, but because
they did not meet TCZB's equity requirements. In turn, deficient appraisal
has led to some problems.
4.06     The quality of TCZB's agroindustry portfolio indicates the need for
improved investment appraisal. Discussions on this matter with TCZB indicated
that appraisal focused on the technical viability of the project and
concentrated on such issues as the suitability of the equipment package
proposed by the project sponsor. Economic and financial analyses were largely
mechanical exercises designed to produce proforma financial statements and
rates of return. Relatively little effort was devoted to appraisal of the
market and the sponsors' marketing, management and technical experience and
capabilities. There are indications that improvements have taken place over
the past year, and that the rejection rate for proposed lodns has been
extremely high. Under the proposed project TCZB would receive technical
assistance in improving its project appraisal and supervision (para 5.11) and
would use agreed appraisal criteria (Annexes 3 and 4).
4.07     TCZB is also undertaking an ambitious institutional development
program, for which assistance was provided under the Second Agricultural
Credit Loan and for which continued assistance is planned under the proposed
Third loan. While largely involved with TCZB's farm lending activity, the
program also includes improvements in the management information, accounting
and budgeting, computerization and staff training systems. A new General
Manager, who was appointed about a year ago, has instituted a major
reorganization of the headquarters departments and has arranged for the
appointment of other management officials with external banking experience.
Under a recent decree, TZCB staff are being given the option of receiving
higher salaries in return for giving up civil service job protection. As
noted in para 4.04, a substantial portion of TCZB's equity portfolio has been
tranterred to the PPF for sale to the private sector. The above actions by
TCZB's new management appears to indicate commitment to the type of
restructuring required to make TCZB a financially healthier and more
competitive institution.
C. The Industril Investment and Credit Bank (SYKB)
4.08     SYKB was established in 1963 by five commercial banks, primarily to
provide working capital loans for projects which had investment loans from the
Industrial Development Bank of Turkey (TSKB), the other private development
bank in Turkey. Since the early 1970s, SYKB has significantly expanded its
role beyond provision of working capital finance to investment financing.
SYKB has been the recipient of four Bank loans totalling US$185 million in
support of the private sector in various industries, including: (i) textile
industries (US$15 million); (ii) labor-intensive industries (US$40 million);



-18-
(iii) small and medium-scale industries (US$80 million); and (iv) industrial
export development (US$50 million). The implementation of the loans for
textile and labor-intensive industries was delayed somewhat because of the
reluctance of borrowers to bear the foreign exchange risk. However, with the
introduction of FERIS in 1984, the implementation of these two loans was
accelerated and the two loans were disbursed with only minor cancellations.
SYKB has performed well under the current SMI and industrial export loans, and
would be a major participant in the recently negotiated proposed SMI-II loan.
SYKB has concentrated mainly on providing long-term finance to small and
medium-scale industries and has built a strong portfolio. It is a
well-managed financial institution and has built up a cadre of competent staff.
4.09     At the end of 1987, SYKB's private sector agroindustry portfolio
consisted of 30 loans totalling TL 11.2 billion. At the end of 1987, 11 loans
totalling roughly TL 6.1 billion had arrears of either principal or interest,
including TL 5.5 billion of loans to three companies. SYKB had one
agroindustry equity investment of TL 90 million, which did not pay dividends
during 1987.
4.10     Over the years, SYKB's staff has increased from 44 in 1980 to 118 in
1987. Staff morale is generally high and turnover low. SYKB has kept
salaries competitive and provides adequate professional training and growth
opportunities for its staff. Project appraisal and supervision staff are
competent and appraisal procedures are by and large in compliance with Bank
guidelines. However, as was the case for TCZB, appraisal reports generally
lacked in-depth assessments of the market and the project sponsors' marketing,
management and technical experience and capabilities. SYKB staff conducts
bi-annual supervision of projects under implementation and annual supervision
of projects in production. Arrangements for strengthening SYKB's supervision
are being undertaken, in accordance with agreements under the Industrial
Export Development Loan. No further technical assistance to SYKB under this
loan is deemed necessary.
D. Halk Bank
4.11     Halk Bank was established in 1933 as the public sector commercial
bank responsible for attending to the needs of small- and medium-scale
industries, artisans and cooperatives. It started by focussing on the
provision of working capital loans to these sectors but has broadened its
assistance by expanding into investment financing as well. Halk BaT&k is a
participant in the credit component of the Bank's SMI loan and would continue
as a participant under the recently negotiated SMI-II.
4.12     Halk Bank has also played a lead role in providing financing to
agroindustries. By the end of 1987 it had disbursed over TL 27.4 million in
3,945 individual loans to the sector. Of this total TL 10.3 billion is
concentrated among loans to 21 companies. It has no agroindustry equity
holdings. HB has been able to mobilize funds for investment loans in
agroindustries as a result of its wide branch network.
4.13     HB has continued to be a profitable and liquid bank.  It is
conservatively managed, and its credit policies require that all its loans be
fully secured by mortgages and/or personal and bank guarantees. This,



-19-
together with its close contacts with its borrowers through its branch
network, has allowed Halk Bank to develop a good portfolio of small loans with
little arrears. Balk's financial position is strong, and its past
profitability has allowed it to adequately provide for its entire
non-performing loans.
4.14     As of November 30, 1988, the total number of engineers and financial
analysts/econouists within Halk Bank was 101 and 75, respectively. Over the
i          next two years Halk Bank plans to add 50 to 60 project analysts and engineers
to its staff in order to support the expected growth in workload in the area
of project appraisal. HB's Industrial Credit Department would be responsible
for appraising subprojects under the Project. The Department has 43
university graduates, including the manager, 6 assistant managers, 13
financial analysts/economists and 14 engineers. During the 1988/89 period, it
is planned that the Department would increase professional  staff by 14,
including 8 financial analysts and 6 engineers. Halk Bank would also receive
technical assistance in agroindustry appraisal and supervision (para 5.11)
under this loan.
E. Expected Later Participant - TKB
4.15     The Turkish Development Bank (TKB, formerly DESIYAB) was established
in 1975 as a public development bank, primarily to help expatriate Turkish
workers invest their savings in sound productive enterprises. TKB was to
provide financial assistance in the form of medium- and long-term loans,
equity participations and guarantees. While conceptually sound, the
implementation of this program was faulty and the results were disastrous for
TKB. Projects financed under this program were poorly located since workers
usually wanted to invest in their birthplaces regardless of project economics,
were poorly managed since many workers did not possess entrepreneurial and
management skills, and had technology transplanted from abroad without
appropriate adaptation.
4.16     TKB management and staff have worked hard to deal with the problems
of its initial portfolio. TKB has acquired extensive experience in the
financial restructuring and rehabilitation of manufacturing enterprises. For
many reasons, including tradition and a cumbersome bankruptcy procedure, such
restructuring operations are not common in Turkey. In recent years TKB has
successfully rehabilitated 7 companies and is in the process of rehabilitating
11 others, including 3 agroindustrial enterprises. The largest of the three
is Entas, an integrated poultry operation representing an investment of TL 25
billion at the end 1987. Along with TKB, the Development Foundation of Turkey
(TKV) will provide financing for the restructuring of Entas and TKV's holding
company, Koy-Tur, will administer the rehabilitation. The latter has wide
experience in the rehabilitation and privatization of poultry and dairy
operations and currently is managing 15 poultry companies.
4.17     TKB's experience in industry restructuring would make it a
particularly valuable participant in the proposed project, if a satisfactory
solution can be found for dealing with the financial problems resulting from
its initial portfolio. This will require, inter alia, a considerable
strengthening in TKB's capital. TKB's recent merger with the Tourism Bank is
intended as a step toward this goal. Once the accounts for the newly merged



-20-
institution are available, discussions would take place to design a program to
enable TKB to become eligible for participation in this project.
4.18     At the end of 1987, TKB's private sector agroindustry portfolio
consisted of 44 loans totalling TL 16.7 billion. In the case of 16 loans,
totalling only TL 750 million, there were arrears in either principal or
interest. However, it is of particular concern that an amount of TL 10.5
billion, representing 62S of the portfolio, is due from only 3 companies who
are experiencing severe financial problems and are unlikely to be able to meet
future debt service comitments. At the end of 1987, TKB had equity
investments totalling TL 3.6 billion in eight agroindustrial companies, of
which only one paid dividends of TL 60 million.
4.19     Many of TKB's problem loans are associated with poultry and meat
processing projects. The positive appraisal of such projects was based on the
assumption that Government would follow through on its stated policy of
closing so-called non-hygienic meat processing operations. When this did not
occur, the new modern meat and poultry processing plants, whose overhead and
financial costs are substantially higher than those of traditional processors,
could not compete profitably.
4.20     TKB's Project Evaluation Department has 86 higher level staff,
including 19 who have had training as engineers and 45 who have majored in
economics. Ap.praisal work is carried out by teams which normally include a
team leaLer, a technical expert, and a financial expert.If TKB is accepted as
a PCI, it would receive technical assistance in projecL appraisal and
supervision (para 5.11).
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
5.01     The agroindustry subsector in Turkey has the potential to increase
its production for both domestic and export markets. Increasing output by
increasing capacity utilization in existing plants is in most cases more
economic than constructing new plants. Thus, the primary objective of the
project is to promote the financial conditions in individual enterprizes which
will revitalize existing capacity (see para 2.12), thus increasing output,
employment and foreign exchange earnings. However, construction of new
capacity would also be an objective in the case of products which offer
prospects of high capacity utilization or where existing capacity has proven
to be unsuitable or has become obsolescent in the face of technological change.
5.02     Enterprise Financial Restructuring and Organizational Strengthening.
Underutilized production capacity in the sector is often owned by enterprises
which are either financially distressed or lack the management expertise
necessary to profitably exploit their available production capacity. Thus, to
realize the primary objective of the project, those poorly performing
enterprises with potential for success will need to be financially
restructured and managerially strengthened so as to resolve their problems,
while the better performing enterprises should be encouraged and assisted to
improve their operational efficiency and to expand rationally.



-21-
5.03     Compatibility of Proieet Objectives and Government Priorities.  Both the
Government and the Bank are in agreement that Turkey's current economic
priorities are reducing the public domestic deficit to control inflation and
the cost of lending, and increasing foreign exchange earnings to reduce the
external deficit. Relative to the first priority, the expected recovery and
growth in the subsector would lead to an expansion in the tax base. In 1987,
72 agroindustrial enterprises with combined sales of roughly TL 500 billion
paid only about TL 5 billion in income taxes. Relative to the second
priority, as seen from the subsector's actual and potential contribution to
exports, the project would significantly augment foreign exchange earnings.
B. Project Components
5.04     The proposed project would have the following components:
(i) credit ines totalling $142.8 million equivalent to the participating
credit institutions (PCIs) for on-lending as subloans to cover the
foreign exchange costs of eligible subprojects which are financially
and economically viable. Permanent working capital in connection
with investment subprojects would also be eligible for financing;
(ii) technical assistance to participating credit institutions to improve their
capability to carry out financial restructuring and subproject
appraisal;
(iii) technical assistance to GOT to prepare a fisheries development survey
to provide a basis for long-range planning for the development of
this industry, including preparation of fisheries development
projects suitable for consideration for international financing; and
(iv) a piot marketing training progran to test and develop training
techniques in international marketing, with emphasis on agroindustry
marketing.
Line of Credit
5.05     Subproject Eligibility Criteria.  Agroindustry would include facilities
and equipment for processing, packaging, transportation, handling, storage and
distribution of food, beverages, animal feed, tobacco, sawmills, leather
tanneries and raw cotton processing (ginning and spinning), as well as
transportation, handling, storage and distribution of agricultural inputs
(seeds, fertilize:,s, pesticides, equipment, etc.). Permanent working capital
would also be eligible for financing, but only as a component of an investment
project including fixed investment financing at least three times the amount
of the permanent working capital finance. The loan could also cover financing
for investments by eligible sub-borrowers in quality control equipment.
Expenditures to ameliorate industrial pollution problems and to comply with
Turkish environmental requirements and Bank recotmmended standards would also
be eligible. Both new enterprises and investments for existing enterprises
would be eligible. Financing of civil works would be limited to subprojects



-22-
other than for manufacturing and for which civil works expenditures are 602 or
more of project costs (such as projects to establish warehousing and
distribution networks). Based on the existing pipeline, it is expected that
the project would mainly finance the expansion, modernization, and
rehabilitation of existing enterprises. In many cases these investments would
be an integral part of a financial restructuring program.
5.06     Supporting technical and financial documentation must accompany all
requests for subloans under the project. Subprojects will be appraised by the
PCIs according to management, technical, marketing, financial and economic
criteria agreed with the Bank. Economic rates of return on subproject
investments to be financed (other than investments to ameliorate environmental
problems) must be at least 151 in constant terms. The debt-service coverage
ratio on the enterprise must average at least 1.5 during the five year period
following the start of commercial operations and be no less than 1.2 during
any year. In addition, subprojects would have to satisfy environmental
standards acceptable to the Bank and borrowing enterprises would be required
to identify any environmental problems, and ways to overcome such problems.
5.07     Enterprise EliEbiity Criteria.  An enterprise would be eligible for a
subloan under the proposed project if it is engaged in an agroindustry
activity listed in para 5.05, and at least 511 of the voting equity is
privately owned. At the time of application for subproject investment
financing, the owners/stockholders of an enterprise must have a minimum equity
investment of 351 of the enterprise's assets in terms of capital, subordinated
loans or retained earnings, and the owners/stockholders must provide at least
502 of the cost of the proposed investment.
5.08     Subloan Terms and Conditions.  Sublending terms and conditions,
similar to those under the Industrial Export Development Project and SMI-II,
would be as follows:
(a) subloans could cover the direct and indirect foreign exchange
components of fixed investment (including associated services) and
permanent working capital;
(b) the maximum Bank financing under the loan for any subproject would be
$5 million equivalent and for any enterprise would be $10 million
equivalent. The maximum PCI financing for any enterprise would be
251 of the PCI's net worth;
(c) subborrowers would have the option of borrowing either in TL at
variable FERIS rates as described in para 3.16 (plus a 2% per annum
commission) or in foreign exchange. The lending rate to
sub-borrowers who bear foreign exchange risk would be equal to the
Bank's lending rate plus a fixed spread of up to 41 p.a., plus a
commitment fee of 0.752 on the undisbursed balance; and
(d) subloan maturities would be at least three years and up to a maximum
of 10 years, including a grace period of up to 3 years to match their
medium- and long-term uses. Prepayment would be permitted when the
borrower assumes the foreign exchange risk.



-23-
5.09     Free Limits and Individual Subloan Limits.  A subloan free limit of
US$2.5 million is proposed for SYKB and TCZB, and US$0.7 million for Halk
Bank. Free limits for PCIs which become eligible to participate later would
be festablished at that time. Each PCI would furnish to the Bank upon its
request appraisal reports for a limited number of investments proposed for
free-limit subloans at the beginning of operations under the project, for
comment by the Bank prior to the final decision by the PCI concerned.
Subprojects jointly financed with other PCIs are also eligible for financing
under the proposed Bank loan, prorided that the maximum allocation of World
Bank funds from the aggregate of subloans to a particular subproject is not
more than US$5 million equivalent.
5.10     PCIAppraisa Reports.  For subloans below the free limit, the PCI
project appraisal summary would provide all of the information specified in
Annex 3. For subloans above the free limit, all of the information specified
in Annex 4 would be required. In addition, the PCIs woud submit appraisal
reports for ex post facto review for at least 102 of its subloans below the
free limit.
Technical Assistance Components
5.11     Technical Assistance to PCs.  It is envisaged that two consultants
would be provided under the loan for an initial period of 18 months to assist
in strengthening TCZB, Halk Bank, and TKB (when it becomes eligible to
participate) in the areas of agroindustry project appraisal and supervision,
and design of financial restructuring packages. The consultants would inter
alia provide on the job training for the banks' appraisal staff, with
particular emphasis on evaluating the marketing and management aspects of
investment proposals. These aspects of investment appraisal have been found
to have been particularly deficient. In line with the preferences of the
banks involved, one consultant would work full-time for TKB, while the other
would be shared between TCZB and Halk Bank. The consultant for TCZB and Halk
Bank would be employed within three months following loan signature, while the
consultant for TKB would be employed within two months of its acceptance as an
eligible PCI (para 4.01). SYKB is not seen to require technical assistance.
Decisions on technical assistance required for other PCIs which may later be
determined to be eligible to participate in the project would be made at the
time of such determination. Outline Terms of Reference for these consultants
are provided in Annex 6. The foreign exchange costs of these consultants,
estimated at about $500,000 equivalent (about $14,000 per man-month), would be
financed under the loan, and would be on-lent (in foreign exchange) to the
PCIs at the same interest rate and other terms as the World Bank loan.
5.12     Fisberies DevelopmentSurvey.  This component would (i) extend the
marine resources survey now being carried out in the Black Sea area to all of
Turkey's costal waters; (ii) survey the domestic aquaculture resource base,
including fresh water lakes, dam impoundments, river, and coastal lagoons;
(iii) assess the sustainable yields of the various fish and crustacean
specifies of commercial interest from these resources; (iv) assess likely
future market demand, domestic and export, for these; (v) assess the needs of
the industry for market and product development in order to increase value
added from this basic resource; (vi) assess the domestic and export markft
outlook, current harvesting and processing capacities and technologies end
future investment needs in these areas; and 'vii) develop as appropriate



-24-
proposals for projects suitable for consideration for international finance.
Proposed draft Terms of Reference are in Annex 8. The survey would be carried
out under the auspices of MAFRA's General Directorate for Projects and
Implementation in Ankara. Estimated foreign exchange cost for consultants
(about $14,000 per man-month), equipment purchase or rental, and training is
about $5.5 million eqivalent.
Pilot Marketing Training Component
5.13     In examining the performance of agroindustries, many cases were found
where firms appeared to have good export potential but were unable to exploit
it due to inadequate marketing skills. As Turkey prepares to enter the Common
Market and meanwhile is seeking to increase its share of exports to the more
competitive markets in the developed countries, improved knowledge of
marketing techniques becomes essential. The type of marketing training that
is needed to take full advantage of export opportunities is not currently
available in Turkey. A two-year pilot project is proposed to test and develop
training techniques, before creating any new permanent marketing training
institutions. The program would have three components: (i) for senior
managers, three one-week seminars in Turkey, covering a total of 75 managers;
(ii) for middle managers, three four-week seminars, covering a total of 50
managers, including practical training in evaluating and developing marketing
opportunities in a country with experience in agroindustry export marketing;
and (iii) MBA Prograr.s for ten outstanding students enrolled in post-graduate
programs in business administration, including a nine to twelve month period
in an appropriate country, combining academic training in marketing and
on-the-job experience in the marketing section of an agroindustries company.
Curriculum would be designed jointly by experts from an overseas marketing
training Institutions and members of the faculties of Turkish schools of
business administration. An indicative program is given in Annex 5.
5.14     The estimated cost of the pilot program is $1.2 million in foreign
exchange and about US$300,000 equivalent in local costs, of which it is
estimated that between US$50,000 and US$100,000 equivalent could be recovered
as fees (in TL). Establishment of a private foundation for export training is
under consideration, and this foundation could be the most appropriate agency
to implement this component. However, if it is decided not to establish this
foundation, or if it is considered inappropriate for the purpose, there are
several agencies which could handle implementation of this component.
Arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the implementation of this component
would be made by December 31, 1989.
C. Project Costs and Financing Plan
5.15     While detailed cost estimates are not appropriate for line of credit
operations, it is assumed that on average subproject sponsors would contribute
about 50Z of subproject costs as equity. Bank financing of foreign exchange
costs would cover about 362, and PCI financing from internal resources,
excluding short-term working capital loans, would cover the remaining 142.
5.16     The estimated costs and financing of the technical assistance
components are given in the table below:



-25-
Private
Bank      PCIs       Sector        Govt.     Total
1.  TA to PCIs                 0.50       0.15         -          -           0.65
2.  Fisheries Survey           5.50       -            -          1.00        6.SO
3.  Marketing Training         1.20       -            0.10       0.20        1.50
Total               7.20       0.15         0.10       1.20        8.65
Grant financing, possibly under World Bank administration, is being sought for
the fisheries survey and marketing training components. If these grants
should be received, the equivalent amount of the Bank loan would be
reallocated for additional subloans under the line of credit.
VI. THE LOAN
A. Terms and Conditions
6.01     The loan of US$150 million would be made to the Government of Turkey
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, with a repayment period of 17
years including five years of grace. The proceeds of the loan, less $6.7
million for the fisheries study and the marketing training component, would be
onlent to the PCIs under terms and conditions to be spelled out in subsidiary
loan agreements between the Government and each of the PCIs.  Signature of
such a subsidiary loan agreement, acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition
of disbursement for a particular PCI. Signature of at least two subsidiary
loan agreements, acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of loan
effectiveness. Initial allocations for subloans would be $71.4 million to
TCZB, $42.8 million to SYKB, and $28.6 million to Halk Bank. The Government
would retain the right under the subsidiary loan agreements to reallocate
funds among PCIs, if reviews, to be undertaken on October 30, 1990 and April
30, 1991 of each PCI's pipeline of future subprojects as well as past
performance in subproject approval, commitment and disbursement, should
indicate that a PCI may be unable to use fully its remaining allocation, or if
a PCI should be unable to carry out its obligations under the Project
Agreement or Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The Government would also retain the
right to reallocate after June 30, 1990 up to $70 million to additional PCIs
which may be added to the project upon the mutual agreement of the Government
and the Bank, as described in para 4.01. All PCIs would be required to submit
audit reports annually demonstrating compliance with the financial conditions
in para 4.02, and if any PCI should fail to meet these conditions, its ability
to commit new funds under the loan could be suspended and any uncommitted
funds in its initial allocation could be reallocated to other PCIs.
6.02     The proceeds of the Government's loans to the PCIs (other than $0.5
million for technical assistance as described in para 5.11) would be used for
onlending to agricultural enterprises under the arrangements described in para
5.08, and are repayable to the Government based on the composite amortization
schedules of the subloans. The PCIs would pay the commitment fees on their
allocations. For subloans under which the subborrower elects to take the
foreign exchange risk, the corresponding funds would be onlent to the PCI at



-26-
the Bank's variable interest rate, while the subborrower would receive funds
at the World Bank interest rate plus a margin of up to 4X for the PCI and a
0.75X commitment fee on the undisbursed balance. For subloans for which the
borrower elects to take advantage of the Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance
Scheme (FERIS) as described in paras 3.15 and 3.16, the corresponding funds
would be onlent to the PCIs at the prevailing FERIS rate less 3X, while the
subborrower would receive funds at the FERIS rate plus a 2% per annum
commission to the PCIs. A front-end fee of 22 of the credit allocated is
payable by the PCIs to the Government in return for assuming the risk of
onlending to the PCIs.
6.03     The $500,000 for technical assistance to the PCIs would be onlent in
foreign exchange at the Bank's interest rate, with the PCI bearing the
exchange risk. The funds for the fisheries study (para 5.12) would be passed
on to the Ministry of Agriculture's General Directorate of Projects and
Implementation. Arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for passing on the
funds for the marketing training component (para 5.14) would be made by
December 31, 1989.
B. Administrative Requirements
6.04     Special Account.  Since the credit component of the proposed project
would involve the financing of many subprojects, each one with many, small
expenditure items, a special account would be created for the project in the
Central Bank of Turkey, in order to simplify disbursement procedures.
Expenditures under subloans which are approved by the PCIs and subsequently
authorized by the Bank could be met out of the funds of the special account.
Disbursements from the special account would be made on the basis of certified
statements of expenditures submitted by the PCIs (para 6.10). The special
account could also be used for the Technical assistance components. The Bank
would disburse an initial amount of US$10 million into the special account
upon effectiveness of the Loan and would periodically replenish the fund on
the basis of reimbursement requests from the Central Bank.
Procurement
6.05     Goods and services financed under the proposed Project would be
subject to standard procurement procedures for projects involving development
finance institutions. For contracts below US$ 3 million, the present
commercial practice of local and international shopping with at least three
quotations would be followed. Limited International Bidding (LIB) would be
required for individual contracts for equipment and civil works above US$ 3
million. Project sponsors would seek bids from a list of potential suppliers
broad enough to ensure competitive prices. Sponsors would notify embassies
and trade representativ,s of Bank Group member countries and Switzerland
represented in Turkey. Advertisement in the international press would not be
required.
6.06     The PCIs would also be required to maintain records of the
procurements made under the proposed project, with summaries of offers
received and awards made under each subloan. These records would be used by
external auditors in auditing the PCIs' certified statement of expenditures
and would be examined by Bank missions on a sampling basis (para 6.11).



-27-
6.07     Contracts for equipment, vehicles and materials for che technical
assistance components(estimated at $2.2 million), including contracts for
equipment rental for the fisheries survey, would be let through international
shopping on the basis of at least three responsive price quotations. For
selection of consultants to be employed under the technical assistance
components of the proposed project, the respective implementation agencies
would follow the guidelines for the use of consultants issued by the Bank in
August 1981. All terms of reference and appointment of consultants would be
subject to prior Bank approval.
Disbursement
6.08     For the credit component, Bank funds could be used to finance under
eligible subloans:
(i) 100% of the CIF cost of directly imported machinery and equipment and
of the initial stock of imported raw materials (up to the subloan's
allocation for permanent working capital);
(ii) 70Z of the cost of imported machinery and equipment procured
off-the-shelf;
(iii) 50% of the ex-factory cost of domestically produced machinery and
equipment, representing the estimated foreign exchange cost; and
(iv) 30% of civil works costs, representing the estimated foreign exchange
costs (subject to the eligibility requirements in para 5.05);
Associated technical services could also be financed as part of machinery and
equipment contracts.
6.09     For the technical assistance components (including the Bank
administered grants), the Bank would disburse 100% of the foreign exchange
cost of consultants and training; 1001 of the CIF costs of imported equipment
and supplies; and 1002 of the ex-factory cost of local equipment and
supplies. For imported equipment and supplies which are purchased locally,
the Bank would disburse 751. Withdrawal applications would be submitted to
the Bank by the implementing agency concerned.
6.10     For the credit component, due to the great number of small
disbursements, disbursements on contracts below $100,000 could be made against
certified statement of expenditures (SOE) for which appropriate documentation
would be retained by the PCIs and made available to Bank missions and external
auditors. For larger amounts and lumpy procurements which involve direct
importation by a sub-borrower, the PCI would have an option to open a letter
of credit against the Bank's agreement to reimburse. The Bank's reimbursement
would be limited to expenditures made by a sub-borrower not more than 180 days
prior to the Bank's receipt of the request for reimbursement. The Loan is
expected to be committed in three years and disbursed in six years. based on
the latest regional subsector disbursement profile.



-28-
Revorts, Accounts and Audits
6.11     The PCIs would submit to the Bank semi-annual progress reports on
commitments, disbursements, collections and arrears under the project. In
addition, the PCIs would maintain proper accounts for subloans including
supporting procurement and disbursement documents, which would be audited
annually by external auditors, acceptable to the Bank. These reports would
also include disbursements for technical assistance to the PCIs. Currently,
there is a list of external auditors authorized by the Central Bank to audit
accounts of banks, which list is acceptable to the Bank.   Since most subloans
would be disbursed on the basis of certified statements of expenditures (SOE),
they would need a separate audit or the regular annual audit of a PCI would
have to include a special opinion by the auditors on the adequacy of SOE
procedures. Audit reports would have to be submitted to the Bank no later
than six months after the close of PCI's financial year. After a subloan is
fully disbursed, the PCI concerned would prepare a subproject completion
report, comparing actual vs. projected costs and benefits of the subproject
and including the environmental effects and measures undertaken to meet
appropriate environmental standards. Reports on all completed subprojects
would be submitted to the Bank at least semi-annually.
6.12     The Ministry of Agriculture's General Dire_torate of Projects and
Implementation would prepare and submit to the Bank semi-annual progress
reports on the fisheries study and the agency implementing the marketing
training component (para 5.14) would prepare and submit similar reports on
that component. Accounts specific to these components would be maintained
separately and would be audited annually by external auditors acceptable to
the Bank.  Audit reports would be submitted to the Bank no later than six
months after the close of the agency's fiscal year.
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
7.01     Agroindustry is the largest single subsector in Turkey's
manufacturing sector and plays a major role in the Turkish economy through
generating employment, providing a market for agricultural output, fostering
entrepreneurship, reducing regional and income disparities and producing for
exports. The proposed project would help revitalize the subsector, thereby
creating additional employment, income and foreign exchange earnings. The
project, by providing funds to several PCIs on equal terms, would also
facilitate increased competition among PCIs for providing improved services to
agroindustries. The Bank loan would not only provide long term resources to
the participating credit institutions for on-lending to agroindustrial
enterprises but also technical assistance to improve their capabilities to
appraise agroindustry projects and carry out financial restructuring of
distressed enterprises. The technical assistance component would also provide
valuable training programs for those responsible for product development and
marketing in agroindustrial enterprises, and help provide the information
required to support agroindustry development in fisheries.
7.02     It is anticipated that the project would finance about 250
agroindustry subprojects resulting in about US$400 million of incremental



-29-
investments. On the basis of comparable investments in earlier years, it is
estimatLd that the pruject could create up to about 20,000 new full-time
jobs. The subprojects finar.ed are expected to be fairly labor intensive,
with a cost per job usually not exceeding US$25,000. While many of the
smaller agroindustry u;iits financed are not expected to be direct exporters
themselves, many of them would be producing for exporters and export trading
companies. All of the agroindustry units would be processing local raw
materials with direct linkages with the agricultural sector. Many of the
workers employed by these units would be less skilled or new entrants into the
labor force.
B. Risks
7.03     Macroeconomic.  Due to high inflation, high cost of money and the
crowding out of the private sector by government borrowings, agroindustry,
with its large seasonal credit needs, has experienced strained financial
positions in the past few years. Should the fiscal and financial imbalance
continue or deteriorate, many investment plans by agroindustries would not
only fail to materialize, but existing operations could be jeopardized and add
to the existing stock of non-performing assets of the financial system. The
Government has committed itself to a package of reforms, which are expected to
reduce inflation and the fiscal deficit. The Bank is assisting the Government
in its reform program, most recently through the Second Financial Sector
Loan. The Government and the Bank are closely monitoring implementation of
the reform program to ensure that it continues to be on the right track and to
make adjustments as needed.
7.04     FERIS.  The former fixed rate FERIS scheme is being discontinued
and FERIS protection under the project would only be available under the new
variable rate scheme, under which, the rate of interest would adjust in
relation to the three-month Treasury Bill rate (para 3.16) which would capture
movements in in"'lation. While these measures would minimize the occurence of
negative real interest rates, and the risk to entrepreneurs of being locked
into the high fixed interest rates if inflation should go down, the new system
may encounter initial resistance from entrepreneurs who are used to fixed
interest rates. This could affect credit demand, at lest initially. Over
time it is expected that entrepreneurs would recognize the advantages of the
new system, particularly if the Government is effective in its anti-inflation
policies so that downward movement in the variable interest rate can be
observed.
7.05     Recognition of Non-Performing Loans. Success ._'n the financial
restructuring of distressed enterprises will depend on the willingness of
credit institutions, including those who are not participants in the project,
to recognize their non performing loans. Recovery of even part of such loans
may only be possible if the institutions take substantial write-offs, convert
debt to equity and find buyers for the equity. It is expected that the
decrees concerning loan classification and provisioning, which have been
enacted under the financial sector reform program, will make it toc difficult
for credit institutions to maintain the appearance that loans are performing
long after they have ceased to do so.
7.06     Bankruptcy Procedures.  Financial restructuring can be very
difficult in cases where the restructuring of an enterprise must be



-30-
accompanied by a change in its ownership. In Turkey, as in most countries,
attempts by credit institutions to recover overdue debts by the liquidation of
assets or by obtaining control of the borrowing company can consume a great
deal of time. The remedies available to creditors in Turkey are similar to
those in other countries. However, the administration of these remedies is
often very weak. For creditors seeking remedy through the courts, the legal
procedures are cumbersome and the court system is overloaded with such cases.
Thus it can take three to five years to settle a claim. Where creditors seek
remedy under the bankruptcy law, they often find that the Bankruptcy
Administration Committee does not protect creditor interests adequately or act
with suitable impartiality. The resolution of this problem cannot be
accomplished within the time-frame of the project.
VmII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01     During negotiations, agreements were reached or reconfirmed with the
GoverDnment on the following:
(a)  Govetnment would be the borrower of the Bank loan and would pass on
proceeds of the Loan to the participating credit institutions (PCIs)
under the arrangements described in paras 4.01, 4.02, 6.01-6.03,
including spreads and eligibility criteria for PCIs;
(b)  eligibility criteria for subloans, appraisal criteria (including
environmental criteria) subloan terms, free limits, PCI reporting
requirements, PCI financial requirements, procurement under subloans,
and terms of reference and hiring schedule for PCI consultants, all
of which would be incorporated into the onlending agreements between
the Government and the PCIs (paras 5.05-5.11, 6.01, 6.05, 6.06, and
6.11);
(c)  FERIS coverage would be on a variable rate basis with the interest
rate equal to the average rate for three-month Treasury Bills (para
3.16);
(d)  subborrowers would be given the options of borrowing in foreign
exchange, or with variable rate FERIS coverage (para 5.08);
(e)  the fisheries survey would be implemented by the Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs while arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank for implementation of the marketing training
component would be made by December 31, 1989 (paras 5.12-5.14); and
(f)  Government would provide TCZB with additional equity resources and
compensate TCZB for arrears on Government guaranteed loans to sales
cooperatives (para 4.02).
8.02     Conditions of effectiveness for the Bank loan would be:
(a)  signing of subsidiary loan agreements, acceptable to the Bank,
between the Government and at least two PCIs, incorporating, inter



-31-
al'a, the arrangements described in 8.01(a) and (b) above (para
6.01); and
(b) placing FERIS on a variable rate basis only (para 3.16).
8.03     No disbursement would be made with respect to a PCI until a
subsidiary loan agreement, acceptable to the Bank, had been signed with that
PCI (para 6.01).
8.04     On the basis of the above assurances and agreements, the proposed
project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$150 million to the
Government of Turkey, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, for a
period of 17 years including 5 years of grace.



- 32 -
ANNEX I
Page I of 17
TURKEY
AGROUIDUSTRY PROJECT
AGROINDUSTRY SUBSECTOR
A. Role and PerformLace
1.       Value Added and Ohutput.  Agroindustry in Turkey  is classified as a
manufacturing industry. It accounts for over 70S of the consumer goods portion
of manufacturing industry output and over 302 of total manufacturing industry
output.  During the 1980's, its share of total value added (GDP) has remained
quite constant, averaging 7.6X, while manufacturing industry's share rose
(Appendix,  Table  1).   The  growth  rates  in  value  added  explain  these
differences.   Agroindustry  value  added  grew  at  5.22  p.a.,  mirroring  the
overall GDP growth rate of 5.61 p.a.  Value added in manufacturing industry
grew at 8.81 p.a.
2.       The SIS Production  Index  of  Manufacturing  Industry''  shows  that,
between 1981 and 1986, output of Food Manufacturing Industry increased by 45%
compared to a 571 increase for All Manufacturing  Industry.   But, growth has
dropped sharply on recent years with only a 42 increase between 1984 and 1986
compared  to  201  for  All  Manufacturing   Industry.    The  consposition  of
agroindustry output is summarized in Table 1.  Flour and flour products, with
361-381 of the output, remains the dominant group.  Meat and meat products, as
the second group, has only about half the output of the flour group.  Fruit
and vegetable products are third in importance with 121, followed closely by
milk with a 101 share. The composition has remained quite stable in recent
Table 1: Turkey - Composition of Agroindustry Output
1984      1986          1987      1988
Actual             Est.   Proranmmed
---------------------------------------
Meat Products                        15         17           17       18
Dairy Products                       10         10           10       10
Beverages                             4          1            1         1
Flour and Flour Products             40         38           37       36
Fruit and Vegetable Products          8         13           12       12
Vegetable Oils                        8          7            8        8
Sugar and Sugar Products              8          7            8        8
Other Food Products                   4          3            3         3
Animal Feed                           2          3            4        4
Total                      100        100          100       100
Source: Appendix, Table 3.
1/  Turkey - Main Economic Indicators.  SPO, Ankara,  a,i'ary



- 33 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 17
years, with a little growth in processed meat and somewhat more growth in
fruit and vegetable products.  Beverages declined between 1984 and 1986, while
fruit and vegetable products increased in share.
3.       CavaCity Utilization.   Available  data  on  capacity  utilization  (cu)
tell  quite  different  stories.   Data  published by  the  Istanbul  Chamber of
Comerce show annual cu for agroindustry to be in the 72-75X range between 1982
and 1986, and quarterly data show little variation from this.  But, estimates
by  the  Bank-L  (Table  2)  SPO'  and  TSKBJ'  all  show  a  very  different
picture, with the subsector marked by very low cu levels, particularly canned
fruit, fruit juice, concentrate, and milk (Table 2).  All cu levels are well
below the Istanbul Chamber of Commerce subsector average. The very depressed
agroindustry export Levels of 1986 may have depressed cu levels in that year,
exacerbating the difference between the two estimates; but, undoubtedly, there
is a cu issue in significant number of plants.  The dual performance structure
of the subsector and the consistent reports of this from the subsector'f banks
all confirm the findings of Table 2.  The Istanbul Chamber of Commerce data
base is restricted to firms headquartered in Istanbul, and so mainly comprises
plants in the Istanbul region. Other estimates incorporate a broader national
base.   Low cu arises from a variety of factors,  principally weak financial
structure, poor plant location, raw material availability, outdated technology
and plant bottlenecks, ineffective marketing strategy and market penetration.
The combination of any subgroup of these is at least as, if not more,
intractable than any one cause.
4.       A cu balance, based on domestic and export demand projections, indi-
cates that a significant amount of the excess capacity in 1985 will remain
unused in 1990 (Appendix, Table 8), although in some products, olive oil and
tomato paste, cu will be high-about 852.   Independent SPO projections of cu
through 1991 show a somewhat similar outlook (Appendix, Tables 9 through 12),
although general cu is much higher (502 to 90X) and in some instances exceeds
1001, biscuits, frozen fruit, and animal feed.  The aggregate projections are
unable to distinguish between viable and non-viable capacity within the total
capacity, since it includes plants with outdated technology in need of replace-
ment.  In Turkey, total capacity is seen as an over-estimate of total viable
capacity in agroindustry. Production capacity will be non-viable where oper-
ating costs and debt servicing and repayment exceeds revenues.  This may occur
due to financial problems alone, where losses have caused decapitalization,
leading to very high debt-equity ratios and an inability to borrow adequate
working capital, despite obvious economic viability.   It may also result from
technological obsolescense.
5.       The project addresses these constraints through financial restructu-
ring and through the marketing element of the technical assistance component.
Financial restructuring aims at improving the debt-equity ratio where the
enterprise is creditworthy once more and so capable of obtaining both invest-
ment and working capital.  The basic thrust of marketing is one of evaluating
the  individual  er.terprise  marketing  managers  and  their  staff  on  the
significance of these factors in particular marketing strategies and the
1/ World Bank, Turkey - Agroindustry Subsector Survey, Report No. 6890-TU,
Draft Green Cover, July 16, 1987.
2/ Appendix, Table 17.
3/ Appendix, Tables 18-25.



- 34 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 17
Table 2: Turkey - Food Processing Subsector Production
and Capacity Utilization (1986)V'
Installed                        Capacity Uti-
Capacity        Production       lization (CU)
-     000 Tons ---
Processed Meat (Carcass Weight)         1,397.3            532.0             38
Milk (Drinking Milk)                      119.3              96.0            80
Animal Feed 2/                          3,558.0          2,869.0             80
Processed Fish                             75.0             38.0             50
Tomato Paste                              252.6            105.0             42
Juice Concentrate                         179.9 (359.8)3/  42.0              23
Canned Fruit                               93.8              3.5)            20
Canned Vegetables                          14.5                - )           34
Olive Oil                                 126.8             70.0             55
Hazel Nuts                                240.0            150.0(shelled)  63
Flour                                  16,081.7          8,016.0             50
Source:  SPO  informal  estimates  and  World  Bank,  Turkey  -  Agroindustry
Subsector  Survey,  Report  No.  6890-TU Green Cover  Draft,  July  16,
1987, Table 3.
1/  CU based on two 8-hour shifts with production season varying depending on
the product.
2/ 1 Shift (8 hours).
3/ Raw Material Capacity.
importance of adhering to the selected strategy in order to create an
impression of consistency and reliability.   In general,  the hardware needed
for good marketing is available.   Reliable quality control  laboratories are
already  present.   Packaging  material,  domestic  or  imported,  is  readily
available, with quality steadily improving.  However, an understanding of the
importance of these items within the context of a specific marketing strategy
is frequently absent.  Thus, the basic strategy of marketing education is seen
as the catalyst to bring all of these factors together in the meaningful form
of a market strategy.
6.  Investment.  Since  1980,  agroindustry  investment has varied  from  72 to
132 of manufacturing industry investment.  The share of manufacturing industry
investment in total investment declirsd from 232 in 1984 to 152 in 1987 (Table
3), due to a lower growth rate than eztal investment.  Overall, this trend is
due to a decline in public sector manufacturing industry investment as a
result of government policy to reduce its involvement in this area.   Also,
private sector investment has stagnated.
7. Private sector investment was two thirds of total agroindustry investment
in 1984 (Table 4).  The public sector-dominated sugar industry had the single
largest investment share, followed by vegetable oils and processed fruit and
vegetables, where the public sector involvement is small to nil.   Meat  and
dairv products, grain milling and confectionary each accounted for less than 51
of total investment.  Excluding sugar processing, private investment accounts
for about 95Z of total investment in food and beverages.



- 35 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 17
Table 3: Turkey - Investment Shares in xnstry
1984            1986            1987 1/         1988 2/
Source                                   ----------TL Billion---
Public Sector Ind. (Curr)    1,775.5           5,299.4          7,702.7        12,267.1
(Con)    (5,865.1)        (7,938.8)       (7,702.7)        (7,764.0)
-Manufacturing Industry         248.8            515.8           504.2            703.0
(950.1)         (818.9)         (504.2)          (445.0)
Private Sector Industry        1,510.2          3,836.0         6,447.8        11,576.0
(4,411.6)       (5,531.9)       (6,447.8)        (7,326.6)
-Manufacturing Industry         510.6         1,271.4          1,650.3         2,895.5
(1,654.1)       (1,872.3)       (1,650.3)        (1,856.2)
Total Industry                 3,288.7          9,135.4        14,150.5        23,843.1
(10,274.7)      (13,470.7)      (14,150.5)       (15,090.6)
-Manufacturing Industry (2)   759.4 (23)   1,787.2 (20)   2,154.5 (15)   3,688.5 (16)
(2,460.1)       (2,631.9)       (2,154.5)        (2,364.6)
Source: SPO/EMlCO Data Information System.
Note: Data in parentheses are in constant 1987 TL terms.
1/ Estimated.
2/  Programmed.
8.       Future  Investment.    The  current  cu  will  obviously  dampen  new
investment demand in some product lines. However, because of possible mis-
perceptions of the true situation by *the capital owners, lack of agreement on
actions to be taken or the very extreme nature of a particular problem, not
all capacity currently non-viable for financial reasons can be made viable.
Also,  technologically obsolescent  capacity may merit  replacement.   This  is
recognized by SPO, who, despite their own cu projections (Appendix, Table 9),
do not exclude agroindustry from eligibility for standard investment incentives
for both new and incremental capacity. For 1988, this amounts to TL79 billion
in total investment with a foreign exchange content of about US$17 million.
In 1989, the amounts are TL77 billion in total and US$20 million in foreign
exchange.''
9.       SPO investment incentive certificates for agroindustry investment 2
as a share of Turkey's total annual investment declined from 5X in 1984 to
1.32 in 1987, in line with the decline in manufacturing investment as a share
of  total  investment  (23%  to 15X)  (Table  3 and Appendix,  Table  16).   The
decline results from increasing non-manufacturing industry public sector
investment (crowding out) as well as, in the case of agroindustry, difficult
business conditions. Because of growing public sector deficits, Government
1/ The specific product groups benefitting in terms of investment amounts and
capacity increases are detailed in Appendix, Tables 13 to 15.
2/ These exclude public sector investment, which are financed from the budget.



- 36 -
ANEX I
Page 5 of 17
Tabe 4: Turkey - Investment in Processed Food and Beverages - 1984
1984 Value of Investment (In Constant 1987 Prices)
Share in Total
Total     Public    Private    Investment
(TL Billion)  --______
Item
Prepared, Preserved Meat                2.6       16.2       83.8         2.6
Dairy                                   3.1       42.0       58.0         3.1
Processed Fruits and Vegetables        10.2       10.6       89.4        10.2
Canned, Preserved Fish                  0.5        0.0      100.0         0.5
Vegetable Oils and Fats                15.6        0.0      100.0        15.5
Food Grain Products                     4.2        0.0      100.0         4.2
Bakery Products                         8.0        0.1       99.9         7.9
Sugar Factories, Refineries            34.5       86.7       13.3        34.3
Cocoa, Chocolate, Confectionery         3.3        0.0      100.0         3.3
Foods, N.E.C. (Incl. Animal Feed)       9.6       17.1       82.9         9.6
Beverages                               8.9        1.1       98.9         8.8
Total                      100.5       33.8        66.2      l00.U
Source: SIS - Annual Manufacturing Industry Statistics.
1/ This share may be underestimated due to possible omission of small scale
establishments.
may be expected to restrain public sector investment in the future, permitting
the  private  sector  share  to  increase  once  more.   Investment  incentive
certificates may underestimate total annual investment in agroindustry, due to
the difficulty in obtaining such certificates by agroindustry (para 28). But,
at the current low share of the total they are probably all implemented.
Thus, this share can be considered as a lower bound and provide the basis for
a conservative estimate. Total fixed investment as a share of GDP is expected
to remain constant (24-25%) through 1997, and real GDP growth is expected to
be about 5X annually over the same period.'    Thus,  total  investment  and
investment in food and beverages would grow at about the same rate as GDP.
Based on the 1987 investment incentive certificate level, TLI79.2 billion
(US$209 million), annual investment in agroindustry would average about TL200
billion (US$240 million) between 1987 and 1992. The average foreign exchange
content of SPO sanctioned investments from 1984 through 1987 was 452, which
would give a foreign exchange investment in constant 1987 terms requirement of
about US$100 million annually.
1/  World  Bank  - Turkey Country  Economic  Memorandum Report  No.  7378-TU,
October 12, 1988, para 4.18 and Table 4.3.



- 37 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 17
10.      Employnent.1'   In  1985,  agroindustry accounted  for  26S  of  total
employment  in the manufacturing  sector.   Of this,  food accounted  for 491,
beverages 61, and tobacco 241.  The remainder (211), covers other foods and
animal feed, mainly the latter.  The sugar processing industry accounts for
the largest source of employment among food items (161).  Processed vegetables
and edible oils also have significant shares in total agroindustry employment
(71 and 61, respectively). Of total employment in agroindustry, the private
sector accounted for 341, with 631 in the public sector, and 3% in cooperatives
The public sector's sizeable share reflects the continued large employment in
the monopolies prior to the 1985 partial deregulation.
11.      Trade PerformaDce.   Turkey  both  exports  and  imports  agroindustry
products, but on balance is a net exporter (Table 5).  Agroindustry export
performance is the one bright spot in the subsector. Growing at about 151
Table 5: Turkey - Agroindustry, Contribution to Trade
Growth Rate
1977        1980         1985        1987    1977-87   1980-87
------------------------US$ Million 1/----------------------
Exports
Agriculture
(Curr)            1,041.2      1,671.2     1,719.4      1,852.5       -         -
(Con)2/          (1,866.0)   (2,097.5)   (2,247.6)   (1,852.5)    -0.1         -1.8
Industry            585.8      1,047.4     5,994.7      8,065.2       -         -
(1,049.8)   (1,314.2)   (7,836.2)   (8,065.2)    22.6         29.6
Agroindustry        127.4        190.2        646.5        953.9      -         -
(  228.3)   (  238.7)   (  845.2)   (  953.9)    15.4         21.9
Total         1,75?.9      2,910.1     7,958.0    10,190.0        -         -
(3,141.4)   (3,651.3)  (10,'402.6)  (10,190.0)    12.5        15.8
Imports
Agriculture         112.6         51.1        375.3        782.3      -         -
(201.8)       (64.1)     (490.6)      (782.3)    14.5       -1.8
Industry          4,421.3     4,762.3      7,341.8    10,346.6        -         -
(7,923.5)   (5,975.3)   (9,597.1)  (10,346.6)        2.7      29.6
Agroindustry         27.2        257.1        487.2        719.5      -         -
(   48.8)   (  322.6)   (  636.9)   (  719.5)    30.9         12.1
Total         5,796.3      7,909.3    11,343.4    14,163.0        -         -
(10,387.6)   (9,923.8)  (14,828.0)  (14,163.0)        3.1       5.2
Net Trade
Agriculture         928.6      1,520.9      1,344.1     1,070.2       -         -
(1,664.2)   (2,033.4)   (1,757.0)   (1,070.2)    -4.3         -8.8
Agroindustry        100.2        -66.9        159.4        234.4       -        -
(179.5)     (-83.9)      (208.3)      (234.4)      2.7      21.0
Industry        -3,835.5    -3,714.9    -1,347.1    -2,281.4          -         -
(-6,873.7)  (-4,661.1)  (-1,760.9)  (-2,281.4)    10.4          9.7
Source: SPO/EMlCO Data Information System.
1/ Data in parentheses are in constant 1987 terms.
2/ Deflator - World Bank Manufacturing Unit Value (MUV) Index, 1987=100.
1/ Based on data from SIS Manufacturing Industry Manpower and Training
Requirements Survey, 1985-86.



- 38 -
ANNEX I
Page 7 of 17
p.a. in the past 10 years, it outpaced overall export growth; although it was
outperformed by total industry exports  (Table 5).  With agroindustry  imports
growing at double the export rate, growth in net trade has not been as high
(2.71 p.a.). Agroindustry exports did not grow at the expense of agricultural
exports.   The  decline  in  agricultural  export  revenue  was  not  due  to
substitution by agroindustry exports, but because of a decline in the unit
values  of agricultural exports  between  1980 and  1987.  Agricultural export
unit values declined by 7.71 p.a. (Table 6), while total agricultural export
value declined by 1.81 p.a. (Table 5), indicating a 61 p.a. increase in the
export volume of agricultural comodities.  Some diversion to agroindustry did
occur, but this seem mainly to have been in wheat products (bulgur, semolina,
and  biscuits).   The  relatively  low  growth  in  the  volume  of  agricultural
exports was undoubtedly aided by diversion of raw cotton exports to textile
exports, which are not agroindustry exports.
Table 6: Turkey - Agriculture and Agroindustry Trade Unit Values
Growth Rate
1977          1980          1987        1977-87   1980-87
---------- US$/Ton 1/…---------         ------  p.a.--___
Exports
Agriculture
(Curr)                 618.6         988.8          707.8           -          -
(Con)2/             (1,108.6)    (1,240.7)         (707.8)         -4.4       -7.7
Agroindustry
(Curr)                 434.5         742.4       1,048.8            -          -
(Con)2/               (778.7        (931.5)    (1,048.8             3.0        1.7
Imports
Agriculture
(Curr)               1,620.7         807.4          768.1           -          -
(Con)               (2,904.5)    (1,013.1)         (768.1)        -12.5       -3.9
Agroindustry
(Curr)                 236.0         654.3          716.2           -          -
(Con)                 (422.9)       (821.0)        (716.2)          5.4       -1.9
Source: Derived from SP0/World Bank Database.
1/ Data in parenthesis in constant 1987 terms.
2/ Deflator - World Bank Manufacturing Unit Value (MUV) Index, 1987=100.
12.      Past Trade Performance.  There has been a considerable shift in the
direction and composition of Turkey's agroindustry exports between 1975 and
1984. The EC and North America's share in Turkey's total exports of agroin-
dustry products declined from 321 and 291, respectively, in 1975, to 18% and
151, respectively, in  1984  (Table  7).  This was partly due  to the  import
barriers imposed on Turkey's products, as well as the stiff competition trom
products  of superior quality from other exporting  countries.   Nonetheless,
Turkey's agroindustry exports to the EC and North America actually doubled in
real terms.  At the same time, the Middle Eastern market grew rapidly as a
result  of  increasing oil  revenue.   High quality and hygiene were  of  less



- 39 -
ANNEX I
Page 8 of 17
concern on the Middle Eastern market compared to the EC, and Turkey was
geographically and culturally well placed to take advantage of this profitable
alternative  export  outlet.   Iraq,  Iran,  Kuwait,  Algeria,  Libya,  and Saudi
Arabia account for 702 of Turkey's total agroindustrial exports to the region.
Of these,  Iraq and Iran are the principal destinations.  Libya also accounts
for a significant share (21X). While Saudi Arabia and Kuwait presently account
for only 101 of Turkey's agroindustry exports, they may represent a possible
future market of significant proportions.
Table 7: Turkey - Destination of Agroindustry Exports
(1975-1984)
Market                        1975           1979          1980          1984
Destinations                  ----------------------…--------------------
EC                            31.7          44.0            43.4          17.8
Other Western Europe          10.6           8.1             5.7           4.4
North &.Aerica                29.2           14.2           13.9          15.1
COMECON                        8.3          12.6            17.3           4.4
Middle East                    5.9           10.3           12.4          45.3
(Iran/Iraq)                 (4.1)         (4.0)           (5.8)        (34.6)
North Africa                   6.2           5.5             3.1           9.8
Asia                           5.0            2.4            4.3           2.1
Other                          3.1            2.9            8.9           1.1
100.0         100.0          100.0         100.0
Source: World Bank Trade Data Reporting System.
;,.      Composition of Expoxts.  Of the agroindustry exports,  processed meat
(primarily  mutton  and  lamb),  processed  fruit  and  vegetables,  edible  oil
(particularly olive oil) and processed nuts represent the major items (Table
8).  These products have all had shares of at least 101 of total agroindustry
exports  since  1982,  and  together  they  accounted  for  roughly  60X  of
agroindustry exports in 1985.  The processed fruits and vegetables, including
tomato paste, juice concentrate, olive oil product groups and processed fish,
are  particularly  geared  towards  the  export  markets.   Their  export/output
ratios ranged from 30-451.   However,  tobacco still accounts for the largest
share (232), although this share has declined from 351 in 1975.
14.      Composition of Impot.   Import  shares  are  much  more  skewed,  and
dominated by oils and fats (561) with processed meats a distant second (141).
Trade data indicates a substantial overlap between agroindustry imports and
exports (Table 8).  Whether or not this offers significant opportunities for
import substitution depends on the detailed nature of the individual product
groups.   Some of these are undoubtedly products not manufactured in Turkey,
while others differ significantly in quality. The latter offer potential for
import substitution.  Cigarettes, the sole component of tobacco imports is a
fairly  well  known  example  here.   The  domestic  industry  structure  (state
enterprise dominated) could make realization of import substitutes difficult.
However, the tripling of cigarette imports in 1987 over 1985,/' combined
1/ Partially the result of legalization of imports previously smuggled.



- 40 -
ANNEX I
Page 9 of 17
with partial deregulation to permit joint-ventures between the public sector
monopoly and the private sector, should provide some incentive for quality
improvement by domestic manufacturers.   Import substitutes  for animal  feed,
edible oils and fats, and processed fruits and vegetables should be feasible,
as comparative advantage in the raw material is present.
TaMe 8: Turkey - Composition of Agroindustrie EJqxrts and Imports 1985
Exports         Share        Imports         Share
Product Groups             (USs M)           (i)        (US$M3            (X)
Processed Meat                 103.9            10.4          94.7          26.5
Dairy Products                   5.6             0.6          21.6           6.0
Processed Fruit and Veg.       275.7            27.5           3.7           1.0
Canned Seafood                  63.9             6.4           0.8           0.2
Edible Oils and Fats            66.5             6.6         194.8          54.6
Food Grain Products             61.8             6.2          --             7.9
Processed Nuts                 304.8            30.4          --            --
Refined Sugar and Sugar-
based Products                63.8             6.4           3.1           0.9
Animal Feed                     14.8             1.5           6.4           1.8
Other Food                      40.2             4.0           3.9           1.1
Subtotal            1000.1           100.1         357.1         100.0
Beverages                        9.6                          27.3
Tobacco                        150.0                           3.5
Total              1,159.6                         387.9
Source: SPO unofficial estimates.
B. Ownership and Sales
15.      Overview.A'   While  the  total  number  of  firms  declined  by  542,
public sector ownership in Turkey's agroindustry subsector increased from 11l
to 222 between 1981 and 1985.  This was due to an even greater decline (60X)
in the number  of private  sector  enterprises.   The number of public sector
enterprises declined by 72 only.  But, shares of total sales are static, with
a public-private split of 45X-55X. The reduction in private sector enterprises
is in part statistical2' and in part closings and amalgamations (number
unknown).   In any event,  the reduction has not affected the private sector's
share of sales.   Patterus of concentration  and sales  among  the  subsector's
three main branches,  food, beverages, and tobacco, vary.  Of total shares in
the three, food is dominart with 800 firms and almost TL 2 trillion in sales
in 1985.  Beverages is second in terms of numbers of firms, 76, with 50 firms
in the tobacco industry.   In sales, tobacco is second, with TL 600 billion in
1985 to TL 237 billion for beverages. This reflects the traditional state
1/  Data extracted from Turkey Statistical Yearbook 1987, Table 208, Surveys
of Manufacturing Industry in Industry Group.
2/ In 1985, for the purposes of recording the minimum employment per firm
level was raised by SIS from 10 to 25.



- 41 -
ANNEX I
Page 10 of 17
monopolies in alcohol (beverages) and tobacco, which gives rise to the great
public sector concentration in these industries.   In food, 201 of the firms
and 291 of sales are in the public sector, in beverages, 301 of firms and 601
of sales are in the public sector, while in tobacco, 541 of firms and 871 of
sales are in the public sector.  As a result of public sector dominance,
sales per firm in three industries range from 2 to 5 times higher in public
sector firm  than private sector firms.
16.      SEEs.   The most direct public sector involvement in the commercial
food industry is through the SEEs.  There are six SEEs involved in agroindus-
tries:   TEKEL (tobacco and alcoholic beverages), CAYKUR (tea), SEKER (sugar),
TSEK (milk and dairy products), EBK (meat and fish) and YEMSAN (animal feed).
Most of the SEEs were established between 1928 and 1948, in order to introduce
new technology in these industries and to provide profitable, secure market
outlets for ptimary producers, while ensuring supplies to consumers. However,
since the 1970s, due to the growth of the private sector, public sector
involvement has come under serious question, particularly since the SEEs create
a net drain on the Government's budget.   The Government  is actively seeking
ways to improve the efficiency of SEEs through managerial reforms, as well as
exploring the possiblities of privatizing them and profitability has s}.own
significant improvement.  While to date none of the SEEs in the agroindustrial
subsector has been privatized, tea and tobacco--formerly state monopolies--were
opened  to private  investors  in  1985.   The brewing industry was deregulated
earlier. EBK and YEMSAN (meat and animal feed SEEs) are under close study for
possible privatization and a few partially constructed plants have been sold
to the private  sector.   The Government  is  moving  with  determination,  yet
understandably with caution, toward the privatization of SEEs.
17.      Sales Cooperatives.   Another  form  of  public  sector  involvement  are
the 21 sales cooperatives in Turkey, which are involved ir. the processing and
marketing of agricultural products.   The major commodities involved are olive
oil, hazelnuts, figs, raisins and cotton. The cooperatives' principal i mction
is to provide profitable markec outlets to farmer-members. In addition, during
high production years, they act as Government intermediaries in price support
programs.   Their  technical and  financial management  is weak and  they have
incurred heavy losses, requiring the Government to underwrite their arrears.
Government price intervention programs and deficit underwriting makes it
difficult to trace costs and weakens accountability.
18.      Holding Companies.  There  are about  20  to  25  large,  family-owned
holding companies in Turkey, with diverse interests in many sectors of the
economy.   Ole  holding  company  may  have  subsidiaries   in  manufacturing,
construction,  trading,  pharmaceuticals,  etc.   Seven holding  companies  with
significant  operations  in  agroindustries   are  shown  below.l-    Although
holding companies do not play a dominant role, they are often Lhe leaders in
their respective activities, setting quality standards for the uther producers
to match.   Their plants are generally better equipped and organized.   They
have   a  sounder   marketing   network   and,   because   of   their   size   and
long-established  reputation,  are  good  candidates  for  joint  ventures  with
foreign companies.
1/ World Bank, Turkey - Agroindustry Subsector Survey, Reporc No. 6890-TU,
Green Cover Draft, July 16, 1987, p32.



-42-
ANNEX I
Pag=e   of 17
Holding Company            Aaroindustry Activities
(1986)
YASAR                       Meat, Fish, Dairy, Feed
TAMEK                       Soft Drinks
HAS                         Juice, Vegetable & Fruit Canning
KOC                         Tomato Paste, Meat
SULTAN                      Pickled Products
DEVA                        Juice Concentrate
OKAN                        Flour-based Products
ECZALIBASI                  Processed Fruit and Vegetables
19.      Foreie  Investment.  Until  1980,  foreign  investors were discouraged
from investing in Turkey through complex regulations as well as strict laws
against  repatriation of profits.   The environment  has changed and now the
Government gives foreign investment high priority, with a special office in
SPO to coordinate all foreign investment.  The attitude of foreign investors
is also changing, although foreign investment is still slow (averaging less
than US$ 150 million per year since 1982).  The food and beverages subsector
has been of significant interest to foreign investors, notably from the USA,
Holland,  Sweden,  and West Germany  (Appendix,  Table 4).   Food and beverage
processing has accounted for between 51 to 81 of total foreign investment
approvals in all sectors of che economy since 1980, and the total value of
such investment approvals in food and beverages, between 1980-86, amounted to
US$ 124 million (approximately US$ 20 million per year).  No data on actual
investment realization are available to assess its impact, and approved
investment is likely to be much higher than actual investnent,
C.  Financial Structure and Performance
20.      Recent  Financial  Performance.    In  recent  years,   the  financial
performance of the subsector has been quite poor.  Although the losses, as a
percentage of total sales, sustained by the subsector in 1987 were less than
in 1986, the continuing lack of profitability means that the overall financial
situation  of  the  companies  in  the subsector  is worsening.   The  following
financial analysis of the subsector is based on a review of the financial
statements of 47 agroindustrial enterprises for the year 1984 through 1987.
The 1987 aggregate sales of the companies were TL247 billion and the group as
a whole reported net income for that year of TL1.5 billion. Table 9 shows the
profit and loss accounts of the companies in 1987 constant TL.
21.      The results show that during the last four years, while gross margins
remained in a narrow range of 25-29S, sales increased by 351 and operating
income by 601.   However, during the same period,  depreciation  charges have
increased by 721 and interest expenses have increased by 1221.  The companies
in the sample incurred losses in 1985 and 1986, and in 1987, profit was only
501 of what  it had been  in 1984.   Given  the prevailing level of interest
rates, both nominal and real, an operating return of only 17-231 on total
assets is clearly inadequate to compete vith other investment opportunities.
22.      Current Financia  Structure.   The  capital  structure  for  the  sample
group of enterprises during the period 1984-87 (Table 10), shows that the
financial structure of the group changed significantly during the period with
long term debt increasing by 591 and equity dropping from 421 of total capital
employed to only 351.



- 43 -
ANNEX I
Page 12 of 17
Table 9:. Turkey - Colidated Profit & Los Data for Agroindustry
1984          1985          1986          1987
------1987 Constant TL Billions
Sales                           182.1          179.4         227.5         246.5
Cost of Sales                   131.6          134.8         165.8         174.4
Gross tarnings                   50.6           44.6          61.7          72.2
Other Operating Expenses          22.7          19.7          26.7          27.4
Operating Income                  27.8          24.9          35.0          44.8
Depreciation E Amort.            12.0           14.4          19.8          20.7
Income Before Int. Exp.          15.9           10.5          15.2          24.1
Interest Expense                  8.6           11.8          17.8          19.1
Income Before Taxes)              7.3           (1.3)         (2.6)          5.0
Income Taxes                      4.1            1.9           2.1           3.5
Net Income                      3.2           (32)         ( 4.8)          1.5
Returns - X
Gross Earnings:  Sales           28             25            27            29
Oper. Income: Fixed Assets       44             39            51            63
Oper. Income: Total Assets       20             17            19            23
Net Income:  Assets             2.4           (2.1)         (2.5)         (0.8)
Net Income:  Equity             5.7           (5.1)         (7.0)          2.3
Source:  Mission data from PCIs.
Table 10: Turkey - Agroindustry Capital Structure
Item                             1'984           1985          1986          1987
---1987 Constant TL Billions--------
Assets
Current Assets                   69             79           108           114
Net Fixed Assets                 64             63            69            71
Other Assets                      8              6             9             6
Total                   141           147           187           191
Liabilities
Current                          41             46            68            61
Term Loalns                      34             34            45            54
Other                              7             7             8             9
Total                     82            87           120           125
Equity
Paid-In                          26             28            35            33
Retained Earnings                  9             4             4             7
Revaluation Reserve              24             29            27            28
Total                     59            61            67            67
Total Liabilities & Equity    141              147           187           192
Ratios
Current                         1.7            1.7           1.6           1.9
Debt:  Equity                   1.4            1.4           1.8           1.9
Source: Mission data from PCIs.



- 44 -
ANNEX I
Page 13 of 17
23.      These findings are amplified by an analysis of the investments made
by these enterprises and the means by which these investments were financed
(Table 11).  While the total amount of debt has been increasing, repayments of
debt have been declining. This result, coupled vith the 501 growth in current
liabilities, suggests that the total loan arrears of the group are growing.
Furthermore, as noted above, the equity base of the companies in the sample
has been declining inspite of the fact that, during the period, equity
contributions exceeded new borrowings by 431.
Table 11: Turkey - Agroindustry Investment and Sources of Financing
Item                             1984          1985          1986          1987
---       1987 Constant Tl Billions--------
Application of Funds
Fixed Assets                   35            35            38            42
Investments                     7             5             7             6
Inventories & Receivables    18              19            36            27
Repayment of Loans              9             9             5             3
Dividends                       0             0             0             0
Other                           7            18            21            21
Total                   76           87            108           100
Sources of Funds From Operations
- Net Income                  3            (3)           (5)            2
- Depreciation & Amort.    12              14            20            21
Loans                          14            25            27            15
Equity Funds                   28            29            30            29
Creditors (Non-bank)           12            13            31            23
Other                           7             9             5            11
Total                _77            87            108           100
Source: Mission data from PCIs.
24.      Loss  of  Creditworthiness.   An  analysis   of   the   1987   financial
statements of a sample of 73 companies indicates that 58 of the companies
might not be considered capable of taking on more debt.  The reasons for loss
of creditworthiness are outlined in Table 12 below.
Table 12: Turkey - Creditworthiness of Agroindustry Enterprises
Item                                   Number       Share
Number of Companies:  in Sample             73          1002
Not Creditworthy Because of
Track Record
- Negative Retained Earnings              21           29Z
- Negative Net Worth (Excl.
Revaluation Reserve)                     6            12
Current Ratio < 1.0                       12           161
Debt Service Coverage < 1.5               44           601
Debt Equity Ratio > 1.0                   45           621
Total Not Creditworthy             58           80%
Source:  Mission data from PCIs.



- 45 -
AMEX I
Page 14 of 17
25.      The Need for Restructuring.   The  foregoing  analysis  indicates  that
the overall earnings performance of the sector is poor and it is this poor
performance, coupled with high interest rates, which has left many agroin-
dustrial enterprises under-capitalized and uncreditworthy.   Thus, along with
financial restructuring, the sector must generate higher returns on capital
employed through better management, marketing, and technology.  In the case of
extremely distressed companies, it is likely that financial restructuring will
also result in a change in ownership and management.  In other cases, existing
management will require strengthening. At present, with the exceptions of TKB
and possibly KOY TUR, institutions in Turkey have no significant experience in
financial and organization restructuring and rehabilitation of agroindustrial
enterprises.  It will be necessary, as a component of the project, to assure
that the participating financial intermediaries have the capability to design
and implement enterprise restructuring programs.
D. Domestic and Export Demand Prospect
26.      Domestic Consumption Pattern.  Cconsumption of agroindustry products
in the Turkish domestic market is affected by four main factors: the total
size and growth of the pop ilption, its rural/urban distribution, incone growth
and distribution,  and chant    .a relative  prices  of agroindustry products.
Turkey's population is now a,    -- million, with a 2.2Z annual growth rate.
About half the total population is in urban areas, and growing at 41 to 5X
annually.   Per capita consumption levels for all agroindustry products are
significantly higher in cities than in villages, except for butter and yogurt
(Table  13).   Urban consumption levels,  relative  to those of villages,  are
highest in red meat, edible oils, tonaro paste, canned vegetables
and fruit juices.
27.      Demand Projections.   Between  1981-85,  real  income  per  capita  in
Turkey increased at an annual average rate of 2.22, and is projected to
continue growing at an annual rate of 2.82 through 1995. Average income
Table 13: Turkey - Comparison of Urban and Rural Per Capita Consumption
Urban                  Rural
----Kg/Capita Per Anuium----
Butter                                  1.7                    2.6
Cheese                                  4.0                    2.6
Yogurt                                 15.4                   16.3
Red Meat                               17.2                    4.0
Edible Oils                             5.6                    2.6
Tomato Paste                            1.2                    0.3
Canned Vegetables                       0.8                    0.3
Fruit Juices                            0.3                    0.0
Source: State Institute of Statistics, 1978-79 Consumption Survey



- 46 -
ANNEX I
Page 15 of 17
elasticities of demand for processed food products range between 0.03 for
olive oil and sugar-based products to nearly 0.6 for canned vegetables
(Appendix, Table 6). Output prices for agroindustry products are market-
determined.   Price  projections  are  incorporated  into  the demand analysis
based on available data covering ex-factory prices for the period 1981-85.
28.      A moderate increase  in the domestic demand for most agroindustry
products over the next five years  is projected.  The demand projections,
reviewed with officials of SPO Economic Planning Department, are sumarized
below.-'  Fruit juices and red meat have the highest projected growth rates
over the next decade (4.8X), and processed fruit and vegetables and tomato
paste,  the lowest (2.31).  The main reason for the modest demand increases
for these products is the strong competition from fresh produce, now
generally available throughout the year.
29.      Domestic  Marketina  Channels  and  Costs.   The  structure  of  the
domestic marketing channels ard cost are determined by the size of the market
and the type of product. Institutional buyers (factories, hospitals, schools,
and the military) are served directly by producers without intermediaries.
In other cases, wholesalers and retailers are used by the producers to market
their output.  The number of intermedieries varies from product to produict.
On average, wholesalers' and retailers' margins amount to 231 of sale prices;
this is low compared to Europe and the U.S.   uice bottlers and olive oil
producers are adopting more aggressive ar- modern retail techniques, which
will  further  reduce  the  margins.   On  the  whole,  the  domestic  marketing
channels are effective and costs are reasonable.
Table 14: Turkey - Demand Projections for Agroiudustry Products
1985 Consump-         Projected         1990 Consump-
tion Level          Growth Rate         tion Level
('000 Tons)          (Z p.a.)           ('000 Tons)
Product Group
Red Meat                  530.0                   4.8               670.0
Olive Oil                  80.0                   3.0                92.7
Fruit Juice                33.4                   4.8                42.2
Tomato Paste               55.0                   2.3                61.6
Processed Fruit & Veg.    23.4                    2.3                26.2
Milk                    2,000.0                   4.0             2,433.3
Source:  SPO Annual Program 1987; 1985 Consumption Level.  Danismanlik,
Domestic Demand for Agroindustry Products in Turkey, October 1986.
30.      Export Pospects.  Fruit juice concentrate (apple,  apricot,  citrus,
etc.), tomato paste, fresh cut lamb and mutton present the greatest export
opportunities for Turkey's future growth. The potential export
1/  Details  are  presented  in  World  Bank,  Turkey-Agroindustry  Subsector
Review, Report No. 6890-TU, Greer. Cover  raft, July 16, 1987.  Annex 3.



- 47 -
ANNEX I
Page 16 of 17
markets  for  these  items  were  identified.   Olive  oil  also  shows  some
prospects,  particularly  on  the  Egyptian  and  possibly  the  U.S.  marets.
However, it faces strong competition from EC producers which control over 901
of  the  world  market.   Processed  fish,  fruit,  vegetables,  and  meat  have
limited export growth opportunities.  These conclusions are based on a review
of the past performance and future prospects of individual Turkish products
in various export markets, together with an assessment of the processing
systems for the various products in the light of the export markets' needs
all supplemented by a statistical analysis of the export prospects.  In key
export markets, '  a survey was carried out  to determine  the size of  the
markets, Turkey's present share, the competitiveness of Turkey's products on
the basis of price and quality, import barriers, foreign competition, and
realistic prospects for selected Turkish agroindustry products.  As a result
of this examination, a matrix has been prepared (Appendix, Table 5) which
establishes  the Turkish export market prospects by product.  Export growth
prospects (Table 15) for individual commodities have been estimated up to
1990 (for details, see Appendix, Table 6).2/
Table 15. Ttukey - Agroindustry Export Demand Projections
1985       Projected    1990 Export
Exports    Growth Rate        Level
Product Groups                           (Tons)       (2 p.a.)         (Tons)
Fresh and Processed Meat                 39,200          1.8          42,857
Processed Fish                           17,600          4.0          21,413
Olive Oil I'                             23,900         25.6           74,704
Fruit Juices                              7,900         22.8          22,000
Tomato Paste                             76,900          9.8         122,672
Processed Fruit & Vegetables             15,200         12.2          27,028
l/ The EC (Spain, Italy, Greece, Portugal, and France) accounts for over
90% of world olive oil production.
Source: 1985 Export Levels, SPO 1987 Annual Program; Projections GIRA Export
Marketing Analysis, December 1986.
E. Marketing Constraints
31.      Turkish agroindustry  products  are marked by  ineffective marketing
organizations, strategies, and institutions.  Among these, the most important
deficiencies are product promotion, personai marketing contacts, packaging,
1/ Egypt, Algeria, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, France, Germany The United Kingdom,
Spain, Switzerland, Sweden, the Netherlands, the United States and Canal.
Iran and Iraq, which represented 35% of Turkey's 1985 agroindustry
exports, were not visited due to the war.  A more detailed explanation of
how the export analysis was carried out is given in World Bank, Turkey -
Agroindustry Subsector Review.  Report No. 6890-TU.  Green Cover Draft,
July 16, 1987, Annex 3, Appendix.
2/ Since the survey additional export opportunities have arisen as European
importers seek new sources of processed fruits, fruit juices, and
vegetables to replace traditional sources in South Africa.



- 48 -
ANNEX I
Page 17 of 17
quality control, and reliability of delivery.   These constraints are  to a
large extent an outcome of the inward-looking strategy of the 1970s which
focused principally on the domestic market.   The deficiencies  in domestic
production have become more evident as Turkey attempts to expand its exports
into highly competitive foreign markets.



TU3!I( Y
ARONWMSIRY PRQAUI
STAFF APPRAiAL RLPORT
Table 1: jUffky C_m_ari4g_Lgf_Sectorai Share in GIP
Current TL Billibn
_9t2      _          198I   _             1984       -         1985                 1986                1937
S Share             S Share              S Share              S Share              S Share              t Share
Current    GAP      LurrenL    GDP       Curren-t . GA.   Currgnt.  _WDPP r Lrn                l?      CurranL -S --
A   Agracultuie            1,67B    20.3        2.118    19.5        3,397    19.5       4,790    18.7        6.585    18.5        9,O9S    17.5
B.  Industry               2.191    27.0        3.104    28.b        5.110    29.5       8,061    31.6       11.353    31.9       16,809    32.2
Hanufactuvlmq         1.197    14.7        1,709    15.7       2.944    17.0        4.486    17.6        8.995    2S.3       13.SS2    20.0
Agroindiit'ry           616      7.6          88     8.1       1,262      7.2       1.923      7.5       2.702      7.6        n a      n.a.
C.  Service%               4.z37    52Z Z        .__Q    Sl 9        8,8tL9   !9         1ZA?75    t7        Z?7.A69    4i.       Z.2Z17    5Q1
lotal GDP            at t-) IQQQ         10,_71   IQQ9        L7i4-9   IQQ Q        5.Rb _9I            LAQ,62    Lo°A Q     2.1Q    lo L
'.oalce: SPVL Main Econc6ic Indicators 1986/87; Turkey Data Information Service. EHICO
Ia1
F 



-50 -                                   ANNEX 1
APPENDIX
Table 2
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 2: TURKEY. - Growth Rates of Sectoral GDP 1/
Point to
1987   Point
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    Est.   1982-87
______________________Z_ ---------------------% p.a.-
A.  Agriculture             6.4    -0.1       3.7      2.2     8.0      1.8      3.1
B.  Industry                5.0      8.2      9.3     6.1      8.8    10.0       8.6
1. Total Manufacturing   5.6        7.3    17.0      5.5      9.7    10.2      8.8
2. Agroindustry            5.6    12.3       2.0     5.6      9.8      n.a     5.2 2/
C.  Services                4.8      4.1      5.8     3.6      6.5      6.7      5.3
Total GDP          5.0      3.7      5.8     4.8      7.3      6.5      5.6
1/ Based on 1986 constant GDP.
2/ 1982-1986
Source: SPO, Main Economic Indicators, 1986;
Turkey Data Information Service, EMlCO



TURKLY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
S-1-Af [ APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 3:  TAIRLY   CWWAar)iQn Of jecQrtl Share in G_P
In Constant 1968 Prices - TL Billion
_I.flZ~..          ~                      194 __ _   19B3 ..1984 ____ _             1986            -          -
S Share              S Share              S Share              S Share             S Share              I Share
Current   _GDP       Current   _fGDP      Curre t    GQP--_   CIarSf ea     DPE    Current  __GQML_   czurrent  __DP_
A.  Agriculture            48.2      23.6        48.1     22.7       49.8      22.1        51.0     21.8       55.1      22.1       56.1      21.0
B.  Industry               46.0      22.5       49.7      23.4        54.7     24.3       58.1      24.8       63.2      2S.1       67.S      26.0
Kanufacturing         37.7      18.5       40.9      19.3       45.1      20.1       47.6      20.3       52.2      20.8       S7.5      21.S
AgroinduNtr-y         12.8       6.3       13.95      6.6       13.53      6.0       14.28      6.1       15.68      6.2        n.a.      n.a.
C.  Services               IQ2 9     53A        11i       _13        1201 I     L5        1_251     51i      1UE2                  14S l2.1     5
Total GOP            ?Q942    !QQJQ    Z_2.1    lmQ 1           1.9 22   IQQ-Q      2134      lOO, ZQ L4           1.OL,      ZkLl    1lD00
Source:  SPO. Main Economic Indicators 1986/87; Turkey Data Information Service. EM2DA.
'I 
3iu



- 52 -                                 ANNEX 1
APPENDIX
Table 4
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Asgroindustry Ownership and Sales by OwnershiD
1981-1987
1981 _                   1983          S        1985 _
Nuimbr of Firms               1861.00         100       800.00        100      801.00       100
-Public                     1720.00          9        167.00        21       156.00       20
-Private                    1689.00         91        633.00         79      645.00       80
Total Sales                    848.50         100       802.90        100      1947.20      100
-Public                      156.80         32        298.00         37      556.90        29
-Private                     327.70         68        504.90        63      1390.30        71
Sales Per Firm                   0.26         100          1.00       100         2.43      100
-Public                        0.91        250           1.78       178         3.57      147
-Private                       0.           73          0.80        80          2.16       89
Beverages
Number of Firms                  91.00        100         67.00       100        76.00      100
-Public                       23.00         25         24.00         36        23.00       30
-Private                      68.00          75        43.00         64        53.00       70
Total Sales (TLB)               57.70         100         96.80       100       236.60      100
-Public                       33.60         58         48.50         50       141.50       60
-Private                      24.10         42         48.30         50       95.10       40
Sales Per Firm (TLB)             0.63         100          1.44       100         3.11      100
-Public                        1.46        232          2.02        140         6.15      198
-Private                       0.35         56           1.12        78         1.79       58
Tobacco
Number of Firms                 42.00         100         55.00       100        50.00      100
-Public                       26.00         62         27.00        49        27.00        54
-Private                      16.00         38         28.00        81        23.00       46
Total Sales (TLB)              110.40         100       260.60        100       610.10      100
-Public                      101.40         92        225.00        86       532.80       87
-Private                       9.00          8         35.60         14       77.30        13
Sal,. Per Firm (TLB)              2.63        100          4.74       100        12.20      100
-Public                        3.90        148          8.33        176       19.73       162
-Private                       0.56         21          1.27        27          3.36      28
Total Agroindustry
Number of Firmu               1994.00         100        922.00       100       927.00      100
-Public                      221.00         11        218.00         24      206.00        22
-Private                    1773.00         89        704.00         76      721.00        78
Total Sales (TLB)              652.60         100       1150.30       100      2793.90      100
-Public                      291.80         45        571.50        49      1231.20       44
-Private                     360.80         55        588.80         51     1562.70        56
Sales Per Firm (TLB)             0.33         100         12.6        100         3.01      100
-Public                        1.32        400          2.62        208         5.98      199
-Private                       0.20         62          0.84        66          2.17       72
Source:  s5s - Statistical Yearbook of Turkey 1987, Table 208.



- 53 -
ANNEX I
APtEND tX
Table S
TURKEY
AGROINOUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Foreign Particioat ion in the Aoroaroces ind Sector of Turkev
(No. of Investment Permission Granted)
Port-
No. of Per-  Foreign   Expan-    New In-   Capital  folio In-
m s s  to  S Capital    Sion    vestment  Increase  YeILIIRf
1986 Up   Food & Beverage                9.00       1.23       0.39       0.46       0.38       0.00
to Aug.   All Manufacturing             76.00      59.44       1.48       3.36      38.24      16.36
All Sectors                 180.00    177.00        3.04    113.42       41.95      18.58
: Share of F&B in
all Sectors                 5.00       0.69      12.83       0.41       0.91       0.00
1985      Food & Beverage               18.00      26.85       0.00      12.32      12.42       2.01
All Manufacturing           115.00    142.89        7.10      77.67      39.09      21.01
All Sectors                 317.00    234.50        8.65    146.74       5S.67      23.42
% Share of F&B
in all Sectors              5.68      11.45       0.00       8.46      22.31       8.58
1984      Food & Beverage               16.00      23.93      16.91       0.27       6.46       0.29
All Manufacturing            98.00     185.92      27.38    130.14       24.33       4.05
All Sectors                 246.00    271.36       28.14    172.40       58.62      12.18
% Share of F&B
in All Sectors              6.50       8.82      60.09       0.16      11.02       2.38
1983      Food & Beverage                7.00       8.03       0.00       1.52       6.51       0.00
All Manufacturing           124.00      88.93      44.60       16.16     24.22       3.95
All Sectors                 144.00    104.72       44.73      22.77      29.60       5.64
% Share of F&B
in All Sectors              4.86       7.67       0.00       6.68      21.99       0.00
1982      Food & Beverage               10.0C      11.01       0.00       2.24       8.27       0.50
All Manufacturing            82.UO      98.54        1.81     30.76      45.31      20.66
All Sectors                 103.00    167.00       20.70      76.37      47.57      22.36
% Share of F&B
in All Sectors              9.71       6.59       0.00       2.93      17.38       2.24
1981      Food & Beverage               11.00      37.18       4.78       6.93      10.62      14.85
All Manufacturing            89.00    246.54       50.44      55.64      34.02    105.42
All Sectors                 112.00    337.51       51.42      22.47      56.92    106.30
% Share of F&B
in All Sectors              9.82      11.02       9.30       5.64      18.66      13.97
1980      Food & Beverage                5.00      15.91       5.88       0.00      10.02       0.00
All Manufacturing            43.00      88.76      24.82      39.62      24.62       0.00
All Sectors                  48.00      97.00      24.82      47.32      24.86       0.00
5 Share of F&S
in All Sectors             10.42      16.40      23.73       0.00      40.31       -
I/  Manufacturing components under Oecree 6224.
Source:  World Bank, Turkey - Agroirdustry Subsector Review.  Green Cover Draft,
Report No. 6890-TU, Volume II. Annex 4. Table 1 (YSS, SPO).



AGRONDUSRYERJCT
STAFF APPRAISAL IRLPlRI
Results of Detailed EAoort Marketina Survey
Present           Future Markets
Principal        With Opportunities
I.    Highest Export          Market             In order of             Main
Onnortunities        Destinti              Imortance            Cia t i tors         PicioaAl    Q       iLH  nderina Turikish Esxort Grow
(a)  Tomato Paste         Iraq                  Saudi Arabia         Italy                (1)  Lack of promotional marketing intelligence
Japan                U.S.A.               Greece                (Z) PAckaging   following country tech. specs.
U.K.                 Egypt                Portugal              (1)  Qaalaty cont-ol (acidity levels. consistency.
U.S.A.                                    Spain                      of product
(4) Diversification of product
(b)  Fruit Juice: Apple  U.S.A.                West Germany          Citrus-Brazil        (1)  U.ireliable. raw material supply
Apricot, etc.        Canada               U.S.A.                Apple. Other         (2)  Peckagsing piublems
West Germany         U.S.A.               Poland, vugolavia   (3)  Ldck of likarket intelligence for improved
Citrus               Iraq                 Switzerland                                     product speiification
(c) Olive Oil             EEC (Semi-refined)  Kuwait                 Spain                (1)  Unreliable supply
Libya                Europe               Italy                 (21  liconsistent quality and unreliable delivery
U.S S.R.             U.S.A.               Greece                (3)  Lack of market intelligence and promotion
Gulf                 Saudi Arabia         Tunisia
(d)  Fre,h Cut Lamb/      Iraq                  Saudi Arabia         Australia/           (1  Packaguig
Kuwait                                    New Zeland            (2)  Unrelidble deliveries
Jordan                                    Romania
Bulgaria
11.   Limited Oooortunjjjes
(a)  Canned Fish          Middle East           Egypt                Italy                (1)  Unreliable raw material supply
U.S.A.               Spain                (2)  Lack of processing kiiow-how and equipment
India                     to produce high quality products
U .S.A.
lb)  Canned Fruit         Western Europe        Kuwait               Western/Eastern      (1)  Saturated markei.- low demand
Saudi Arabia         Europe
Ic)  Canned Vegetables   Western Europe         Europe               Western Europe       (1)  Highly competitive markets
U.S.A.               U.S.A
Saudi Arabia         Eastern Europe
(d)  ProcesNed Heat       Middle East           Hot strong           Eastern Europe       (1)  S9nall scale production; Turkey has no                 x
reputatioil ifi this area                        0'
Source:  Wnrld Bank Turkey   Agroindustry Subsector Review, Report No. 6890 TU.  Green Cover Oraft
July 16. 1987. Atnex 3, Table 10.



- 55 -                            A".EX 1
Table 7
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Turkey   Export ogportunities and Proiections (Tonnages)
Annual
Growth Rates
1985              1990          1985-90
Livestock, Fresh,
and Processed Meat
Middle East                         39,200            42,857             1.8
Europe                                   0                  0            0.0
Total                    39,200            42,857             1.8
Processed Fish
Middle East                         13,798             17,611            5.0
Europe                               2,288              2,288            0.0
North America                        1,514              1,514            0.0
Total                    17,600             21,413            4.0
Olive Oil
Middle East                          4,708             15,425           27.0
Europe                              17,447            54,534            25.0
North America                        1,744              4,745          112.0
Total                    23,900             74,704           25.0
Fruit Juices
Middle East                          1,106              1,320            3.6
Europe                               2,607              7,920           24.8
North America                        4,187            12,760            24.9
Total                     7,900             22,000           22.8
Tomato Paste
Asia                                24,608            40,482            10.4
Middle East                         23,070             35,754            9.0
Europe                              19,994            22,080             2.0
North America                        9,228             24,534           21.6
76,900           122,672            9.8
Processed Fruit
and Vegetables
Middle EAst                         15,200             27,028           12.2
Europe                                   0                  0            0.0
North America                            0                  0            0.0
15,2C0             7,028           12.2
Source:  World Bank, Turkey - Agroindustry Subsector Review.  Green Cover Draft
Report No. 6890-TU, Main Report, Volume II, Annex III, Table 11,
July 1987 (1985 Export Levels, Turkey Annual Development Porgram, SPO
1987, 1990 Projections, Export Marketing Consultant Study).



TURKEY
ARCLgDuSTRY PRgAE;T
SIAff APPRAISAL REPORT
Tufkeyr  SWu_y1Oemand An&11.i2
1985 Base Year
1985 1990 Projections
Projected Growth       Projected Growth
in Dmestic Demand       In Export Demnd
E'stimated  Domestic             Balance   Capacity               Incre-                 Incre-    Balxnce   Capacity
Installed  Consump-              (Unused    Utili                 mental       I        mental    lUnused    Utili-
.Capac it  t.__lg.__  Exports  C.acjtyi    -zatLion     D,LAu     Volum       R.9 ValG    CaMacitLl   zation
------------ -OOOTons--            ------      ----             (000 Tons- --                    -- 000 Tons--------
Heat (Fresh Cut
Processed)            1,397.0      530.0       39.2      827.8      41.0       4.8       140.0       1.8          3.7      664.1       49.0
Processed Fish              75.0      20.5       17.6       36.9       51.0      NA.         -         4.0          -           -         -
Olive Oil                  200.0      80.0       23.9       96.1       52.0       3.0       12.7      25.6         50.8       32.6       84.0
Fruit Juices               359.9      33.4        7.9      31  b       12.0      4.8         8.8      25.0          7.0      302.8       16.0
lomato Paste               252.6      55.0       76.9      120.7       52.0      2.3         6.6      14.0         71.2       42.9       83.0
Prucessed fruit
and Vegetables           94.2       23.4       15.2       55.b      41.0      23.          2.8      10.0         2.2        50.6       46.0
Sources,   SPO 1987 Annual Program; Mission Estimates; Oomestic Projections:  See Working Paper entitled 'Domestic Demand for Agroindustry
Products in Turkey', prepared by M. Gencaga (Consultant) October 4. 1986. Export projections were prepared by GIRA Consultants
a% part of their export mariketing analysis. December 1986.
*3
1, a
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                  



-57-                                  ANNEX I
APPENDIX
Table 9
TURItEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Cgmarison of Production Caaacitv with Prodution Targets for Aaro-Industry Products
! ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~I J.IaM 9JI9                                          133         £
It ("eat)
(Seledlye NSz Zaric)                     .53.000       -12.430       -48.000       -118.100        -
(Munielm. Slaugterhouses Excluded)
S;t (Milk)
(leme S;t;) (Drinking Milk)               *210.000      4161.000        .93.000         -           -
Un (Flour)                              +7.135.680   *7.800.180   *7.505.180   +6.683.180           59S
Makarna (Macaroni)                          *84.372      .128.072      +119.072      +103.372       72%
Bisk;vi (Biscuits)                         +23.384        +10.884        -2.616       -16.616      104%
Margarin (Margarine)                      +136.385       .116.385       +94.385       +69.385       88%
Rafine Bit Yag (Vegetable Oil)             +700.522      .684.222      .670.522      +652.522        51S
Zeytinyagi (Olive Oil)                     .114.424      +109.624      .107.824       +84.824       62%
Oondurulmujs Meyve Sebze (Frozen Fruit)   +7.112           -2.100       -13.400       -21.100      ISlS
Kurutulmus Sebze (Dried Fruit)               +2.000        .1.600        .1.300        +1.200       76%
Meyve Sebze Konserve (Canned Fruit)         *59.469       .56.969       *52.269       .46.569       53S
Meyve Suyu (Fruit Juice)                   +137.500      0135,500      .132.500      .129.200       32%
Domates Salcasi (Tomato Paste)             *83.480        +84.480       +79.480       .74.980       72S
Yem (Animal Feed)                           .81.300      .409.000   -1.090.700   -1.174.700        128.
Note:     i indicates surplus capacity
- indicates deficit capacity
Source: SPO, May 1988 - informal estimates.



- 58 -
ANNEX 1
Table 10
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Production Proiection for Agro-Industry Products
1988          1989          1990          1991
Uretim                                         Program        --------Projected---------
…______-…-----…000 Tons-----------------
ET (Meat)                                           647            721           785         855,4
Beyaz Et (White Meat)                               105          116,6           129           228
Isl. Incme Sutu (Drinking Milk)                     130            179          247            340
Yogurt  (Yogurt)                                    487            528           573           622
Un + Irmik (Flour & Semolina)                      8547           8819         9114           9435
Makarna (Macaroni)                                  247          256,3        265,3          275,3
Biskuvi (Biscuits)                                  241          253,5           267           291
Margarin (Margarine)                                426            446           468           493
Rafine Bit Yag (Vegetable Oil)                      263            279.3         293           311
Zeytinyagi (Olive Oil)                              100          110,6        122,4          135,4
Donduru'mus Meyve Sebze ;Frozen Fruit)               34           43,2         54,5           62,2
Kurutulmus Sebze (Dried Fruit)                        3            3,4          3,7            3,8
Meyve Sebze Konserve (Canned Fruit)                  39             43         47,7           53,4
Meyve Suyu (Fruit Juice)                             53           55,5            58          61,3
Domates Salcasi (Tomato Paste)                      170            180           185         189,5
Yem (Animal Feed)                                  3975        4577,3          5259           5343
Cay (Tea)                                           148          126,5        129,7            133
Source: SPO, May 1988 - informal estimates.



- 59 -                                 AMh    I
APPE.NDIX
Table 11
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Domestic Demand Projection for Agro-Industry Products
1988    Annual Ave.   1989        1990      1991
Domestic Demand                         Program   Increase       --      Projected------
(2)      --…    000 Tons------
ET  (Kirmizi) Red Meat                      630          6         668       708   743,4
Kumes Hayvan Eti (Poultry Meat)             100         10         110       121      133
Isl. lacme Sutu (Drinking Milk)             130         38         179       247      340
Yogurt  (Yogurt)                            487        8,5         528       573      622
Un + Irmik (Flour & Semolina)             8,297        2,5       8,504    8,717   8,935
Makarna (Macaroni)                          230        3,5         238       246      255
Biskiivi (Biscuits)                         226          5         237       249      261
Margarin (Margarine)                        361        2,9         371       382      393
Rafine Bit Yag (Vegetable Oil)              220        3,5         228       235      244
Zeytinyagi (Olive Oil)                       60          6        63,6      67,4    71,4
Dondurulmus Meyve Sebze (Frozen Fruit)   12             35        16,2      21,8    29,5
Kurutulmus Sebze (Dried Fruit)                2          2           2       2,1      2,1
Meyve Sebze Konserve (Canned Fruit)          27        3,5        28,0        29    30,0
Meyve Suyu (Fruit Juice)                     38        2,8          39        40    41,3
Domates Salcasi (Tomato Paste)               60        2,5        61,5        63    64,5
Yem (Animal Feed)                         3,899         15       4,483.8  5,156   5,230
Cay (Tea)                                   122        2,2       124,6    127,4       130
Source: SPO, May 1988 - informal estimates.



- 60 -                                ANNEX 1
APPENDIX
Table 12
TURKEY
AGRO INDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Ex2ort Proiections for Agro-Industry Products
1988    Annual Ave.   1989       1990      1991
Exports                                Program   Increase       --      Projected- ---
(Y,)     -------000 Tons------
ET  (Kirmizi) Red Meat                    37,0         45          53        77      112
Kumes Hayvan Eti (Poultry Meat)            5,5         20         6,6         8      9,5
Isl. Incme Sutu (Drinking Milk)            0,3         20         6,6         8      9,5
Yogurt  (Yogurt)                              -        20         6,6         8      9,5
Un + Irmik (Flour & Semolina)              250         26         315       397      500
Makarna (Macaroni)                        17,5          5        18,3      19,3    20,2
Biskuvi (Biscuit)                            15        10        16,5        18       20
Margarin (Margarine)                         65        15           75       86      100
Rafine Bic Yag (Vegetable Oil)              45         14        51,3        58       67
Zeytinyagi (Olive Oil)                      40         17          47        55       64
Dondurulmus Meyve Sebze (Frozen Fruit)   22            22          27      32,7       40
Kurutulmus Sebze (Dried Fruit)             1,3         10         1,4       1,6      1,7
Meyve Sebze Konserve (Canned Fruit)          12        25          15      18,7    23,4
Meyve Suyu + Konsantre (Fruit Juice)         15        10        16,5        18       20
Domates Salcasi (Tomato Paste)             115          3       118,5       122      125
Yem (Animal Feed)                           85         10        93,5       103      113
Cay (Tea)                                   1,5        26         1,9       2,3        3
Source:  SPO, May 1988 - informal estimates.



TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
STAff APPRAISAL REPORT
SPO Aaro-Industry lnvestnnt Incentives CerL1ficaLe sin_2M  /1
Ca&cit  Increase and Modernization                      =IatInst_ nt 
Product Group                            Total        Fixed          Foreign                           Total       Fixed        Foreign
Capacity   Investment  Investment        Exchange            Capacity   Investment  Investmmnt    Exchang
T7Y      -------TL Million-----                            --T         ------TE Million----IM
Siit (Milk)                      119,360         9.189       5,202         4.3z7            43.500         4.011       2.,99       1.4S1
Zeytinyagi (Olive Oil)           126.800         4.309       3,440           675           205,350        12.233       7,504       3.455
Rafitne Bit Vag (Vegetable Oil)   3.600            919         546           443             5.600         1.909         9"        1.143
Cay (Tea)                           -              -            -             -                770         7.328       4a"M        2.042
Un i Irmik (Flour & Semolina)  279.000           5.363       3,091         1.782           621.680        24,38O      14.376       6.793
Yam (Animl Feed)                223.600          1.763         779            27            59,000         1.470         649         124
ET  (Kirmizi) Red Meat              -              -           -              -              7.970        2.430        1,306       1,475
ET imAilleri (Heat Product)                       -                           -                600           720         4"          386
Makarna (Macaroni)                         -             -                    -             10,000           700         497         123
Hargarin (Margarine)                -              -           -              -               -              -           --           -
Domtes Salcasi (Tomato Paste)        900          296          192           138              -              -           -            -
Heyve Suyu (fruit Juice)          21.120           308         170           185                     -             -                  -
Meyve Sebze Kon. (Canned Fruit)   -                -           -              -              4.600           305         170         160
Biskuvi (Biscuits)                6,800         1058         --2fi           210               -             -            -           -
23.705      14.092         7,787                          55.4K       33.649      17.162
Source:  SPO. May 1988 - informl estimates.
1  Anticipated status of investments under estimate incentives program in 1988                                                                 'Ii



- 62 -
ANNEX 1
APPEhOIX
Table 14
AGR0!NOuJSTQY PROJEC~T
STAFF APPAISAL REPeRT
Sactgral Backaround of Investm_nt Ineentive Certiticates (19841
Foreign                                    Direct
Exchange                  Total    Forelan Exchange
No. of      Total    Working    Require-        Employ-   Invest.                  Per
Certif.   Invest, Cfaoltal          ment           wmnt    eZr..b   Per Job  Invest.
--    TL H------  (S  1000)    (Person)   -TL   -                 1000-----
Agriculture                       107       22.072      4.835        4,697      2.093
Vegetable Products              9        1.757        232          284        304          -
Animal Husbandry               79       15,347      3.921        2.070      1,247          -
Water Products                 19        4,968        682        2,343        542
Forestry                        0            0          0            0          0         -
Mining                             53      214.472      4.791      240.308       6.061         --
Manufacturing                     543      557,723    43.596       580.517    36.116           -
Food & Beverages               99       75.675      9,649       48.153      5,078        14.9        9.S      469.5
Textiles & Clothing           147     224,447    14,777        277.992    15,953          -
Forestry Products               7        1,398        137          683        338
Paper                           3        1,653        176        1,233        187
Leather & Leather Prod.        16        6,408      1.886        4,555      1,811          -
Rubber                          9        2.282        294        2.499        143          -
Chemicals                      47       54.322      3,769       53,324      2,346
Glassware                       3        1,604          0        1,597         65
Iron & Steel                   18      17,391         829       22,531        486
Mon Ferrous Metals              8        1,444        225        1.039        124
Transport Vehicles             43      63.256      1536        59,077      2,076
Metal Goods                    23        9.169        577       10,316        483
Measuring Devices              11        3.816        407        3,458        474
Machinery                      11        4,166        535        3,100        497
Electrical Machinery           10       18,879        700       23,168        520
Electronics                     8        5.598        476        7,379        733
Cement                          9        8.028        344        7.878        796
Clay s Cement Products         26       24.130      4.550       18,166      1.696
Ceramics                        S        9,540        530        8.470        355
Construction                    0            0          0            0          0
Various                         0            0          0            0          0
Others                         40       24,517      2,199       25.899      1.9ss
Energy                             13       25,209        500       18,91S          92
Services                          407      236,157      S.613      275,930    11.870
Transportation               261      118,069         944      179,711      S,328
Tourism                       61       85,334       6.039       62,857      4,222         -
Trade                          31        9.330        921        7,137        952
Others                         54       231424        709       26.225      1,368
lhracata Donuk Tesvik              53       49,591      3,774       58,716      2.665
TOTAL                 1,176   1,105,224    66,109   1,179.083    58,897
Source: SPO



- 63 -
ANWIX I
Table 1S
TURKEY
AGROZMOUSTRY EtOJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPaRT
sacLoral lackground of Investmnt Inrantiy. C.rtifieat.s {I-*5I
Foreign                                   Direct
Exchange                  Total    foreimn Exchane
No. of      Total    Working    Require-        Employ-   Invest.                 Per
Certif.   Invest,   Ca  t l        aunt           mnt    PEEr   h   Per Job  Invest
--__--Tt N------      S 1000)    (Person)   -TL  M       -     $ 1000---
Agriculture                       94       40,130      7.190        10.092      2.185         -          -          -
Vegetable Products             8        2.703        458          751        268          -          -         -
Animal Husbandry              8O       33,705      6.541        6. no      1,622          -         -          -
Water Products                 S        2,741         181       1,58S         218         -          -         -
Forestry                       1          984          10         766         77          -          -         -
Mining                             89     136.692       7.346      143,535      7,158         -          -          -
Manufacturing                    956      918.SZO   110.954       685.670    S2,264           -          -          -
Food & Beverages             202      130.461    22.582        74,256    10.105          12.91      7.35    367.6
Textiles & Clothing          301      290.055    21,471       260.137    18.023           -          -         -
Forestry Products             17        5.201        672        2,758        412          -          -         -
Paper                         10       40.901      1.874       22,381        772          -          -
Leather & Leather Prod.       30        9.634      1,413        6,320      1,135          -         -
Rubber                        1S          997      1.236       12,777        570          -          -         -
Chemicals                     48      128.667    20,598        73,928      3,134          -
Glasware                       9       17.362      3,222       11,338      2.365          -
Iron & Steel                  30       47.895    10.SS9        34.238      1.200         -           -
Non Ferrous Metals             9        4.351        486        4,310         116
Transport Vehicles            19       19.947      5.449       15.702        534
Metal Goods                   48       46.084      4,527       32.989      2.307
Measuring Oevices              8        5.359        375        3.054        221
Machinery                     31       16,059      1.433       12,226        795          -          -          -
Electrical Machinery          16       10,190      1.213        8.446        467          -          -         -
Electronics                   11       15.188      1.260       15,537        789          -          -
Cement                        32       31,660      1.307       26,341        709                                -
Clay & Cement Products        65       54,979      6,115       35.738      6.276                     -          -
Ceramics                       3        5,190        250        2,874         184         -          -         -
Construction                   0            0          0             0         0          -          -
Various                        0            0          0             0         0
Others                        52       30,140      4,912       30,320      2,150          -
Energy                             21    .S11,582    10,221    1,601,569        2,108         -          -
Services                         661      924.494    34,477       943,690    42,889
Transportation               411      728,540    19,488       840.SIS    29.634           -          -
Tourism                       91      122,477      8,280       39,777      7,883          -          -         -
Trade                         60       28,482      3,748       18.452      3.177          -          -
Others                        99       44.995      2,961       44,946      2,060
TOTAL                 1,821   3,531.418   170,188   3.384.556   106,604             -
Source: SPO



- 64 -
ANNEX I
AEP±NOIX
Table 16
TURKEY
AGROZNOUSTRY POJtScT
STAFF APPAISAL REPORT
LStoral Lackeround of Invest_mnt Incentive Certiftcates i9igM
Foreign
Exchange                  Total    Foreian Exehanae
No. of      Total    Working    Requtre-        Employ-   Invest.                Per
Carlif.   Invest, a    aital       mrAnt        _mnnt.      Per Jb   Per Job  Invest.
--    TL N------    (S 1000)    (Person)   -TL  M-             S 1000-
Agriculture                        81       37,319     8,043         7.413      1.739         -         -
Vegetable Products            10        8.234      2.568        3.440        343
Animal Husbandry              67       27.722      5.345        3,516      1.331
Water Products                 4        1,363         130         457         65         -          -
Forestry                       0             0         0            0          0         -          -
Mining                            145      305.170      5,116     257,479    11.825
Manufacturing                   1,320   '.986.SSS   148.593   1,171,909    74,593             -          -
Food & Beverages             190      327,195    43,451       107.142    16,992         19.26       6.3      564.9
Textiles & Clothing          351      519,647    24.211       370,983    17,171          -          -
Forestry Products             27       28.233      2,493       14.252      1,272
Paper                         10       25.748        821       18.169        322         -
Leather & Leather Prod.       3S       25.001      2.427       13,504      1,740
Rubber                        25       20,003      1,380       11,224      1.SS         -
Chemicals                     S3      218.562      8.964      134,961      3.129         -
Glassware                     12       12,234        712        7,726      1.030         -
Iron & Steel                  35      247,466    32.126       147,967      3,332
Non Ferrous Metals             9        5,638        550        2,967        222
Transport Vehicles            66       82.735      1.670       51,S79      1,87          --
Metal Goods                   64       51,470      7.078       26.309      3,966         -
Measuring Devices              14      10.718      2.368        4,038        281         -
Machinery                      35      13.063      1.188        5.874      1,237         -          -
Electrical Machinery           12      14,154        562       11.043        S30
Electronics                   25       59.558      3.084       35,415      1,431         -
Cement                       106      125.174      3.395       81,637      3.790
Clay & Cement Prod.          188      110.731      6.208       72,308    11,882          -          -
Ceran.ics                      8       42.215      2,091       22,358      1,421         -
Construction                   0             0         0            0          0         -
Various                        0             0         0            0          0
Others                        50      473.780      3,794       32.454      1.819
Energy                             12     207,214      4.454       160,122        383
Services                         901   2,593.195    25,940   1,707,768    68,766
Transoortation               466   1.549,243       8.107   1.301,208    28.874           -          -
Tourism                      193      307.561     10.132       66.192    13,130          -
Trade                         62       62,377      3.671       14,355      3,341
Others                       180      674.014      4.030      326.013    23,421
TOTAL                 2.459   5,129.453   192,146   3.304,691    157,309
Source:  SPO



- 65 -
ANNEX 
Table 17
TURKEY
AGEOINAUSTRY PtOJtCT
STAFF APtOAISAL REPORT
Sactaral frek         f  of Investm nt Incentive Certificates 119A71
Foreign
Exchange                  Total    Foralgn ExchaaI
No. of      Total    Working    Require-        Em,loy-   Invest.                  Per
Certif.   Invest.   Caotal           ent           ent Per Jo b          Fer Job  Invest
-------TL N------    (S 1000)    (Person)    -TL  M-               1000__ --
Agriculture                       203      160.483    24,199        35.709      4.484
Vegetable Products             19       15.623      1.127        8.003        406
Animal Husbandry              167     129,258    22,532         19.986      3.720
Water Products                 14        9.300        340          468        352
Forestry                        3       6,302         200        3.552          6
Mining                            160      516,049      5,279      228.211      10,316
Manufacturing                   1.533   2.563,814   163.236   1,163.642    86,712              -           -
Food and Beverages           216      176.187    28,211         50,490      8.568        20.6         5.9      233.8
Textiles & Clothing          369      798.930    51.586        433,325    21,523           -
Forestry Products             62       49.959       4.656       23.229      2,241
Paper                          1S       37.400      2.980       15,721        651
Leather & Leather Prod.        59      48.566       4.332       i8 893      3,479
Rubber                         39     100,921       2,938       38.945      1,761
Chemicals                      58     104.604    10.009         30.289      2,744
Glassware                      19      76.149       1,492       34.741      1.257
Iron and Steel                25       73.359      5.950        33,172      1,435
Non Ferrous Metals             14      21,002         632        9.493        429
Transport Vehicles             59      9S.178       2,484       43,962      2,848
Metal Goods                    69      139.736    16,309        51.575      5.179
measuring Devices              17       26.054      1.308       13.995      1,118
Machinery                      35       45.346      3.027       17,207      3,912
Electrical Machinery           21      21.582       1,702       10.363      1.850
Electronics                    16      28.803       1.411       14.504        706
Cement                        130     371,808       6,349      166,752      5,873
Clay & Cement Prod.           251     248.257       9.674      109.450     19.147
Ceramics                        6      42.010       2.100       17,462        416
Const;  tion                    0            0          0            0           0
Various                         0            0          0            0           0
Others                         53       57,963      5,086       30.074      1,575
Energy                             13      642.453        210      161,337      4.871
Services                          901   2,947,578    37,131        925.840    55.017
Transportation               285   1,294,868        2.270      583.449    20,460
Tourism                      294      830,026    24,893        121.777    22.061
Trade                         89      254,332       6.211       91.143      5.538
Others                        233     568.352       3,757      129,471      6.958
TOTAL             2.810   6.830.377   230.055   2,415.739   161.400
Source: SPO



- 66 -                                    _NNEX 1
- 66  -                       ~~~~~~APPENDIX
Table 18
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SPo Acro-Industry Investmnt Incentives Certificates in 1989 /1
New Investm nt
Total          fixed       Foreign
Investment    Investment   Exchange
caoaciix       -       TL MilliOn------ S    OOO
S;t (Milk)                                    72,076 T/Y         5,575          3.899        1,560
Zeytinyagi (Olive Oil)                         5.800 T/Y         2.144          1,465          804
Rafine Bit Yag (Vegetable Oil)                72,700 T/Y         7,994          3,948        2,199
Cay (Tea)                                        340 T/G         3.220          2.724           61
Un # Irmik (Flour & Semolina)                664,500 T/Y       20,068          11,215        2,170
Yem (Animal Feed)                            112,000 T/Y         2,505          1,749           SO
ET ozel  (Meat Private)                       21.555 T/Y         5,153          3.609        2.034
ET Belediye (Meat Municipal)                   6,150 T/Y         2,030          1.526          396
ET MamVlleri (Meat Product)                    1,060 T/Y           933            540          459
Makarna (Macaroni)                            53,000 T/Y        22.355         10,522        9,012
Margarin (Margarine)                             -                -              -             -
Domates Salcasi (Tomato Paste)                11,000 T/Y         2,715          1,411          350
Meyve Suyu (Fruit Juice)                         -                -                           -
Meyve Sebze Konserve                           1,500 T/Y         2,075          1.092          350
(Canned Fruit & Vegetable)
BlskVvi (Biscuits)                                 -              -              -
TOTAL                     76.767         43 700        19 44S
Source   SPO r-  1988 - informal estimates.
1/ For inves,,,-it expected to be undertaken in 1989
2/ T/Y = Tons/Year
T/G = Tons/Oay



- 67 -
ANNEX 1
AP?ENDIX
Table 19
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Turkey - Agro-Industry Incremental Processing Capacity
Receiving SPO Investment Incentives Certificates
Existing            Expected Capacity Increase with
Capacity                  Incentive Certificates
Product Group                   1987          1988          1989         1990       1991
Meat & Meat Products
Public                        517,000        517,000       517,000        --         --
Private                       183,000        191,570       220,335        --
Total                       700,000       708,570        737,335        --         --
Milk and Milk Products
Public                        333,800        (15,000)           --        --
Private                       316,140       (162,860)      (72,076)       --
(646,940)     (824,800)    (896,860)        --
Total                     1,642,210    1,820,070    1,892,146           --
Flour - Private              15,054,000   15.954,680   16,619,180           --
Macaroni - Private               321,372       331,372       384,372        --
Biscuits - Private              257,584        264,384       264,384        --
Margarine-Private & Coop.        562,385       562,385       562,385        --
Veg. Oil-Private & Coop.    2,626,227    2,958,377    3,031,077             --
Olive - Private & Coop.          205,224       214,424       220,224        --
Frozen Fruit-Private             41,112         41,il2        41,112        --
Dried Fruit - Private             25,000        25,000        25,000        --
Canned Fruit-Private              93,869        98,469        99,969        --
Fruit Juice - Public             359,850       380,970       380,970    571,470
Tomato Paste - Private           252,580       253,480       264,480        --
Animal Feed
Public                        542,000        542,000        542,00        --
Private                     3,231,700    3,514,300    3,626,300           --
Total                     3,773,700    4,056,300    4,168,300           --
Tea
Public                          6,000 t/g    6,000 t/g    6,000 t/g
Private                          1,919 t/g    2,680 t/g    3,020 t/g
Total                         7,910 t/g    8,680 t/g    9,020 t/g
Source:    SPO, May 1988 - informal estimates.
Note:  A.  Investment certificates for 1990 and 1991 not yet determined.
B. Capacity increases already included in projected capacity balances
in Annex 1, Table 8.



- 68 -
ANNEX I
APPENDIX
Table 20
TURKEY
AGROINOUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Investment and Investment Incentive Certificate Shares 1984 8*
1984        1985         1§86       198? Est.   1988 Prop.
Current Terms                              -     ---TL Billion---------------------
A.  Total Investment                             3,285.7      5.554.1      9.135.4      12.1S0.5    23.843.1
S.  Manufacturing Industry Total                   759.4      1,174.4      1 787.2       2,154.5      3,688.S
C.  Manufacturing Industry Investment Cert.        S57.7        918.5      1.986.6       2.563.8         --
0.  Food and Beverages Investment Cert.             7S.7        130.5        327.2         176.2         79.2
E.  Total Private Sector Investment              1,510.2      2,325.7      3,836.0       6,447.8    11,576.0
Ratios                          ~- -         ---    -- -  - ----  -------        -----
Manufacturina Industry Investment  -            23.1         21.1         19.6          15.2         1S.S
Total Investment                A
Manufacturina Industrv Certificate -i           73.4         78.2        111.2         119.0
Manufacturing Industry Invest. Total B
Food and Beverage Investment Cer   - Q          13.6         14.2         16.5           6.9
Manufacturing Ind. Invest. Cert       - C
Manufacturing Ind. Invest. Cert.    -           17.0         16.5         21.8          18.1         --
Total Investment                A
Food and Beveraae Investment Cert. -             2.3          2.4          3.6           1.3          0.3
Total Investment                A
Food and laverace Investr-nt Cert. -             5.0          5.6          8.5           2.7          0.7
Total Private Investment            E
Source: Oerived from SPO data.



- 69 -
ANNEX 1
APPENDIX
Table 21
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Capacity Utilization - 1980 and 1987
1980                              1987
Capa-      Produc-                Capa-    Produc-
city        tion         CU       city       tion         CU
----000 Tons----         2        ----000 Tons---         %
Meat Industry
EBK (State)                376         42.8       11.4      556.3       47.2        8.5
Other
Municipal and Private       78        394.0       58.1      861.4      428.4       49.7
Slaughter Houses
Total             1,054        436.8       41.4   1,417.7       475.6       33.5
Margarine                    518        267.0       51.5      678.0      424.0       62.5
Liquid Milk                  137         44.9       32.8      171.0      116.5       68.1
Sugar                        980        868.3       89.5   1,467.0   1,650.0        112.5
Flour                     11,500      7,197.7       62.6  15,054.0   8,343.0         5; 4
Olive Oil                    177          70.0      39.5      205.2      120.0       58,5
Macaroni                     277        224.0       80.9      321.4      242.0       75.3
Biscuits                     221        152.0       68.8      257.6      228.5       88.7
Tomato Paste                 140.6        77.2      54.9      252.6      135.0       53.4
Vegetable Oil 1/
Sunflower                1,045        750.0       71.8   3,200 2/  1,150.0         35.9
Cottonseed                 837.5      800.0       95.5   1,727.0   1,450.0         84.0
Total                 1,882.5   1,550.0        82.3   4,927.0   2,600.0         52.8
Animal Feed                1,919.0   1,449.0         75.5   3,773.7   3,576.3        94.8
Source: SPO, Dec. 1988 - unofficial estimates.
1/ Ham yag icin verilen degerler tohum isleme uzerindendir.
2/ Estimate.



- 70 -
ANNEX I
APPENDIX
Table 22
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Turkey - Red Meat Industry - Capacity Utilization,
Trade, and Consumption 1987-88
1987                  1988
Actual               Estimated
A.  Capacity (Tons) 1/
EBK (Meat and Fish Organization)          300,000                300,000
Private Sector                            133,400                136,000
Municipal Slaughter Houses                 300,000               300,000
B.  Production (Tons)
EBK                                         50,000                65,000
Private Sector                              32,000                35,000
Municipal Slaughter Houses                 300,000               300,000
C. Capacity Utilization (2)
EBK                                             17                    22
Private Sector                                  24                    26
Municipal Slaughter Houses                     100                   100
8 Months
D.  Imports (Tons)
Meat                                        22,573                 6,342
Live Animals (Number)
Cattle                                  127,535                13,971
Sheep and Goats                         303,059                62,833
E. Exports (Tons)
Meat                                        23,907                13,876
Lives Animals (Number)
Cattle                                       555                     -
Sheep and Goats                       2,969,449             2,189,048
F. Consumption (Tons)
Meat                                       910,000               930,000
Source:  TSKB Istanbul, Dec. 1988 - informal estimates.
1/ 300 days/year, 8 hours/day.



- 71 -
ANNEX 1
APPENDIX
Table 23
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Turkey - Margarine Industry - Capacity Utilization,
Trade, and Consumption, 1987 and 1988
1987                  1988
Actual               Estimated
A.  Capacity (Tons) 1/
Margarine                                 682,000              682,000
B.  Production (Tons)
Margarine                                 410,000              450,000
C. Capacity Utilization (X)
Margarine                                      60                    66
D.  Imports (Tons)
Margarine
E.  Exports (Tons)
Margarine                                  60,688               70,000
F.  Consumption (Tons)
Margarine                                 345,000              355,000
Source: TSKB Istanbul, Dec. 1988- informal estimates.
1/ 300 days/year, 8 hours/day.



- 72 -
ANNEX I
APPENDIX
Table 24
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Turkey - Milk and Milk Products - Capacity Utilization,
Trade, and Consumption, 1987 and 1988
1987                  1988
Actual               Estimated
A. Capacity (000 Tons) 1/
869                  869
Liquid Milk                                   280                   280
Milk Powder                                    13                    13
B.  Production (000 Tons)
Liquid Milk 2/                                130                   150
Milk Power                                      2.7                   3
C. Capacity Utilization (2)
Liquid Milk                                    46                    54
Milk Powder                                    21                    23
D.  Imports (Tons)                                                     8 Months
Milk Powder                                 4,650                 1,48,3
Butter                                        840                   4'1
Cheese                                      1,278                   502
E.  Exports (Tons)                                                    8 Months
Cheese                                      2,822                 2,359
Butter                                         71                    43
F.  Consumption (000 Tons)
Liquid Milk 2/                                130                   150
Source:  TSKB, Istanbul, Dec. 1988 - informal estimates.
1/ 300 days/year, Ave. 8 hours/day (20 hours/day in spring).



- 73 -
ANNEX I
APPENDIX
Table 25
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Turkey - Flour and Flour Products - Capacity Utilization,
Trade, and Consumption, 1987 and 1988
1987                   1988
Actual                Estimated
A. Capacity (000 Tons)
Flour                                       10,200                10,200
Semolina                                       590                   590
Macaroni                                       340                   340
Biscuits                                       280                   280
B.  Production (000 Tons)
Flour                                       6,450                  6,700
Semolina                                       5Z0                   560
Macaroni                                       320                   335
Biscuits                                       170                   180
C. Capacity Utilization (X)
Flour                                           63                    66
Semolina                                        88                    94
Macaroni                                        94                    98
Biscuits                                        61                    64
D.  Imports
E.  Exports (Tons)                                                   8 Months
Flour                                      45,331                      -
Semolina                                  110,364                    751
Macaroni                                    16,917                14,856
Biscuits                                    13,480                10,317
F. Consumption (000 tons)
Flour                                       6,100                  6,400
Semolina                                       320                   340
Macaroni                                       300                   315
Biscuits                                       155                   160
Source:  TSKB, Istanbul, Dec. 1988 - informal estimates.
1/ 300 - 360 days/year, 8 hours/day.



- 74 -
ANNEX 1
APPENDIX
Table 26
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Turkey - Tomato Paste - Capacity Utilization,
Trade, and Consumption, 1987 and 1988
1987                  1988
Actual               Estimated
A.  Capacity (Tons)
Tomato Paste                              252,350              252,300
B.  Production (Tons)
Tomato Paste                              135,500              190,000
C.  Capacity Utilization (%)                       53.7                  75.3
8 Months
D.  Imports (Tons)
Tomato Paste                               14,712                1,398
E.  Exports (Tons)
Tomato Paste                              103,577               40,803
F.  Consumption (Tons)
Tomato Paste                               43,200               44,500
Source:  TSKB, Istanbul, Dec. 1988 - informal estimates.
1/  Early August - end October/mid November.  90-100 days/year, 20 hours/day.



- 75 -
ANNEX I
APPE.NDIX
Table 27
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Turkey - Vegetable Oil - Capacity Utilization,
Trade, and Consumption, 1987 and 1988
1987                  1988
Actual               Estimated
A. Capacity (Tons) 1/
Sunflower Oil                             756,119               756,119
Cotoonseed Oil                            173,372               173,372
Soybean Oil                                34,031                34,031
B. Production (Tons)
Sunflower Oil                             380,000               400,000
Cottonseed Oil                             21,000                21,000
C. Capacity Utilization (%)
Sunflower Oil                                  40                    53
Cottonseed Oil                                  60                   69
8 Months
D. Imports (Tons)
Sunflower Oil                              47,862               124,813
Soybean Oil                               159,460               113,614
Rapeseed Oil                                1,334                 1,560
Cottonseed Oil                              1,734                16,517
Palm Oil                                   41,214                24,823
E. Exports (Tons)
Sunflower Oil                              35,952                11,016
Cottonseed Oil                                394                     _
F. Consumption (Tons)
Sunflower Oil                             340,000               350,000
Cottonseed Oil                             20,000                20,000
Source:  TSKB, Istanbul, Dec. 1988 - informal estimates.
1/ 300 days/year, 8 hours/day.



- 76 -
ANNEX 1
APPENDIX
Table 28
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Turkey - Fruit Juice - Capacity Utilization,
Trade, and Consumption, 1987 and 1988
1987                  1988
Actual               Estimated
A. Capacity (Tons) 1/
Fruit Prccessing                          330,500               330,500
B.  Production (Tons)
Fruit Juice                                54,000                80,000
Concentrate and Pulp                        6,500                15,000
C. Capacity Utilization (2)
Fruit Juice                                     54                   80
Concentrate and Pulp                            65                   75
D.  Imports (Tons)                                   -                     -
E.  Exports (Tons)                                                  8 Months
Fruit Juice                                   967                   491
Concentrate and Pulp                       11,486                 4,357
F.  Consumption (Tons)
Fruit Juice                                50,000                70,000
Source:  TSKB, Istanbul, Dec. 1988 - informal estimates.
1/ 250 days/year, 8 hours/day.



- 77 -
ANNEX I
APPENDIX
Table 29
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Turkey - Frozen Fruit and Vegetables - Capacity Utilization,
Trade, and Consumption, 1987 and 1988
1987                   1988
Nctual               Estimated
A.  Capacity (Tons) 1/
Fruit and Vegetable Freezing                40,000                56,000
B.  Production (Tons)
Frozen Fruit and Vegetables                 17,400                25,000
C.  Capacity Utilization (Z)
Frozen Fruit and Vegetables                     44                    45
D.  Imports (Tons)                                   -                      -
E.  Exports (Tons)
Frozen Fruit and Vegetables                 19,376                23,750
- Fruit                                     7,157
- Vegetables                               12,219
F. Consumption (Tons)
Frozen Fruit and Vegetables                  1,700                 2,000
Source:  TSKB, Istanbul, Dec. 1988 - informal estimates.
1/ Capacity defined on basis of green peas -
Peas - 20 hours/day
200 days/yeat.



- 78 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY - AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
S,ope of Information Reuired from Enterprise for SubDroiect Anoraisal
Enterprises which intend to use the loan for financing their
subprojects are expected to prepare the following information for appraisal of
subprojects by the PClc. The magnitude and depth of information shall vary
according to the size of the enterprise and the size of the proposed subloan.
1. Current Activities of Enterprise
Description of the enterprise including ownership, products and
product groups, markets and marketing arrangements, main raw materials and
sources, technology, production capacity and facilities with degree of
capacity utilization, and major constraints affecting the operations and
growth of the enterprise. This material should be supported by a summary of
operational statistics (production volume, sales volume, etc.) and financial
performance (including financial statements and credit standing) for the past
three years.
2. Organization and Management Systems
Description of existing organization and management systems,
identifying strengths and weaknesses, as well as making specific
recommendations (where required) concerning the need for consulting services
under the subproject to improve/strengthen management planning; management
information systems; and technical, production, marketing and financial
management areas.
3. Project Description
This includes the objective of the subproject and the description of
restructuring measures to be implemented in the enterprise with respect to
diversification of product mix, rehabilitation and modernization of production
facilities, upgrading of technology, improvewoent of quality, etc. The
following aspects should be covered: proposed product-mix, potential markets,
incremental capacity  . d production, production technology, availability of
raw materials, adequacy of required utilities and infrastructural facilities,
etc., and a list of major equipment (local and foreign) to be procured for the
project. An implementation schedule should be attached.
4. Environmental Impact and Program
This section should include an assessment of the impact of the
proposed subproject on the environment, relating to wastes (solid, liquid,
gaseous), air pollution, health, safety, etc., and facilities and measures
included in the project in order to comply with the existing environmental
laws and occupational health and safety regulations.



- 79 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
In addition, the enterprise should provide information on its
compliance with environmental regulations with respect to its entire
operations. In case of non-compliance, the enterprise shall provide a plan,
agreed with the appropriate regulatory authorities, indicating a timetable for
the measures to be introduced to bring the operations into compliance.
5. Cost Estimates
Cost estimate informtion should be provided for capital costs and
production costs:
(a) For caoital costs, the estimate should include the local and foreign
currency cost of civil works, equipment, consulting services,
contingency allowances, incremental working capital, etc, required to
complete the project;
(b) for production costs, the estimate should show the structure of major
categories of production cost for the proposed products, before and
after implementation of the project. Also, to facilitate subsequent
economic analysis, comparative cost/price information from Indonesian
markets and from international markets, should be provided for major
tradeable raw materials and products of the subproject.
6. Financing Plan
The proposal should include information concerning how the total
subproject cost will be financed.
7. Procurement of Equiement and Services
The enterprise should indicate the procedures to be adopted for
procuring major equipment and consulting services, and what items are proposed
for financing under the project in local and foreign currency.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 4
TURKEY - AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
Subprojett Appraisal by Participating Finnial Institutios
Information on all subprojects must be submitted to the World Bank.
However, for subprojects below the free limit, a project summary is
sufficient, while for projects above the free limit, a full project appraisal
report will be required. The typical contents of each of these reports is
summerized below.
PROJECT APPRAISAL SUMMARY
(for subprojects below the free limit)
I. ENTERPRISE DESCRIPTION
Name and address:
Ownership:
Products:
Annual capacity (units/value per year):
Annual production (units/value per year):
Annual sales (last fiscal year):
Export sales (last fiscal year):
Assessment of enterprise organization/management:
II. PROJECT OESCRIPTION
Project objective:
Products:
Annual proposed capacity:
(units/value at full production)
Technology (domestic/imported):
Raw materials required (domestic/imported):
Adequacy of present utilities (yes/no):
Implementation period (months):
(loan approval to start-up)
Major equipment/machinery required:



- 81 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
III.ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF PROJECT
Factory environment:
Nature of hazardous raw materials used:
(toxic, flammable, explosive, chemical, etc.)
Safety measures planned:
Waste generation, storage and disposal:
(indicate nature of waste generation--solid, liquid
gaseous--and measures planned)
Air pollution and measuyes planned:
Measures for occupational health and safety:
Compliance with environmental laws and occupational
health and safety regulations (yes/no):
IV. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT PLAN FOR TOTAL ENTERPRISE OPERATIONS
Indicate which items under Section III (nature of
raw materials, waste generation, air pollution,
occupational health/safety) of the enterprises
entire operations do not comply with existing
laws and regulations:
Describe the proposed program and schedule to meet
such laws and regulations:
V. ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
Local    Foreign      Total
--- (TL thousand) ---
Civil works
Equipment
- domestically procured
- imported
Environmental control equipment
Consulting services
Other
Contingencies (physical/price)
Incremental working capital
Total cost



- 82 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
VI. PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
Local      Foreign    Total
--- (TL thousand) ---
Enterprise contribution
Participating bank loan
Proceeds of World Bank loan
Other financing
Total financing
VII.TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF IBRD SUBLOAN
Subloarn amount:
Rate of interest:
Maturity:
Grace period:
Collateral:
VIII.EXPENDITURES TO BE FINANCED UNDER IBRD LOAN
Domestically Procured                Value
Major Item Group            or Imported                      (TL '000)
IX. PROCUREMENT OF PROJECT GOODS AND SERVICES
Describe method of Procurement:
X. OPERATING COST/PRICE STRUCTURE
(per unit of production)
Prior to Project               After Project
Implementation                Implementation
Domestic materials
Imported materials
Labor
Utilities
Depreciation
Financial charges
Other expenses
Margin
Ex-factory price



- 83 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
XI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Actual a/          Projected b/
Major Financial Indicators   19..   19..   19..       19..   19..   19..
Total assets
Total liabilities
Paid-in capital
Net profit (before taxes)
Net profit (after taxes)
Ratios
Current ratio
Debt:equity ratio
Debt-service coverage ratio
Return on sales
Return on equity
----------------------------------------
a/ For the last three fiscal years.
b/ Until full capacity utilization is reached.
Financial rate of return:
XII.ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Adjustments Made                   Financial Cost       Economic Cost
Capital cost
- import duties
- taxes
- other
Production cost
- domestic materials
- imported materials
- utilities
- taxes
- other
Economic rate of return:



- 84 -                   ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
PROJECT APPRAISAL
REPORT OUTLINE
(for projects above the free limit)
An appraisal report for any project above the free limit should
include all of the same information as for the project appraisal summary as
described above, expanded somewhat with descriptive material and a written
conmentary. The following outline is typical of tne coverage expected.
I. ENTERPRISE
A summary of the current state and activities of the enterprise
including ownership, products, markets and marketing arrangements, technology
of production and production facilities, capacity and its utilization.
A summary of enterprise organization and management with an
indication of any weaknesses, and a description of any measures to be included
under the project.
A summary of operational and financial performance for the past three
years.
A comment on the enterprise credit record, and the relationship with
the PFI.
II. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A statement of the subproject objectives, and a summary description
of the subproject with respect to: restructuring measures (technology
upgrading, product diversification, rehabilitation/modernization, quality
improvement, etc.); capacity/production planned; markets targeted; technology
to be used; availability of raw materials; adequacy of utilities and
infrastructure; employment creation;productivity increase and international
competitiveness; major items of equipment and machinery; implementation
schedule; etc.
III.ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
This analysis should include: the location of the enterprise and a
description of the surrounding environment; the environmental impact of the
project with respect to the nature of any hazardous materials, waste
generation, storage and disposal of solid, liquid and gaseous materials, air
pollution, employee health and safety aspects, and an assessment made by the
PFI (or its consultants) that the proposed measures for environmental control
under the project are adequate and meet local laws and regulations.



- 85 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
In addition, the PFI should summarize the environmental program and
schedule presented by the enterprise so that its entire operations shall
comply with existing laws and regulations.
IV. ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
Presentation of the total project cost in local and foreign currency
relating to: civil works, equipment (locally procured or imported),
environmental control equipment, consulting services, contingencies and
incremental working capital.
The source of the information for each major 4tem in the estimate
should be included.
V. PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
The plan should be presented, and the status of negotiations for each
source of financing should be discussed.
VI. TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF IBRD SUBLOANS
Details should be provided concerning the terms and conditions under
which the subloan is to be made to the enterprise.
VII.EXPENDITURES TO BE FINANCED WORLD BANK SUBLOANS
With reference to the project capital cost, indicate which items or
group of items are to be financed with the proceed* of the World Bank loan,
and the relevant amount.
VIII.PROCUREMENT OF GOODS AND SERVICES
Sunmarize the method of procurement to be used for major equipment
and other items.
IX. OPERATING/COST PRICE STRUCTURE
Present the unit prices and unit operating cost of products proposed,
before and after the implementation of the project, in major categories such
as materials (domestically produced and imported), labor, utilities,
depreciation, financial charges, contingencies, etc.
X. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF THE PROJECT
Present financial projections for the subproject and for the
enterprise includirg projected income statements, cash flows and balance
sheets. Present and analyze projected financial ratios for the enterprise.



- 86 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
Calculate the internal financial rate of return for the project, and
undertake a sensitivity analysis showing the effect on the calculated rate of
return of changes to the main assumptions incorporated in the analysis.
XI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Describe the adjustments to be made to financial costs and prices of
local materials, utilities and product prices, to bring them to international
levels.
Calculate the economic rate of return, and comment on any major
differences from the financial rate of return. Check the sensitivity of the
economic rate of return to changes in main assumptions.
XII.MAJOR RISKS
Swumarize any major risks in the subproject which may impede the
achievement of subproject objectives. Describe what steps are being taken to
control these risks.



- 87-                     ANNEX5
Page 1 of 13
PILOT MARKETING TRAINING PROGRAM
Section 1 : The Need
Section 2 : The Concept
Section 3 : lest Marketing
Section 4 : The Benefits
Section 5 : The Costs
Section 6 : Suppbrt Required
Anneso : Indicative types of Consulting projects to be completed
under the management development and Immersion Programmes.



- 88 -                      Page 2 of 13
Section 1 : The Need
Exports to the developed country markets of' the OECD largely
explains the rapid growth in Turkey's aggregate exports over the
81/87 period 176% of the net increase in Exports where to OECD
markets). Further growth in Turkey's penetration of these
sophisticated markets increasingly will require Turkish enterprises
to   compete  as  determinediy  on  value  creation  as  on  cost
curtailment. Perrier water is Just one example ot' the possibility of
creating new opportunities and value through marketing where on the
surface the product appears to be no better than any other.
A marketing mindset is a prerequisite to the identification of
needed value creating possibilities for Turkish enterprises.
Such a mindset and use of modern marketing methods however are not
in great evidence among Turkisn firms. Meeting the international
marketing challenges of the 1990's requires Turkish enterprises to
quickly deploy modern marketing methods and adopt an opportunity-
sensing marketing mentality. In essence Turkish firms must become
more competent iarketers.



- 89 -                     ANX S
Page 3 of 13
Section 2    The Concept
________________________
To  address  this  need  of  building  marketing   competence
among current and potential Turkish enterprises the establishment
of a Marketing Institute is proposed. Its objective will be to
increase the international market competitiveness of indigenous
Turkish enterprises through the provision of training, consultancy
and related activities. It will focus its services on self-selectei
highly motivated individuals and enterprises and will measure
success on its ability to enable both individuals and enterprises
become more effective at export marketing. Because of its particuiar
importance  to   Turkish   economic   and   social   development
agroindustry will be an important initial focus of the institute's
activities.
A document dutlining the Marketing Institute concept was circulated
and discussed with a wide variety of informed Turkish Academics and
businessmen. While the proposed institute was enthusiasticall-
welcomed,   earlier   experiences   with   the   establishment of
similar type organisations ( e.g. TUSSIDE 1 reccommend that a
cautious programme of "test-marketing" should proceed any major
investment programme.



-90 -                      ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 14
Section 3 : Test Marketing
__________________________
Test marketing of the Marketing Institute concept is required for
4 reasons :
(1 to develop and refine valid models for training programmes;
(2) to establish a basis upon which the benefits and costs
arising from marketing training can be estimated;
(3) to assess the degree to which a marketing institute can
be self-financing;
(4) to obtain practical guidance on how best to successfully
lauAch the Marketing Institute.
In the test market attention will be focussed on evaluating the
potential impact of the institute's training activity, ( the
institute's proposed consultancy and award for marketing
excellance activities can be developed and tested at a later time.)
Three training products will be developed and tested during a two
year period commencing June 1989
(1) Five days programme for Senior Executives
The obJective of this programme is familiarize senior
execut ,es with up to-date  marketing  thinking  ana
practise. As a result of this programme participants
will be better able to .iudge marketing opportunities
and assess the benefits of investment in market
development activities.



91                       A  wL 
Page 5 of 13
12) A four week in-market export management development
programme.
The objective of this programme is equip export managers
or their designates with the ability and confidence
to make sound judgements on international market
developments. It is an action learning programme during
which a real world marketing consultancy project will be
completed. As a result of this programme participants
will be able to prepare soundly based marketing
investment proposals suitable for european markets and
begin to develop more adventurous marketing plans
(3) A one year in-market immersion programme.
The obJective of this programme is expose high potential
management graduates to an in-depth and varied set of
marketing educational experiences which include
(a) the completion of a foreign MBA programme
lb) six months internship with a foreign marketing
company;
(c) the preparation and completion of a signit'icant
piece of supervised market research.
As a result of this programme participants will be well
eqipped both on an intellectual and practical level to
undertake international market research consultancy
assignments for Turkish enterprises. Moreover thev will be
able to participate at all stages in the new product
development process. Exceptional individuals can be expected
to quickly become export managers and/or start their own
enterprises.



-92 -                      ANNMX 5
Page 6 of 13
The proposed number of test programmes and participants are
as follows :
No. of Programmes           No, of Participants
Senior Executive
Programmes                   3                          7 5
Management Develpment        3                          60
Programmes
Immersion Programmes         2                          10
Total                        8                         145
The test market will beain in QTR3 1989 and will be completed in
QTR 3 1991. The following will be the principal milestcnes in the test
market
STEPS
1. Selection of project management team and facuity  QTR 3 1989
2. Curricula Design                                      QTR 3 1989
3. Recruitment/Selection of participants             QTR 3/89-QTR 3/90
4. Delivery of Programmes                            QTR 3/89-QTR 2/P1
5. Follow up on programme effectiveness              QTR 1/90-QTR 2/91
6. Review and Evaluation of programme                    QTR 3  1991



-93 -                      Am= S
Page 7 of 13
STEP. 1. Selection of project management team faculty
This is the most critical step in implementing the test
market.
STEP. 2. Curricula design
During QTR 3 the selected proJect faculty will complete the
coxorse design for the above programmes. It is expected that
the initial designs will be continuously modified based on
experience and feedback during the exercise.
STEP. 3. Recruitment/Selection ot participants
In order to provide a valid test only the most
capable and willing people will be invited to attend the
programmes. Established business contacts between Turktrade.
the  Institute  of  Business  Administration,  Istanbul
Uinifersitv; Bogazici University and indust-y will be used to
access potential candidates.
The practical difficulties of promoting marketing educaticn
programmes in Turkey will be identified and overcome during
this on-going element of the test market.
STEP. 4. Delivery of programmes
Senior executive programmes will be test marketed in an
Istanoul Hotel Commencing quarter 4. 1989. The three
management development programmes will commence test
marketing in QTR ; 1990 with a five day foundation building
residential programme in an out o. Istanbul location. While
the target number of participants tor this test market is
60 (3 groups of 20), 100 to 120 middle executives are
expected to attend the foundation programme and compete for
places in the foreign-based part of the prcrarame which wiii
take place during QTRS 2 and 3 of 1990. Individual and
group exercises will be assigned to qualifying individuals
prior to their in-market experience.
The one year immersion programme for post araduates in
business administration will be test marketed in two lots
commencing QTR 3 1989. Two groups of up to five candidates
will participate in th2s.



A . 
94                       Page 8 of 13
STEP.5. Follow up on proxramme effectiveness
The key test of the programme's effectiveness is whether any
difference was made to the way that participating managers
subsequently think and act. Step 5 will commence following
the completion of each programme. DurinA this step regular on
going contact by person, phone and questionnaire will
be maintained with each participant. Clear examples of wk-ere
the programmes made an actual contribution to marketing
development will be required so as to provide an appropriate
basis upon which to evaluate the benefits to the economy
from marketing training.
STEP.6. Review and evaluation of Programme.
The final programme to be completed at end May 1991
will be the Second immersion programme. Between June and
September 1991, a comprehensive review of the test market
will be conducted by the project faculty members and
project management team. This critical review will include
on assessment of the costs and benefits arising from the
programme as well as include an assessment of various
scenarios for scaling up and nationally launching the
Marketing Institute.
Section 4. The Benefits
Good ideas often fail as a result ot poor implementation. The maicr
benefit of tb-.e test marketing is to minimize tne risi~ of poor
implementat'on when launching the Turkisn Mariteting Institute. Tnis
is achieved by
(1) the prior testing and adaptation of three .ore
management development products;
(2) the assessment of benefits arising from participation on the
programmes which can be used as convincing sales arcuments
to other potential participants and to prospective financing
institutions;
(3) better appreciation of the budgetar;- reauirements and the
degree to which the programme can be self-financing;
(4) a clearer and advance appreciation of the various
bureaucratic business, and orfanisationai obstacles which
the institute must overcome and thus can be planned for



AuN   5
95 -                     Page 9 of 13
In addition, the test program would, by itselt', provide
significant benefits in training Turkish marketing
professionals as well an carrying carrying out marketing
studies of benef it to Turkey.
Section 5. The Costs
____________________
Undertaking the test marketing and evaluation of the Marketing
Institute's training products is estimated to cost S 1,5 million
over two years with a foreign exchange requirement of S 1,2 million.
Table 1 classifies estimated costs by activity. Professional fees in
curriculum development, course delivery and follow up is the largest
cost component accounting for 42 percent of total costs.(Table 1 line
item B). Lire item C, cost generated by participants with 36 perceTt
total costs however accounts for the largest amount of foreign exchange
(45 percent).Foreign travel and in-market expenses arising from
programme participation are the chief explanations.
lable 1 Test market costs classified by activity
USSOOO   (FOREX)    X      X
a. Project management and ground support  195        (130)    14       (12)
b. Curriculum  development                   570     (395)    42      i37i
c. Costs arising from partic.pants           500     (490)    36      (45)
d. Review and evaluation, development
of blueprint for institute                105       6 65)    9     t6
1370    (1080)   100    (100)
Contingencies (approx 10%)                  130     (120)
1500    (1200)



-96-                ~~~~~ANNEX 5
96 -Page 10 of 13
Table 2. Test Market Cost classified by training programse
u'SSoo0     IFOREX)   %
a. Senior Executive Programme              110          (55)    8   (5)
b. Management Development Programme        620         (490)   45  (45)
c. Immersion Programme                     340         (340)   25  (32)
Pro.ject management and ground
support (as above)                              195         (130)   14  (12,
Review and evaluation. development of
blueprint (as above)                            105           65)    8  ( 6
Contingencies (approx 10% as above)             130         (120)  100  100
1500        (1200)
Table 2. outlines the direct costs per programme. The most expensive
programme in aggregate is the Management Development programme
which directly accounts  for  45%  of  total  and  foreign exchange
expenditure.  The  immersion  programme   which   is   the   most
expensive per individual directly accounts for 25% of total
budgeted  expenditure  and  32%  of  budgeted  fore,:  requirements.
Of these funds. we would expect $ 50,000- $100,000 equivalent
in TL could be recovered from participants. (The appropriate
level of fees would be one of the issues tested, and would be
expected to increase in time as the value of the program is
demonstrated).



97 -                     ANNX 5
Page 11 of 13
By way of evaluating estimated budgeted cost per diem
table 3 contrasts per diem expenditures against the broadly
analogous Institute of Banking ICIBS) programmes.  As
suggested by table 3 once initial design costs are excluded
and allowance is made for extended periods of time abroad
per diem estimated costs are broadly  in  line   with
those of the Banking lnstitute (CIBS).
Table 3. Comparative per diem course costs (TL) ex. initial design
costs vis a vis the Banking Institute (CIBS).
per day                                 per day
Test market             TL OOOs       Institute of Banking (1)  TL OOUs
Senior Executive    (2)    240         Marketing from the             600
customers perspective
Management
development          (3)    560        Core treasury                  370
programme                              programme
Immession programme (4)    195         Extended in- company           600
programme
(1) CIBS prices have been adjusted to take into account a 50% subsidy
All CIBS programmes are residential and based in Turkey.
(2) Senior Executive programme is costed as non residential
(3) Market development programme includes 30 days in-Residence abroad
plus air travel
(4) Immersion Programme involvns 50 weeks Abroad, CIBS extended
programme is 11 weeks.



- 98-~                   Pag 12 of 13
Section 6. Support Required
---------------------------
In order to successfully undertake this test marketing we will need
support in obtaining government approval and budgetary allocation as
well as assistance in defining appropriate institutional arrangements
which will facilitate the coordination of this exercise between
appropriate Turkey based individuals and a European marketing training
institution.
Currently the World Bank is pursuing the possibility of obtaining
grant funds for this proposal from third - party sources (we do not
have any grant funds ourselves). If this should not be possible we
would propose including the foreign exchange component as part of a
proposed World Bank loan to the government (repayable over 17 years
including 5 years grace) in either case, government budgetary, support
would be needed for a portion of the costs.
While we undedstand that the public sector is currently supporting
about 3000 government employees in post graduate training abroad
(at about $20,000 annually per individual) and is supporting the
training of private sector employees in Turkey through various
institutions (SEGEM, TUSSIDE, IGEME), the overseas training of
private sector marketing managers may be a new concept. We would hope
that the work of the Kahveci commision on improving Turkey's
export marketing capabilities would help underscore ,he economic
importance of sucessfully implementing this proposal. Specifically,
assistance is requested in :
(i) obtaining government approval to proceed with the test market and
its funding (including approval to include the component in a
World Bank loan if grant financing cannot be arranged in a timely-
manner);



-99-                      Page 13 of 13
(ii) identifying an appropriate educational foundation through which
Government (and World Bank/ external grant) funds can be
processed and which would enter into contracts with appropriate
Turkish staff and a foreisn training institution to carry out the
proSramme. {Our understanding is that various university financial
and bureaucratic regulations make working through an educational
foundation preferable to working with a university);
{iii) identifying suitable individuals to manage the program, who would
select a consortium of experienced Turkish marketing
professionals and educators and an appropriate foreign marketing
training institute;
(iv) Establishing a reporting commitee to which the project
management team would report on a quarterly basis.



ANE 3
- 100 -                     Attachment
Annex    Indicative types of consultancy projects to be undertaken
under the management development and immersion programes
The list of possible projects outlined below is only indicative
of the types of issues which project groups and individuals will
work on during their residence abroad. The selection of projects
will be determined with reference to the backsrounds of
participants, their responsibilities and their companies'
activities so that the immediate applicability of their in-market
experience can be maximized.
Illustrative List
- The structure of food distribution in the United Kingdom -
implications for Turkish agroenterprises.
- Changing customer purchasing parterns in the UK grocery market-
implic4tions for Turkey.
- An evaluation of the benefits of improving food quality-
implications for Turkish agroindustry.
- Case studes in managing key retail accounts
- Impact of packaging and merchandizing in promoting sales
volumes and profitability- case studies
- Framework for new product development in the Turkish fruit
concentrate industry.
- Case studies in succesful foreign market entry strategies.



- 101 -
ANNEX 6
Project Advisor to Participatinm Credit Institutics
The Project Advisor (PA) selected should have extensive experience in
investment lending in a development financial institution, be fully familiar
with the design of iinancial restructuring packages for distressed
enterprises, and preferably should have specified experience in appraising and
monitoring agroindustry projects. The PA would work closely with the project
appraisal and monitoring staff of TCZB and THB and would assist them to
improve the quality of 'heir work. Specifically, he would review appraisal
and supervision reports, develop proposals for improving appraisal and
supervision procedures and standards, and assist in training staff and
defining the needs for outside training. In addition, the PA could provide
support to loan applicants who require assistance in preparing their projects
prior to submitting their application for a loan. The PA would have an
initial contract of 18 months, which could be extended, if desired.



TURKEY - AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
Table 1.  The Cost of Commercial Credit
Actual                  Theoretical
November -------------------------------------------------------------
Iter                                        1988      1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
Inflation Rate (1)                            80        70     45      40     35      30     25     20      15     15
T Bill Rate              (2)                   66     73.4   47.9   42.8   37.7   32.6   27.5   22.4   17.3   17.3
Prime Rate
Ucst of Funds (3)                          68      73.4   47.9   42.8   37.7   32 6   27.S   22.4   17.3   17.3
.Reserve/Liquidity Costs (4)              48.2     51.1   33.4   29.8   26.3   2Z 7   19.Z   1         1.    1 .
Operating Costs (5)                       9.0       9.)   9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0                . 9.0
Total                                   125.2    133.5   90.3   81.6   73 .0   64.3   55.7   47 0   3.4   38.4
Profit (5)                                4.5       4.0    2.7    2.4    2.2    1.9    1.6    1.4    1.1    1.1
Taxis  RUSF and transaction
at 8 5X (5)                              11.0      11.7    7.9    7.1    6.4    5.6    4.9    4.1    3.4    3.4   H
Effective Lending Rate                  140.8    149.2  100.9   91.2   81.5   71.8   6 .2   S2.5   42 8   42.8   "
Quoted Rate (excl taxes) (6)                91       95     70      65     59      53     47     41      34     34
Real rate (7)                            33.8      46.6   38.5   36.6   34.5   32.2   29.7   27.l   24.2   24.2
Source: Mission Estimates
Notes:         Inflation rate forecast used by Bank staff for pruject evaluation during fourth quarter 1988.
Assumed, in projections, to be 2X in real terms
(3   Assumed, in projections, to be 21 in real terms
4   Reserve requirements of 16X of deposits for which no income is received, and
liquidity requirements of 27X of aeposits  751 of which is assumed to bee
invested in treasury bills.  Sources: World Bank Report No. P-4784-TU  Turkey,FSAL II President
Report, par&a 213 and World Bank Report No. 6684-TU  Turkey, Privat  cenufacturing  Agses0ng
and Impact of Past Policies and Future Adjustement Aeeds. Vo  II Main Rcport , pares 3.3Z-340.
(5) Source- Turkey FSAL II Appraisal Report, para 2.13.
(6)  Nominai quotea lending rate is equal to erfective nominal rate allowing for quarterly compoundi
given by:
given  tti - 14*((Ie+1)A(1/4)-1)1/(l+t), where: In - nominal quoted rate                            6-3
Ie - effective nominal rate                          It
t - taxes (RUSF plus tr nsaction)&-
for example see Appendix Table 3-9 in second reference of tootnote I above                a
'7)  Real lending rate discounted at rate of inflation, given by
Ir - [(l+Ie)/(l+Rn)]-l, where Ir - real rate of interest
Ie - effective nominal rate
Rn - rate of inflation



TURKEY - AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
Table 2. Fixed Rate FERIS
Year                                         1988     1909   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
Inflation Rate                                 70       45     40      35     30      25     2;5
Index - Mid Year                            1.00      1.45   2.03   2.74   3.56   4.45   534   6.15   7.7
Nominal Cash Flows
Rate     Qoted Rate (1)          X       45.0      45.0   45.0   45.0   45.0   45.0   45.0   45.0   45.0
Effective Rate
Before Tax (2)       X      50.06    50.06  50.06  50.06  50.06  50.06  5006 500           006
After  Tax (3)                         25.5   25.5   255    255 25.5 B  5      5   $
Loan Balance (4)                           40        50     63      78     63     47      S1     i
Interest
Before Tax                         0       20      25     31      39     31     23      16      8
After  Tax                         0       10      13     16      20     1                      4
Principal Paynent (5)                               (10)   (13)   (16)    16       16     16     16      16
Total Payment (6)
Before Tax                        40)      10      13     16      55     47     39      31
After  Tax                        40        0       1      1      36     32     28      24     20           o
Real Cash Flows (7) W
BeforeTax                         40)       7       6      6      15     11      7       5                   a
After  Tax                        40        0       0      0      10      7      5       4      3
Nominal Interest Rate (8)
Before Tax           50.06X
After  Tax           25.82X
i'eal Interest Rate (9)
Before Tax           10.71X
After  Tax           -5.45X
Notes:       Nominal quoted rate with semiannual compounding
2  Effective nominal rate with annual compoundin        i
~3  Effective nominal rate allowing for tax deducfibility of interest
atainst corporate income tax (119 tax rate)
4) TL 40 out o  every TL 100 of investment financed by FERIS loan.
5) Under FERIS 501 ot the interest due during the 3 year grace period can be
can be capitalized, added to loan balance and.repaid over 5 years.
Thus the principal payments are negative during first three years.
6  Interest olus princlpal
7 Payments deflated by inflation index (2nd line of table)
8 Internal rates of return for nominal cash flows
9 Internal rates of return for real cash flows
30-



TURKEY - AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
Table 3. Floating Rate FERIS
Year                                         1988     1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
Inflation Rate                                 70       45     40      35     30      25            15
Index - Hid Year                            1.00      1.45   2.03   2.74   3.56   4.45   5.34   6.15   7.07
Nominal Cash Flows
Rate
Quoted Rate (1)        X        77.4     51.9   46.8   41.7   36.6   31.5   26.4   21.3   21.3
Effective Rate
Before Tax (2)       X        77.4     51.9   46.8   41.7   36.6   31.5 1 .   21.-   J1.3
After  Tax (3)                         26.5   23.9   21.3   18.7   16.1            10      L.
Loan Balance (4)                           40        50     62      75     60     45      Jo     i5       0
Interest
Before Tax                         0       21      24     26      27     19     12       6      3
After Tax                          0       11      12     13      14     10      6       3      2
Principal Pa ment (5)                               (10)   (12)   (13)    15       15     15     15      15
Total PayeT (6
Before Tax                        40       10      12     13     43      34     27      21     18
After  Tax                        40        0       0      1      29     25     21      1      17
Real Cash Flows (7)
Before'Tax                        40        7       6      5      12      8      5
After  Tax                        40        0       0      0       8      6      4
Nominal Interest Rate (8)
Before Tax           42.25X
After  Tax           20.53X
Real Interest Rate (9)
Before Tax            4.97X
After  Tax           -9.271
Notes:   (1) Nominal quoted rate equal to T Bill rate plus 41 (see Table 1.)
2) Effective noninal rate equal to quoted rate.
3  Effective nominal rate ailowing for tax deductibility of interest
against corporate income tax (49X tax rate)
(4) Tl 40 out ot every TL 100 of investment financed by FERIS loan.
(5) Under FERIS 50X ot the interest due during the 3 year grace period can be
can be capitalized, added to loan balance and repaid over 5 years.
Thus the principal payments are negative during first three years.
6  Interest plus princlpal
7  Payments deflated by inflation index (2nd line of table)
8  Internal rates of return for nominal cash flows
9  Internal rates of return for real cash flows
£1



TURKEY - AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
Table 4. Bank Credits
Year                                         1988      1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
Inflation Rate                                 70        45     40      35     30      25      0      1.5    1~5
Index                                        1.00      1.45   2.03   2.74   3.56   4.45   534   6. 5   7 .7
Nominal Cash Flows
Interest Rate
Before Tax (1)                 140.8    100.9   91.2   81.5   71.8   6? .2   ji       42.1   41.
After  Tax (2)                  71 8      51.4   46 5   41.6   36       3 .7   26 i   21    2t6X
Principal Outstanding (3)                   i5       22      A0     41      5      67                     66
Interest  Pa  ents
Be ore Tax                                  19     24      29     34      37
After  Tax                                   9     12      15     17      19
Total Payments (4)
Before Tax                       (5         12     15      19     22      24     25      25     35
After  Tax                       (5          3      3       4      5       6 5            7    1-
Nominal Interest Rate (5)
Before Tax          101.064
After  Tax           42.93c
Real Cash Flows (6)
Principal Outstanding                       15       15      15     15      15     15      15     15      15
Interest
Before Tax                                  13     12      11     10       8      7
After  Tax                                   7      6       5      5       4      4 
Payment  Before Tax                        (15)       8       7      7       6      5              4      19
After  Tax                       (15)        2      2       5      5       4  4           3      5
Real Interest Rate (7)
Before Tax           46.25%
After  Tax           16.43%
Notes:   (1  Effective nominal comercial lending rate from Annexf10o%Table 1.
2After tax cost of interest with corporate tax rate of 442.
3  TLL15 out of every TL 100 of inintial investment financed by bank credit  with this amount
increasing at rate Qf inflation (ie constant in real term~s) over the proj ection period.
(4) Total payments     a  to interest paid less increase in principal  with ebtire
ginci    retr:3uinl last year.
~51   ternllrte of return on nominal cash flows.
6   oinal cash flows deflated by inflation index (2nd line of table)
7   nernal rate of return on real cash flows



TURKEY - AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
Table 5. Equity Cash Flows
Year                                         1988     1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
Inflation Rate                                 70       45     40      35     30      25     20      15
Index                                       1.00      1.45   2.03   2.74   3.56   4.45   5.34   6.15   7.7
Nominal Returns
Dividend Rate
Before Tax (1)                140.8    100 9   91.2   81.5   71.8   62.2   5  5   42.    42.8
After  Tax (2)                           51.4   46.5   41.6   36.6   31.7   268   215   22.1
Principal Outstanding (3)                  40        40     40      40     40     40      40     40      40
Dividend
Before Tax                       0.0     40.3   36.5   32.6   28.7   24:9   2.    17.1   17.1
After  Tax                       0.0     20.6   18.6   16.6   14.7    2.7   17 
Total Pay ent (4)
YmBefore Tax                   (40.0)    40.3   36.5   32.6   28.7   24.9   26.0   17.1 94.1
Total    After  Tax                     (40.0)    20.6   18.6   16.6   14.7   12.7   1. 7    8.7  303.0
Nominal Rate of Return (5)
Before Tax           97.03X
After  Tax           54.68X
Real Returns
Payment (6)
Before Tax                     (40. 0    27.8   18.0   11.9    8.1    5.6    3. 9       2    64.1
After  Tax                     (40.0     14.2    9.2    6.1    4.1    2.8    2.0    1.4  4,2-.
Real Rates of Return (7)
Before Tax           43.93X
After  Tax           16.68X
Notes:    p  Assumes minimum -e tax yield required by shareholders is equal commercial lending rate
Minimum after ta  yield with corporate tax rate of 491.
3S TL 40 of every TL 100 of investment assumed to be financed by equity.
4) Equal to divi'dend, except for last year, when it is assumed tat in ial imvest  nt
is also recovered at its inflated value on after tax basis.
5  Internal rate of return on nosinal cash flows.
6 Nominal cash flows deflated by inflation index (2nd line of table)
7 Internal rate of return on real cash flows
HI§



- 107-                   ANNEX7
Table 6
TURKEY - AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
Table 6.  Coat of Capital (Before Taxes)
.................. ...........................
p         Cost of Capital
Ttta           Average - 8 years
Item                             Financ  1988   Effective'Real
........ .. _     ......   ....
A. Fixed Rate FERIS                X      X pa     S pa      X pa
...._. .._
Current Liabilities
Bank Credit (1)                15 Q    140.8    101.1   46.3
Accounts payable                5.u
Long Term Loans (FERIS) (2)       40.0      50.1     50.1   10.7
Equity (3)                        40.0    140.8      97.0   43.9
Total (Weighted Avg.)            100.0                       30.9
B. Floating Rate FERIS
Current Liabilities
Bank Credit (1)                15.0    140.8    101.1   46.3
Accounts payable                5.0
Long Term Loans (FERIS) (4)       40.0      77.4     42.2    5.0
Equity (3)                        40.0    140.8      54.7   43.9
Total (Weighted A-vg.)           100.0                       29.5
Source:   Fixed rate FERIS  Annex 10, Table 2, Floatin  rate FERIS,
Annex 10, Table 3, Bank Credits, Annex 10, table 4, and
Equity Capital, Annex 10, table 5.
Notes    (1)  Effective rate in Nov. 1988 for commercial credit
based on quarterly compounding.
(2)  FERIS fixed rate of 46X compounded semi-annually.
(3)  Cost of equity is the greater of either 15% in
real, after tax terms, or the return which can be
earned, after taxes, by paying off short term debt.
(4)  FERIS floating rate assumed to projected T Bill
rate in Table 1 plus 4X.



- 108 -
ANNEX 7
Table 7
TURKEY AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
Tabie 7. Cost of Capital (After Taxes)
.... ........ ... ...... .... ....... ....
Cost of Capital
pore*----- .................
of            Average - 8 years
Total Nov;er -----------------
Item                            Financ  198    Effctive  Real
A. Fixed Rate FERIS                t     X pa       pa       pa
.....     .................... .
Current Liabilities
Bank Credit (11               150       71.8     42.9   16.4
Accounts payable                5.0
Long Term Loans (FERIS) (2)       40.0     50.1     25.8   (5.4)
Equity (3)                        40.0     71.8     54.7   16.7
Total (Weighted Avg.)            100.0                      8.4
B. Floating Rate FERIS
Current Liabilities
Bank Credit (1)               15.0      71.8     42.9   46.3
Accounts payable                5.0
Long Term Loans (FERIS) (4)       40.0     77.4     20.5   (9.3)
Equity (3)                        40.0     71.8     54.7   16.7
Total (Weighted Avg.)            100.0                      7.5
Source:   Fixed rate FERIS  Annex 10, Table 2, Floatin  rate FERIS,
Annex 10, Table 3, Bank Credits, Annex 10, table 4, and
Equity Capital, Annex 10, table 5.
Notes    (1)  After tax cost of commcrcial credit carrying
current effective rate of 140% and tax rate of 49%.
(2) FERIS fixed rate of 461 compounded semi-annually.
(3) Cost of equity is the greater of either 15% in
real, after tax terms or the return which can be
earned, after taxes, Sy paying off short term debt.
(4) FERIS floating rate assumed to projected T Bill
rate in Table 1 plus 41.



- 109 -               a
Page 1 of 7
TURKE2
AGRonUDUSTRY PROJzCT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
l!33h13RESURC  DEvELOpIIKU  suRvEY   TUmS oF gEuESCE
1.          Fisheries,  both marine and aquaculture,  have  received limited
attention in Turkey in the past. Despite the long coastline of Turkey and its
access to the Black Sea, the Aegean Sea, and the Mediterranean Sea, fish catch
and fish consumption have been of limited importance in the past. In 1986, the
last year for which figures are available, marine fisheries produced 525,000 tons
of fish (reflecting a growth rate of 7.1 per annum since 1979, production of
crustaceans and molluscs was 14,200 tons (18.4X growth per annum) and production
of freshwater fish 40,300 tons (8.91 growth).  The marine catch is overwhelming
large and smail pelagics (mainly horse mackerel, anchovy, and blue fish) while
demersal species are hidden in the catch figure for "others" amounting to 47,800
tons (1.31 negative growth). Among the freshwater species, common carp holds
43X. The state of exploitation varies considerably by region and species. In
the Mediterranean, the large pelagics are over-exploited everywhere; but,
reportedly, exploitation of demersal species is not heavy in Turkish waters.'
It is planned to attach a fisheries resource development survey to the World Bank
Agroindustry Project, which would provide a basis for an estimate of the fish
biomass and the maximum sustainable yield curve and how to improve the management
of the available fisheries resources, including salt water, freshwater, and
coastal  lagoons.   Turkey's efforts  in aquaculture  in coastal  lagoons and
freshwater bodies such as lakes and reservoirs are at present quite
underdeveloped. However, Turkey has excellent potential for the development of
aquaculture.
BENEFITS
2.          Through better resource management in marine fisheries and the
introduction of semi-intensive aquaculture in the available water bodies, fish
production could be increased substantially. This woul, lead to improved supply
of protein for the population and increased export of high quality processed fish
and expanded employment in rural areas. The fisheries development survey would
be expected to indentify both policy requirements and investment opporttn-ities
in the sector.
3.          In order to improve the management of the existing resource, policy
interventions may be needed in determining the types of fishing vessesl and
fishing gear to be used and financing certain types of vessels, equipment, and
Source: Report of Natural Resources Task Group within the Environmental
Program for the Mediterranean.



An . .A d
-110 -                               page 2 of 7
cold storage and processing to make the fishing effort more efficient. For the
development of nev resources, there is ample opportunity to increase production
in freshwater aquaculture, which is currently limited to carp culture, through
using the 200 large lakes, 74 larSe, and about 600 small reservoirs to expand
into other types of fish production, like culture-based fisheries in ponds,
lakes,  and  lagoons,  and fish culture  in cages.   The  favorable  climatic
coonditions and the availability of large lagoon systems and protected areas
along the Turkish coastline offer excellent opportunities for the development
of shrimp culture and other types of molluscs.
4.          In marine fisheries, it is anticipated that increased efforts will
be required in management of resources, i.e., towards avoiding overfishing of
areas and species and developing fisheries of species which have potential for
expansion. These are activities which require public sector involvement in the
establishment of an incentive system to evoke the interest of the private sector.
Infrastructure for aquaculture may be costly, particularly in the field of
improved shrimp or oyster, and the private sector may not be ready to absorb the
inherent risks until the technology for systems appropriate to the enviroranent
is proven . It may therefore be necessary to provide tech' ical advice and funds
for demonstration farms and hatcheries to be operated initially by the public
sector and to be divested when private sector interest has been evoked.
LOCATION
5.          The survey would be carried out under the general auspices of the
Ministry  of  Agriculture,  Forestry,  and  Rural  Affairs'  (MAFRA's)  General
Directorate for Projects and Implementation based in Ankara. Field work would
take place in relevant locations in Turkey.
OBJECTIVES
6.          In the Government's plans for the development of the fisheries
industry, priority has been given to the rational development of marine and
inland fishstocks and to fishculture. The aim of the fisheries resource survey
is to provide the data base for long term development planning to facilitate such
rational development, and to identify specific investment projects suitable for
inclusion within the scope of any such long term plan.
7.          The Survey would consist of five distinct components:
(i)   An accoustic survey of pelagic species in the Black Sea, and an
assesment of the abundance of this resouroe.
(ii   A mixed trawl and accoustic survey of demersal fish along the entire
coast of Turkey, and assesment of the maximum sustainable yield;
(iii) Surveys of inland fisheries activity, including aquaculture
operations, and identification of potential, in inland lakes, dam
impoundments, rivers and coastal lagoons. Proposals to enhance the
production potential of these should be outlined.



A   Ina
- 111 -                                Page 3 of 7
(iv)  A  reconnaissance  of potential  sites  for marine  fish culture,
including identification of nev investments; and
(v)   A study of the dosestic and export market outlook for Turkey's fish
and fish products, and estisates of futuare investment needs in fish
harvesting, processing and marketing equipment and facilities.
including identification of new investments and technical and
business training needs.
Each component can be executed relatively independently, except the marketing
study, which will require input on domestic supplies and enterprise financial
data from the other surveys.
SURVEY CQSTS
8.          An outline estimate of the costs of the various activities is given
below. The cost of the entire survey is estimated to be about US$6.5 million,
of which about 15X (US$1.0 million) is vxpected to be the local cost content.
(i)   Acoustic Survey
Vessel Hire, 7.5 months,      US$   1,500,000
Specialists, 75 mm                    750,000
Miscellaneous                  "      250000
"   2,500,000
(ii) Demersal Survey
Vessel Hire, 4 months         USS     600,000
Specialists, 35 -                     350,000
Miscellaneous                  "      200000
1,150,000
(iii) Inland Fish Surveys
Specialists, 25 -m            US$     250,000
Travel, etc.                          175,000
Renumerators, etc.             "      240 00
665,00(
(iv)  Coastal Reconnaissance
Specialists, 10 am            US$     100,000
Travel, etc.                   "       85000
185,000
(v)   Marketing Study
Specialists, 30 mm            US$     750,000
Research Assistances, etc.    "        25,000
Travel, etc.                          225 000
I  "   1,000,000
TOTAL                         US$  5,500,000
Contingencies                       US$  1,000,000



ANNEX 8
-112 -                               page 4 of 7
GRAND TOTAL                  US$  6,500,000
ACOUSTIC StlVL!?
9.          The objective of this survey is to assess the abundance of the
pelagic fish resources in the Turkish Exclusive Economic Zone, and the main
biological parameters of these fish populations. Because pelagic fish resources
have a tendency to fluctuate substantially over time, the survey should cover
a minimum of two years, and in each year at least two assessements should be
made. In addition to an acoustic assessement of the resources, which should
include sample catches of fish, the survey should also include the creation of
a regular sampling system of pelagic catches on shore. The acoustic survey should
be carriea' out by a fishing vessel equiped for purse-seining, or a combination
trawler-purse-seiner, equipped with two echo integrators coupled to a scientific
echo-sounder, able to operate up to 500m depth. In addition, the vessel should
be equipped with sonar and electronic navigation equipment to carry out its
research task. The vessel should be equipped with adequate laboratory facilities
to facilitate sampling of the catch and analysis of hydrografic, plankton and
fish samples. To carry out the survey and analyse the results, at least two
biologists, several assistants and a technical acoustic specialist will be needed
in addition to the vessel crew.
10.         The survey would be carried out at least twice a year; actual timing
of the individual activities should be based on the reproduction cycle of the
main species, with one survey covering the spawning period. During the survey,
echo integrator values should be read each nautical mile, and be calculated for
each 5 nautical miles, while the sonar should operate on a continious basis. The
actual survey operations would follow a predetermined grid, and include taking
of regular hydrografic, bathythermografic and plankton samples. When substantial
or interesting fish resources are encountered, actual catches will be made and
analysed.
11.         During the survey period, commercial landings of small pelagics on
shore and daily fishing effort will also be   analysed on a daily basis in
sslecte' fish landing sites. In addition, samples of catches will be taken and
analysed.  These data will be used in conjunction with the acoustic data to
analyse characteristics of the resources, and to determine what management
measures need be taken to improve the efficiency of exploitation of the
resources.
12.         During the survey, regular quarterly reports will be prepared which
summarize the survey findings. These reports should include observations
concerning the method of sampling, and actual results concerning hydrografy.
plankton, and acoustic operations, and data concerning fish landings and fishing
effort. Following completion of the survey, the final report should provide a
detailed analysis of the characteristics of the resources and their exploitation.
and provide detailed recommendations for future management of the resources. If



ANNEX 8
-113 -                               age of 7
at all possible, this analysis should take into account the data currently
available concerning commercial catches of other countries of these resources
in the Black Sea, and the findings of past and ongoing Soviet resource surveys
for small pelagics.
SIURVY 0? Dn1RAL WY_H R_OURCK
13.         The objective of this survey is to assess the maximum sustainable
yield of the deomersal fish resources in the Turkish Exclusive Economic Zone. To
this end a trawl survey would be carried out oy a suitable stern trawler, or
combination stern trawler-purse-seiner, equipped with high opening bottom trawls,
sonar and echo sounding equipment, and the necessary electronic navigation
equipment to carry out a scientific survey. The vessel should have adequate space
for laboratory facilities. To execute the survey, at least two biologists and
several assistants will be needed in addition to the vessel crew.
14.         The survey work should be carried out on a continuous basis to cover
the entire coast, following a predetermined grid. The vessel would make standard
trawl hauls at regular intervals; the catches of these hauls would be analysed
and recorded. In addition, regular hydrografic and bathythermografic samples
should be taken and planktQn samples collected, while recordings of the echo-
sounding and sonar equipment should be used to provide additional data.
15.         The data collected in the survey would be analysed using the swept
area method, in order to determine the overall size of the stocks. Length-
frequency data of individual species would be used to determine the
characteristics of specific populations. As and when possible, the survey should
also use regular fish landing data, regularly collected along the coast in
selected harbours.
16.         During the actual survey, monthly reports should be issuied, which
would sumArize the hydrografic, bathythermografic and plankton data, catch-
records,  and an analysis of catches. Following completion of the survey , a
final, report, containing a detailed analysis of the demersal fish stocks in
Turks.. waters, should be Issued.
SURVEY OF INLAND VATU. BODZIKS
17.         The _.urvey of inland water bodies would consist of two sample
surveys. The first, dealing with fishing in inland waterbodies, would be
conducted on a bimestrial basis. The second, concerning freshwater and coastal
lagoon aquaculture, would involve a sample survey of fishfarming, in which
production and costs and earnings would be estimated. The primary objective of
the first survey is to obtain esLimates of the present catch, species composition
and fishing efforts in a sample of inland lakes, impoundments, and artificially
created lakes in Turkey. In addition, the survey should provide quidelines for
improved exploitation and management of these waterbodies. The second survey
would estimate current producrton of cultured fish, and costs and earnings of
typical operations. To execute the survey, at least one statistician, one
biologist, an aquaculture specialist, a financial analyst and a number of
renumerators and assistants will be needed.



114-                               a86of 7
18.         The inland water survey should involve two different activities: a
production and fishing effort sub-survey based on the residence of fishermen
and the source of their catches, and a separate sub-survey of actual catches.
To select the samples to represent these two activities, a number of primary
sampling units (e.g. lakes) should be selected. At these lakes, individual
fishing villages would be selected from which samples of individual fishermen
would be interviewed. If possible. some form of stratified sampling should be
applied, particularly for larger lakes. The production sub-survey should on a
vwokly basis record catches and measure a sample of fish at fishlanding sites
selected from all sites adjoining the lakes selected for the first sub-survey.
19.         The aquaculture subsurvey would concern a sample of fish-culturists
engaged in various types of fishculture. Each group would be interviewed once,
and should provide information on past fish production, costs of operations and
earnings. Information should also be collected concerning the type of technology
being applied, and the constraints being encountered. An evaluation of the
technologies used should demonstrate their cost-effectiveness vis-a-vis the
surveying teams reccomended technologies. Finally, the potential for future
investment in these operations should be estimated.
20.         Survey activities should include efforts to train renumerators,
collect, analyse and check data, and prepare interim and final reports.  The
final reports should provide an assessment of the present production and t-he
production potential of the fresh water bodies of Turkey, and suggest measures
to enhance such potential. Concerning fresh water aquaculture, the final report
should analyse the present situation and the resource potential for future
expansion of these activities; in additioL, the report should analyse the
feasibility of selected new investments.
RECONNAISSANCE OF SITES FOR MARINE FISHCULTURE OPERATIONS
21.         The objective of this reconnaissance is to survey the Turkish coast
for sites suitable for marine and brackish water aquaculture, and provide an
assessmont of -he types of investments which would be desirable in developing
this sub-sector. The survey would not be limited to certain types of fishculture,
but  should particularly review the feasibility of growing shrimp, seabream,
seabass, mullets, *el, and molluscs. In addition, the reconnaissance should
review the ecological aspects of those sites suitable for future investment. The
reconnaissance, which should particularly focus on commercial development of
fishculture,  should be carried out by at least one  civil  engineer,  two
aquaculturists, an ecologist and a financial analyst, and take about two months.
22.         The survey should   pay particular attention to existing marine
culture operations, and assess the potential for future expansion. Marketing and
processing aspects would be studied as part of the fish marketing survey noted
below.
23.         The final report of the reconnaissance survey should list those
coastal area's with particular potential for coastal fishculture, and analyse
the feasibility of specific investments. In addition the report should comment



ANNEX 8
- 115 -                             Vajge7 of 7
on present goerreent policies relevant for fishculture, and analyse current
constraints inhibiting development of the sector.
STUDY OF THE DOMESTIC AND EXPORT MARKET PROSPECTS AND INVESTMINT
AND TRAINING NEEDS IN HARVESTING. PROCESSINC. AND MAIZE?ING
24.         The objective of this study is to determine the future needs of the
fishing industry for investments in harvesting, processing and marketing of the
major product groups, as well as training in technical and business aspects of
these. To this end and the direction and extent of future price movements for
the various product groups should be established based on a matrix of future
supply and demand estimates, developed from domestic and export demand estimates
(taking into account both the export-import trade regime and domestic market
regulations, direct and indirect, and state trading) for the major product groups
and supply projections from the resouce surveys in this study.  Using this,
estimates of future domestic production should be made. Estimates of available
processing harvesting, processing and marketing-facility capacities (based on
existing data and sample surveys, and taking into account age, technology and
location with respect to input supplies and markets) should be contrasted with
future domestic supply (as derived above) to indicate the magnitude of future
investment requirements in vessels, facilities and equipment. Training input for
firms in the industry is likeley to be required in both technical and business
practices. To determine the most appropriate focus for this training, it is first
necessary to establish the most appropiate (income-maximizing) business strategy.
Here,  generic,   demonstratively-appropriate business  strategies  should be
developed for the various product groups and activities (harvesting, processing,
wholesaling and retailing) and the allied appropriate (most cost-effective)
technologies and business practices should then be defined. The availability of
adequate domestic training capability and capacity should be ascertained. Where
this capability and/or capacity is not present, suitable training programs should
be detailed.
25.         The study team should consist of two economists (with experience in
trade regime analysis and marketing, and in fisheries production), one
business/marketing strat-gist, and two fish-ries technical specialists (one in
fish harvesting and one ir fish processing) and appropriate research assistance
support. The study should be completed within a period of six months. The report
should prioritize overall investment reccomendations and identify specific
individual investments in each area above, which are suitable for external
financing.



-116 -                              ANNEX 9
Page 1
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
Participating Credit Institutions
A.  The Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB)
1.       TCZB, a Government-owned institution, is the oldest and largest bank
in Turkey with a network of 1,151 branches and about 262 of the total
resources of the deposit banks operating in 'he country. Its policy is to
allocate at least 802 of its lending to agriculture, although a smaller
proportion has been devoted to the sector in recent years. TCZB is also
empowered to undertake commercial lending and other functions usually
associated with a commercial banking institution.  Its commercial loan
portfolio represented 231 of total assets in 1987. However, a large part of
TCZB's commercial lending is related to agriculture. In addition, TCZB
handles Governmental transactions for the Treasury ar.d the Central Bank. TCZB
pLepares and implements an annual operations and investment program, which is
approved by the Supreme Credit Board.'
Organization and Management
2.       Management.  TCZB is administered by a Government-appoirted Board of
Directors and a Credit Committee.  The Board is chaired by the General
Manager, who is in charge of TCZB's day-to-day operations. At the beginning
of 1988 a new General Manager took over who appointed staff from outside TCZB
to four of the six Assistant General Manager positions. TCZB's new management
team has substantial external banking experience. The new management has also
introduced a whole range of institutional development measures including a
major reorganization of headquarters departments along lines recommended in
the consultants' study financed under the Second Agricultural Credit Project.
3.       TCZB is in the process of upgrading its management information system
(MIS) based upon a study of systems and procedures, undertaken by Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO) consultants. The computerization program,
being implemented through 1992,   11 permit the rapid processing of data.
TCZB has prepared a five-year financial plan for the period 1988-92 which has
been approved by the Supreme Credit Board. The plan will be reviewed annually
and the forecasts extended to cover one more year. TCZB also has developed an
improved system to prepare annual budgets.
Financial Status and Performance
4.       TCZB's total assets in 1985 terms generally increased to a level of
TL 2.6 trillion in 1977, then declined to TL 1.8 trillion in 1980 before
¢L'  The Board is chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister, and its members
include the Ministers of Agriculture and Commerce, the Undersecretaries
of the Treasury and the State Planning Organization, and the Governor of
the Central Bank.



ANNEX 9
- 117 -                                Page 2
climbing to TL 5.0 trillion in 1987.  As its recourse to Central Bank
borrowings has declined, its resources have come increasingly from deposits.
However, the composition of deposits has changed since 1985 when local
deposits started to decline in favor of foreign currency deposits. Since TCZB
has earned only a small profit in nominal terms, the magnitude of its net
worth has depended primarily on Government equity contributions and has
fluctuated at a low level relative to total assets. The confidence of its
depositors has been maintained through its backing by Government.
5.       Resources.  TCZB's total resources reached TL 8.4 trillion (US$8.4
billion) at the end of 1987, in real terms about 180% more than in 1980 and
about 902 above the level of 1977. Until 1986, deposits have provided a
growing share of resources, increasing from 41% in 1980 to 68Z in 1986.
Conversely, the share provided by Central Bank borrowings has declined from
401 to 52 over the same period. However, in 1987 TCZB financed TMO's grain
procurement program largely with Central Bank borrowings. As a result, their
share in TCZB's resources jumped back to 152 while deposits declined to 612.
Net worth increased from 3% of the total in 1980 to 7% in 1981 as a result of
Government contributions, then fell again to 31 in 1985 and was maintained at
that level through 1987. TCZB's real net worth has fluctuated with the cycle
of Government equity contributions and reached peaks in 1970, 1976, and 1981.
The level in 1987 of 3Z of total resources is low in relation to about 8Z for
private commercial banks in Turkey and will need to be raised if TCZB is to
adapt itself to a market environmert. Agreement has been reached that the
Government would provide additional equity resources to TCZB to reach a ratio
of net worth to average total resources of at least 61 by the end of 1991. As
a first step in the right direction, TZCB's Board and the High Economic
Council-X have decided to increase TZCB's authorized capital from TL 200
billion to TL 500 billion. Additionally, it has been decreed (Law No. 3380)
that, starting from 1987, a portion of agricultural taxes collected may be
allocated to TCZB. TCZB's projections for 1988-92 show that the equity
contributions expected as a result of this law would increase the ratio of net
worth to average total resources to about 6.51 by 1990, which would be a more
satisfactory level.  By August 1988, TL 50 billion had been paid in, half from
the Government budget and half from agricultural t.xes.
6.       Assets.  At t'ie request of the Bank, TCZB in June/July 1988 carried
out a preliminary review of its loan portff.. io with the objective of:
(i) classifying its loans outstanding end-1987 in accordance with the
requirements of the provisioning Decree promulgated in May 1988; and
(ii) determining also the performance status of those loans which are exempted
from the application of the Decree. The review that vis carried out by an
internal task force of TCZB permits the conclusion that TCZB will not hsve
difficulties to bring its provisions for bad debts to the level required by
the Decree at the end of 1988. Total arrears in agricultural lending were
TL 772 billion equivalent to 251 of TL 3,091 billion outstanding at
December 31, 1987. The agewise breakdown showed that of the 251 loans in
arrears 5Z were overdue for less than six months, 161 for more than 6 but less
than 12 months, 1% for more than 12 but less than 24 months, and 3% for more
than 2 years. Including the estimated cases of loss of creditworthiness for
I/       Cabinet-level economic policy-making body.



ANNEX 9
- 118 -                                 Page 3
which provisions of 15% are required, for agricultural loans total provisions
of TL 166 billion would have been required. The corresponding figure for
commercial loans was calculated to be TL 48 billion, leading to total
provisions required of TL 214 billion as compared to provisions actually made
of TL 237 billion. The analysis also noted that as of December 31, 1987 an
amount of TL 762 billion was outstanding on loans to sales cooperatives
guaranteed by the Government. Agreement has been reached that the Government
would, by December 31, 1989, provide compensatien to TCZB for such overdues in
the form of negotiable bonds. The results of the internal portfolio review
will be supplemented by a limited portfolio audit undertaken by external
auditors in October/November 1988 which has been completed in Turkish and is
currently being translated.
B. Halk Bank (HB)
7.       Halk Bank was established in 1933 as the public sector commercial
bank responsible for attending to the needs of small and medium scale
industries, artisans and cooperatives. It started by focussing on the
provision of working capital loans to these sectors but has broadened its
assistance by expanding into investment financing as well. Halk Bank is a
participant in the credit component of SMI I. After a slow start, it improved
its performance and proved to be an effective channel for SMI investment
finance. Halk has recently had frequent changes at its top management level
which has caused some instability and delayed decision making. However, in
May 1988, the Government appointed a new general manager, who was formerly an
assistant general manager of the agricultural bank (Ziraat Bankasi) and was
responsible for Bank agriculture loans.  This appointment appears to have
restored stability within the bank, and Halk Bank has resumed implemeiting its
commitments under SMI T.
8.       Halk Bank has played a lead role in providing financing to small and
medium scale industries, cooperatives and artisans, and in the 1985-1987
period, over 752 of its outstanding loans were for these sectors. HB has been
able to accomplish this because of its wide branch network, its access to low-
cost funds from the Government and its expertise in dealing with this sector
developed over the years.
9.       Despite its developmental role, HB has cor..inued to be a profitable
and liquid bank. It is conservatively managed, and its credit policies
require that all its loans be fully secured b,y mortgages and/or personal and
bank guarantees. This, together with its close contacts with its borrowers
through its branch network, has allowed Halk Bank to develop a good portfolio
of small loans with little arrears. Halk's financial position is strong, and
its past profitability has allowed it to adequately provide for its entire
non-performing portfolio.  Based on the information provided to the SMI-II
appraisal mission, Halk Bank has already set aside sufficient provisions as
required under the decree to cover loans that are not current and made
preliminary allowances for loss of creditworthiness in performing loans
contingencies.



- 119 -                                ANNEX 9
Page 4
C. Industrial Investment Credit Bank (SYKB)
10.      SYKB was established in 1963 by five commercial banks primarily to
provide working capital loans to projects provided with investment loans by
the Industrial Development Bank of Turkey (TSKB), the other private
development bank in Turkey. Since the early 1970s SYKB has significantly
expanded its role and has moved into investment financing in a big way. The
Bank has been instrumental in the growth of SYKB as a development finance
institution. SYKB's relationship with he Bank has grown over the years, and
to date, it has been the recipient of four Bank loans amounting to US$185
million primarily earmarked for private sector industry: (i) textile
industries (US$15 million); (ii) labor-intensive industries (US$ 40 million);
(iii) small and medium scale industries (US$80 million); and (iv) the export
industries (US$50 million). The implementation of the loans for textile and
labor intensive industries was delayed somewhat because of the reluctance of
final borrowers to bear the foreign exchange risk. However, with the
introduztion of Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme (FERIS) in 1985, the
implementation of these two loans was accelerated and the two loans were
disbursed with only minor cancellations.   SYKB has performed well under the
current SMI loan, and has met its major objectives, financial covenants and
timetable for disbursements.  SYKB's participation in the export loan which
became effective in April 1988 is also satisfactory.
11.      SYKB is a well-managed financial institution and has build up a cadre
of competent staff. SYKB has concentrated mainly on providing long-term
finance to small and medium scale industries and has built a strong
portfolio. However, the difficult financial environment in recent years has
had a significant impact on the performance of SYKB's clients.  The
non-performing portfolio of SYKB has recently been increasing as firms
suffered from high cost of money and adjusted to new market realities. The
increasing level of non-performing assets is putting pressure on the spread of
the bank, could lead to liquidity problems and stifle SYKB's growth. SYKB
would have to improve its portfolio management, diversify its sources of funds
domestically and externally and increase its capital, if its growth
projections are to be achieved.   These have been discussed with SYKB and
constitute important elements of its corporate strategy statement which was
reviewed by the appraisal mission for the SMI-II project.
12.      Over the long term, SYKB would need to diversify its business and
move into areas other than its main business of long-term finance. Long-term
viability on the basis of this product line alone will become more difficult
as spreads on this business become thinner due to greater competition.  .^s
spreads decline very high collection levels would be needed to achieve even
modest profitability and even minor shocks in the economy could hurt SYKB's
profitability. Considering its large pipeline of funds available for
long-term lending, SYKB could easily be lulled into an attitude of business as
usual. Management would need to implement more aggressively its business
diversification plans and resist a tendency to postpone them.
13.      Despite being a non-bank and not subject to the new provisioning
decree, SYKB has agreed to provide for its non-performing portfolio in the
spirit of the provisions decree. It has already set aside the provisions



- 120 -                                 ANNEX 9
Page 5
required under the decree for loans which are not current and made preliminary
provisions for loss of creditworthiness.
Deht-Service-Cover Ratios
15.      As noted in paragraph 4.09 of this report, PCIs would be required to
maintain a debt-service-cover ratio of 1.1 to l for SYKB and 1.2 to 1 for
other banks. The debt-service cover ratio for the commercial banks among the
PCIs is calculated by dividing the sum of the net income after tax, interest
payments (adjusted for taxes) on medium and long-term loans (over one year
maturity), provisions for losses and loan collections from medium and
long-term loans (over one year maturity) by the sum of the repayments of debt
and payments of interest (adjusted for taxes) on medium and long-term debt
(over one year maturity). Fo- the development banks among the PCIs, the
debc-service-cover ratio is calculated by dividing the sum of the net income
after tax, interest payment adjusted for taxes, provisions for losses and loan
collections by the sum of the repayments of debt and payments of interest,
adjusted for taxes.



-121-                              ANNEX 10
Page I
TURKEY
AGROINDUSTRY PROJECT
I.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A.  Selected Reports Related to the Agroindustry Subsector,
Financial Sector, and Agricultural Credit Subsector
A-1      IBRD, Turkey - Agroindustry Subsector Review, An Agenda for Medium
Team Strategy, Report No. 6890-TU, July 16, 1987 (Green Cover)
A-2      IBRD, Turkey - Agricultural Development Alternatives for Growth with
Exports, Report No. 4204-TU, November 22, 1982.
A-3      IBRD, Turkey - Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan, Staff Appraisal
Report No. 5576-TU, May 22, 1985.
A-4      IBRD, Turkey - Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, Staff Appraisal
Report No. 6095-TU, May 15, 1986.
A-5      IBRD, Turkey - Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, President's
Report No. P4784-TU, May 25, 1988.
A-6      IBRD, Turkey - Staff Appraisal Report, Third Agricultural Credit
Project No. 6627-TU, October 11, 1988 (Green Cover).
A-7      IBRD, Turkey - Staff Appraisal Report, Second Small and Medium Scale
Industry Project Nc. 7546-TU, February 22, 1989 (Green Cover).
A-8      DLG - Agriservice GMBH, Bonn - Agroindustries Project Identification,
Turkey, March 23, 1988.
A-9      GIRA, Geneva - A Screening Study to Determine the Market Interest in
Increasing Investment in Selected Food Sectors in Turkey, December
12, 1986.
A-10     Dr. Nazmi Demir, Turkish Japanese Business Council - Agricultural and
Agro-Industrial Sectors in Turkey (Summay Data as of 1985-86).
A-1l     Koy £ur Holding AS, Tu key - An Institution for Financing of
Development Projects, May 1988.
A-12     Citibank, New York - A proposal to Assist the Development Bank of
Turkey, September 1988.
A-13     D. Ives, Cambridge, England - Turkey, A Technical Review of the
Agro-Industrial Subsectors, Meat, Fish and Animal Feed, Novemler 19b6.
A-Ui     Glinal Kansu, Geneva - Institutional Support to Export Promot on in
Turkey, February 19, 1987.



-2-   10
- 122 -                                Page 2
A-15     UNDP NY, Project Document, Strengthening of IGEME in Export
Promotion, Turkey, July 30, 1985.
A-16     UNDP NY, Project Document, Assistance to the Packaging Center,
Turkey, April 5, 1983.
A-17     Price Waterhouse, Ireland - The Role of Marketing in the
Revitalization of Turkish Agroindustry, 1988.
B.  Information Submitted bY Various Banks
B-1      TCZB
B-2      Halk Bank
B-3      SYKB
B-4      TKB
B-5      Iktisat Bank
B-6      Emlak Bank
II. Relevant Information in Project File
for Third Agricultural Credit Project
Annex 11  -  TCZB
Annex 13  -  Draft TORs for TCZB Institutional Development
B-1          TCZB Institutional Development
B-2          TCZB Financial Analysis
B-3          TCZB Technical Analysis
III. Relevant Information in Project File for SMI-II Project
2.   Appraisal of Halk Bank and related papers.
3.   Appraisal of Industrial Investment and Credit Bank and related papers.



w>FafnoKri4feb                                         I~~~~~~~neboku  Sinop                                                              U    S   S   R
.)~~~~~~~~~~a kY                                                                        -- -  ---   Or               fb
v~~~~~~                                                                                                                 rz                                     9 x \ C*ar 8At    ;/   
on~~ PREPEPBI                                                                              ar_rrr-
Nev*eh, ~  ~        ~        ~         c                                  va UOSSF
CL,                 Am f01ws                                                                                                                                                               IRRAN ;   
_ -Intefnotiorrel bownCerXtl                                                                   v            .                                      <- f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ma
Rlvttrs                                                                                         '   t;~~~~~~~4d  oq arbak, ia 
O   ,00   O:   soO                                                                         tr'    * '    .         "*0,0                 z_a S_ .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
oo o 70 SiREf >. .,dr- SFI
_  ttl;Es                                                                                                           >   v             !  55t^llRAs  ) IRAQ I    °~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 Vm
Xt I  *o                                        ws                                                    ,tL  ~~~~~~~~~~ _ ~AZ



