Page  1
July 16, 1990
Mr. Falih Selekler
Economic and Commercial Counselor
Embassy of the Republic of Turkey
2523 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20008
               Re:  Loan No. 3077 TU
                    (Agroindustry Project)
                    Amendments
Dear Mr. Selekler:
          We refer to Mr. Kilic's letter of May 29, 1990 wherein
he has requested that a special account be established for each of
the financial institutions participating in the above Project.
          I am pleased to inform you that we agree to his request,
and therefore propose to you the following amendments to the Loan
Agreement dated June 28, 1989:
          (1)  Paragraph (m) of Section 1.02 is amended to read
as follows:
          "(m) 'TCZB Special Account, SYKB Special Account and THB
          Special Account' mean the accounts referred to in
          Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, and 'Special
          Accounts' means the TCZB Special Account, the SYKB
          Special Account and THB Special Account".
          (2)  Paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 is amended to read
as follows:
          "(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
          Project, cause to be opened and maintained in dollars
          special deposit accounts in TCZB, SYKB and THB to be
          designated, respectively, as the TCZB Special Account,
          the SYKB Special Account and the THB Special Account, on
          terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
          appropriate protection against set off, seizure or
          attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the
          Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the
          provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement".
          (3) Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement is amended to read
as set forth in the Attachment to this Letter.
          Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing
amendments by signing and dating the attached copy of this Letter
and by returning said copy to us.
                              Sincerely yours,
                              INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                             /s/  Michael H. Wiehen
                                   Director
                              Country Department I
                      Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                               Regional Office
CONFIRMED: by REPUBLIC OF TURKEY on 10/2/90
                                             ATTACHMENT
                      SCHEDULE 5
Page  2
                   Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means (i) in respect
of the TCZB Special Account an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the TCZB
Special Account; (ii) in respect of the SYKB Special Account an
amount equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan
Account and deposited into the SYKB Special Account; and (iii) in
respect of the THB Special Account an amount equivalent to
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited
into the THB Special Account, all pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the TCZB Special Account, the SYKB Special Account or the THB
Special Account have been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish such
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the relevant Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
               deposits into the Special Accounts at such
               intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request,
               the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
               documents and other evidence required pursuant
               to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
               or payments in respect of which replenishment is
               requested.  On the basis of each such request,
               the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
               withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
               the relevant Special Account such amount as the
               Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
               been shown by said documents and other evidence
               to have been paid out of such Special Account
               for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits
               shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
               Account under the respective eligible
               Categories, and in the respective equivalent
               amounts, as shall have been justified by said
               documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the TCZB out of the TCZB Special
Account or by SYKB out of the SYKB Special Account or by THB out
of the THB Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as
the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
Page  3
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Accounts:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made directly from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any, payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the relevant Special Account (or,
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Accounts shall be
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in any Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance- with
the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
