Page  1
January 10, 1991
Mr. Falih Selekler
Economic and Commercial Counselor
Embassy of the Republic of Turkey
2523 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20008
               Re:  Loan No. 3077 TU
                    (Agroindustry Project)
                    Amendments
Dear Mr. Selekler:
          We refer to the amendment to the Loan Agreement for the
above Project which was countersigned by you on October 2, 1990,
whereby we have agreed to establish a special account in each of the
participating banking institutions (TCZB, SYKB and THB).  You have
subsequently requested, and we have agreed, that SYKB be enabled to
have its special account established in a bank other than itself.
          To formalize this agreement, we propose to further amend
paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement to read as
follows:
     "(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
     cause TCZB, SYKB and THB to open and maintain in itself or in
     a commercial bank, special accounts in dollars to be
     designated, respectively, as the TCZB Special Account, the
     SYKB Special Account and the THB Special Account.  Such
     Special Accounts shall be so opened on terms and conditions
     satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
     against set off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and
     payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in
     accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
     Agreement".
          Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing
amendments by signing and dating the attached copy of this letter
and by returning said copy to us.
                              Sincerely yours,
                              INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                              /s/  Michael H. Wiehen
                                     Director
                                Country Department I
                       Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                                   Regional Office
CONFIRMED: by REPUBLIC OF TURKEY on 1/16/91
