Page  1
                                                    COMFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3077 TU
                      (Agroindustry Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 28, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3077 TU
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June  28,  1989,  between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  Parts A and B (1) of  the Project will be carried out by
the Participating  Credit  Institutions  referred  to in paragraph
(d)  of  Section  1.02  of  this  Agreement  with  the  Borrower's
assistance and, as part of  such assistance, the Borrower, as pro-
vided in this Agreement, will make available to said Participating
Credit Institutions the proceeds  of  the  Loan, except the amount
allocated for Part B (2) and (3) of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the  Loan  to  the  Borrower on the terms and
Page  2
conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and  in  the  Project
Agreement  of  even  date  herewith   between  the  Bank  and  the
aforementioned Participating Credit Institutions;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set  forth  in  Schedule  6  to  this Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General  Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein set
forth  and  the  following  additional  terms  have  the following
meanings:
     (a)  "TCZB"  means  Turkiye   Cumhuriyet  Ziraat  Bankasi,  a
banking institution established and operating under the Borrower's
Law No. 233;
     (b)  "SYKB" means Sinai Yatirim  ve  Kredi Bankasi, a banking
institution operating under its Statutes  dated March 16, 1963, as
amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (c)  "THB" means Turkiye  Halk  Bankasi,  operating under the
Borrower's Law No. 233;
     (d)  "PCIs"  means  collectively   the  Participating  Credit
Institutions under the Project,  namely,  TCZB,  SYKB, THB and any
other credit institution of  the  Borrower  which the Borrower may
determine, in agreement with the Bank, to include as a PCI for the
purposes of the Project; and the  term  "PCI" means each or any of
the Participating Credit Institutions;
     (e)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and the PCIs of even  date  herewith,  as  the same may be amended
from time  to  time,  and  such  term  includes  all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (f)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and each PCI pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as  the  same may be amended from time
to time, and such  term  includes  all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
     (g)  "Sub-Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a
PCI out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan to an Investment enterprise
for the financing of an Investment Project;
     (h)  "free-limit Sub-Loan" means  a  Sub-Loan which qualifies
as a free-limit sub-loan  pursuant  to the provisions of paragraph
B (4) (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
     (i)  "Investment Enterprise"  means  an enterprise, eligible,
pursuant to  the  provisions  of  this  Agreement  and the Project
Agreement, to receive a Sub-Loan from a PCI;
     (j)  "Investment  Project"  means  a  specific agroindustrial
project (including facilities,  equipment  and technical services)
for the processing,  packaging,  transportation, handling, storage
and distribution of food, beverages,  animal feed, tobacco, or for
sawmills, leather tanneries or  processing  of  raw cotton, or for
the transportation, handling, storage and distribution of agricul-
tural inputs;  to  be  carried  out  by  an  Investment Enterprise
utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-Loan;
     (k)  "Statutes" or "Charter" means  (i) with respect to TCZB,
Page  3
the Statutes dated November  9,  1984,  as  amended to the date of
this Agreement; (ii)  with  respect  to  SYKB,  the Statutes dated
March 16, 1963, as amended  to  the  date of this Agreement; (iii)
with respect to THB, the Articles of Association dated October 28,
1984, as amended to  the  date  of  this  Agreement; and (iv) with
respect to any  other  credit  institution  which may be included,
pursuant to paragraph A (4)  (a)  of Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
as a PCI for purposes of  the  Project, the Statutes or Charter on
the basis of which such inclusion shall be made;
     (l)  "Statement of Policy"  means  with  respect to each PCI,
the statement of  lending  and  investment  policy and of business
plans as approved by its directors  and as the same may be amended
from time to time;
     (m)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (n)  "FERIS"  means  the   Foreign  Exchange  Risk  Insurance
Scheme, operated pursuant to Decree  No. 31, dated March 27, 1985,
as amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (o)  "TL"  and  "Turkish  Lira"  means  the  currency  of the
Borrower;
     (p)  "Subsidiary" means any company  of which the majority of
the outstanding  voting  stock  or  other  proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by  a  PCI  or by one or more sub-
sidiaries of a PCI  or  by  a  PCI  and  one  or  more of its sub-
sidiaries; and
     (q)  "MAFRA" means  the  Borrower's  Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry and Rural Affairs.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies  equivalent to one hundred
fifty million dollars ($150,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in  accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made)  in  respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for  the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be  financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Central Bank
of Turkey  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
Page  4
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. The General  Manager  and his designees of each
PCI, are designated  as  representatives  of  the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any  action  required  or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of  Section  2.02  (a)  of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions  with respect to the amount of
the Loan onlent to  such  PCI  under  the relevant Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement,  and,  to  this  end:  (i)  without  any  limitation or
restriction upon  any  of  its  other  obligations  under the Loan
Agreement, shall cause the  PCIs  to  perform all of their obliga-
tions under the  Project  Agreement  in  accordance  with the pro-
visions thereof; (ii) shall carry  out  Part  B (2) of the Project
through MAFRA with due diligence  and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices
and shall provide, promptly  as  needed, the funds, facilities and
other resources  required  therefor;  and  (iii)  shall, by Decem-
ber 31, 1989, make arrangements  satisfactory  to the Bank for the
carrying out of Part B (3) of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  relend  the  proceeds  of  the Loan
allocated for Part A and  Part  B  (1)  of the Project to the PCIs
under subsidiary loan agreements  to  be  entered into between the
Borrower and the PCIs, under  terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank which shall include the terms and conditions set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Without limitation to the provisions of this Section and
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall not conclude a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement with TCZB  or THB unless each shall have
carried out an audit of  its  asset portofolio and shall have made
adequate provisions for  non-performing  loans  in accordance with
the Borrower's Banking Law.
     (d)  Except as the  Bank  may  otherwise  agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that the  PCIs  shall  utilize  the amounts onlent to
them under the Subsidiary Loan  Agreements  for purposes of Part A
of the Project in  the  provision  of Sub-Loans in accordance with
Page  5
the procedures and under  the  terms  and  conditions set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (e)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the  goods  and  consultants' services required for
Part B (2) and (3) of  the  Project  and to be financed out of the
proceeds of  the  Loan  shall  be  governed  by  the provisions of
Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods financed from the proceeds  of Sub-Loans under Part A of
the Project and of consultants'  services  under Part B (1) of the
Project shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  shall  ensure the preparation and
furnishing to the Bank of  semi-annual  reports on progress in the
carrying out of Part B (2) and Part B (3) of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of Part B (2) and (3) of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section for each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year  the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from  the  Loan  Account  were  made  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one  year  after  the  Bank  has received the
               audit report for the fiscal  year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records.
Page  6
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year  the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have  reasonably  requested, including a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements  of  expenditure  submitted  during such
               fiscal  year,  together  with  the  procedures  and
               internal controls  involved  in  their preparation,
               support the related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records and accounts and the audit thereof
               as the  Bank  shall  from  time  to time reasonably
               request.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Any PCI have failed  to  perform  any of its obligations
under  the  Project  Agreement,   or  under  the  Subsidiary  Loan
Agreement to which it is a party.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that any PCI will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Statutes or Charter  or  the  Statement of Policy of
any PCI shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to  affect  materially  and  adversely the ability of
such PCI to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under the Project
Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of any PCI or for the suspension of its operations.
     (e)  A subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over  by  any PCI, if such creation, acquisi-
tion or taking  over  would  adversely  affect  the conduct of the
PCI's business, its  financial  situation,  the  efficiency of its
management and personnel or  the  carrying  out  of  Part A of the
Project.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any event specified  in  paragraph  (a)  or  (e) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement  shall  occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower; and
     (b)  any event specified  in  paragraph  (c)  or  (d) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
Page  7
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  have  been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and at least two PCIs; and
     (b)  FERIS has been placed on a variable rate basis only.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by the PCIs,  and  is  legally  binding  upon the PCIs in
accordance with its terms; and
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  referred  to in
Section 6.01 (a) of  this  Agreement  have been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower  and  the  PCIs concerned and are legally
binding upon the Borrower and  said  PCIs in accordance with their
terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Undersecretary  of the Treasury and Foreign
Trade of  the  Borrower  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of  Section  11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Basbakanlik
          Hazine Ve Dis Ticaret
          Mustesarligi
          Bakanliklar, Ankara
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               HAZINE                       821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
                                            821-42689 (ANK-TR)
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                              64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF the  parties  hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  8
                        REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
                        By /s/ N. K. Kilic
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ W. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans:             142,800,000
     (a)  Machinery and                         100% of foreign
          equipment                             expenditures,
          (including                            70% of local
          associated                            expenditures for
          services)                             imported items
                                                procured locally
                                                and 50% of the
                                                ex-factory cost
                                                of items manu-
                                                factured locally
     (b)  other goods                           100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
                                                (up to the
                                                allocation in
                                                Sub-Loans for
                                                permanent working
                                                capital)
     (c)  civil works                           30%
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(2)  Consultants'               500,000         100% of foreign
     services and                               expenditures
     training under
     Part B (1)
     of the Project:
(3)  Technical assistance     6,700,000
     under Part B (2)
     and (3) of the
Page  9
     Project
     (a)  goods                                 100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
     (b)  consultants'                          100% of foreign
          services and                          expenditures
          training
          TOTAL              150,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:  (a)  in  respect  of a Sub-Loan unless the
Borrower has concluded a  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement with the PCI
providing such Sub-Loan and unless  such Sub-Loan has been made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to  in  Schedule  4  to  this Agreement; and (b)
without limitation to the provisions  of  paragraph 4 of Part B of
Schedule 4 to  this  Agreement,  in  respect  of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (a) to increase the output
of agroindustry through  the  financing  of investments to improve
capacity utilization in existing  facilities  and to establish new
facilities; (b) to improve the  capabilities  of the PCIs to carry
out financial restructuring of,  and appraisal of investments for,
agroindustrial  projects;  and   (c)  to  strengthen  agroindustry
through the establishment of a capacity for marketing training and
for planning in the fisheries sub-sector.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Agroindustrial Credit
     Provision, through the  PCIs,  of  credit for financing fixed
investments, permanent working capital and technical service needs
of agroindustrial investment projects.
Part B:   Technical Assistance; Study
1.   Provision of  technical  services,  including staff training,
for TCZB and THB  (and,  if  the  Borrower  and  the Bank shall so
agree, to other PCIs that may  be included in the Project pursuant
to paragraph 4 (a) of Part A  of Schedule 4 to this Agreement,) in
the areas of appraisal  and  supervision of agroindustrial invest-
Page  10
ments and the design  of  financial packages for the restructuring
of agroindustrial projects.
2.   A survey to establish a  basis for long-term planning for the
development of  the  fisheries  industry  and  the preparation, if
appropriate, of fisheries projects.
3.   A pilot program to  test  and  develop training techniques in
international marketing, as required  to promote export of Turkish
agroindustrial products.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
     beginning October 15, 1994
     through   April 15, 2006                      6,250,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
     Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                        The  interest   rate  (ex-
                                        pressed  as  a  percentage
                                        per  annum)  applicable to
                                        the  Loan  on  the  day of
                                        prepayment, multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                 Term and Conditions of Onlending
               under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
               and under the Contracts for Sub-loans
Page  11
     Except as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the following
provisions shall be adopted  in  the Subsidiary Loan Agreements to
be concluded between the Borrower and each of the PICs:
A.   Onlending the Loan proceeds to the PCIs
1.   The PCIs shall be required, with respect to amounts onlent to
them for purposes of Part B (1)  of the Project: (a) to repay such
amounts to the Borrower  over  the  same  period specified for the
repayment of the Loan pursuant to Schedule 3 to this Agreement and
with commitment charge and interest at the rates applicable to the
Loan pursuant to  Sections  2.04  and  2.05, respectively, of this
Agreement; and (b) to make such repayment of principal and payment
of commitment charge and interest  in the same amounts and curren-
cies  in  which  the  Borrower's  debt  service  obligations, with
respect to such amounts, shall be payable to the Bank.
2.   With respect to amounts allocated  to any PCI for purposes of
Part A of the Project, the PCI shall:
     (a)  pay to the Borrower  a  commitment charge on the unwith-
drawn amounts at the rate of 3/4 of 1% per annum;
     (b)  repay such amounts over a period not exceeding ten years
from the date of  the  latest  Sub-Loan  contract concluded by the
PCI, in  accordance  with  an  amortization  schedule  which shall
conform  substantially  to  the   aggregate  of  the  amortization
schedules applicable to the Sub-Loans;
     (c)  make the repayment  referred  to  in the preceding para-
graph in the currency,  or  currencies, in which the corresponding
amount of the  Sub-Loan  shall  be  denominated in accordance with
paragraph 3 of Part B hereof; and
     (d)  pay to the Borrower (i)  with respect to amounts denomi-
nated under the Sub-Loan  contract  in foreign currency, interest,
in said foreign  currency,  at  an  annual  rate identical to that
applicable, from time to  time,  to  the Loan, pursuant to Section
2.05 of this Agreement, and  (ii)  with respect to amounts denomi-
nated under the Sub-Loan contract  in Turkish Lira, interest at an
annual rate lower  by  three  percentage  points than the interest
rate applicable to the Sub-Loan.
3.   Out of the amount of the  Loan allocated for the provision of
Sub-Loans, the Borrower shall initially allocate the equivalent of
$71,400,000 to TCZB, $42,800,000 to SYKB, and $28,600,000 to THB.
4.   (a)  The Borrower  shall  retain  under  the  Subsidiary Loan
Agreements the right, in agreement with the Bank (i) to reallocate
after June 30, 1990 from amounts allocated under paragraph 3 above
to TCZB, SYKB, and THB  (in proportion to their respective alloca-
tions), an  amount  up  to  $70,000,000  equivalent  to additional
credit  institutions  that  may  be  included  as  PCIs  by mutual
agreement  between  the  Borrower  and   the  Bank,  and  (ii)  to
reallocate any amount of the Loan allocated to any PCI, should the
PCI be unable: (A) to demonstrate, based on actual commitments and
Sub-Project pipeline, as of  October  30,  1990 or April 30, 1991,
that it would be  able  to  fully utilize its remaining allocation
under Sub-Loans, or (B)  to  carry  out  its obligations under the
Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall determine, in agreement with the PCIs
concerned, the  extent  to  which  commitment  charges accruing on
amounts  reallocated  pursuant  to  paragraph  (a)  above  will be
reimbursed by the PCIs receiving such reallocation.
B.   Terms and Conditions of Sub-Loans
1.   (a)  Permanent working capital requirements shall be financed
under Sub-Loans only as a component of an Investment Project which
shall include fixed investment  finance  in  an  amount at least 3
times the amount of permanent working capital finance.
Page  12
     (b)  No financing  for  civil  works  shall  be  provided for
Investment Projects in  manufacturing  or  for Investment Projects
under which civil works expenditures are estimated to be less than
60% of total investment cost.
2.   Sub-Loans shall  be  made  only  for  Investment Projects and
Investment  Enterprises  which   meet  eligibility  and  appraisal
criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   The PCIs shall:
     (a)  charge on each Sub-Loan  denominated in foreign currency
(i) interest on the principal amount of the Sub-Loan withdrawn and
outstanding at a floating  annual  rate  which shall exceed by not
more than four percentage  points  the interest rate applicable to
the Loan, from time  to  time,  pursuant  to  Section 2.05 of this
Agreement, and (ii) a commitment  fee on the unwithdrawn amount of
the Sub-Loan at the rate of 3/4 of 1% per annum;
     (b)  charge on each Sub-Loan  denominated in Turkish Lira (i)
interest on the amount  of  the Sub-Loan withdrawn and outstanding
at a floating rate, to be  determined in accordance with the rules
and procedures prescribed in the  FERIS, and (ii) a commission fee
on the amount of  the  Sub-Loan  withdrawn  and outstanding at the
rate of 2% per annum; and
     (c)  require the repayment of each Sub-Loan over a period not
exceeding ten years, including a  grace period not exceeding three
years.
4.   No expenditures for goods or services required for an Invest-
ment Project shall be eligible  for  financing out of the proceeds
of the Loan unless:
     (a)  the Sub-Loan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Bank  and  such  expenditures shall have been made
not earlier than one  hundred  eighty  days  prior  to the date on
which the Bank shall have received the application and information
required under paragraph 5 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such
Sub-Loan; or
     (b)  the Sub-Loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-Loan  for  which  the  Bank  has authorized with-
drawals from the  Loan  Account  and  such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than  one  hundred  eighty days prior to the
date on  which  the  Bank  shall  have  received  the  request and
information required under  paragraph  5  (b)  of this Schedule in
respect of such  free-limit  Sub-Loan.  For  the  purposes of this
Agreement, a  free-limit  Sub-Loan  shall  be  a  Sub-Loan  for an
Investment  Project  which  shall  not  exceed  an  amount  to  be
determined by the Bank.
5.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-Loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
Loan) to the Bank for approval,  the PCI shall furnish to the Bank
an application, in form  satisfactory  to  the Bank, together with
(i) a description of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of
the Investment Project,  including  a  description of the expendi-
tures proposed to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan;
(ii) the proposed terms and  conditions of the Sub-Loan, including
the schedule of amortization of the Sub-Loan; (iii) a statement as
to  whether  the  Investment  Project  would  produce  any adverse
environmental impact and,  when  necessary,  the adequate remedial
action to to be taken in connection therewith; and (iv) such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each request by a  PCI  for  authorization to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account  in respect of a free-limit Sub-Loan
shall contain (i) a  summary  description of the Investment Enter-
prise and the Investment  Project,  including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Loan, (ii) a statement as  to whether the Investment Project would
Page  13
produce any adverse environmental  impact and, when necessary, the
adequate remedial action to be  taken in connection therewith; and
(iii) the terms  and  conditions  of  the  Sub-Loan, including the
schedule of amortization therefor.
     (c)  Notwithstanding anything  to  the  contrary contained in
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b)  of  this  paragraph,  in respect of at
least 10% of the  free-limit  Sub-loans  made  by  it, a PCI shall
furnish to the Bank  the  documents  referred to in sub-paragraphs
(a) (i) through (iv) of this paragraph for ex post facto review.
     (d)  Applications and requests  made  pursuant  to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  of  this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before June 30, 1992.
6.   Sub-Loans shall  be  made  on  terms  whereby  the  PCI shall
obtain, by written contract  with  the Investment Enterprise or by
other appropriate  legal  means,  rights  adequate  to protect the
interests of the Bank, and the Borrower and the PCI, including the
right to:
     (a)  require  the  Investment  Enterprise  to  carry  out and
operate the Investment Project  with  due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with  sound  technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that: (i) the goods  and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of  the  Loan  shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of the  Schedule  to the Project Agreement and
(ii) such goods  and  services  shall  be  used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall  so  request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
     (d)  require that: (i)  the  Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts,  as shall be consistent with sound
business  practice;  and  (ii)  without  any  limitation  upon the
foregoing, such  insurance  shall  cover  hazards  incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery  of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to  the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder  to  be  made  payable  in  a currency freely
usable by the  Investment  Enterprise  to  replace  or repair such
goods;
     (e)  obtain all such information as the Bank, the Borrower or
the PCI shall reasonably request  relating to the foregoing and to
the administration,  operations  and  financial  condition  of the
Investment Enterprise and to the  benefits  to be derived from the
Investment Project; and
     (f)  suspend or terminate the  right of the Investment Enter-
prise to the use of the proceeds  of the Loan upon failure by such
Investment  Enterprise  to  perform   its  obligations  under  its
contract with the PCI.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
Page  14
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $10,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits  into   the   Special   Account  at  such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to para-
                graph  4  of  this  Schedule  for  the  payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on  behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have
                requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the Loan
Account under  the  respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in the
respective equivalent amounts,  as  shall  have  been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories,  less  the  amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of  the  Authorized  Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal
from the Loan Account of  the  remaining unwithdrawn amount of theLoan shall follow 
such  procedures  as  the  Bank shall specify by
notice to the  Borrower.  Such  further  withdrawals shall be made
Page  15
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account:  (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified  by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly  upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as  the  Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into  the  Special  Account  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 6
              Modifications of the General Conditions
     For the purposes  of  this  Agreement,  the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
     (1)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (2)  The words "the Bank may,  by  notice to the Borrower and
the Guarantor, terminate the right  of  the Borrower to make with-
drawals with respect  to  such  amount.  Upon  the  giving of such
notice, such amount of the  Loan  shall be cancelled" set forth at
the end of Section 6.03  are  deleted and the following is substi-
tuted therefor:
               "or  (f)  by   the   date  specified  in  sub-para-
          graph 5 (d) of  Schedule  4  to  the Loan Agreement, the
          Bank shall, in respect of  any  portion of the Loan: (i)
          have received  no  applications  or  requests under sub-
          paragraphs (a) or (b)  of  said  paragraph; or (ii) have
          denied any such applications  or requests, the Bank may,
          by notice to the  Borrower  and the Guarantor, terminate
          the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or
          requests or to make  withdrawals  from the Loan Account,
          as the case  may  be,  with  respect  to  such amount or
          portion of the  Loan.  Upon  the  giving of such notice,
          such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
                            SCHEDULE 7
                   Procurement under Part B (2)
                      and (3) of the Project
1.   Items of goods shall  be  procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of  price quotations solicited from a list
of at least  three  suppliers  from  countries  eligible under the
Page  16
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in  May 1985 (the Guidelines), in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.   In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Part B
(2) and (3) of the Project,  the Borrower shall employ or cause to
be employed consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment  shall  be  satisfactory to the Bank.
Such consultants shall be  selected  in accordance with principles
and procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  on  the  basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
