Page  1
December 30, 1992
Mr. Mahfi Egilmez
Economic and Commercial Counselor
Embassy of the Republic of Turkey
2523 Massachusetts Ave., N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20008
          Re:  Loan No. 3077 TU (Agroindustry Project)
               Amendments
Dear Mr. Egilmez:
     We refer to the Loan Agreement (Agroindustry Project) dated
June 28, 1989, as amended (the Loan Agreement) between the Republic
of Turkey (the Borrower) and the International Bank of
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and to our discussions
concerning further amendments to the Loan Agreement.
     We hereby confirm the Bank's agreement to the amendments to
the Loan Agreement set forth in the Annex hereto.
     These amendments to the Loan Agreement shall not become
effective until:
     (a)  the Project Agreement dated as of the date of this
          letter between the Bank and Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma
          Bankasi (TSKB) has become effective; and
     (b)  a subsidiary loan agreement has been concluded between
          the Borrower and TSKB, under terms and conditions which
          shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall
          include those set forth in Schedule 4 to the Loan
          Agreement.
     Please confirm your agreement, on behalf of the Borrower, to
the foregoing by signing and dating the form of confirmation on the
attached copy of this letter and returning it to us.
                                   Very truly yours,
                                   /s/    Fred Levy
                          Acting Director, Country Department I
                             Europe and Central Asia Region
CONFIRMED: by REPUBLIC OF TURKEY on 5/13/93
                                         Annex to Letter
                                         December 30, 1992
                         Loan No. 3077 TU
                         (Agroindustry Project)
                         Amendments to the Loan Agreement
1.   In Section 1.02:
     a.   paragraph (d) is amended to read as follows:
               "(d) 'PCIs' means collectively the Participating
          Credit Institutions under the Project, namely TCZB,
          SYKB, THB and TSKB; and the term PCI means each or any
          of the Participating Credit Institutions;';
     b.   paragraph (e) is amended to read as follows:
               "(e) 'Project Agreement' means the agreement
Page  2
          between the Bank and TCZB, SYKB and THB of even date
          herewith and the agreement between the Bank and TSKB
          dated as of December 30, 1992, as the same may be
          amended from time to time, and such term included all
          schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
          Agreement;";
     c.   the words "or for the production of agricultural
          machinery, carpet weaving, yarn processing and garment
          manufacturing;" are added after the words "distribution
          of agricultural inputs;" in paragraph (j);
     d.   subparagraph (iv) of paragraph (k) is deleted and the
following is substituted therefore.
          "(iv) with respect to TSKB, the Statutes dated May 12,
1950, as amended through;";
     e.   the words "and THB Special Account" as they appear in
          two places in paragraph (m) are amended to read ",THB
          Special Account and TSKB Special Account"; and
     f.   a new paragraph (r) is added as follows:
               "(r) 'TSKB' means Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi,
          a banking institution operating under the laws of the
          Borrower."
2.   In paragraph (b) of Section 2.02:  (a) the words "cause TCZB,
     SYKB and THB" are to read "TCZB, SYKB, THB and TSKB'; and (b)
     the words "and the TSKB Special Account are added after the
     words 'the THB Special Account'.
3.   Paragraph 3 of Part A of Schedule 4 is amended to read as
     follows:
     "3. Out of the amount of the Loan allocated for the provision
     of Sub-loans, the Borrower shall allocate the equivalent of
     $39,400,000 to TCZB, $52,800,000 to SYKB, $38,600,000 to THB,
     and $12,000,000 to TSKB."
4.   The date in paragraph 3 (d) of Part B of Schedule 4 is amended
to read "June 30, 1994."
5.   In Schedule 5:
     (a)  paragraph 1(c) is amended to read as follows:
               "(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means (i) in
          respect of the TCZB Special Account, an amount
          equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan
          Account and deposited into the TCZB Special Account;
          (ii) in respect of the SYKB Special Account an amount
          equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan
          Account and deposited into the SYKB Special Account;
          (iii) in respect of the THB Special Account an amount
          equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan
          Account and deposited into the THB Special Account; and
          (iv) in respect of the TSKB Special Account and amount
          equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan
          Account and deposited into the TSKB Special Account, all
          pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.";
     b.   the words "or by TSKB out of the TSKB Special Account,"
          are added after the words "the THB Special Account" in
          paragraph 4;
     c.   the words "on behalf of any PCI or all PCIS." are added
          after the words "all further withdrawals" in paragraph
          5(a); and
Page  3
     d.   subparagraph (b) of paragraph 5 is amended to read as
          follows:
               "(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
          allocated to any PCI pursuant to paragraphs 3 of
          Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement, less the amount of any
          outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank
          pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in
          respect of expenditures financed under such allocation,
          shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
          respective Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter,
          withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
          unwithdrawn amount of the Loan so allocated to such PCI
          shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify
          by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
          shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank
          shall have been satisfied that all amounts remaining on
          deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date
          of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
          eligible expenditures.
