Page  1
July 23, 1991
The Undersecretary of the Treasury and
 Foreign Trade
Basbakanlik
Hazine Ve Dis Ticaret
Mustesarligi
Bakanliklar
Ankara, Republic of Turkey
          Re:  Loan No. 3077 TU
               (Agroindustry Project)
               Amendment of the Japanese Grant Agreement
Dear Sir:
          We refer to the Japanese Grant Agreement (Agroindustry
Project) between the Republic of Turkey (the Recipient) and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank),
acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds
provided by the Government of Japan (Japan), dated July 26, 1990.
We also refer to the letter, dated July 17, 1991, from the Prime
Ministry, Undersecretariat of the Treasury and Foreign Trade,
requesting the opening of Special Accounts for the purposes of the
Japanese Grant Agreement.
          We are pleased to inform you that the Administrator,
after due consideration, has agreed to the above request.
Accordingly, the Japanese Grant Agreement is hereby amended to
read as follows:
1.        Section 1.02 is amended to read as follows:
          "Section 1.02.  Wherever used in this Agreement,
unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
          (a)  "IGEME" means the Recipient's Export-Promotion
Center;
          (b)  "MAFRA" means the Recipient's Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs;
          (c)  "Special Accounts" mean collectively the
accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and
more fully defined in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this Section, and
"Special Account" means each and any such account;
          (d)  "IGEME Special Account" means the Special
Account which the Recipient shall open and maintain on behalf of
IGEME pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
          (e)  "MAFRA Special Account" means the special
Account which the Recipient shall open and maintain on behalf of
the General Directorate of Projects and Implementation of MAFRA
pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
          (f)  "yen" and "\1a" mean the currency of Japan."
2.        In Section 2.02, the existing paragraph is lettered as
"(a)" and a new paragraph (b) is added to read as follows:
          "(b) The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the
Technical Assistance, open and maintain in dollars on behalf of
IGEME and MAFRA, respectively, special accounts in the Central
Bank of Turkey on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Administrator.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Page  2
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement."
3.        A new Schedule 4 (Special Accounts) is added as set
forth in the Attachment to this letter.
          All the terms and conditions of the Japanese Grant
Agreement, as amended hereby, shall remain in full force and
effect.
          Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing
amendments by signing and dating the confirmation on the enclosed
copy of this letter and returning it to us.
                                      Sincerely,
                              /s/  Michael H. Wiehen
                           Director, Country Department I
                     Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
CONFIRMED: by REPUBLIC OF TURKEY on 8/9/91
                                             Attachment
                      SCHEDULE 4
                   Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of services required for the
Technical Assistance and to be financed out of the amount of the
Grant in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of
this Agreement; and
     (b)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means, in respect of
IGEME, an amount equivalent to US$300,000 to be withdrawn from the
Grant Account and deposited into the IGEME Special Account; and in
respect of MAFRA, an amount equivalent to US$100,000 to be
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the MAFRA
Special Account, all pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule;
and the term "Authorized Allocations" means the Authorized
Allocation for IGEME and the Authorized Allocation for MAFRA
collectively.
2.   Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory
to it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the relevant Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator on behalf of IGEME or
MAFRA, as the case may be, a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the relevant
Authorized Allocation. on the basis of such request or requests,
the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from
the Grant Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount
or amounts as IGEME or MAFRA, as the case may be, shall have
requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the
               Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator on
               behalf of IGEME or MAFRA, as the case may be,
               requests for deposits into the Special Account
               at such intervals as the Administrator shall
               specify.
Page  3
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request,
               the Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator
               on behalf of IGEME or MAFRA, as the case may be,
               the documents and other evidence required
               pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
               payment or payments in respect of which
               replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
               each such request, the Administrator shall, on
               behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant
               Account and deposit into the Special Account
               such amount as IGEME or MAFRA, as the case may
               be, shall have requested and as shall have been
               shown by said documents and other evidence to
               have been paid out of the Special Account for
               eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall
               be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant
               Account in the respective equivalent amounts, as
               shall have been justified by said documents and
               other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by IGEME or MAFRA, as the case may be,
out of a Special Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the
Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Administrator on behalf of IGEME or MAFRA, as the case may be,
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Administrator shall not be required to make further
deposits into a Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Administrator shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Recipient on behalf of IGEME or MAFRA, as the case may be,
directly from the Grant Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant, less
the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by
the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Technical Assistance, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocations.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such
procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments
for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon
notice from the Administrator: (A) provide on behalf of IGEME or
MAFRA, as the case may be, such additional evidence as the
Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
on behalf of IGEME or MAFRA, as the case may be (or, if the
Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Administrator shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the
Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, at the case may be.
     (b)  If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Page  4
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator on behalf of IGEME or MAFRA, as the
case may be, such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator on behalf of IGEME or MAFRA, as the
case may be, all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a
Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited
to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation
in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
