Report No. 23172
Report No: I063546 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 10/25/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: CROATIA         Project ID: P063546
Project: Pension and Tax System Implementation Project Task Team Leader:
Philip B. O'Keefe
Appraisal Date: November 5, 2001         IBRD Amount ($m): 26.60
Board Date: July 2, 2002         IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: ECSHD     Sector: SI - Pensions & Social Insurance
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project supports a major overhaul of Croatia's revenue and data
collection system, and more specifically supports implementation of
multi-pillar pension reform. In addition, it will support reorientation
of existing institutional arrangements for the PAYGO pension system. The
main objectives are:
n consolidating and improving the effectiveness and transparency of
revenue and data collection for social contributions (pensions, health,
and unemployment insurance) and other personal taxes;
n as part of the overhaul of revenue collection, introducing monthly
personalized contribution and reporting for all individual contributions
and taxes, including second pillar pension contributions;
n strengthening physical and technical capacity in the new second/third
pillar pensions agencies to manage and regulate the new system;
fn promoting improvements in the management, operations and IT
infrastructure of the Pension Institute to support more efficient
performance of its core mandate; and
n indirectly stimulating capital market development through promoting
properly regulated and well-functioning private pension funds and their
management companies.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project will have four components:
1. Implementation support for public revenue and funded pension reforms.
This would support second pillar database operation and associated
activities for the second pillar (affiliation, switching, account
management etc.), financing consultancy, incremental operating costs, and
training as needed associated with the ZAP/GZAOP activities. It would also
finance TA on overall public revenue institutional reform.
2. Capacity building for regulation of funded pensions.
This would support institutional development and capacity building within
HAGENA and REGOS, including investments in goods, consultancy, and



training. This would also include TA on public debt markets and public
information and consultation.
3. Pension Institute reform.
This would support improvements in the efficiency and effectiveness of the
PI through investments to support strategic planning, reegineering
internal and business processes, and effective management of personnel.
It would also finance IT investments to improve the functions of the PI
office network, training and other options for dismissed or outsourced
workers. Investments would be made in goods, training, and consultancy.
4. Project Coordination Unit.
This would support the operations of the PCU, including core procurement
and FM functions, through investments in goods, training, consultancy, and
limited operating costs.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)        No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Not applicable.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
Not applicable.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
-2-



Not applicable.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
Not applicable.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Not applicable.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Not applicable.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
-3-



Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Philip B. O'Keefe       October 9, 2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Bernard Baratz   October 23, 2001
Sector Manager/Director:         Michal J. Rutkowski      October 9, 2001
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 4 -



