Report No. PID9384
Project Name                     Croatia-Pension System Investment Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Pensions and Social Insurance
Project ID                       HRPE63546
Borrower                         Government of Croatia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
Zagreb, Croatia
Tel:    385-1-612-9111
Fax:    385-1-611-3593
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           August 3, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         December 4, 2000
Projected Board Date             May 15, 2000
The Proposed Loan
1.     The Project supports the design and implementation of the new multi-
pillar pension system. The project would have 3 main components:
implementation support for funded pensions; capacity building for regulation
of funded pensions; management reform of the Pension Institute (PAYG public
pensions). It would also finance the Project Coordination Unit, and
reimbursement of the PPF (Project Preparation Facility).
Country and Sector Background
2.      Objectives:      The project supports design and implementation of the new
multi-pillar pension system, through:
- supporting design and start-up of funded pensions;
- building capacity in new public agencies to manage and regulate the new
system;
- improving management and operations of first pillar pension system; and
- indirectly stimulating capital market development through promoting well-
funded and properly regulated pension funds and their management
companies.
3.     Description:     The project supports design and implementation of the
new multi-pillar pension system, through: (a) supporting design and start-up
of the new data collection mechanism for funded pension contributions, which
would unify information collection and eventually revenue withholding for
income tax and contribution liability on wages and salaries into more
frequent, efficient and transparent system; (b) building physical and
technical capacity in the new second/third pillar agencies (Supervision and
Regulation Agency [SRA], and Central Registry of Affiliates[CRA]) to manage
and regulate the new system; (c) promoting improvements in the management and
operations of the Pension Institute.



4.      Financing:        The total cost of the project is estimated at US$53
million. The IBRD loan is estimated at around $30 million, with the country
providing the balance.
5.      Implementation:          The main counterpart for project implementation would
be the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, with a small PIU in the Ministry
under the Assistant Minister for Pension Reform. This provides a Government
focus with a broader mandate than any one institution. There would also be
close interaction throughout with the SRA, CRA, and PI.
6.     Sustainability: A major factor in project sustainability, and hence a
critical risk, is the need for ongoing government and population commitment
to the reform until there is a mature system, with strong second pillar
agencies, fund managers operating at a profit, and contributors satisfied
with the administrative arrangements for funded contributions and average
rates of return on those contributions.
7.     From the fund managers perspective, the level of contributions to the
funded pillar will be the essential element in their commercial viability.
Provided there is adequate compliance, this should not be a major issue.
However, as it stands the proposed 5 percent of payroll contribution to the
mandatory funded pillar is at the lower end of needs to make such a system
commercially viable, and it will be important that government does not
succumb to fiscal temptations to lower the second pillar contribution.
8.     An additional risk to the credibility and sustainability of the reform
is the issue of administrative costs from fund managers. In a number of
countries, these have been - and continue to be - high, and contribute to
ongoing frustrations with the funded system.
7.     Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector:       The
experience of other countries in implementing systemic pension reform is
reflected in the design of the Croatian reform, and in turn in the measures
supported by the project. The first is the clearinghouse approach used for
the second pillar, which reflects a desire to insulate workers from employers
knowing their fund choice, and avoids overly burdensome reporting
requirements on employers themselves. This shows the lessons of the Swedish
experience in pension reform. It has the additional advantage that pension
reform provides the opportunity for consolidation of payroll tax collection
and increases the chances for improved compliance across the board.
8.     The project also reflects the demonstrated need for strong second
pillar agencies and ongoing capacity building in those agencies, to ensure
the successful initiation and implementation of the second and third pillars.
Regulatory oversight at the initial stages of authorization and licensing,
and then in monitoring fund performance and compliance with portfolio and
other guidelines is likely to be particularly crucial in Croatia, given the
weakness and non-transparency of the financial sector, and broader concerns
about corruption.
9.     Although the share of total project financing is not large, the project
also reflects the importance of ensuring that organizational and entitlement
reforms in the first pillar do not get neglected in the concentration on the
funded pillars. Experience in some countries in the region has been that
there are risks of weakening political support for systemic reforms when
- 2-



governments see the drop in contributions to the PAYG system. While including
a focus on efficiency improvements and ongoing entitlement reform in the
first pillar will not prevent such political reactions, it can encourage
policy makers that there remain possibilities for cost containment and
reductions in the first pillar at a time of shrinking revenues.
10.    Bank experience suggests that bureaucratic processes within Croatia
make it difficult to do anything quickly. Whether it is procuring space or
issuing a legal decision, approvals take an exceedingly long time and even
the support of very high Government officials does not seem to make things
happen. Therefore, the project recognizes that a realistic implementation
time frame must be agreed upon.
11.     Program of targeted interventions: No
12.     Environmental Aspects.    None (C rating)
13.
Contact Point:
Philip O'Keefe (ECSHD)
The World Bank
Budapest Resident Mission
Bajcsy-Zsilinsky ut 42-46, 5th Floor
Budapest, Hungary
Telephone No.: (36-1) 374 9500
565-9509 (Sat.)
Fax No.:   (36-1) 374 9510
565-140 (Sat.)
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
This PID processed by InfoShop the week ending August 4, 2000.
-3 -



