.
                                                          37868

                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                PROJECTPAPER

                               ON RESTRUCTURING

           PENSIONSYSTEMINVESTMENTPROJECT(LOANNO. 4672-HR)

                          FORTHEREPUBLICOF CROATIA




                                September29,2006




 HumanDevelopmentSector Unit
 SouthCentralEuropeCountryUnit
 Europe andCentral Asia Region

                                     DATA SHEET FOR

                                      PROJECTPAPER


Date:September 29,2006                            Task Team Leader: Zoran Anusic
Country: Croatia                                  Sector ManagerDirector: Hermannvon
Project Name: Pension System Investment           Gersdorff
Project                                           Country Director: handK. Seth
Proiect ID:PO63546                                Environmental category: C
                             q_
Borrower: Government o f Croatia, Ministryo fFinance
Responsible agency: CroatianFinancial Services Supervisory Agency (HANFA)
                                                                 -                    -
Revisedestimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
FY                      2003-2004     2005           2006         2007 (est)        2008 (est)
Annual                     9.38       3.06            1.17             8.12              5.57
f'iimiilativ"                                                         - 1 . 1 0
                                                                      31 71
V U l l l U l U C l .Ip    9 ?R
                           , .d"      17 AA          12 61
                                      A I . I I  I   L d . " I   I                 I       .-
                                                                                        - I
                                                                                        77 ?nv
                                 P
Current closingdate: December 31,2006




Have these been approved by Bank management?
I s auuroval for any uolicv exceution sought from the Board?                     IoYes XNo
       I I                # I                  1




Revisedproject development objective/outcomes- Not applicable




Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? NO

                                 RevisedFinancingPlan (US$m.)



IBRD/IDA
Others




                                                2

3. IntroductoryStatement

         Further to the Country Financing Parameters approved for Croatia on August 10,
2005, OP/BP 6.00, BP 13.05, and OPCS's Board paper o f April 16, 2004, "Bank
Financing: Guidelines to Staff', this Project Paper seeks the approval o f the RVP to
include financing o f severance payments in the Croatia Pension System Investment
Project (Loan No. 4672-HRYProject ID P063546) as a second-order restructuring o f
record. It further seeks the approval o f the Country Director to include minor changes and
any accompanying amendments to the project's legal documents. The proposed minor
changes include i)increasing the consultancy sub-component, and ii)reducing the
training and goods sub-component due to restructuring the Croatian Institute for Pension
Insurance's (CIPI) project component. Implementation o f CIPI's component was frozen
until June 2, 2005, at which time the Government adopted the restructuring program
"Basic Principles for Restructuring o f CIPI",              a condition for the component's
effectiveness. The restructuring program identifies activities and resources needed to
reform CIPI into a modem and efficient institution and identifies PSIP as a primary
source o f financing for the first stage o f the restructuring process ending in 2007. The
proposed changes in CIPI's component, based on "Basic Principles for Restructuring o f
CIPI", and project extension until December 31, 2007, are needed to achieve the project
development objective to "strengthen capacity in agencies which manage different parts
o f the pension system to operate and regulate the new multi-pillar pension system". As
stipulated in Amendment to the Loan Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made with
respect to any expenditures under the Severance Payments category unless the Staff
Severance Payments Plan for the Pension Institute satisfactory to the Bank i s furnished to
the Bank.


4. Backgroundand Reasonsfor Restructuring

        The Pension System Investment Project (PSIP), a $35.6 million operation o f
which $27.3 is Bank financed, was approved by the Board on July 18,2002, and declared
effective on February 28, 2003. It was originally scheduled to close on December 31,
2006. PSIP's development objectives are i)to improve the effectiveness and transparency
o f Croatia's system for reporting and enforcement o f obligatory contributions and
personal income taxes, in particular for the new system o f funded pensions; and ii)to
strengthen capacity in agencies which manage different parts o f the pension system to
operate and regulate the new multi-pillar pension system. In its first two years, PSIP
played a crucial role in establishing capacity for second pension pillar administration in
EGOS, capacity for supervising private pensionfunds and pension insurance companies
in Hrvatska Agencija za Nadzor Mirovinskih Fondova i Osiguranja (HAGENA)',
conducting a PR campaign, training, preparing the legal framework, and preparing
analytical documents aimed at improving the Ministry o f Finance's primary bond market
administration. Creating a framework for institutional reform in CIPI was delayed until

'From  end-2005 HAGENA, former agency for funded pensionsystem supervision, has been integrated
into Hrvatska Agencija za Nadzor Nebankarskih Financijskih Institucija (HANFA), agency for supervision
o fnon-bank financial sector.


                                                 3

the adoptiono f CIPI's restructuring program "Basic Principles for Restructuringo f CIPI"
on June 2,2005.

        Project restructuring i s needed to align activities in CIPI's component with the
"Basic Principles for Restructuring o f CIPI". I t will be necessary to extend the loan to
end-2007 to implement the remaining and newly introduced activities. On behalf o f the
Borrower, Assistant Minister o f Finance, Ms. Ana Hrastovic, officially requested the loan
extension of 12 months from December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2007 in a letter dated
June 9,2006. On behalf o f the Borrower, Minister o f Finance Mr.Ivan Suker requested,
in addition to the above-mentioned extension request, amendments to the Loan
Agreement, ina letter dated July 4,2006.

        The intention o f the Borrower to finance CIPI's severance program from PSI?
originates from project appraisal. Inthe signed Minutes o f Negotiations it was indicated
that "the Croatian delegation reiterated its interest in including in the Project at a later
stage of project implementationa severancepay component for staff made redundant as a
result o f the Borrower's restructuringo f the Croatian Institute for Pension Insurance" and
that the "Croatian delegation and the Bank agreed that the Borrower could request the
financing o f severance pay o f such staff under Part C.2 o f the Project Description
("provision o f incentives to Pension Institute staff made redundant as a result o f the
reform o f the entity")". Thus, the Borrower's request to amend the Loan Agreement to
include a component for CIPI's Severance Payment o f $3,167,000 arises from initial
project design.

        PSIP i s highly satisfactory on four outcome indicators and unsatisfactory on one
o f the outcome indicators, "Unified database o f insured individuals and taxpayers
operating" (ISR o f January 23, 2006).2 The overall project development rating has been
satisfactory. With the proposed restructuring, project development objectives and
associated outcome targets remain unchanged and continue to be achievable. There are
no overdue audits and all audits are satisfactory to the Bank.

        The performance o f the Borrower and project implementing agencies is
satisfactory. Implementation progress in three project components has been rated
satisfactory throughout project life. After supervision mission in January 2006
implementation progress o f CIPI's component has been upgraded from moderately
unsatisfactory to moderately satisfactory, and confirmed during the recent mission in
August. Overall implementation progress rating was upgraded from moderately
satisfactory to satisfactory, where it currently stands.


5. ProposedChanges

        Proposed changes inthe project and Loan Agreement include:



 Actions to reverse the unsatisfactory outcome indicator have been agreed with the Tax Departmentand
the Ministry o fFinance.


                                                    4

         0   Introducing a new spending category - Payments for Labor Restructuring
             (severance package) o f $3,167,000;
         0   Reductiono f Goods category by $698,000;
         0   Net reduction o f the category Consultant Services, Training and Audit by
             $2,467,000,     o f which $2,993,000 due to cancellation o f "Training o f
             Retrenched CIPI Staff';
         0   Reduction o f Front-End Fee by $2,000 to align the fee actually collected
             ($273,000 - 1percent o f the project total) with the fee indicated in the Loan
             Agreement.

         The first three proposed changes are due to the restructuring o f the CIPI
component. Project development objectives, outcomes and scope o f the Project remain
unchanged.

         5.1. Proposed Second-Order Changes include severance payment o f $3,167,000
for the redundant employees in CIPI, as one o f the elements o f the integral Staff
Optimization Program in CIPI. The proposed severancepayment component will account
for 11.6 percent o fthe Loan.

         The restructuring program in CIPI will primarily be based on the new functional
organization which will identify redundant processes, departments, units and possibly
offices that need to be downscaled and re~tructured.~               The new organization will also
indicate the required staffing size, structure and HR strategy including potential internal
and external recruitment and the training program needed for retained staff. The Staff
Optimization Program, which will be prepared within a new organization and business
processes design, due in March 2007, will determine the size o f redundancies and the
fiscal cost o f staff retrenchment, including severance package, early and disability
retirement, and atraining programfor retrenchedworkers:

         (a) The severance program will be offered to employees whose positions and
             skills will not fit into the planned future organizational structure o f CIPI.
             Under the current collective labor agreement in CIPI, each employee with
             more than 30 years o f service inCIPI is entitled to a severance payment o f 60
             percent o f their last quarter's average monthly gross wage for each year o f
             service. Employees with less than 30 years o f service in CIPI are entitled to
             1/3 o f average gross wage per year o f service, subject to a cap o f 6 months'
             gross wage, as stipulated in the Labor Law. Under the current collective
             agreement in CIPI, if 35 percent o f redundant employees have more than 30
             years o f serviceY4the fiscal cost o f the first-phase severance program i s
             expected to reach kuna 40 million ($6.9 million), o f which PSIP would
             finance 45 percent. The remaining 55 percent is to be financed from the
             central budget and adequate allocation in 2007 has been requested by CIPI. If


 Changes inadministrative structure o f CIPI is indicated in "Basic Principles for Restructuring CIPI". A
detailed study o f newbusiness processes inCIPI and recommendation will be completed before March
2007.
 The share of employees with more than 30 years o f service inCIPI i s 27 percent.


                                                     5

            the group of identified redundant employees includes a large share o f those
            eligible for retirement or with a short service period in CIPI, the fiscal cost o f
            the severance program would be less and PSIP would finance a higher share,
            due to which the Borrower requested that up to 100 percent of severance pay
            expenditures be financed bythe loan.

        (b) Early retirement program. This program could be offered to a redundant
            employee eligible for early retirement, i.e with less than five years until
            statutory retirement age, providing that employee is determined to be
            redundant in the new business organization. Such a person could receive a
            contribution to the voluntary pension insurance to buy a lifetime annuity to
            compensate for the "penalty" for early retirement. The fiscal cost o f early
            retirementprogramwould be paidbythe CIPI.

        (c) Provision o f training and retraining, job counseling, job search assistance,
            assistance in self-emplovment and other forms o f assistance would be offered
            by the Croatian Employment Agency and private providers. Costs of training
            and retraining, small business assistance, provision o f counseling and job
            search for the retrenched staff will be incurredby the CIPI.

5.2. Minor changes are relatedto new activities proposedin CIPI's component identified
as priorities by end-2007 in the "Basic Principles for Restructuring o f CIPI". They
include development and implementation o f the new business processes and organization,
procurement and implementation o f electronic document management system, software
to support new business model and training o f staffwho would remain in CIPI. Activities
to be replaced include procurement o f equipment, software, and related technical services
not identified as a priority or financed internally from CIPI's budget in2003 and 2004.

       Implementing the new activities will require an additional $526,000 for
consultancy, and $698,000 less for procurement o f goods. The difference o f $172,000
will, in addition to $2,993,000 from "Training o f Retrenched CIPI Staff' and $2,000
from the Front-End Fee, be allocated for the CIPI Severance Program.

       The Borrower's Action Plan for implementing original as well as new activities
affected by the proposed restructuring indicates duration, sequence and completion
schedule o f each activity by the end o f 2007. For each activity a special project team has
been established in CIPI with clear responsibilities and reporting requirements to the
management coordinating the actionplan. The actionplan i s satisfactory to the Bank.


6. Analysis

       Proposed minor changes are not expected to have a major effect on the original
economic, financial, technical, institutional and social aspects o f the project as appraised.
Restructuring o f goods and consultancy within the CIPI component, supporting
implementation o f the "Basic Principles for Restructuring o f CIPI", aims at improving



                                              6

efficiency and productivity o f CIPI. In the first stage, by 2007, the average number o f
resolved cases per employee in the back office i s expected to increase by 20 percent
while the average durationper transaction inthe front office is expected to bereduced by
25 percent. As a result o f new business processes and organization, by 2010 the
productivity o f front and back offices is expected to rise by 25 and 30 percent,
respectively.

         Introductiono f second order changes, i.e. financing o f severancepayments, would
have a more significant impact on these aspects. Specifically, the expected features o f the
severanceprogram inCIPI are:

         Size of the severance program.     "Basic Principles for Restructuring of CIPI"
estimates a gap between current staffing level and staffing level requiredto support future
redesigned business processes. According to the document, staffing in CIPI could be
reduced by 27 percent (923 employees) by the end o f 2007, assuming that i)all activities
inthe first phaseofrestructuringare launched as scheduled, ii)certain business processes
are centralized and outsourced, and iii)no new tasks and responsibilities are delegated to
CIPI by related institutions. This estimate would be updated with a detailed design of
new business processes and HR policy in CIPI, expected to be finalized under PSIP by
March 2007. In the second phase by 2010, the "Basic Principles for Restructuring o f
CIPI" envisages further staff reduction o f a similar size parallel with full implementation
o f electronic data management system and new organizational structure.

        Legal and political economy aspects of the severance program. The legal
framework for CIPI's retrenchment consists o f CIPI's collective agreement which
envisages higher severance packages only for employees with more than 30 years o f
service in CIPI. The current collective agreement expires by the end o f 2006, and the
management has been negotiating a new agreement with the trade union. The
Government expects new collective agreement would not raise the severance cost for
redundant employees.

        Social impact of the severance program.          The social impact o f the CIPI
retrenchment program will dependon the identification o f redundant processes, jobs and
employees, which is to be completed by the end o f March 2007. Currently some 1100
employees, or 34 percent o f the total, are older than 50, and it i s likely that even a higher
share o f identifiedredundant employees would be eligible for early retirement or close to
it. Inthose cases, severance could be paid through voluntary pension funds to bridge the
inactive period until retirement. Redundant employees below 50 would be eligible for
unemployment benefits andjob-search services from the Employment Fund, and offered
a training program financed by CIPI.

        Thefiscal impact of CIPI restructuring in the first phase would be reduction of
administrative costs from 1.8 percent o f expenditures in2005 to 1.2 percent in2008, and
further to 1.0 percent in 2010. Total net savings o f the CIPI restructuring program by
2010 would reach kuna 332 million ($58 million), with total return on investment inthe
same period standing at 387 percent. Net savings could be used to reduce budget



                                              7

,


    expenditures, reinvest in CIPI's modernization program and/or support a salary system
    that rewards performance inCIPI.

            The economic impact of CIPI restructuring should be far-reaching for the reform
    of the civil service in Croatia, which is amongthe Government's priorities and supported
    by Bank's Programmatic Adjustment Loan. Croatia is ranked highest among transition
    economies in share o f GDP spent on civil service wages (11 percent o f GDP) and
    restructuring CIPI based on new automated, efficient and client-oriented services will
    serve as a reference for civil service reform in other similar agencies. Benchmarking the
    administrative costs on international best practice, introduction o f new business processes
    and modernizing the infrastructure yields fiscal benefits and better service delivery. On
    the other hand, CIPI's retrenchment program would show that restructuring o f a public
    service agency should minimize the costs o f restructuringby identifying employees that
    could not fit the new organization and helping them with finding best alternatives, instead
    o f stimulating massive retirement, job-leave by best employees with a generous
    severanceprogram, andrehiringinother public agencies.


    7. ExpectedOutcomes

    Project's development objectives, outcome targets and outcome indicators remain
    unchanged. Proposed project restructuring and extension by one calendar year should
    finance the first phase o f CIPI restructuring. By the end o f 2007 CIPI should reduce its
    administrative costs from 1.8 to 1.2 percent o f pension expenditures and improve its
    productivity by 20-25 percent and strongly contribute to achieving the project
    development objectives.


    8. Benefitsand Risks

            Benefits o f implementing a comprehensive restructuringprogram in ClPI include
    fiscal savings, better client service and setting a pace for civil service reforms.

            Risks are linkedwith the most sensitive segment, implementationo f the severance
    program. Although the severance program in CIPI will be based on redundancies
    emerging from new business processes and organization and will not be o f a voluntary
    nature, there are the following risks that needto be taken into account:

            Adverse Selection. Adverse selection would very likely not be a serious concern
            as the redundant staff would be determined on the basis o f redundant jobs inCIPI
            and not on individual preferences. Job positions with revisedjob description due
            to introduction o f the new business processes would be open to internal
            competition, which should minimize layoffs o f well-performing staff.


        0   Ovemayment.        Risk o f overpayment emerges from the current process o f
            negotiating a new collective agreement in CIPI. The Law on Statutory Relations



                                                   8

  enables the employer to agree with employees to pay attractive severance
  package, such as one month's gross wage per each year o f service, as inthe case
  o f Croatian Railways, a severance program supported by Bank's Project for
  Railway Modernization and Restructuring. In that case the total severance
  payment for 932 employees would reach kuna 127 million ($22 million), three
  times the amount according to collective agreement, which the Government, as
  employer, will control by participating inthe negotiations over the new collective
  agreement and approving the CIPI's Severance Program prior to its execution.
  Risk o f the Bank`s financing overpayment i s managed by the addition of a
  disbursement condition in an amendment to the Loan Agreement. Disbursement
  for severance payments can be made only after the Bank's receipt o f a Staff
  Severance Payments Plan for the Pension Institute, satisfactory to the Bank.


0 Moral Hazard. Severance payment would be paid only to those that would be
  retrenched from C P I and not rehired by the state or its agencies for a period o f
  one year. A registry o f retrenched employees will be maintained and updated in
  CIPI and sharedwith the State Office for Public Service which will be responsible
  for enforcing the one-year no rehiringrule.


0 Politicalrisk.A possible political risk o f implementingthe severanceprogram in
  CIPIwill be mitigated by inclusion o f trade unions inthe process o f developing
  the Severanceprogram, transparent and strict implementation o f severance
  criteria, informingthe public and gaining broad support from insuredindividuals
  andbeneficiaries who are currently dissatisfied with the services o f CIPI, a
  training and education program inC P I and. finally, by a strong leadership role o f
  the Government inthe restructuringprocess.




                                       9

