Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 23714-HR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$27.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FOR A
PENSION SYSTEM INVESTMENT PROJECT
June 24, 2002
Human Development Sector Unit
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Exchange Rate as of June 18, 2002
Unit of Currency: Kuna (HRK)
US$1.00 = Kuna 8.05630
Kuna 1.00 = US$0.124126
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BSO     Budget Supervision Office
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR      Country Procurement Assessment Report
ECA     Europe and Central Asia
EBF     Extra-Budgetary Fund
EFSAL     Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
FINA     Financial Agency (successor to ZAP)
FMR      Financial Monitoring Report
FMS     Financial Management System
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GZAOP      Central Computer Center for the City of Zagreb
HAGENA       Supervisory Agency for Pension Funds and Insurance
HII    Health Insurance Institute
IAS    International Accounting Standards
IFAC     International Federation of Accountants
IMF     International Monetary Fund
IT    Information Technology
LACI     Loan Administration Change Initiative
LCS     Least Cost Selection
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MLSW      Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
NGO      Non-Governmental Organizations
OMS      Operational Manual Statement
PAYGO      Pay-As-You-Go Pension System
PAS     Procurement Accredited Specialist
PEIR     Public Expenditure Institutional Review
PER     Public Expenditure Review
PI    Pension Institute
P1U     Project Implementation Unit
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:   Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:    Michal J. Rutkowski
Task Team Leader:    Philip OKeefe



PSIP    Pension System Investment Project
QCBS     Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection
QER     Quality Enhancement Review
REGOS      Central Registry of Affiliates
SA     Special Account
SAL     Structural Adjustment Loan
SFRY     Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SOE     Statement of Expenditures
TA     Technical Assistance
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
ZAP     Central Payments Institute






CROATIA
PENSION SYSTEM INVESTMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       2
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context                                                                   2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                7
C. Project Description Summary                                                         9
1. Project components                                                                9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    11
3. Benefits and target population                                                   11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    11
D. Project Rationale                                                                   12
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      14
E. Summary Project Analysis                                                            14
1. Economic                                                                         14
2. Financial                                                                        16
3. Technical                                                                        16
4. Institutional                                                                    17
5. Social                                                                           18
6. Environmental                                                                    19
7. Participatory approach                                                           19
8. Checklist of Bank policies                                                       20
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                           22
1. Sustainability                                                                   22
2. Critical risks                                                                   22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   23
G. Main Conditions                                                                    24
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       24
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      25



Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                     27
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                               29
Annex 3: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                  32
Annex 3B: Financial Management Assessment Report                                    44
Annex 4: Summary of Public Expenditure Review (PER) Paper on Pensions               49
Annex 5: Documents in the Project File                                              58
Annex 6: Project Processing Schedule                                                59
Annex 7: Statement of Loans and Credits                                             60
Annex 8: Country at a Glance                                                        62
Map No. IBRD 29395



CROATIA
Pension System Investment Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Human Development Sector Unit
Date: June 24, 2002                       Team Leader: Philip OKeefe, ECSHD
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink, ECCO5  Sector Manager: Michal Rutkowsld, ECSHD
Project ID: P063546                        Sectors: Pensions and Social Insurance
Lending Instrument: SIL                    Themes: Social Protection
Poverty Targeted Intervention:          Yes  [x] No
[Xl Loan    [ I Credit    [ Grant     [1 Guarantee    [I1 Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Total Bank Financing (US$m): $27.3
Pro osed Terms (IBRD): Variable S  ad & Rate Sin le Currenc Loan  SCL)
BORROWER                                                           7.6          0.7        8.3
IBRD                                                              18.0          9.3       27.3
Total:                                                            25.6         10.0       35.6
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF CROATIA: Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Responsible agency: Supervisory Agency for Pension Funds and Insurance (HAGENA), and Project
Implementation Unit
Implementing agency:
Project Implementation Unit - Pension System Investment Project
Marijan Laic, Director
Praska 2, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia
Tel: 385 (0) 1 1484 0051  Fax: 385 (0) 1 484 0053  Email address: piu@net.hr
Estimated disbursement ( Bank FYIS$rn):
Annual 1   9.0      12.0   1   12.0       2.6   I   35.6
Cumulative    9.0      21.0      33.0       35.6
Project implementation period: 10/2002 - 12/2006 (excluding PPF and retroactive financing period)
Expected effectiveness date: October 2002  Expected closing date: December 2006



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The main development objectives of the project are:
* To improve the effectiveness and transparency of Croatia's system for reporting and enforcement of
social contributions and personal income taxes, in particular for the new system of funded pensions;'
and
* To strengthen capacity in existing and new agencies which manage different parts of the pension
system to operate and regulate the new multi-pillar pension system. 2
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Overall, the key performance areas for the project are:
(i) for the reformed reporting and enforcement system for social contributions and personal income tax,
the continued effective functioning of unified reporting and enforcement would be the central
monitoring indicator including reliability and timeliness of flow of funds and contributor data;
(ii) for second pillar pension contributions, timeliness, reliability and security of revenues and data
posting from public institutions to private fund managers would be monitored;
(iii) for second and third pillar agencies, the project would monitor performance to ensure that they
function with a high degree of administrative efficiency;
(iv) probity in supervision and, within the legal guidelines, market-driven basis for decision making and
regulation in the second and third pillar agencies would be monitored;
(v) public information and awareness of the pension and collection reforms would be monitored; and
(vi) for the Pension Institute (PI), the main outcome indicator would be revised business processes and
controls, in addition to personnel and training policies to enable better management of resources,
including rationalizing staffing. In outer project years, indicators on staffing level and structure
would be monitored, as well as training and outplacement of staff.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19280 HR          Date of latest CAS discussion: May 11, 1999 (CAS Progress
Report discussed by Board on September 18, 2001).
Improving the effectiveness and transparency of the public revenue system and supporting multi-pillar
pension reform are specific elements of the Bank's strategy outlined in the CAS Progress Report. Both
should contribute to increased fiscal viability and sustainability, which is the central themes of the CAS.
Progress Report and main trigger for a high case Bank program for Croatia. The main ways in which the
project would support this central CAS goal are:
facilitating improvements in public revenue performance, by supporting unified reporting and
enforcement of obligatory contributions and personal income taxes;
'Obligatory contributions in Croatia include payroll tax contributions for pensions, health and unemployment
insurance.
2 A "multi-pillar" pension system includes three elements. The "first pillar" refers to the existing pay-as-you-go
pension system (PAYGO), whereby pensions for the eligible elderly, disabled and others are financed from
contributions of current workers. The "second pillar" refers to mandatory personal pension contributions to
individual pension accounts, managed in Croatia by private pension fund managers. The "third pillar" refers to
voluntary funded pension schemes, also managed by private pension fund managers (see section 2.11 below for
detailed description).



3
* supporting government to reduce institutional overlaps in reporting and enforcement of obligatory
contributions and personal income taxes. Eventually, this should lead to reduced staffing and
administrative costs in the reporting and enforcement process. This will contribute to reducing the size
of the public sector in Croatia, where consolidated government expenditures accounted for 50 percent
of GDP in 2000, with a disproportionately high share on wages (around 13 percent of GDP); and
* improving the functioning of the Pension Institute, so that it can perform its overall functions more
effectively. The pressure from the PAYGO system is one of the major sources of fiscal imbalance in
Croatia. The project's support for private pensions should also contribute over time to reduced
pressure on public revenues for financing old age pensions.
Finally, the operation is closely linked to the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) which was presented to
the Bank's Board in December 2001 and became effective in 2002. The SAL supports reforms which
improve the policy framework within which the PSIP will be implemented. The reforms include:
* approval of a unified collection and data reporting system for obligatory contributions and personal
income taxes;
* broadening of the income base on which obligatory contributions are levied; and
* further reforms of the entitlements in the PAYGO system to align expenditures more closely with
revenues.
2. Main sector Issues and Government strategy:
2.1. Obligatory contributions and Income Tax Collection:3
2. L.a. Situation to date: Croatia has had to date a fragmented collection system for payment, enforcement
and recording of obligatory contributions and personal income taxes.4 Until mid-2001, obligatory
contributions were separately collected by the Pension Institute and Health Insurance Institute (Hfi),
while personal income taxes have been collected by the Tax Department. The negative results of the
system have been:
* a heavy reporting burden on employers, who must submit information on contributions and taxes due
to different institutions, all of which demand their own format for reporting. In total, the system
requires the employer to report and submit some 20 different forms on either a monthly or annual
basis;
* the burden on firms is increased by fragmented enforcement and control on contributions, with
separate and multiple inspections and verifications required for firms;5
* inefficiency created by parallel networks of staff for data and contribution collection and processing in
the HI, PI and Tax Department interacting with the same set of employers. For example, in the PI
alone, the estimated number of staff dedicated to these functions is around 1,000 (of a total 3,300
staff);
* lack of accountability and transparency in the system, as each institution negotiated specific payment
arrangements with employers, and failed to share contributor data with other institutions;
* lack of coordination in developing, implementing and evaluating strategies to increase compliance;
and
3For an overview discussion of budget process and management, see "Croatia: Regaining Fiscal Sustainability and
Enhancing Effectiveness: A Public Expenditure Review", chapter 3 (World Bank, 2001 - hereafter "PER").
4Obligatory contributions include payroll taxes to finance the health, pension and unemployment support systems.
5-Activities included under the definition of "enforcement and control" are procedures designed to identify who
should be reporting and paying contributions, and ensuring that they fulfill these obligations. They include a
mixture of automated comparisons and analyses, physical inspections of firms and audits, and actions to identify,
follow up and legally enforce obligations. "Enforcement" in the Croatian context means ensuring that employers
pay the amounts they have declared they should pay and taking remedial action if they have not done so. "Control"
means ensuring that the amounts employers have declared they should pay are justified (e.g. checking whether
employees are actually disabled where the employer has declared lower contributions for disabled employees).



4
* fragmented collection has increased demands on public audit functions, which are already over-
stretched.6
2. 1.b. Recent initiatives and plans: The Government has become aware of the problems created by
multiple collection, reporting and enforcement institutions. In response, it has taken steps to lessen the
burden on employers, and improve the efficiency and transparency of the system. The Government is
implementing the new strategy in stages:
* in July 2000, the Tax Department - through the single Treasury account - assumed enforcement of
pension contributions for all contributors except the self-employed;
* in July 2001, the Tax Department also assumed responsibility for contribution collection for the PI,
and also started health insurance contribution collection for the HIH from January 2002;7
* Effective January 2002, for all obligatory contributions and personal income taxes, employers have
started reporting on a single monthly form (krnown as the "RS" form) through a unified reporting
system established by the Central Registry of Affiliates (REGOS) with implementation support from
the Financial Agency (FINA) (see below on both institutions);
* Unified reporting has generated a consolidated database operated by REGOS with technical support of
FINA, which will provide necessary data to all other institutions;8 and
* Effective in 2002, the Tax Department will be responsible for all auditing of enterprises, with support
by the Pension Institute for control functions on employer reporting on employee status.
* Effective in mid-2002, the Tax Department will assume responsibility for unified control and
enforcement of all payroll taxes. Inspectors currently working in HII{ and the PI are already being
reassigned to the Tax Department.
With the advent of the RS form from 2002, reporting on individual workers is being done monthly,
increasing from the previous annual reporting.9 The need for more frequent individual reporting was
driven by two main factors. First, the gap between aggregate individual obligatory contributions and
income taxes due (based on the annual declarations by firms) and the sum of monthly contributions
actually paid by firms has consistently been around 20 percent in recent years. The incentives for under-
reporting on a monthly basis have been increased by a monthly reportmg on wages and payroll taxes only
on an aggregate level (in ID forms submitted to the Tax Department), as well as by long lags in PI
processing of annual forms which disabled the verification of aggregate payments with amounts per
insured individuals.'° Second, the introduction of mandatory funded pensions in 2002 will substantially
increase the need for monthly individual reporting and processing of data, required for prompt
contribution transfer to individual accounts in the second pillar.
The new system has created a major new stream of monthly contributor data. However, it will also result
in major rationalization of reporting by employers. This should be followed in time by a reduction in the
staff and administrative apparatus presently engaged in collecting employer reports. Given the likelihood
of start-up problems in the move to consolidated reporting, the Government plans to retain parallel
reporting on contributions to other institutions for an interim period of a maximum of one year."
6 Intemal audit is done by the Budget Supervision Office (BSO) in the MOF in consultation with the State Audit
Office, but the office has limited capacity to monitor and audit a range of revenue collection institutions. See PER.
7Note that the actual withholding of contributions from employers continues to be done by the Financial Agency
(FINA). The future withholding function is not fully determined by the new Law on Payment Transactions. Since
the majority of commercial banks authorized for performing payment transactions have outsourced the payment
system operations to FINA, withholding is still effectively done by FINA.
8 The Bank review of the software revealed a well-designed and user-friendly system (See Bratranek, 2001). The
backup for the database will be operated by Central Computer Center for the City of Zagreb (GZAOP).
9Monthly reporting was on a firm basis only by end 2001.
'0 These are the so-called M4 forms, on which PI processing is 2-3 years in arrears.
" The Law on Unified Reporting of Payroll Taxes, Personal Income Tax and Surtax, which was approved in
December 2001, envisages a maxunum of 12 months parallel reporting.



5
Employers have indicated that this approach is acceptable, provided that elimnination of multiple reporting
happens in a reasonably short period.
An additional important objective of the new institutional arrangements is support for restructuring of
FINA. FINA, formerly known as Central Payments Institute (ZAP), has until recently been the monopoly
payments bureau on financial transactions in Croatia, an institution found throughout former Yugoslavia
at independence. It acted as the universal withholding mechanism on taxes for employers, and did
settlements between employers and budgetary and extra-budgetary institutions. In addition, it conducted
other services such as inter-bank settlements.
The Government has been gradually reforming FINA/ZAP, as have several other former Yugoslav
countries. The first element of its restructuring has been opening services amenable to competition such
as bank settlements to entry from commercial competitors. The second step is a more comprehensive
reorientation of its functions, which are reflected in the Law on Payment Transactions and a framework
law on the restructuring of ZAP (called the Law on Financial Agency), approved in December 2001. The
proposal is that ZAP be renamed the Financial Agency (FINA) and be broken into three separate
institutions: (i) those that are of a purely public sector nature; (ii) those which provide financial services
to the Government; and (iii) those which could and should be done on a fully competitive basis (such as
bank clearing functions). The new law stipulates that FINA would operate as a unified entity during a
transition period of one year until end 2002, at which time a FINA restructuring program should be
approved by the Government. Over time, the core first part would be absorbed more completely into the
Ministry of Finance (MOF), in effect becoming a technical operational branch of the Tax Department.
2.2. Pension system: As noted, one catalyst for reforms on employer reporting has been the imminent
introduction of a multi-pillar pension system. In recent years, Croatia has taken major steps to reform its
pension system, through:12
*  the 1998 Pension Insurance Act, which provided the framework for a three pillar pension system
and reduced the costs of the PAYGO system through entitlement reforms;
* the 1999 Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pensions Funds, providing the institutional framework
for operation of second and third pillar pensions. The 1998 and 1999 legislation provide that all
employees under the age of 40 should contribute 5 percent of their gross wage to a licensed private
pension fund, which would manage the assets. The remaining 14.5 percent would continue to go to
the first pillar. Voluntary membership for employees between 40 and 50 years old is also allowed
for, a common feature of such reforms; and
* the 1999 Annuities Law.
2.2.a. First pillar issues: Despite the 1998 reforms, the finances of the Pension Institute - which
administers the PAYGO system - remain precarious, with over 13 percent of GDP being spent on
pensions in 2000. This is due to several reasons:
* there was a significant deterioration in the number of pensioners relative to contributors in the 1990s;
* constitutional court rulings requiring two costly sets of restitution paymnents to pensioners for
improper operations of the pension system in the mid-1990s;
*  ongoing problems with contribution cornpliance;'3 and
* in May 2000, the Government reduced pension and health payroll taxes by two percentage points
each. The PI during 2000 and 2001 bridged the operating shortfall by borrowing from conmmercial
12 For detailed discussions of the pension system, see pensions background paper for PER (2001), and Croatia: An
Agenda for Reform, pensions chapter (WB, 2000 - hereafter White Paper).
' Despite legal provisions to the contrary, contributions exemptions for enterprises have continued. There are also
ongoing compliance problems - not confined to the pension system - with farmers and the self-employed, which in
1999 had estimated compliance rates of 38 percent and 62 percent, respectively. See Anusic, 2000: Croatia: Pension
Contributions Arrears.



6
banks, instead of being granted a standard borrowing facility from the Treasury which would have
been more efficient from the public finance standpoint.
In addition to the policy issues driving imbalances in the first pillar - which are being addressed under the
SAL - there are concerns about the effectiveness of the PI as an institution. These relate to nearly all
aspects of its operations. Management is weak and its human resources policy is outmoded. The PI
remains overstaffed and insufficiently automated. Internal control functions and IT systems are in need of
significant improvements in data management and security. The Government views the pension reform
as an opportunity for modernizing and "re-engineering" the PI. In November 2001, the new PI
management endorsed a reform strategy which outlines a "new vision" which will involve a streamlined
institution focused on core mandate.
2.2.h The second and third pilars: The 1999 legislation established two new institutions for the
reformed system: the Supervisory Agency for Pension Funds and Insurance (HAGENA), and the Central
Registry of Affiliates (REGOS). Second pillar contributions will constitute a major new source of capital
in Croatia, amounting to around 1.3 percent of GDP annually in the early years. The start date for second
pillar diversions was January 1, 2002, although contributions were placed in escrow until end April 2002
(see below under "Risks").
HAGENA - which presently has around 20 staff - is the apex agency of the reform and is responsible for:
* developing the regulations which will govern the operations of private pension funds;
*  licensing and authorization of private pension funds;'4 and
* supervision/monitoring of fumds during implementation.
REGOS - which presently has around 25 staff - is responsible for:
*  initial affiliation of pension fund members;
*  registering of switching of affiliates between private pension funds by individuals during
implementation;
*  centralized administration of individual pension accounts and reporting;
*  disbursement of second pillar contributions to fund managers; and
*  collection of the new unified monthly reports from employers on all obligatory contributions and
personal income taxes, and passing on information to other agencies. This last function broadens the
responsibilities of REGOS from being an agency serving second pillar only to a broader servicing of
the public revenue system by collecting data on all payroll taxes and contributions.
These are all new functions for the public sector. Rather than create an entirely new IT infrastructure to
carry out the REGOS functions, the Government decided to use another public agency with existing IT
capacity and a national office network to perform a major segment of REGOS' tasks. After detailed
review of the options, FINA was chosen as the implementing partner, with If backup functions and
internet support done by the Zagreb Central Computer Center (GZAOP)."5 FINA and GZAOP will
perform all functions noted on behalf of REGOS on a contractual basis.
The intention of Government over the medium term is that REGOS would continue to directly conduct
affiliation of new entrants, fund switching, and centralized account administration. There are two main
options on how it would assume direct implementation of these functions. In both cases, REGOS would
absorb the staff of FINA who are performing the functions noted above, and increase the fees charged to
fund managers until it becomes self-financing. At that point (estimated by the Government to be 6-8
14 Each licensed mandatory fund manager will be authorized to manage only one mandatory pension fund. The
licensing procedures for voluntary third pillar pension funds would be very similar, where licensed voluntary
pension fund manager would be authorized to manage more voluntary pension funds.
5See consultant reports of Davis, Edgerton and Kasum.



7
years, which is the estimated break-even point for private pension funds), the Government would decide
whether to retain REGOS as a self-financing public entity, or to privatize it, with fund managers assuming
ownership (as, e.g., in Mexico).
What remains to be decided is whether the responsibility for employer reporting functions would remain
with REGOS in the medium term (using FINA for implementation), or revert to the Tax Department,
which would fully absorb the core of FINA as a department of the Ministry of Finance. The Government
will decide the medium term responsibilities of REGOS based in part on the effectiveness of the initial
arrangements.
Apart from the public agencies in the reform, private pension fund management companies will manage
the funds from member contributions. The portfolio investment restrictions are as follows:
* a minimum 50 percent of assets in central government long term bonds;
* maximum 30 percent in domestic equities listed at first quotation of Zagreb Stock Exchange;
* maximum 30 percent in local government long term bonds;
* maximum 30 percent in domestic long term corporate bonds;
* maximum 15 percent in international investments (subject to credit rating criteria); and
* maximum 5 percent in domestic short term fixed income and bank deposits.
A final important issue is public informnation about the reform, both specifically on funded pensions, and
more broadly on the employer reporting reforms. This was expanded significantly in the second half of
2001, supported in part by USAID and the Bank.'6. Until the second half of 2001, efforts had been
focused on employers and trade unions, rather than the population at large; thereafter, this was expanded
to a more public information effort. In early November, HAGENA made a computer program for
calculation of individual pensions publicly available.
Overall, the design of the Croatian reform seems appropriate to the country conditions, and reflects
several important lessons of experience from other countries. Confidence in the reform is reflected by the
participation of a number of reputable foreign banks in fund management, in addition to the "blue chip"
domestic banks. Nonetheless, based on experience elsewhere in Central Europe, it also appears that the
Croatian team in charge of the reforms has been given a short period to implement a new and
comprehensive information collection and money routing system.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Croatian reform of its public revenue and pensions systems represents a bold development, but one
which introduces a range of implementation challenges in the second and third pillars and increases the
challenges to the PAYGO system. The proposed project addresses a number of these challenges,
including:
3.a. Revenue and data collection: The consolidation of revenue collection and employer reporting are
measures that the Bank has supported for some time. This support is reflected in the policy agenda for the
SAL, as well as the proposed Project. The catalyst of introduction of funded pensions provides a political
window for this broader and long-overdue reform. At the same time, the transition to the new system
imposes incremental costs and risks which the Project is designed to help address. An important question
in project design was whether the project should support the choice of FINA and GZAOP as the
implementation partners for unified employer reporting. The choice was subjected to close review, and
has been the subject of further discussions with Bank experts familiar with similar consolidation efforts in
other ECA countries. The decision to support this was based on several considerations:
16 See Pension Reform Education Campaign project document, (PublicImage, Zagreb, 2001)



8
*  it supports the planned transformation of ZAP/FINA from a monopolist in many aspects of the
financial system, to an institution which competes with the private sector in some areas, and at the
same time efficiently performs core functions in the public sector;
*  ZAP/FINA was the only suitable public agency for the new functions because; (i) it has the technical
capacity and IT infrastructure to perform the database functions; and (ii) it has a wide national office
network to carry out registration and switching in the second pillar in a cost effective manner. In terms
of a suitable backup for the system and reporting to individual affiliates, a similar assessment was
made, and GZAOP was selected for its existing IT infrastructure, and close working relations with
ZAP/FINA;
*  ZAP/FINA's existing relations with both employers nationwide and other public agencies should
contribute to a smooth transition to new institutional arrangements. For example, it will be able to use
existing electronic linkages to provide reports needed by other agencies; and
*  Options for contracting out the services to the private sector were considered but ultimately rejected,
given that: (i) the nature and confidentiality of employer data made the activities ones that are almost
universally undertaken by the public sector throughout the world; and (ii) any private sector provider
would have first to invest in a major national IT network, with local office capacity, making that route
prohibitively costly.
The proposed component would finance a share of the incremental recurrent costs of operating the new
data reporting system and initiating the second pillar. Bank financing would be significant in the early
years of implementation while there was full parallel reporting and high demands from second pillar
introduction, but decline substantially in later years. It is estimated that by the third or fourth year of
implementation, the positive effects on revenues should outweigh the costs of the new system, and the
Government would be able to assume full financing at the end of the project (see below under Bank
policies and issues for detailed discussion).
In addition to the proposed coverage of incremental recurrent costs, the project would assist REGOS by
strengthening institutional capacity to manage the new system. Just as importantly, it will provide
technical assistance to help the Government further define the institutional mandates of various actors in
the medium term, in particular the precise institutional and administrative relations between the Tax
Department, FINA and REGOS. In addition, there will be financing for TA to specify roles and
responsibilities for revenue collection and enforcement in the new consolidated control and enforcement
mechanism under the overall responsibility of MOF. The project would also be coordinated with
proposed USAID technical assistance from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service to the Tax Department on
assessment and improvement of enforcement and control functions.
3.h First pillar issues: The project would address a number of issues with respect to the first pillar. The
overall objective of the support under the PI component would be to help the PI elaborate and implement
its reform strategy to transform itself into a more effective and efficient pension determination, data
processing and pension payments agency."' This will require a more strategic vision of its new functions,
and substantial improvement in its internal processes. It will also mean a more streamlined institution in
the future. To help address these issues, the project would support improvement in the PI's operations in
the following areas (see Annex 2):
* strategic planning, process analysis, internal controls, and communications;
*  software development and consultancy on data exchange with other institutions, improvements in data
security), and adequate equipping and networing of all offices; and
*  (i) human resources management, including a human resources needs assessment; and (ii) based on the
assessment, financing of training for management and retained staff, as well as a menu of options for
staff who will be dismissed or transferred elsewhere in the public sector. This would include training
" The PI may also'continue a range of other functions, including international negotiations on bilateral social
security arrangements, and administration of child allowances.



9
costs of redundant workers, assessment, counseling, referral and training costs of redeployment of
surplus PI workers.
3.c. The second and third piUars: A major need in the second/third pillars that the project will address is
for institutional support and capacity strengthening in HAGENA and REGOS. These are new agencies,
and the management has limited experience in regulating private pension funds. The project will
therefore support training and technical assistance to management and staff in order to strengthen
institutional capacity, and in particular to contribute to a transparent and effective regulatory regime for
private pensions. The project would also finance basic physical equipping of HAGENA and REGOS,
complementing efforts already undertaken by the institutions on their own account.
Effective multi-pillar reforms need good public information. The project supports - under the PPF - the
initial market research and other aspects of the public information campaign. This is being done in
collaboration with USAID. USAID have indicated a commitment to extending financing for public
information needs associated with reform launch and implementation.
Given the need for support on further development of the local longer term public debt market (in
particular on local currency longer maturity Government paper), it is also proposed to include TA on
development of the local public debt market under the project. In addition, TA under the project should
be one step in laying the ground for deepening and diversification of the insurance market through
encouragement of the annuities sub-sector, including exploring options for group annuities.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2)
1. Capacity building for HAGENA and   Pensions         4.0    11.2     3.8      14.0
REGOS.                                 and Social
This would support institutional development Insurance
and strengthening of capacity of HAGENA
and REGOS to operate and regulate the
collection and investment system for
privately-managed pension funds, including
investments in goods, consultancy, and
training.



10
2. Implementation support for public   Pensions        18.7    52.5    11.8      43.4
revenue and funded pension reforms.    and Social
The component would support database   Insurance
operation and maintenance for unified
employer reporting on obligatory
contributions, as well as costs associated
with introduction of second pillar pensions.
It would finance incremental operating costs
associated with the ZAP/GZAOP activities.
It would also finance TA on overall public
revenue institutional reform and
development of the public debt market, and
TA to strengthen the consolidated control
and enforcement functions under MOF.
3. Pension Institute reform.           Pensions        11.3    31.7    10.1      37.1
This would support improvements in the  and Social
efficiency and effectiveness of the PI through  Insurance
investments to support strategic planning,
reengineering intemal and business
processes, and effective management of
personnel. It would also finance IT
investments to improve the functions of the
PI office network, training for management
and PI staff, and a menu of options for
dismissed or outsourced workers.
investments would be made in goods,
training, and consultancy.
4. Project Implementation Unit.        Non-sector       0.6     1.7     0.5       1.8
This would support the operations of the  specific
PIU, including core procurement and FM
functions, through investments in goods,
training, consultancy, and operating costs. It
would also support specialist 1T and project
management TA and project audits.
5. PPF activities re financing         Pensions         0.7     2.0     0.7       2.6
and Social
Insurance
6. Front-end fee                       Non-sector       0.3     0.8     0.3       1.1
specific
Total Project Costs    35.6   100.0     27.3     100.0
Total Financing Required     35.6   100.0    27.3     100.0
Figures may not sum due to rounding.



11
2. Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought:
As noted, the PSIP is complemented by the SAL, which supports several of the key policy reforms. The
PSIP focuses on making the new institutions and institutional arrangements more effective in several
ways, through support for:
*  the functioning streamlined institutional apparatus for the new reporting system on all obligatory
contributions and income taxes and their centralized control and enforcement. This should increase
the efficiency, effectiveness and transparency of public revenue collection in Croatia;
* institutional reform of FINA itself, consistent with the appropriate role of such an agency in a market
economy;
*  institutional strengthening in HAGENA and REGOS to support implementation of pension reforms.
This will help to minimize implementation problems which might undermine the social and political
credibility of the reforms; and
* structural, managerial and attitudinal change in the PI.
Apart from the SAL-supported policy reformns, the PSIP supports the following policy developments:
* elaboration of the regulatory framework for private pensions, through technical support to HAGENA;
* support for development of a competitive and transparent fund management industry; and
* laying the ground for deepening and diversification of the insurance market through technical
assistance to develop the framework for operation of the annuities sub-sector.
3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits of the project are several. It will:
* contribute to improved compliance and revenues for all obligatory contributions and personal income
taxes;
* help to support the Government's ongoing efforts to reduce the tax and contribution reporting burden
on employers;
* support the institutional transformation of FINA;
* support transfer of control and enforcement functions from PI and HII to the Tax Department;
* strengthen capacity in HAGENA and REGOS to administer and regulate the second and third pillar
pensions system; and
* promote institutional reform in the PAYGO pillar which results in more efficient, transparent and
effective operations.
The main beneficiaries are:
* all beneficiaries of public spending in Croatia, especially those using the pension, health and
unemployment systems;
* young generations either working presently or yet to enter the workforce, through a more diversified
pension system;
* employers, who will benefit from the reduced reporting requirements supported by the project;
* HAGENA, REGOS and PL which should benefit significantly from project financing and technical
support. In addition, the Tax Department should benefit from TA to further define the future
institutional and administrative arrangements for public revenue collection and reporting; and
* FINA, for which the project will help to strengthen and consolidate its core role in the new
institutional arrangements.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The lead counterpart agency for project implementation would be the Steering Committee for PSIP,
created by Government decision and chaired by the Minister of Labor and Social Welfare and with
participation of MOF, HAGENA, REGOS, and the PI. The Government has also established a high level



12
Coordinating Committee for Pension Reform, chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Sectors,
which would continue to act as an interlocutor on pensions policy issues. The Economic Coordination
Committee under the Deputy Prime Minister for Economy would also act as a second interlocutor on the
revenue and fiscal aspects of the project.
In order to facilitate project management, a PITJ has been established in the offices of HAGENA, though
with reporting done directly to the PSIP Steering Committee. The unit has a Director, a procurement
officer, a financial management officer, and a secretary/interpreter. Financial management and
procurement staff with substantial experience of Bank projects have already been hired to set up the
project management systems.'8 In addition, a PIU "extension agent" has been appointed within the PI to
act as a component coordinator and ensure smooth communications between the PI and PIU.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
When the Bank started discussing an operation to support pension reform several years ago, the
anticipated lending instrument was a sectoral adjustment operation. This approach was discontmued
when the macroeconomic program of the IMF went off track until 2000. In the meantime, the Croatian
government requested an investment operation to support revenue and pension reform, including
institutional strengthening for the key agencies. Since the resumption of an IMF program in 2000, work
under the PSIP has proceeded in parallel with development of the policy agenda under the SAL. The
PSIP and SAL are close complements.
Various options were considered on the design of the investment operation. An important part of the
discussions related to the activities of FINA and GZAOP proposed to be financed on a declining basis as
incremental recurrent costs. The discussions revolved around whether the activities could or should be
contracted out to the private sector. It was agreed that the functions to be performed were very much in
the nature of public functions, and that the use of FINA was consistent with a broader institutional
development and transformation strategy of the Government for ZAP/FINA. It was also agreed that there
would need to be major systems investments by any potential private firms which did not make them
feasible from a financing viewpoint. At the same time, some of the functions which relate purely to the
second pillar - including individual account administration - may well be ones which the private sector
could either finance through fees, or in time through undertaking those functions itself. The TA to help
design the longer run administrative arrangements for the second pillar will encourage the Government to
develop a fuller strategy for self-sustaining financing of second pillar administration.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned):
Implementatio   Development
n Progress (IP)   Objective
Bank-financed
Pension and fiscal policy    Structural Adjustment Credit       S              S
Financial sector             EFSAL TA Project                   S              S
EFSAL Adjustment Credit           S               S
Capital markets              Capital Market Development        S               S
__ __ ___   Project (completed)
18 See Procurement Capacity Assessment (Kovacs, 2001) and FM mission review (Herat, 2001).



13
Other development agencies .
UK Know How Fund              Assistance to banking sector                           -
USAID                         - TA on public information in l
pension reform
- TA on control and              - --              --
. ____ __   enforcement of tax collection
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
With respect to the broader public revenue activities supported under the project, the key lessons of
regional experience reflected are as follows:
*  The project support for consolidated revenue collection and reporting reflects lessons leamt and good
practice reforms being implemented in SEE/CEE. The move towards consolidated revenue collection
and reporting is supported by both the Bank and IMF as increasing efficiency, accountability and
transparency in the revenue system. Examples of Bank-supported efforts in this direction are Bulgaria
and more recently Slovakia. The other emerging lesson from these experiences is that the choice of
who should be given the responsibility for the consolidated revenue and data collection functions is
country-specific, based on an assessment of who the most competent institutions are;
* A feature of the project design that reflects the specific experience of SFRY countries is support for
restructuring of ZAP/FINA. The experience of several SFRY countries is that the payment agencies
need a new and more defined mandate in a market economy if they are not to crowd out the private
sector and inhibit financial market development. While the approaches to refocusing the payment
agency's role in each country vary, the trend is towards a scaled back set of functions. The project
supports this through work during preparation advising on the restructuring of ZAP/FINA, and
assisting FINA and the Government in further definition of its role in the public revenue system in the
medium term;
*  The experience of other countries in implementing systemic pension reform is reflected in the design
of the Croatian reform, and in the measures supported by the project. The first is the clearinghouse
approach used for the second pillar, which avoids overly burdensome reporting requirements on
employers themselves. At the same time, regional experience in implementing systemic reforms
suggests that a clearinghouse takes time to design properly. The PSIP, together with the SAL
conditionality, has encouraged the Government to take time to get implementation right, through
supporting the decision to delay the start date from 2001 to 2002 and design of a contingency plan;
* The reverse side of the technocratic desire for giving more time to develop the new system is the
political element of reform. While many involved in designing the Hungarian and Polish reforms
acknowledge their initial shortcomings, they also stress that it was important to seize the political
opportunity for systemic reform while it was available. Equally they note that "teething problems"
were eventually sorted out, or are in the process of being so. This is a judgment call in each country;
* The project also reflects the demonstrated need for strong second pillar agencies and capacity building
in those agencies. Local counterparts and the project team are coordinating closely with the joint
Bank/Fund financial sector assessment team to ensure that the design of the regulatory apparatus
reflects good practice in the region and internationally. This will include an assessment of whether
HAGENA should, over time, be merged into a unified contractual savings or other regulator;
* The PSIP/SAL combination also reflects the importance of ensuring that reforms in7the first pillar do
not get neglected in the concentration on the funded pillars. Experience in some countries (e.g.
Hungary; Kazakhstan) has been that there are risks of weakening political support for systemic
reforms when governments see the drop in contributions to the PAYGO system; and
*  A final lesson reflected in project design is the need for effective public information. The project has
already supported market research, and further support will continue from USAID.



14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Govermment has repeatedly indicated its commitment to the operation, including in discussions on
the CAS Progress Report and in establishment of the PSIP Steering Committee. The policy framework
for revenue and pension reform, and for further adjustments in the first pillar was reaffirmed in the SAL
Letter of Development Policy.
On the overall revenue reforms, the Government has outlined the details of the new consolidated system
in a recently approved Law. This reflects discussions between all involved actors, including those such
as the PI and HII who would be likely to have more focused mandates under the new system. It also
builds on actions already taken in consolidation of collection and enforcement on obligatory
contributions.
On pension reform, the Croatians have already passed the major legislation required for introduction of
the second and third pillars, indicating strong local ownership of the reforms being supported by the
operation. The Government has repeatedly committed itself to the new system, including through support
for HAGENA and REGOS, establishment of the Pension Reform Coordination Committee, and the PSIP
Steering Committee.
Another factor that indicates strong ownership is the encouragement given to potential fund managers,
including a number of foreign banks, who are recently in the licensing process. This has already created a
lobby outside Government which will produce strong interest in ensuring that the legislative
commitments on a three pillar system are sustained over time.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has had a long term policy dialogue in the pensions area, going back to before 1995. The links
with policy makers that have been developed have had a significant influence on the nature of the reform
introduced in 1998-99, and the Bank is seen by Government as the lead international agency in the field.
The Government views the combination of policy support under the SAL and implementation support
under the proposed PSIP as a key part of its cooperation with the Bank.
The value added of Bank support in ECA pensions reform is substantial, given previous institutional
support for pension reform in Hungary, Bulgaria, Slovakia and other ECA countries. There is wide
experience of pension reform which has been brought to bear in preparation of the project. This
advantage has been increased in Croatia by the low level presence during the 1990s of certain players
who have been key players in other countries (e.g. USAID), due to political considerations under the
formner government.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic
[x] Summarize issues below (e.g., fiscal impact, pricing distortions)
There has been detailed actuarial modeling of the fiscal impact of the pension reform. A concern with all
such reforms is the transitional budgetary costs of transition to the multi-pillar system. The modeling
indicates that the annual transition cost in the initial years of funded pensions will be around 1.3 percent
of GDP, falling to around 0.4 percent in 2011, due to already-legislated retirement age increases, coupled
with gradually declining benefit levels in the first pillar which should partly offset the transition deficit.
The cumulative transition deficit in the first 10 years of pension reform implementation (2002-2011) is
estimated at 10-11 percent of GDP and 3-4 percent in the following 10 years, 2012-2021. The



15
Government has announced reductions in entitlements that would reduce the deficit further when
mtroduced.'9
One uncertainty in the estimates is the extent of voluntary switching into the second pillar by workers
aged 40-50. In countries such as Hungary, this has been higher than anticipated and contributed to larger
than expected revenue shortfalls in the PAYGO system. The estimates above assume that about one-third
of the 40 to 50 year old workers will choose to participate in the second pillar, which appears to be the
upper bound of likely participation of this group based on affiliation patterns to date.
The transition deficit can be either tax financed or debt financed. Tax financed means measures that
reduce the transition deficit by lowering PAYGO spending, by increasing pension contribution rates, or
through transfers from the budget financed from reduced spending or higher taxes elsewhere in the public
sector. "Tax" financing also can include privatization proceeds. The alternative is debt financing.
Although debt financing diminishes the net savings effect from the reform, it is relatively modest in scale,
and the costs of the added debt service are likely offset by the capital market growth effects.20
The wider fiscal impact could be expected by the unification and improvements to the overall reporting
and enforcement on payroll and personal income taxes anticipated under the new system. It is difficult to
estimate the net fiscal impact of the new system across all personal taxes, but one would expect it be
positive. Given the uncertainties, only rough estimates of fiscal impact can be made. Looking at the
pensions system, the upper bound of impact would be around 20 percent increase in revenues, which
represents the current mismatch between aggregate monthly contributions from firms and total liabilities
based on annual data. Given projected first pillar pension revenues of 5.5-6.3 percent, an-upper bound on
additional revenues in the first pillar would be around 1. 1-1.2 percent of GDP, or almost the financing gap
of the second pillar. Looking more closely at actual sources of non-compliance in recent years, and
benchmarking against regional best practice in payroll tax compliance, the estimated increase in
compliance would be around 10-15 percent, or around 0.5-0.8 percent of GDP in the pension system only.
Early experience with the new reporting system in the first quarter of 2002 shows a noticeable
improvement in revenues already.
Economic evaluation methodology:
[ ] Cost benefit    [x] Cost effectiveness  []Other [specify]
This is a complex area, where causality between the project investrnent and outcomes cannot easily be
established. The most common benefit in analysis is the assumed.improved compliance in payroll tax
collection, typically just within the pensions system. Quantifying the net effect and estimating the period
of impact is not easy. In the case of Croatia, the proposed unification of collections that results from the
project investment means that such improvements could be across the board on payroll taxes, and that the
economic benefit would be greater than just within the pension system.
More specifically, the present value of potential staff reductions in the PI could be included in the
analysis, an effect that would be produced both from the downsizing that the project would facilitate on
the collection and enforcement side.
Even if causality could be established, there is too much uncertainty about a range of other econornic
effects to include them in the economic analysis. These include a net savings improvement (which is
disputable), and a capital markets effect (difficult to quantify and tie to project investments).
19 See PER, chapter 2. The additional reforms are currently in the Parliamentary process.
20 See Holzmann on the estimnated capital markets growth impact of pension reform, estimated to be around 0.5
percent of GDP per year.



16
2. Financial
[x ] Summarize issues below (e.g., cost recovery, tariff policies, financial controls and accountability)
Financial controls and accountability will be critical to the success of the individual pension accounts to
be supported by the project. The mechanism must ensure that it tracks contributions from the source
employee all the way to deposit into the selected fund manager. Equally, reporting and oversight by the
second pillar agencies must ensure that financial reporting and accountability of fund managers is
vigorously enforced, or there could be credibility risks for the funded system. The project team has
closely reviewed the financial flows within the second pillar and is satisfied that they are appropriately
designed. Close monitoring will be needed during implementation to assess the timelmess, reliability and
security of second pillar flows.
At the project/PRI level, the Financial Management System (FMS) assessment indicates that the existing
HAGENA system can be adapted to ensure an adequate financial management system by Board
presentation. The FMS has also assisted in defining a Financial Management Action Plan for the PIU,
ensuring that safeguards are in place prior to Board. As the FM staff member of the PIU has had long
experience in Bank projects, it is not anticipated that bringing the FM system up to speed will be
problematic.
A final financial issue that is yet to be definitively resolved relates to cost recovery from private fund
managers on central account management and others fimctions to be performed by the public sector. The
1999 law allows for REGOS to charge user fees to fund managers, and the schedule of fees has been
produced. It is the understanding of Government that the fees would be set at the level of operative costs
in the initial years of implementation as funds are recouping start-up costs.
3. Technical
[x] Summarize issues below (e.g., appropriate technology, costing)
Given the estimated size of the FINA/GZAOP activities with REGOS, the proposed costing was closely
evaluated through consultant assessments of likely costs of the provision of such a service, based on
existing ZAP/FINA cost structures, and comparison to the costs of such services in other countries. In
recent years, the National Bank (which wholly owns ZAP/FINA) has steadily reduced ZAP's fee
schedule, based on benchmarking to regional comparators. In addition, there is an internal government
oversight mechanism for such internal service provider agreements between different institutions.
One cost element easily verifiable is non civil servant wages, which comprise the largest part of the
proposed incremental recurrent costs (around 75 percent). The estimated average monthly salary for
incremental FINA staff compared to official statistics for the financial intermediation sub-sector - which
is considered by local specialists to be the relevant comparator - is around 8 percent higher than the
sectoral av,erage. Average salary costs are therefore broadly appropriate. Other available labor force
information on public sector wages and salaries for computer data-entry workers and similar jobs supports
this finding. FINA and GZAOP have also provided a breakdown of staff by functional level and
education which is consistent with the proposed staff cost structure.
A further issue to note is on the support for personnel rationalization in the PI. In keeping with good
practice in employment services, it is proposed that a menu of options be offered to PI workers who are
either dismissed or transferred to other private or public sector jobs but who have needs for skills
upgrading in their new positions. There is a precedent for costing such packages in Croatia through the



17
recent packages agreed as part of the restructuring of Croatian Railways, and the Labor Market Bureau
assisted in defining costs for this sub-component.2'
Procurement andfinancial management issues (see Annex 3):
The PIU will assist in bidding, selection, contracting and payment procedures for the required
procurement activities. The project liaison staff in each line Ministry/agency will assist the PIU in
preparing terms of reference for consulting services, and training, and assembling CVs and short lists.
The PIU staff will be members of the Bid Evaluation Committee to evaluate proposals received for these
services and processing the award of contracts The PIU will also fulfill the Bank's financial reporting
requirements, including the supervision of the annual audit.
A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Croatia was carried out in 1999. The
reforms carried out to date in the area of financial management put Croatia ahead of many other CEE
countries. Croatia has, in fact, set up a modem legal and regulatory framework, compatible with the needs
of a market-driven economy, completely discarded the old accounting system and opted to introduce a
comprehensive new framework based on international guidelines. In order to enhance public sector
financial management and to achieve a higher level of accountability, the issues related to the integrity
and universal coverage of the budget process need to be addressed in greater depth, together with the start
of the Treasury, the modernization of accounting and reporting systems and the further development of
the institutions in charge of budget compliance through internal and external audits. Bank rehabilitation is
under way but additional efforts are needed to strengthen banking supervision and improve credit
institutions risk-management. Financial markets and their regulatory institutions need further
development; this would also make the privatization process more effective. Market competition and
corporate governance are main areas to be reformed to achieve greater transparency and financial
accountability for the private sector. A self-regulating and standard-setting national body, ensuring the
application of high standards of ethics and progressively taking on the functions currently performed by
the government, should define the organization of the accounting and auditing profession.
To improve the overall public sector accountability, the reform of the institutions (namely, the ZAP/FINA
and the relevant Departments of the MOF) currently involved in the accounting, reporting and internal
control functions needs to be addressed. In conclusion, the establishment of an adequate financial
management framework for the public sector requires the modernization of accounting systems, the
harmonization of reporting formats as well as the introduction of effective internal controls and auditing
functions.
From a financial management perspective, the project is considered moderate risk because the existing
PIU staff are well-versed in Bank procedures, having gained experience gained from implementing a
Bank-financed Forestry Project. The PIU is "ring fenced"; it has its own financial management system
and will carry out all procurement functions in line with Bank's procurement guidelines.
4. Institutional
[x] Summarize issues below (e.g., project management, M&E capacity, administrative regulations)
HAGENA and REGOS are relatively new agencies, so there will be a major need for institutional
development and capacity building. The structure of HAGENA is based on that of the National Bank,
and appears to have an appropriate balance between the needs of flexible daily management and
supervisory oversight of its activities.22 The Supervisory Board and Council of HAGENA is nominated
by Government, but requires approval by Parliament. The Executive and Supervisory Boards of REGOS
are appointed by the Government.
21 Report on Technical Assistance to the Government of Croatia on Croatian Railways Employment Restructuring.
22 See consultant report of Rafael Rofinan (WB, 1999).



18
The PSIP Steering Committee will act as the overarching project counterpart, bringing together the
Directors of all relevant actors in implementation. It will also oversee the work of the PIJ. In terms of
the PIU, the small number of PPF consultant transactions have been capably handled to date. The P1U is
already supported by expert staff with extensive experience of Bank project implementation.
Financial Management (see Annex 3B)
A review of the Financial Management arrangements for the project was undertaken in December 2001 to
determine whether the financial management arrangements within the PIU are acceptable to the Bank. It
is concluded that the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) satisfies the Bank's minimum financial
management requirements.
Financial Reportine.
The PIUJ will ensure the preparation and distribution of consolidated periodic progress reports to the
relevant government institutions, including the World Bank, to reflect: (i) sources and uses of funds, by
component and activity; (ii) project progress; and (iii) procurement activities. In this context, the PIU will
prepare quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), which would be submitted to the Bank within 45
days of the end of each quarter. The first quarterly FMRs will be submitted at the end of the first quarter
after Effectiveness. The FMRs formats were discussed and agreed during appraisal.
Audit Arrangements. The PIU would be responsible for ensuring that the Project financial statement,
Special Accounts (SA), and Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) are audited by an independent auditor,
acceptable to the Bank in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA). The PIU will
maintain responsibility for the management of project funds and the Special Account. It will monitor and
keep track of the use of funds. The audit will cover all funds related to the project, including counterpart
funds, for all project components. The PIU will carry out the annual audit in accordance with the
Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the Bank. The audited financial
statements, the special accounts, and SOEs of the preceding fiscal year will be sent to the Bank within six
months of the end of the fiscal year.
Disbursements. Disbursements from the Loan will be made based on traditional disbursement methods
(i.e., from the Special Account with reimbursements made based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
and full documentation, and direct payments from the Loan Account). The proceeds of the World Bank
Loan will be allocated in accordance with Table C, Annex 6. To facilitate timely project implementation,
the PI1 will establish, maintain and operate a special account under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank. The option to move to a FMR based disbursements will not be considered..
5. Social
[x] Summarize issues below (e.g., social risks, ability to target low income and other vulnerable groups)
The employer reporting reform should not present major social risks, beyond those in the public sector
due to the eventual removal of redundant labor. The main resistance from employers may come in the
initial year of parallel reporting, as their reporting burden will temporarily increase. However,
discussions with and surveys of employers indicate that they see the reduced future reporting burden as
justifying a period of parallel reporting.
Pension reform always has major social implications, both for existing and future pensioners. The present
and emerging generation of pensioners will have a funding base in the PAYGO system that is
significantly smaller, and this transition deficit will need to be filled from a combination of improved
efficiency in public spending, privatization revenues and debt. Thus, there is concern typically that
present commitments may not be met, though no basis in implementation to date for such a concern in



19
Croatia. However, it is also imnportant to note that the existing system places unsustainable fiscal burdens
on the economy, and the emerging demographic and other developments make systemic reform
unavoidable.
To prepare social partners for the reform, the Government has been in active in consultation with the
public and social partners in 2001, including provision of informational materials. These activities, which
were intensified during the second half of 2001, included: (i) national surveys on public knowledge and
opinion on pension reform; (ii) focus groups with key social groups, including workers, existing
pensioners, unions, and media (these are to continue in the coming year); and (iii) REGOS and HAGENA
have had a series of informational and training events with key constituencies, including unions and
employers associations (this will also continue with project support and further support from USAID in
coming years). The most recent results of public information suggest that awareness of the key elements
of the reform is now widespread and that there is broad support for its objectives (see below under
Participation).
6. Environmental
a. Environmental issues:
[ ] Summarize issues below (distinguish between major issues and less important ones)
[x] None
b. Environmental category:  []A   []B    [x]C
c. Justification/Rationale for category rating: As the project involves investment in consultancy, IT and
office equipment in the financial and data areas, no significant environmental effects are anticipated. The
project has been rated a C category by ECA Environment staff (see ISDS of October 2001).
d. Local groups and NGOs consulted (list names): None specifically on environmental issues.
g. Resettlement
[x] None
i. Borrowerpermission to releaseEA:  [] Yes   [] No    [x] N/A
7. Participatory Approach
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
[x] Name and describe groups (how involved, and what they have influenced or may influence.)
*  Government working groups and Coordinating Committee for Pension Reform - key high level groups
on planning reform implementation strategy.
*  Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare.
*  HAGENA management.
*  REGOS, ZAP/FINA and GZAOP managements and technical staff.
*  PI management and technical staff.
*  potential pension fund managers: commercial banks and insurance companies. Indirectly, the close
involvement of IFC staff with potential fund managers has provided feedback on their views.
*  associations of current pensioners.
Focus groups and market research work have also been undertaken as part of design of the public
information campaign about the pension reform financed from the PPF.23 This combines representative
23 Pension Reform in Croatia: Summary of Social Research Results (PULS, Zagreb, 2001 and 2002).



20
quantitative data and qualitative research, and enables consultation with affected workers and future
pensioners, in particular with 40-50 year olds who will have to choose whether to participate in the
second pillar. Overall, results in 2001 indicated a high level of support for the pension reform (around 70
percent), but also a low level of specific knowledge of its key elements (with only 15 percent of
respondents farniliar with the reform design). The intense campaign in the last quarter of 2001 and early
2002 had substantial additional impact, with February 2002 results of polling indicating that 86 percent of
the population considered themselves informed about the pension reform, with around 80 percent support
levels for the reform.
In terms of participation and public consultation during project life, an important element will be TA and
capacity building in HAGENA and the PI on their communication functions. Public information on the
reform and impact monitoring of campaigns are small but important elements of the project design.
b. Other key stakeholders:
[x] Name and describe groups (how involved, and what they have influenced.)
*  Trade Unions through the Economic Social Council (the tripartite body which reviews and makes
recommendations on the social impact of Government policies)
*  Association of Employers and Chamber of Commerce through Economic Social Council.
*  political parties, including youth branches.
*  Association for Women's Equality.
*  Center for Development of NGOs.
8. Checklist of Bank Policies
a. Safeguard Policies (check applicable items):
Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01)                           N/A
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                             N/A
Forestry (OP 4.36)                                           N/A
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    N/A
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               N/A
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                N/A
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.30)                          N/A
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)                                    N/A
Projects on Intemational Waterways (OP 7.50)                N/A
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60)                         N/A
b. Business Policies (check applicable items):
X   Financing of recurrent costs (OMS 10.02)
Cost sharing above country 3-yr average (OP/BP/GP 6.30)
Retroactive financing above normal limit (OP/GP/BP 12.1 0
X   Financial management (OP/BP 10.02)
Involvement of NGO's (GP 14.70)
Other (provide necessary details)
c. Describe issue(s) involved, not already discussed above:
Retroactivefinancing: The start date for the second pillar means that there are start-up costs incurred
prior to the effectiveness of the loan. The financing needs are for activities and expenditure categories not
covered by the PPF. Croatian counterparts have therefore requested retroactive financing of eligible



21
activities from January 1, 2002. It is proposed that 10 percent of the loan amount be eligible for
retroactive financing, provided that the eligible activities comply with Bank procedures.
Incremental recurrent costs: A critical aspect of the project for which financing is proposed is the work
of FINA/GZAOP (under agreement with REGOS) on operation of the database for unified reporting on
contributors, and activities associated with introduction of funded pensions. As FINA and GZAOP are
public agencies, the agreements with REGOS are in the nature of an internal agreement between two
Government agencies.24
It is proposed that the bulk of the Implementation Support component be used for financing of
incremental recurrent costs associated with operation of the new database, and functions related to the
introduction and implementation of funded pensions. This would be done on a declining basis, in line
with Bank requirements. It is proposed that this be financed on a scale of 95 percent in the first year of
project implementation, declining thereafter to 75 percent, 50 percent and 25 percent in later years. The
financing would account for 40 percent of Bank financing.
Key issues related to Bank support for incremental recurrent costs are:
*  justifying financing as per OMS 1.21;
*  demonstrating their incremental nature;
* ensuring that cost estimates are reasonable (in particular on staffing costs);
* ensuring that the PIU is able to monitor these costs in a timely and clear manner; and
* ensuring that local financing will be available after the project ends.
As per OMS 1.21, the recurrent cost financing is proposed on the rationale of being critical to the design
and success of the project, as the activities to be undertaken by FINA and GZAOP are central to the
employer tax reporting and pension reforms which the project supports. Bank support for the new system
is considered not only important financially, but as a signal to public and private sector actors of IFI
endorsement of the new system.
The incremental nature of costs is clear. In order to perform the functions outlined above, FINA has
recently created a new department, which will require 33 core staff in Zagreb to oversee and manage the
new activities done on behalf of REGOS, and 184 staff in field offices dealing with affiliation, reporting,
enquiries and problems of employers and individuals. Lists of staffing needs by location and function
have been agreed, and confirmation received that none are civil servants. In terms of the reasonableness
of proposed costs, average salaries in FINA have been compared to average sectoral wages in Croatia, as
well as overall average wages and average public sector wages, including to the extent possible by level
of staff. The staffing needs and non-wage costs have been independently reviewed by [T consultants
familiar with large systems in Croatia and the region.25 Finally, the FMS has indicated what
documentation will be required by the PIU in order to justify disbursements and allow for appropriate
monitoring and auditing.
The discussion above on fiscal impact provides the main justification for how the Govemment will itself
finance the recurrent costs after the end of the project. On the database operation, the total annual costs
are a small share of total public spending, and are expected to cover themselves in terms of improved
compliance and rationalization of staff across the public sector as redundant functions are discontinued.
On the second pillar functions, it is proposed that fees from fund managers and budgetary support should
easily cover the costs after the project.
24 Until end 2001 ZAP was wholly owned by the National Bank of Croatia, with management appointed and
dismissed by Government. Since January 2002 FINA, a legal successor to ZAP is a public legal entity. GZAOP is
wholly owned by the City of Zagreb, with similar rights with respect to management.
25 See consultant reports of Bratranek and Fitzpatrick.



22
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Overall, the reporting reform should significantly contribute to more sustainable public finances through
the improvements in efficiency, transparency and timeliness of the public revenue system.
A major factor in project sustainability, and hence a critical risk, is the need for ongoing government and
population commitment to the pension reform until there is a mature second pillar system. In the case of
workers retiring, the need to sustain such commitment and system credibility will be tested again in
around 15 years time when the first retirees in the funded system begin to purchase annuities, for which
the administrative overheads are typically significant.
From the fund managers' perspective, the level of contributions to the funded pillar will be the essential
element in their commercial viability. Provided that funds flow reliably from contributors to funds and
the period of parking is not too long, this should not be a major issue. However, as it stands, the 5 percent
payroll contribution to the mandatory funded pillar is at the lower end of needs to make such a system
commercially viable, and it will be important that Government considers increasing the second pillar
contribution in the future when the fiscal conditions permit.26
An additional risk to the credibility and sustainability of the reform is the issue of administrative costs
from fund managers. In a number of country cases, these have been high, and contribute to ongoing
frustrations with the funded system. For example, in Argentina, administrative costs (mainly accounted
for by advertising and sales agent costs) were around one third of total contributions in the initial years of
the funded system, and have remained at over 20 percent in recent years. The Croatian legislation and
regulations appear to address such concerns, but implementation will need to be monitored closely.
A further important element of system sustainability will be the continued professionalism and
independence of the second pillar agencies, in particular HAGENA. It must be allowed to perform its
tasks in a manner that promotes an effective and transparent fund management industry. This will require
the management of the Agency to be open to best practice experience and expertise.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
1. Institutions losing data    M-S    1. Government decree mandating cooperation, and
collection functions in revenue       agreements in place between REGOS and key institutions.
reform do not cooperate               2. Financing under project to improve IT systems in PI as
sufficiently within new               additional incentive to cooperate in new system and ensure
arrangements to ensure effective      security in data exchange.
data exchange and system              3. Parallel reporting period to enable assessment of
integrity.                            weaknesses in new system.
26 According to the 1998 Law on Pension Insurance, the second pillar contribution rate will be at least 5 percent.



23
2. Unrealistic preparation period  S  1. Start date for reforms delayed previously to give more
for revenue/second pillar leads to   time for systems development and agreement on institutional
inadequate system and                roles and responsibilities.
undermines public confidence in      2. Agreement on contingency plan for "parking solution" as
reform.                              interim measure to ensure adequate systems development
prior to bringing new system up fully.
3. Parallel reporting period on contributions data in existing
institutions (e.g. PI, HfI).
4. Detailed IT review undertaken during preparation to
assess state of systems development and major risks
3. Public are not adequately    M    1. , Intensive market research undertaken and ongoing to
informed about new system and        assess public understanding and expectations of new system.
do not sign-up in due time for       2. Print and visual media developed with USAID support.
private pension funds.               3. Government agreement on free air time on national
television.
4. Ongoing "road shows" on pension reform by REGOS and
HAGENA with key partners, including unions and
employers' associations.
5. Supporting materials such as personal pensions calculator
available to public.
4. Domestic public debt market  M    1. MOF have preliminary plans on longer maturity
unable to develop rapidly enough     instruments, but TA needed and proposed under project to
to meet demands for longer           elaborate strategy and implementation arrangements.
maturity investment instruments.     2. Consideration being given to treating Government bonds
denominated in foreign currencies as authorized investment
under domestic bond portion of pension fund portfolios.
5. Transition deficit in PAYGO  M    1. Range of measures being taken to control entitlements in
system contributes to                first pillar to cushion the transition deficit. These include: (i)
unsustainable fiscal pressure and    reduction in levels of special and merit pensions; (ii)
undermines official support for      broadening contributions base for payroll taxes to include
systemic reform.                     non-wage labor income; (iii) measures to reduce levels of
pensions of those retiring early; and (iv) linking minimum
pensions more closely to actual contributions and moving
some beneficiaries onto social welfare.
6. HAGENA's capacity does not   S    1. TA and training under project.
develop sufficiently to be
effective regulator.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There are no strongly controversial aspects of the project, as confirmed by market research with respect to
the reform. However, monitoring during supervision will be particularly important on the practices and
performance of private fund managers, to ensure that they are adequately regulated and do not discredit
the new pension system.



24
G. Main Loan Conditions
Effectiveness Condidions
*  Ratification of the Loan Agreement by the Croatian Parliament;
*  PIU is to have selected auditors acceptable to the Bank for the audit project accounts;
*  Submission to the Bank of a legal opinion from Croatia attesting to the validity and binding nature of
the Loan Agreement upon Croatia; and
*  P1U to have prepared an Project Operational Manual describing procurement and accounting policies
and procedures, internal controls, and roles and responsibilities of different agencies in project.
Condition of Disbursement for Pension Institute component:
* the Borrower has provided evidence satisfactory to the Bank that it has approved a reform program for
the Pension Institute which is satisfactory to the Bank.
Other Conditions
*  The P1U is to maintain satisfactory FMS, including records and accounts, and to prepare financial
statements in accordance with accounting standards satisfactory to the Bank; the PIU is to provide
annual project accounts and institutional audits to the Bank within four months of each fiscal year
(with the audit to be carried out by independent auditors in accordance with international auditing
standards, and TORs satisfactory to the Bank).
* By June 30 2003, parallel employer tax reporting fonns for pensions, health, unemployment payroll
taxes have been eliminated.
H: Readiness for Implementation
1. Has a project implementation plan been agreed with the Borrower:
[x]    Yes, date submitted: June 2002
[N/A] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x]  The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[x]  The following item is lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
(i) Project Operational Manual.
2. Advice/consultation outside country department:
[x] Within the Bank: HDDSP - various staff; BFI on annuities; IFC - TTL for RZB Fund Management
Project); ECSPE on pensions and poverty profile of pensioners; ECCCS.
[x] Other development agencies: IMF, USAID. Local counterpart team has consulted widely with
reform implementers in a range of ECA countries, including Poland, Hungary, and Slovenia.
3. Composition of Task Team:
Philip OKeefe, Task Team Leader, ECSHD
Zoran Anusic, Senior Economist, ECCHR



25
David Lindeman, Principal Pensions Advisor, HDDSP
Eszter Kovacs, Procurement Officer, ECCHU
Hiran Herat, Senior Financial Management Specialist, ECC
Imelda Mueller, Team Assistant, ECSHD.
4. Quality Assurance Arrangements: (see Annex 2)
*  the Peer Reviewers have been selected to ensure a mixture of staff familiar with the important systems
issues involved in the design and implementation of funded pensions systems, and who are themselves
involved directly in supporting major pension reforms in other transition economies.
* a Quality Enhancement Review (QER) was conducted in September, 2001, with specialist staff on
public revenue and institutional reforms, IT and administrative issues in revenue reforms, and pensions
policy. The review recommendations were reflected in the proposed project design in the following
manner: (i) additional TA was added on further defining the institutional roles and responsibilities
between FINA, REGOS and the tax Department in the medium term; (ii) the project objectives were
simplified; (iii) more detailed assessment of the IT systems in the reformed reporting and pensions
system was undertaken, including the software for the unified reporting system. Both systems and
software were found to be appropriately designed, though issues of data security were highlighted for
closer support and attention under the project; and (iv) additional assessment of the PI management's
willingness to undertake a comprehensive reform agenda was undertaken;
* the project team has had one of the Bank's most experienced pensions advisors (Lindeman), together
with a local pensions specialist (Anusic). The responsible Sector Manager is also a specialist, having
headed the Polish government pension reform team while on secondment from the Bank;
* tearn members and local counterparts have presented the Croatian experience in pension reform at a
number of international conferences, which has provided opportunities for regional and international
experts to analyze the main features of the reform, and provide feedback.
5. Management Decisions:
Project concept review        Approve further processing    CD and SU.
Authorization to appraise     Decision meeting              CU, with clearance of RPA,
ECCCS, LOAEL, LEGEC, ENV.
Authorization to negotiate    Review of Negotiations Package  CU, with clearance of RPA,
ECCCS (FM), LOAEL, LEGEC.
Total Preparation Budget: $1.2 million  Bank Budget: $370,000  Trust Fund: $845,000
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
e    Philip O'Keefe                Mamta Murthi                 Andrew N. Vorkink
Team Leader, ECSHD           Acting Sector Manager,         Country Director, ECCO5
ECSHD






27
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Croatia: Pension System Investment Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:         Sector / Country
I ncrease fiscal viability  *Continued operation of  Reports:            *  Existing institutions
and sustainability,      unified reporting and    *  Supervision           losing roles do not
through reducing the     collection of mandatory    nmissions to monitor   obstruct new system;
size of the public sector  contributions and income  introduction of    *  Transition deficit in
in Croatia;              taxes;                      unified reports.      PAYGO system
*  Improve effectiveness  *  Reduced institutional   *  Performance           adequately funded;
and transparency of the  overlap in reporting and    updates from       *  second pillar agencies
public revenue system;   collection of mandatory     Steering              continue to operate in
*  Support effective         contributions and income   Committee.            professional and
implementation of        taxes;                   *  Supervision of        independent manner;
multi-pillar pension  *  Improved functioning of     SAL, and
reform.                  Pension Institute, as       agreement on
measured by timeliness of  timetable for first
overall functions;          pillar reforms.
*  HAGENA and REGOS         *   Country Office
continue to function        monitoring
effectively;                legislative
*  SAL-supported reforms of    amendments;
first pillar legislated.  *  PIU reports.
Project Development      Outcome/Impact Indicators:  Project Reports:      Critical assumptions:
Objective:               *   Continuation of operations  *  Regular project  *  Government remains
*   Improving the            of a unified database on    team supervision     committed to reform;
effectiveness and        insured mandatory           reports;           *  Technical aspects of
transparency of          contributions and income  *  Progress reports     individual account
Croatia's system for     taxes and transfer of data   on project           management continue to
reporting and            to relevant institutions;   implementation        operate effectively;
enforcement of        *  Funded pillar                from PIU on semi-  *  HAGENA and REGOS
obligatory contributions  contributions being         annual basis;        retain professional
and personal income      channeled efficiently from  *  Consultant reports  independence, and
taxes, in particular for  workers to selected fund    on specific areas    management continuity;
the new system of        management companies;        of technical      *  Public retain support for
funded pensions; and  *  Management and staff of      assistance;          new system.
*  Strengthening capacity    HAGENA and REGOS        *   Regular reports to
in agencies which        trained and continuing to    Government and
manage different parts   perform tasks effectively;   Parliament from
of the pension system to  *  PI reform strategy under  HAGENA,
operate and regulate the  implementation, including   REGOS, FINA
new multi-pillar         process analysis and         and PI.
pension system.          internal control review;
*  Domestic public debt
market within reasonable
period issuing longer
maturity domestic
currency instruments.



28
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project Reports:      (from Outputs to
component:                *  Compliance rates in new  *  Tax Department    Objective):
*  Operating database for    revenue system, including  reports on revenue  *  No major IT system
mandatory                timeliness of reporting by  performance;          failure in new revenue
contributions and         employers and self-     *  Regular reports to    and second pillar
income taxes;            employed;                   Government from       activities by FINA;
*  Adequate progress on   *  Monthly data exchange       REGOS and FINA    *  REGOS and HAGENA
restructuring of FINA;    done on timely and secure  on compliance, and    continue to perform in
*  Effective functioning of  basis between              timeliness of data    timely and effective
second pillar pensions,  FINA/REGOS and other        posting and funds     manner;
including individual     institutions;               transfer to private  *  Public adequately aware
account management;   *  For registration of second  fund managers;        of new system and
*  PI able to perform        pillar participants, share of  *  Reports of fund  actively participatmg;
management of its        target age groups           managers           *  Regulation of private
overall functions more   registered;                 themselves on         pension funds effective in
effectively and       *  Data flows from             registered            preventing fraud and
securely;                REGOS/FINA to fund          participation and     abuse.
*  PIU managing project      managers occurring on      balances, returns
in accordance with       agreed time basis and with  etc.;
Bank guidelines.         agreed levels of reliability;  *  PI Medium Term
*  Fund managers investing     Strategy progress
in different classes of    review;
assets in accordance with  *  New PI
portfolio rules;            management
*  Pension Institute has       processes and
conducted HR review and     internal controls
implements new HR           documented;
strategy;               *   PI staff review and
*  Number of staff in PI in    rationalization
outer project years, and    plan;
number who have         *   Regular PIU
undergone training and/or   reports and regular
been outplaced.             supervision mission
reports.



29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
Croatia: Pension System Investment Project
The proposed project would consist of three main components, complemented by financing to support the
PIU in project implementation. Total project cost is estimated at $35.6 million, of which Bank financing
is estimated at $27.3 million. The proposed components are as follows:
Project Component 1 - US$4.0 million, of which US$3.8 million Bank financing
Capacity building for HAGENA and REGOS
The component would finance technical assistance, training, and goods for the operations of the two
agencies. The TA and training would be designed to build institutional capacity in the agencies to act as
effective second pillar administrators and regulators, as well as monitoring and evaluation of component
impact. Technical assistance, training and equipment for HAGENA would total US$3.76 million and
include the following:
*  Consultancy services and service delivery, including development of regulatory capacity in
HAGENA according to best practices in pension fund supervision, in particular related to portfolio
supervision and financial performance and reporting of fund managers, work on emerging needs such
as ratings functions and annuities market development, actuarial development, and IT consultancy;
*  Public education activities: Given the likelihood of ongoing support from USAID on a grant basis on
the public information campaign, the activities would be focused on training seminars and workshops
for various actors in the new system, and newsletter preparation costs;
*  Goods and equipment: This would cover the basic equipment needs of HAGENA, including not only
office equipment and related specialty software, but also links to REGOS and FINA, internet links,
and specialized data vendor and pension management software which are standard elements of
effective pensions regulators; and
*  Training workshops/materials and study tours for HAGENA staff: This would focus on
strengthening capacity in HAGENA, including through training in-country on different aspects of its
work, study tours to other pensions regulators in the region, and IT training for staff.
REGOS would also receive TA and training to aggregate value of US$0.25 million, though overall the
sub-component would be more oriented towards IT needs than consultancy including:
* IT needs related to internal office hardware and software needs (including upgrades), particularly
with respect to sharing of data with fund managers and other public institutions;
* Service delivery of support internet connections;
*  Training/TA related to reviews of similar large systems in other pension reforms and assess system
risks and scope for improvement m that light; and
*  TA to support development, with MOF and Government, of the medium term strategy for second
pillar account management, including gradual phasing in of fees and options for possible ownership
of central accounts function by fund management industry. This is financed under component 2
below.
Project Component 2 - US$18.7 million, of which US$11.8 million Bank financing
Implementation support for public revenue and funded pensions reform
This component would finance predominantly incremental recurrent costs associated with the activities of
FINA/GZAOP in the initial years of operation of the new unified employer reporting system, including
the additional new functions associated with introduction of funded pensions. In order to support
institutional development of the new data and money collection arrangements, there would also be TA to
the MOF to help develop program of FINA restructuring There will also be TA support to the MOF in
consolidation of control and enforcement on employer tax collection.



30
It is proposed, in line with the relevant OM guideline, that incremental recurrent cost financing be on a
declining basis over the life of the project, moving from 95 percent in the first year to 25 percent in the
final year of implementation. The main incremental recurrent costs associated with the new system
proposed for financing are: (i) the non civil servant staff costs of a new central department within FINA
(of 33 people), which would be responsible for operation and oversight of the new systems and
maintenance of the IT infrastructure; (ii) non civil servant staff costs of 184 newly designated staff in the
office network of FINA nationally in undertaking functions associated with the, operations of the new
employer reporting system, and introduction and operation of second pillar pensions; (iii) operating and
overhead costs for incremental IT system use and reporting functions, including use of disk space,
telecommunications and postal costs, printer and server costs, electronic reporting and systems
maintenance, energy and office supply costs, and processing and filing costs; and (iv) the non civil
servant staff and other costs of GZAOP in operating and maintaining a full back-up of the FINA database
on contributors, including operation of internet applications to allow online access to personal information
on the status and performance of individual private pension accounts. The estimated cost - exclusive of
taxes which would be part of the Government contribution - is $300,000 per month over project life for
FINA activities, and around $16,000 per month for GZAOP, of which incremental staff costs account for
just under 75 percent in the case of FINA and under 60 percent for GZAOP. Allowing for taxes, Bank
financing is estimated at $11.1 million. In addition, there is TA to support definition of the medium term
institutional relations between FINA, REGOS and the Tax Department/MOF, and establishment of
efficient unified control and enforcement function in the Tax Department for all payroll taxes, including
the transfer of staff from the PI and the HII. Finally, the component would support development of the
local longer maturity public debt market.
Project Component 3 - US$11.3 million, of which US$10.1 million Bank financing
Pension Institute Reform
This component would support the PI in elaboration and implementation of a new strategy which would
allow it to refocus its activities on a narrower range of core functions which it would seek to carry out
with substantially increased efficiency and security. This would also facilitate it being an effective
partner in the broader revenue and reporting consolidation, as it exchanges information with other parts of
the new system. The component would also support costs associated with retraining of staff associated
with transition to a new set of core functions and potential severance payment. The total Bank financing
would be US$ 10.1 million, and the proposed sub-components are:
*  consultancy on reviewing and improving internal process documents based on revised norms and
standards, internal communications, internal controls and fraud prevention, improving ability to
calculate pensions and planning. The funding for most of these activities is already available under the
PPF. It was agreed with the PI and it is critical that the initial assignment begin in the nearest future;
*  Technology/IT improvement: This would consist of three main elements: (i) support for connecting
the PI to other institutions involved in the pension reformn, related to data interchange between the PI,
REGOS, HAGENA and the Tax Department; (ii) improvement in IT-related business processes related
to core first pillar functions, including supporting transition to relational database management,
upgrading the central host processor unit, LAN/WAN, and internet/intranet environments; and (iii)
Improvement in IT business processes to ensure that data quality and security assurance meets ISO
standards;
*  Human resources planning and reform: The narrower range of PI functions in the future will require
significantly less staff, but more work is needed to move from this general realization to a human
resources strategy which is based on solid analysis and for which the execution is well-designed. In
order to support this, the sub-component would support: (i) development of a small Human Resources
Department within the PI, including technical assistance and training for the staff to develop a more
elaborated HR Strategy for the PI; (ii) carrying out a skills assessment and a training needs assessment.
This would lead to: (iii) training for management; (iv) a training program for staff who will remain in
the PI to upgrade skills for the new range of functions and IT applications; and (vi) a counseling,
training and retraining package for staff who will no longer be needed by the PI.; and



31
* Public service improvement: This would involve limited TA to develop and implement a strategy to
improve the public service and client focus of PI offices, including basic public information which is
lacking in current operations, development of which would be based on client surveys.
Project Component 4 - US$0.6 million, of which US$0.5 million Bank Financing
PIU activities
Assuming a core staff of four (Director, procurement and financial management staff, and secretary), the
establishment and operations of a PIU would be estimated to cost around US$0.4 million over a four year
project. The use of PIU staff transferred from an existing PIJ would ensure fully trained and experienced
staff from the outset of the project. In addition to the PIU costs, there will be TA needed for an IT
specialist to help prepare the technical specifications and other specialist documentation required for the
large IT procurements in the second and third years of the project. This would require support from a
suitably qualified local IT consultant familiar with Bank practices, and general project management TA.
The component would also finance training of the PIU staff and project audit costs.



32
Annex 3: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Croatia: Pension System Investment Project
Introduction
The proposed project is an investment operation to be implemented over four years. The total project cost
is estimated at US$35.6 million, with Bank financing of US$27.3 million. This annex outlines the
procurement and disbursement arrangements for the Project, which will be done under regular investment
operational procedures, and subject to the usual fiduciary requirements.
A. Procurement
Procurement of goods financed by the Bank under the project would be carried out in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published in January 1995 (revised
January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Consultant services would be procured in
accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
published in January 1997 (revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
Assessment of agency's capacity to implement procurement
It is proposed that the project be administered by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which would
operate under the daily oversight of HAGENA and reporting to the PSIP Steering Committee chaired by
the Minister of Social Welfare. An assessment on the PIU's capacity to conduct procurement and FM in
accordance with Bank procedures was conducted during September 2001. The Procurement Capacity
Assessment was completed in November 2001 and is on file." Based on the Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR) for Croatia, it finds a country of average risk for the overall procurement
environment. With respect to the PIUJ, it notes that procurement and FM personnel have been appointed
recently. There is a positive assessment of the experience of the procurement staff (based on prior
extensive experience implementing another Bank project), but the Assessment also notes the need for
additional training, longer term contracts for the PIU staff, and technical assistance to support preparation
of IT procurement documentation. These are provided for in the project costing. Based on fully
satisfactory performance in their existing roles over a number of years, it is anticipated that capacity to
implement the project from a human resource standpoint should be adequate in the near future. Regular
Bank procurement supervision will determine whether additional staff are needed as the project is
implemented.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement methods described below and their estimated amounts are summarized in Table A.
Threshold estimated contract values defining applicable procurement methods are indicated in Table B.
(a)    Procurement of Goods and Equipment
Goods to be procured under the project include computers, printers, other IT equipment, and
communications equipment for HAGENA, REGOS and the Pension Institute, as well as limited
equipment for the PITJ (estimated at US$6.1 million in aggregate, including contingencies). To the
extent feasible for timely project implementation, packages would be bundled to encourage the maximum
level of competition. The following procurement procedures would apply:
27 See PCA of Eszter Kovacs (November 2001).



33
*  Goods below US$50,000 per package may be procured using National Shopping (NS) procedures, up
to an aggregate of US$295,000;
*  Goods and technical services below US$80,000 per package, would be procured using National
Competitive Bidding (NCB), up to an aggregate of US$120, 800;
*  Goods that are between US$50,000 and US$100,000 per package, would be procured using
International Shopping (IS) procedures, up to an aggregate of US$924,400 ; and
*  Goods that are over US$100,000 per package, would be procured using International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures, up to an aggregate of US$4,715,800. ICB would be used for large volume
IT purchases, primarily related to the equipping of the regional network of Pension Institute offices,
the IT equipment needs of HAGENA, and purchase of software for HAGENA, PI and PIUJ; and
*   Goods and technical services estimated to cost in aggregate US$204,700 will be procured by Direct
Contracting for: (i) trade journals for HAGENA to monitor good practice; and (ii) proprietary pension
regulator software, and (iii) equity market information service.
Periodic purchases of office supplies, utilities, equipment and communications support services for the
PIU and FINA/GZAOP, would be made under Operating Expenses.
(b)    Selection of Consultant Services and Training
Consulting services include technical assistance for pensions policy, institutional strengthening in
HAGENA, public debt markets and institutional arrangements for revenue collection and reporting,
public information and PIU consultancy costs. These procurements are estimated to total US$11 million
for consultant services and training, including contingencies. The following procedures are proposed:
* Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures will be used for consultant contracts exceeding
US$100,000, and training packages for PI staff who will be retained, up to an to an estimated
aggregateof US$2.7 million.
* Consultant Qualifications (CQ) procedures will be used for consultant contracts up to US$100,000 per
contract to an estimated aggregate of US$1.97 million;
* Individual Consultant (IC) procedures will be used for consultant contracts up to an estimated
aggregate of US$1.3 million;
*  Audit services - estimated at US$0.09 million over project life - would be procured using the Least
Cost Selection Method (LCS);
* Training support activities and study tours , including training for PI staff who will be retained, for
P1U staff and management, as well as to PI, HAGENA and REGOS management and staff are
estimated to total around US$4.9 million. For the purpose of these trainings to be carried out under the
project the PIU shall: (i) furnish the Bank for its approval, the content of each training, consistent with
project objectives, and offering the best price/quality ratio, and implementation schedule; (ii) select
trainees according to a transparent process and criteria satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) by December 1 of
each year, exchange views with the Bank on the training carried out during the following calendar
year; and (iv) furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and details as the Bank reasonably request, on
the result of each training and the benefits derived.
(c)    Technical services
Included in the aggregates above under Goods is a range of mainly IT related services which would be
procured as technical services contracts, to an aggregate of US$256,400. It is proposed that the bulk of
these be procured using the modified National Competitive Bidding method usually used for civil works,
for contracts up to a value of US$100,000. It is proposed to use this method for services related to
internet links, server and software licenses up to an estimated aggregate of US$122,000. In addition,
there is one technical services contract proposed which requires access to a stock market platform which
is of a proprietary nature and is required to link with others institutions in Croatia. This is to ensure real-
time exchange of market data and analysis between HAGENA and both the stock market private pension



34
funds, whose portfolios it must monitor on a daily basis. This is proposed to be procured by Direct
Contracting and the estimated value is US$134,400.
(d)    Operating costs
The project will finance operating costs up to a total value of US$18.1 million, of which Bank financing
will be US$11.1 million. Operating costs will be financed for: (i) the activities of FINA in operation of
the new employment tax reporting database and related private pension reporting, and GZAOP in backup
and online access functions related to the employer reporting database. Both would include staff salaries;
travel and translation expenses; telecommunications and information technology operating costs; office
equipment and maintenance; office supplies; and vehicle maintenance. In addition, the operating costs of
the P1U would be included in this category.
Prior review thresholds
The prior review thresholds are summarized in Table B.
Bank's prior review would be required for: (i) the first two IS, NS, NCB packages, and (ii) all ICB and
all DC packages; (iii) consultant services contracts with individuals above $50,000; and (iv) all contracts
with consultant firms above $100,000; (vi) first two contracts with consultant's firm selected by CQ and
LC selection. Amendments which would cause a contract to eclipse these levels, would likewise be
subject to prior review. P1U operating plans and budgets, which would outline expected operations
expenses procurements for the project for a fiscal year, would be reviewed and approved by the Bank.
Procurement Plan
A project Procurement Plan has been prepared in consultation with Bank staff, and is attached. The
Operations Manual for the Project would be prepared by the PIU and a draft made available to the Bank
prior to Board Presentation and approved prior to Effectiveness. The OM changes and additions and
annual Procurement Plan updates will require Bank approval during project life.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to indicated prior reviews, it is proposed that a project launch mission, including a
procurement supervision mission, be effected after Negotiations to ensure full administration functioning.
Full procurement missions should be conducted thereafter biannually to monitor progress and carry out
post reviews of procurement actions. Such post-review field analyses should cover a random sample of
not less than 10 percent of contracts signed during the prior year. As the PAS is based in Budapest, the
aim would be to have PAS support available periodically on an as-needed basis, in addition to regular
supervision rmissions.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
II,~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  ., -  ,
1. Goods and technical services  4.7        1.3       0.1    0.0        6.1
(4.2)       (0.7)     (0.1)  (0.0)      (5.0)
2. Consultant Services and      0.00        10.3      0.0    0.0        10.3
training
(0.0)      (10.3)     (0.0)  (0.0)     (10.3)



35
3. Incremental Operating cost           0.0           18.1        0.0     0.0          18.1
(0.0)         (1 1. 1)    (.)     (0.0)        (I 1. 1)
4. Refinancing of PPF                   0.0           0.7         0.0     0.0           0.7
(0.0)     _    (0.7)      (0.0)   (0.0)         (0.7)
5. Front-end Fee                        0.0           0.3         0.0     0.0           0.3
(0.0)          (0.3)         .0)                 0.3
Total       4.7           30.7         0.1    0.0          35.6
1   (4.2)         (23.1)       (0.1)   (0.0)        (27.3)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed. Figures may not sum due to rounding.
a/ Includes goods/services procured through NS, IS, DC, LCS, IC, CQ, training, and operating costs.
b/ Based on training plan, including expected expenses to be procured periodically, submitted to the Bank for approval and
procured using commercial practices.
c/ Includes incremental costs associated with, FINA, GZAOP and PIU activities.
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million equivalent)
QCBS      QBS     SFB      LCS        CQ      Other     N.B.F |        _l
A. Firms                 2.7      0.0     0.0     0.1        2.0       0.0       0.0            4.8
_____ (2.7)  (0.0)  (0.0)  (0.1)    (2.0)      (0.0)     (0.0)         (4.8)
B. Individuals           0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0        0.0        1.3       0.0           1.3
(0.0)    (0.0)   (0.0)    (0.0)     (0.0)      (1.3)     (0.0)         (1.3)
Total                    2.7      0.0     0.0     0.1        2.0       1.3       0.0            6.1
(2.7)    (0.0)   (0.0)    (0.1)     (2.0)      (1.3)     (0.0)         (6.1)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection; QBS = Quality-based Selection; LCS = Least-Cost Selection; CQ  =
Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications; Other = Selection of individual consultants and training by procurement plan (per
Section V of Consultants Guidelines); N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed. Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the
Bank loan.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
uss$
1. Goods                          >100,000                    ICB                      All
<50,000->100,000                  IS                    First two
<50,000                     NS                     First two
All                       DC                       All
2. Consultant Services
(a) Individual                     >50,000                    Indiv.              TORs-budget-CV +
contract



36
(b) Firms                    >100,000              QCBS                    All
<100,000                CQ                  First two
(TOR/budgettshort-list
contract)
<100,000               LCS                  First two
TOR/budget/short list
+ contract
Estimated Prior Review Proportions by value: Goods: 85%; Consultant Services: 80%
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average X
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits.
B. Disbursement
The proposed Loan would be disbursed against the project components as shown in Table C.
It is expected that the proceeds of the Loan will be disbursed over a period of four years. The project
Completion Date is June 30, 2006 and the closing date is December 31, 2006. A Mid-Term Review
would be conducted at an agreed date during implementation, estimated around February 2004, and an
Action Plan agreed at that time to remedy/improve shortcomings in project implementation identified.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Goods                                                   100% of foreign expenditures
4.7              and local (ex-factory) costs;
78% of other local
expenditures.
Works                                  0.0                         NA
Consultant services, training,         7.5                        100%
study tours and audits
Service delivery                       0.3                        100%
Incremental Operating Cost             11.1               95% for the first year of
project; 75% in the second
year; 50% in the third year;
and 25% in the fourth year.
-PPF refinancing                       0.7
Front end fee                          0.3
Unallocated                            2.7
Total Loan                             27.3
Figures may not add up due to rounding.
Use of statements of expenses:
Some of the proceeds of the Loan are expected to be disbursed on the basis of Statement of Expenditures
as follows: (a) goods and technical services costing less than US$100,000 equivalent for each contract
with the exception of the first contract; (b) service contracts for individuals costing less than US$50,000
equivalent each with the exception of the first contract; (c) service contracts for consulting firmns costing



37
less than US$200,000 equivalent each with the exception of the first contract; (d) training and all
incremental operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by
notice to the Recipient based on agreements and subject to regular monitoring by Bank FM staff based in
Zagreb.
Disbursements against goods and services exceeding the above limits will be made against full
documentation and respective procurement guidelines. Statements of expense will be certified locally by
the [Ministry of Finance]. Related documentation in support of statement of expenses will not be
submitted to the Bank, but will be retained by the PIU for at least one year, after receipt by the Bank of
the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement is made. The PIU will make these documents
available to the auditors and supervision missions for review. If ineligible expenditures, including those
not justified by evidence furnished, are financed from the Special Account (SA), the Bank will have the
right to withhold further deposits in the SA. The Bank may exercise this right until the Recipient has
refunded the amount involved; or (if the Bank agrees) submitted evidence of other eligible expenditures
that can be used to offset the ineligible amounts.
Special account:
A Special Account (SA) will be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank and funds will flow
from the Grant account to the SA. The P11U will have direct access to the SA, and signatory authority
was confirmed at appraisal.
The authorized allocation of the Special Account will be US$2,000,000, representing approximately four
months of eligible expenditures under the Project. Upon Effectiveness, the Recipient may withdraw
US$1,000,000. The full authorized allocation will be used after US$3 million has been disbursed.
Replenishment applications are to be submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled
bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
Project Financial Management:28 A project financial management system acceptable to the Bank has
been established at the P1U. The existing accounting system at HAGENA has been modified to
accommodate the project accounts. The accounting system will be maintained in accordance with
international standards, based on principles of double-entry bookkeeping. The PIU staff are familiar
from management of an existing Bank project, of Bank requirements on maintaining accounts and records
in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS). The project FM system will be capable of
providing accurate and timely information regarding project resources and expenditures, including
planning, accounting and financial reporting relating to the project. The Chart of Accounts will capture
sources and uses of funds, assets and liabilities in sufficient detail to satisfy FMR-based reporting
requirements. The system will, in addition to producing periodic and cumulative budgeted and actual
expenditures, link the financial data to measures of output and procurement activities of the project. The
Financial Monitoring Report (FMRs) formats were discussed and agreed to with the PIU during
appraisal and reviewed at negotiations. Disbursement arrangements under the project will be on the basis
of traditional disbursement methods (e.g., direct payments, replenishments of the Special Account on the
basis of SOEs and full documentation).
Internal Controls. Operational procedures and guidelines for overall project management, including
financial management will be documented in an Operational Manual for the project, encompassing all
levels of project management and administration. A draft of this Manual has been prepared by the PIU
and it will be adopted prior to Effectiveness. The Manual includes, apart from other administrative
procedures, financial management procedures and staffing, identification of accounting and auditing
standards and procedures used for the project, project reporting and monitoring, procurement procedures,
procedures for cash management and formats of project management reports. The PIU will prepare
project information for all components and prepare quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
28 See FM Assessment of Hiran Herat (December 2001). See Annex 3B.



38
including a financial report, project progress report and procurement management report, for project
monitoring and reporting for submission to the Bank. An outline of reports contained in the system and
the format for the s were discussed and provided to the PIU during appraisal.
Auditing Arrangements. The PIU will appoint independent auditors under terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank prior to Effectiveness. The auditors selected for the Project will be members of the
International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). Audited Project Financial Statements will be submitted
to the Bank with the audit report four months after end of each year audited. Costs of the audit will be
financed through the project.
Financial Management Action Plan
1. The PIU will send to the Bank the approved Project Operational Manual by September 30, 2002.
2. The PIU will produce Report IA (Sources and Used of Funds), lB (Uses of Funds by Detail) and
IE (Special Account) by December 31, 2002.
3. The PIU will prepare full FMRs by June 30, 2003.



39
Croatia - Pension System Investment Project - P063546
PROCUREMENT PLAN May 14, 2002.
Description                Type    Estimated   No. of  Procure- Invitation Submission Evaluation Financial Contract    Contract
Budget     PCk.     ment      to Bid      of       Report    Proposal Signing    Completion
(USD)              Method             Proposals     Tech.    Opening
_______    .Proposals
Component: HAGENA and REGOS capacity building
(i) REGOS                  .                                               .       __      _     ._.
(a) Goods
Software (off shelf)             G       50.000       2       NS      May-02     June-02    June-02              July-02    July-02
Server upgrades                  G       22.000       1       NS      Sept-02    Oct-02     Nov-02               Nov-02     Dec-02
Storage/network software,        G       60.000       2       NS      Sept-02    Oct-02     Nov-02               Nov-02     Dec-02
switches and other, firewall
(b) Service delivery                                       _
Licenses for servers              S      20.000       1       NCB     Sept-02    Oct-02     Nov-02               Nov-02     Dec-02
(dl Training
IT traiing                       T       70.000                       June-02      Procured periodically over project life
Project manaement                T        30.000      ==              June-02      Procured periodically over proect life
REGOS   sub-total       _  _  _ _ _ __  252.000    _ _ _ __            _ _ _   _  _ _ _ _1_  _ _ _ _1_                     _  _ _ _ _



40
11) HAGENA
(a) Goods I                                                                      (
Literature, trade journals,       G     26.300      3       SS              Procured over project life                  Dec-06
subscriptions, memberships
Production of newsletter          G     105.000     3       NS              Procured ove project life                    Dec-06
Ratings/actuarial hardware        G     286.900     1       ICB     May-03    July-03    Aug-03    Sept-03   Nov-03      Apr-04
Specialist pension IT          _G       180.400     2        IS     June-03   July-03    Aug-03               Oct-03    Dec-03
Application software           _G      289.400      1       ICB     May-03    July-03    Aug-03    Sept-03   Nov-03      Apr-04
Archive and DBMS software         G     73.300      1        IS     Feb-03    Mar-03     Apr-03               Mar-03    May-03
UPS/networking                    ( G   25.900      1       NS      Feb-03    Mar-03     Mar-03               Apr-03    June-03
PCs/servers/laptops/printers and other  G  151.200  2        IS     June-03   July-03    Aug-03               Oct-03     Dec-03
conmnunication equipment
Pension software                  G    44.000       1       SS                                               Apr-03     May-03
I
(b) Consultan
IT advisory/p lanning  |          C     95.400      1       CQ      June-02   June-02    July-02             Aug-02     Mar-03
TA for procedures of investment   C     181.400     3       CQ      Sept-02   Sept-02    Oct-02              Nov-02      Mar-03
supervision, annuities and compliance
with regulations
TA for capacity building and      C    957.700      1      QCBS     Apr-03    May-03    June-03    July-03   Sept-03    Mar-05
institution strengthening (includes
actuarial support and office,
institutional development, corporate
management, macroeconomic analysis,
fund management, ratings)
Application software TA           C    128.300      2       CQ
(c) Service delivery
Internet links to REGOS/FINA       S    100.800     2      NCB      June-02   June-02    July-02             Aug-02     Mar-03
Equity market info. service - terminals  S  134.400  1      SS        =_                      _              May-02     June-02
(d) Training, worksh D study tours
Training                        T      315.000      10                      Procured over project life
Training for IT    .            T       63.000      3                       Procured over project life
Study tours                     T      342.700      10                      Procured over project life
Workshops          .            T       262.500     6                       Procured over project life
HAGENA sub-total                       3.763.600



41
Component: PENSION INSTITUTE
(a) Goods I        i
Computers/mainframe                   1.461.400    1       ICB     July-04   Aug-04     Sept-04   Oct-04     Jan-05    June-05
upgrade/LAN       _
Software for human resources   G       263.900     1       ICB     Feb-03    Mar-03     Apr-03    June-03   July-03     Jan-04
Intranet components            G       924.500     1       ICB     Jan-05    Feb-05     Mar-05    May-05    June-05     Jan-06
Relational DB and business     G       507.800     1       ICB     Oct-03    Nov-03     Dec-03    Feb-04     Mar-04    June-04
decision software
System software for back-up and  G    981.900      1      ICB     Sept-03   Aug-03     Nov-03     Jan-04    Feb-04     Sept-04
development of IT infrastructure
Web applications software      G       200.800     3        is     Sept-02   Oct-02     Nov-02    Dec-02     Jan-03    July-03
Software and hardware for data  G      169.800     2        is     Aug-02    Oct-02     Nov-02               Feb-03    July-03
exchange
Hardware and software for      G       148.900     2        is     Jan-03    Mar-03     Apr-03              July-03    Dec-03
introduction of RS form in the
Pension Institute
(b) Consultancy
IT planning                    C       192.400     3       CQ      Sept-02   Oct-02     Nov-02               Dec-02    Sept-03
Business processes / planning/  C      140.000     2       CQ     June-02    July-02    Sept-02              Oct-02    Mar-03
]SO
Intemal control /ISO           C       129.200     2       CQ      Sept-02   Oct-02     Nov-02               Dec-02    June-03
TA on strategic planning       C       59.900   -          CQ     May-03    June-03    July-03              Sept-03    Mar-04
Public service improvement     C       54.400      1        Q     May-03    July-03    Aug-03    Sept-03    Nov-03     Apr-05
TA for web applications         C      63.000      1       CQ     June-02    July-02    Aug-02               Oct-02     Dec-02
Introduction of document        C      147.000     2       CQ     June-03    July-03    Aug-03               Oct-03     Dec-03
imaging
Data warehousing and network   C       169.300     3       CQ     June-03    July-03    Aug-03               Oct-03     Dec-03
development
TA for intemal communication   C       79.800              CQ      Jan-03    Feb-03     Mar-03               Apr-03     Oct- 03
TA for HR management            C      51.100      1        IC    June-03    July-03    Au-03               Sept-03     Mar-04
HR planning TA                 C       51.300      2        IC     Sept-02   Oct-02     Nov-02               Dec-02    Sept-03
(c) TraInIng                                                      __
IT training                     T      367.500     4       CQ              Procured over project life        Apr-02     Mar-03
Process analysis skills training  T    157.500     2       CQ     June-03 I July-03  I Aug-03                Oct-03     Dec-03
Management training            T       274.600     6                       Procured over project life
Training for retained staff     T     1.753.500    4      QCBS     Oct-03    Nov-03  I Dec-03     Jan-04     Mar-04     Dec-05
Training for retrenched workers  T    2.993.000    20                      Procured over project life
Total for Pi      I                  1I342.500                            I          I          I



42
Component: PIU
ACTIVITIES
(a) Goods                                                                                                               l
IT equipment and software       G        16.500      1       NS     May-02     June-02    June-02             July-02    Oct-02
(b) Consultancy                                   _                                      _
PIU Director                    C       84.000       1       IC      Mar-02               Mar-02              Apr-02     Dec-06
Procurement staff                C      52.500       1       IC     Mar-02                Mar-02              Apr-02     Dec-06
FM staff                        C       52.500       1       IC     Mar-02                Mar-02              Apr-02     Dec-06
AssistantC                              21.000       1       IC      Mar-02               Mar-02              Apr-02     Dec-06
IT specialsts                   C       52.500       2       IC     May-02     June-02    June-02             July-02    Oct-02
sp                                                        May-03     June-03    June-03            July-03     Oct-03
Project management TA           C       42.000       2       IC     May-02     June-02    June-02             July-02    Dec-02
Project Audits                  C       87.100       1      LCS          ged durin ne tiations                  Y-
(c) Trainin
PIU       |                     T       52.500
training  |
(d) Recurrent costs of PIU      RC      105.000
Total for PIU                           565.600



43
Component for IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT                         =____
(a) Consultanc     r
TA for institutional role of FINA       217.700      3       CQ      May-03    June-03    June-03             July-03     Oct-03
Public debt market TA I_                213.800      2       IC      May-02    June-02    June-02             July-02     Oct-02
Platform for bond market TA             106.900      2       CQ      Apr-02    Apr-02     May-02              June-02    Dec-02
Roles and responsibilities in revenue   203.300      3       CQ      May-02    June-02    June-02             July-02     Oct-02
l        I                                                May-03     June-03    June-03             July-03     Oct-03
(b) Incremental recurrent
costs
FINA agreement                         17.250.000            NA
GZAOP agreement                         743.000              NA
Total for FINA/GZAOP/MoF               18.734.700
COMPLETED AND
CURRENT ACTIVITIES
WITHIN PPF
TA for reform design, PI        C       700.000      8       IC
processes TA, PIU operative
functioninge
Total procured under PPF                700.000
Front-end fee (1 % of Bank's            273.000
Loan)
TOTAL PROJECT                         35.631.400
FINANCING



q44
Annex 3B: Financial Management Assessment Report
Croatia: Pension System Investment Project
1.   Executive Summary and Conclusion
A review of the Financial Management arrangements for the project was undertaken in December 2001 to
determine whether the financial management arrangements within the PIU are acceptable to the Bank. It
is concluded that the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) satisfles the Bank's minimum financial
management requirements.
A summary of financial management assessment and conclusions are as follows:
1. Implementing Entity (PIU)       Satisfactory  PIU core staff has prior experience in a Bank
financed project.
2. Funds Flow                      Satisfactory  A special account will be opened for Bank
funds and counterpart funds would be paid
from the budget.
3. Staffing                        Satisfactory  PIU that has prior experience in a Bank
financed project.
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures  Satisfactory  PIU has a draft project specific operational
manual
5. Internal Audit                              N/A
6. External Audit                  Satisfactory  The project will be audited by an audit firm
acceptable to the Bank.
7. Reporting and Monitoring        Satisfactory  PIU will prepare reports according to formats
required by the Bank.
8. Information Systems             Satisfactory  A system acceptable to the Bank is in place
Overall Financial Management      Satisfactory
Rating 
Detailed financial management assessment questionnaires are included in the project files.
2.     Project Description Summary
The project has four components. (i) Implementation support for funded pensions. This would support
second pillar database creation and operation, and related investments, and finance goods, consultancy,
incremental operating costs, and training as needed associated with the ZAP contract. (ii) Capacity
building for regulation of funded pensions. This would support institutional development and capacity
building within the Agency and Registry, including investments in goods, consultancy, training, and
probably incremental operating costs. (iii). Pension Institute management reform. This would support
improvements in the efficiency and effectiveness of the PI through investments to support strategic
planning, re-engineering intemal and business processes, and effective management of personnel.
Investments would be made in goods, training, and consultancy; and (iv) Project Coordination Unit. This
would support the creation and operations of the PIU, including core procurement and FM functions,
through investments in goods, training, consultancy, and limited operating costs.
3.     Country Financial Issues
CFAA for Croatia was carried out in 1999. The reforms carried out to date in the area of financial
management put Croatia ahead of many other CEE countries. Croatia has, in fact, set up a modem legal
and regulatory framework, compatible with the needs of a market-driven economy, completely discarded
the old accounting system and opted to introduce a comprehensive new framework based on intemational
guidelines. In order to enhance public sector financial management and to achieve a higher level of
accountability, the issues related to the integrity and universal coverage of the budget process need to be



45
addressed in greater depth, together with the start of the Treasury, the modernization of accounting and
reporting systems and the further development of the institutions in charge of budget compliance through
internal and external audits. Bank rehabilitation is under way but additional efforts are needed to
strengthen banking supervision and improve credit institutions risk-management. Financial markets and
their regulatory institutions need further development; this would also make the privatization process
more effective. Market competition and corporate governance are main areas to be reformed to achieve
greater transparency and financial accountability for the private sector. The organization of the accounting
and auditing profession should be defined by a self-regulating and standard-setting national body,
ensuring the application of high standards of ethics and progressively taking on the functions currently
performed by the government.
To improve the overall public sector accountability, the reform of the institutions (namely, the ZAP and
the relevant Departments of the MOF) currently involved in the accounting, reporting and internal control
functions needs to be addressed. In conclusion, the establishment of an adequate financial management
framework for the public sector requires the modernization of accounting systems, the harmonization of
reporting formats as well as the introduction of effective internal controls and auditing functions.
From a financial management perspective, the project however, is considered moderate risk due to the
following reason. The existing PIU staff will be assisted for the first six (6) months by the PIU that is are
well versed in Bank procedures with the experience gained form implementing a Bank financed Forestry
Project. The PIU is "ring fenced", and has its own financial management system and will carry out all
procurement functions in line with Bank's procurement guidelines.
4.     Financial Management System Assessment
4.1    Project Management and Coordination
.The main counterpart for project implementation would be PSIP Steering Committee, chaired by the
Minster of Labor and Social Welfare. This provides a Government focus with a broader mandate that any
one institution such as the Agency. Since Bank financed activities will include policy development for the
PAYGO pillar and administrative improvements for that pillar, it makes sense to deal with an official who
has more than second and third pillar responsibilities. The PIU has been established at the HAGENA,
which is one of the participating entity under the project. This would be for administrative purposes only,
as the PRI will report to the Supervisory Board. The PIU would be expanded in order to manage the
mechanics of project implementation. This unit ahready include a Director, a procurement officer, a
financial management officer, and a secretary/interpreter.
4.2    Staffing of the Accounting/Finance Function
The accountant is familiar with financial and accounting systems as well as with Bank requirements. The
experienced was gained during the implementation of the Bank financed Forestry Project. She would be
responsible for all aspects of the financial management and accounting, including maintaining books of
accounts, reporting day-to-day transactions. She will also be in charge Qf the special account and
preparation of SOEs and replenishment of the SA.
4.3   Accounting and Internal Controls
The PIU will take all necessary steps to ensure that the project complies with the relevant Bank policies
(OP/BP 10.02). This includes the establishment of proper accounting procedures and internal controls,
which are documented in an operational manual: The draft manual has been prepared and will be
finalized prior to Effectiveness.
4.4    Computerized Accounting Systems
The existing accounting system at HAGENA has been modified to accommodate the project accounts.
The PIU will have access via a terminal, which will be linked to HAGENA's main system. The
accounting system will be maintained in accordance with international standards, based on principles of



46
double-entry bookkeeping. The PIU staff is are familiar with Bank requirements on maintaining accounts
and records in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS). The project FM system, is
capable of providing accurate and timely information regarding project resources and expenditures,
including planning, accounting and financial reporting relating to the project. The Chart of Accounts
would capture sources and uses of funds, assets and liabilities in sufficient detail to satisfy FMR-based
reporting requirements. The system will, in addition to producing periodic and cumulative budgeted and
actual expenditures, link the financial data to measures of output and procurement activities of the project.
The Financial Monitoring Reporting (FNMRs) formats was discussed and agreed with the PIU during
appraisal. Disbursement arrangements under the project will be on the basis of traditional disbursement
methods (e.g., direct payments, replenishments of the Special Account on the basis of SOEs and full
documentation).
4.5   Audited Financial Statements and Management Letters
The PIU will appoint independent auditors under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The auditors
selected for the Project are required to be members of the International Federation of Accountants
(IFAC). Audited Project Financial Statements will be submitted to the Bank with the audit report four
months after end of each year audited. Costs of the audit will be financed through the project.
4.6   Financial Manual
Operational procedures and guidelines for overall project management, including financial management
will be documented in an Operational Manual for the project, encompassing all levels of project
management and administration. A draft of this Manual has been prepared by the P1U. The Manual will
include, apart from other administrative procedures, financial management procedures and staffing,
identification of accounting and auditing standards and procedures used for the project, project reporting
and monitoring, procurement procedures, procedures for cash management and formats of project
management reports. The P1U will prepare project information for all components and prepare quarterly
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) including a financial report, project progress report and
procurement management report, for project monitoring and reporting for submission to the Bank.
4.7    Conclusion
It is concluded that the P1U meet the Bank's minimum financial management requirements due to the
following reasons:
5.    Financial Flows
A special account will be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. All contracts will be
concluded by the PIU. The P1U will prepare all the relevant documents, obtain the required clearances.
The P1U will open, operate and maintain the SA. Counterpart funds would be paid from the budget
allocation of the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (MLSW).
6.    Financial Monitoring Reports
The P1U will maintain accounts of the Project and will ensure appropriate accounting of the funds
provided. It has been agreed that the P11U will be responsible for designing appropriate financial
monitoring reports (FMRs) and preparing FMRs on a quarterly basis. The FMRs include:
*  Project Sources and Uses of Funds
*  Uses of Funds by Project Activity
*  Special Account Statement Plus Local Bank Account Statement
*  Project Progress Reporting
*  Procurement Monitoring Reports



47
7.     Financial Risk Analysis
From a financial management perspective, the proposed PSIP is considered a moderate-risk project. A
summary of the consolidated risk assessment for the project is as follows:
1. Inherent Risk
Croatia                                       X               Financial management framework of
the public sector is weak
Project Management Unit                             X          The PIU is staffed has prior
experience in a Bank financed
project
Project                                             X          The project is well conceived. The
Government has demonstrated a high
_____ ____  level of commitment.
Overall Inherent Risk            X         The project is implemented by the
PIU and not a governrent agency, as
a result the project is ring-fenced.
The overall risks are moderate.
2. Control Risk
1. Implementing Entity                             X          PIU staff is well versed in Bank
procedures, having dealt with Bank
projects.
2. Funds Flow                                     X           A special account will be opened for
Bank funds and counterpart funds
would be paid from the budget.
3. Staffing                                         X         Qualified and experienced staff are
already on board
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures               X         An draft operational manual
encompassing procedures and
controls has been prepared.
5. Internal Audit                                              NA
6. External Audit                                   X         Auditors acceptable to the Bank are
been appointed
7. Reporting and Monitoring                         X         FMRs acceptable to the Bank will be
prepared by the PIU
8. Information Systems                              X         A system acceptable to the Bank is
in place
Overall Inherent Risk            X     =
H - High     S - Substantial     M - Moderate        N - Negligible or Low
8.     Disbursements
Disbursements from the Loan will be made based on traditional disbursement methods (i.e., from the
Special Account with reimbursements made based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and full
documentation, and direct payments from the Loan Account). The proceeds of the World Bank Loan will
be allocated in accordance with Table C, Annex 6. To facilitate timely project implementation, the PIU
will establish, maintain and operate a special account under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
The option to move to a FMR based disbursements will not be considered.
9.     Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the PIU would establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to the bank, a special accounts in US dollars in a commercial bank. The selection



48
process and criteria for selection of the commercial bank will follow the Bank's Disbursement Handbook
procedures. Applications for the replenishment of the account will be submitted at least every three
months or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, which ever occurs earlier. The
necessary documentation, the special account bank statement, and a reconciliation of this bank statement
will support the replenishment application
10.    Financial Covenants
The following are the covenants relating to financial matters:
*  The Govemment will cause the PIU to have its records, accounts and financial statements audited
each year, commencing with the accounts for the year ending December 31, 2002.
11.    Supervision Plan
The reports of the progress of the project implementation will be monitored in detail during supervision
missions. FMRs will be reviewed on a quarterly basis by the field based FMS and the results or issues
followed up during the supervision missions. Audit reports of the project will be reviewed and issues
identified and followed up. The field based FMS would monitor the agreed action plan to ensure
appropriate actions have been implemented by the PIU.



49
Annex 4: Summary of Public Expenditure Review (PER) Paper on Pensions
Croatia: Pension System Investment Project
1.     This annex summarizes the key features of the Croatian PAYGO pension system, the reforms
undertaken in recent years, and the fiscal situation in the 1990s.
A. Backeround
2.     Croatia has taken major steps to reform its pension system in recent years, placing it in the ranks
of Poland and Hungary as one of the leaders in pension reform in the ECA region. The reform strategy
was sequenced to first address major issues in the PAYGO system and to agree upon an overall
framework for a multi-pillar pension system. Thereafter, legislation for the funded second pillar was
enacted. In pensions, however, Croatia also has had to face two extra fiscal challenges: (i) resolving the
political and legal claims of pensioners that their benefits were unfairly reduced during the 1990s, and
(ii) the claims of those disabled or bereaved during the conflicts of the 1990s.
3.     Pension Reform. The framework for Croatia's pension system is laid out in the July 1998
Pension Insurance Act, which committed Croatia to a three pillar pension system consisting of a
continuing mandatory pay-you-go (PAYGO) first pillar, a new mandatory fumded second pillar, and
"third pillar" voluntary retirement accounts and annuities.
4.     More immediately, the 1998 law took steps to reduce the costs of the PAYGO system. The key
elements of this constitute one of the deeper reforms of a PAYGO system in the ECA region. These steps,
effective January 1999, include:
*  increasing retirement ages from 55 to 60 for women, 60 to 65 for men at the rate of six months per
year, and similar increase in early retirement ages;29
*  reducing replacement rates gradually by: (a) lengthening the number of years included in assessable
wages from the ten best years to full career; and (b) adjusting nominal wage histories
("valorization") by a mix of wage and price growth (one-half each);
*  adjusting benefits during the payment period ("indexation") also by the same 50/50 mix of wage and
price growth;
*  reforming the disability pensions regime to eliminate the category of temporary disabled, with some
beneficiaries moving onto regular disability payments, but others losing their prior entitlement.
5.     Transition provisions were also included in the 1998 law so that newly awarded benefits did not
fall drastically from one cohort to another (though they will decline relative to real wage growth and are
available only at increasing retirement ages). The dynamics of the reduction in average replacement rate
can be seen in Graph 1 below. It is also worth noting that this gradual reduction in average replacement
rates flattens out around 2010 - assumning every one stayed in the PAYGO system only - as most
beneficiaries are by that point subject pension floor guarantees in the PAYGO system. The overall
impact of the measures is a substantial downsizing of the PAYGO pillar over time.
29 In Croatia, men with 35 and women with 30 years of service are allowed to retire up to 5 years early at reduced
benefit levels.



50
Graph I - Average Old-age Pension as
Percentage of the Average Net Wage
(early retirement excluded)
50_
45
40
35
30
2001         2004          2007         2010
Source: PI and Bank staff estimates
6.     Graph 2 summarizes the short and longer term impact of the 1998 reforms in retirement age on
new entrants into the first pillar. Not surprisingly, there was a "rush to the door" among those close to
retirement prior to the effectiveness of the new PAYGO regime, as well as an even larger move into
disability status. This effect placed strains on the public system. At the same time, the positive impact of
the reforms can also be seen in the 2000-2010 period, with the effect of delayed retirement and reduced
number of new retirees giving a decade long window of low flows into the system (i.e. reducing the
retirement of the 1950s "baby boomers" by 8-10 years). Finally, the normal demographic factors come
back in strongly after 2010, so that the number of new entrants entitled to old age pensions increases
dramatically again between 2010 and 2020, before stabilizing (though lower numbers of disability and
survivor pensions persist).
Graph 2 Croatia Penion Fund New
5000
4000 -
3000 -                        /
2000
1000 
199     200    200     201     201     202
-     Old-a         -    Disability and Sjrv,vors
Source: PI and Bank staff estimates
7.     Building on the legislative changes to the first pillar and the framework for multi-pillar reform in
the 1998 law, the Sabor passed the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pensions Funds in May 1999,
which provides the institutions for the accumulation stage of the mandatory second pillar funded
pensions, and covered voluntary arrangements. This was followed by October 1999 [check date]
legislation governing the payout or annuity stage. Both the 1998 and 1999 legislation provide that all
employees under the age of 40 as of July 2000 should contribute five percent of their gross wage -- out of
a current contribution rate for pensions of 19.5 percene0 -- to an authorized and licensed private pension
fund of their own choosing, which would manage the assets. The remaining 14.5 percent would continue
to go to the PAYGO first pillar. Voluntary membership for employees between 40 and 50 years old on
the same date is also allowed. This additional element of choice generates significant public information
30 Note that this was reduced from 21.5 percent in mid-2000, it appears without ex ante modelling of the impact on
Pension Institute finances.



51
needs for the 40-50 age group. The 1999 laws also provide for incentive payments from the Budget to
encourage voluntary ("third pillar") savings.3'
8.    Implementation of the second pillar had to be delayed 18 months to January 1, 2002 from its
original start planned start date of July 1, 2000, pending decisions by the new Government whether to
continue with the second pillar and how it wished to address pensioner claims for lost benefits in the
1990s (see below). Some delay was inevitable since the July 1, 2000 date was unrealistic in what had to
be done to implement the second pillar smoothly. Despite the new Government's decision to proceed
with the second and third pillar legislation (somewhat modified), planning efforts again have fallen
behind. The analysis here, however, assumes a January 1, 2002 effective date.
9.     Other Fiscal Issues. The fiscal condition of the pension system in Croatia has been clouded by
two additional factors. The first lies in the claims of pensioners that existing and promised benefits were
unfairly held down during the 1990s relative to what the working, non-pension, population was being
asked to bear. The second derives from the claims of those deprived of breadwinners because of the
recent war and/or who were disabled during the war. The pensioners' claims were pressed both
politically and through litigation in the Constitutional Court. The claims have two origins. The first is
that for some years after the October 1993 stabilization program, the Budget did not transfer the amounts
due the then existing pension system for so-called "merit" pensions. The second basis is that both
valorization and indexing should have been done on the basis of changes in wage levels throughout the
1990s, rather than the ad hoc price level changes in effect from October 1993 through 1998.
10.   Merit pensions are benefits attributable to periods of covered service (in some cases, at higher
than normal accrual rates) for which contributions were not paid - for example, time spent in WW II
military service. As a result of non-payment from the budget, revenues to the Pension Institute were 15 to
20 percent less than would have been available otherwise throughout the mid- 1 990s and, accordingly,
benefits were held down to fit within a tighter fiscal envelope than otherwise. For some of the period,
however, the Government paid pensioners special Budget-financed supplements of 50 and later 100
Kuna. Eventually, these were converted into proportional benefit increases and transferred to the
contribution base for financing, and by 1997 the Budget resumed transferring resources for merit
pensions. In 1997 and 1998, by legislation, the indexing of benefits in payment status was done using
price level changes only. Valorization, on the other hand, resumed at the margin using changes in wages
levels in accordance with the prior law (effective before January 1, 1999).
11.   The former Government chose to respond to Constitutional Couit decisions in a limited fashion.
It successfully got the Sabor to enact limited retroactive payments for those on the pension rolls during
the October 1993 through 1998 (although from Sanja, query second date) in which the Budget failed to
transfer any or some part of the money necessary to cover merit pensions. This was the so-called "Small
Law" restitution. Eligible pensioners received and will receive an additional 100 Kuna plus 6 percent of
their benefits from July 1, 1998 through December 31, 2002.
12.   The second element of the pensioners' claims was that price indexing introduced in 1993 was
invalid on both procedural and equity grounds. In their view, all benefits in payment status or awarded
before (at least) January 1, 1999 should be adjusted for changes in wage levels since October 1993. The
Constitutional Court largely has upheld this contention, though it is not fully clear if the 1997-98 price
indexing law was strictly invalid. The new Government has committed itself to payment of restitution of
this second set of claims, with settlement proposed to start from January 2001. While the demographic
profile of this group suggests that such payments will need to be continued well after 2010, the
Government has costed the aggregate settlement of the claims in the draft Law based only on payments
31 This is an aspect of system design which the Bank has noted in previous work on the pensions system is not
desirable from either a fiscal or equity viewpoint (see pensions chapter of the White Paper).



52
until 2010.32 So far, they have resisted further retroactive payments than those under the 1998 law
("Small Law") discussed above. The two benefit restitution laws would overlap in 2001 and 2002.
13.    The other "non-regular" fiscal issue in Croatia's overall pension system is the special "Defenders
Law." Like other countries with many veterans, Croatia has decided to introduce a number of special
entitlements.33 Among those special entitlements is a distinct law for the survivors of those killed in
military service during the war and those disabled during such service. They are entitled to much higher
benefits than under the regular pension law, and the disability qualification requirements arguably are less
stringent. (check last statement about disability.)
B. Aggregate State Budaet transfers
14.    Table 8 presents the expected trend of required aggregate budget transfers in the baseline
scenario. Expenditure, revenue from contributions and assets, and aggregate budget transfers are also
compared to those projected by the Pension Institute over the period 2001-2005. Overall, there is a large
deficit throughout the period, with a spike in 2001-2002 to almost 6 percent of GDP. This is driven the
fact that 2001 and 2002 are years with restitution payments made under both the Small Law and the
proposed Restitution Law, as well as the first years in which the full annual impact of the decrease by 2
percentage points in the employer contribution rate is felt. In 2003, when the payments under the Small
Law cease, aggregate budget transfers are projected to drop to 4.4 percent of GDP. The PI's forecast of
required budgetary transfers is broadly similar.34
Table 1: Croatia Pension Institute Financing and Budget Transfers, 2000-2005.
In billion HRK
Total Contribution, Asset   13.003     13.616     14.357     15.069    15.616   16.401
Revenues
Total Expenditures          20.631      23.811     25.194    24.382    25.523    26.726
Aggregate Budget Transfers  -7.628      -10.196   -10.837    -9.314    -9.907    10.325
As % of GDP
Total Revenues                8.2        7.8        7.5        7.1       6.8      6.6
Pension Instiute Forecast     8.2        8.         6.8        6.6
Total Expenditures           13.1        13.7       13.1      11.5      11.2      10.8
Pension Institute Forecast   13.1        13.9       13.1      11.5
32 These payments amount to around K. 23 bln. cumulatively between 2001 and 2010. The Government intends to
continue payments beyond this date (see below on estimates of longer term costs if payments continue beyond
2010).
33 See Madzarevic-Sujster "Croatia: Social Expenditures 1994-99" for a complete summary.
34 Though projecting some pickup in compliance, the Institute's forecast implies no real wage growth and a decline
in employment of some 20,000 people over the 2001-2002 period.



53
Aggregate Budget Trnsfers   -4.8        -5.9       -5.7     -4.4      -4.3     -4.2
Pension Institute Forecast  -4.8        -5.8      -6.3      -4.9
Source: Bank staff and PI esimates
15.    Table 9 extends the projections to 2010, and presents a more detailed breakdown of the aggregate
budgetary transfer requirements. The key points to note are:
*   an amount close to 2 percent of GDP is required for covering obligations for non-contributory and
special pensions of different types, usually labeled as "merit pensions".3  While this gradually
declines to 1.5 percent of GDP by 2010, it remains a significant obligation. Most of these payments
are outside the general pension program, with the Pension Institute being used as the payment agency;
*   with the exception of 2001 and 2002 where there is a double burden of restitution payments,
restitutions obligations remain close to 1 percent of GDP until 2005 before declining very gradually,
mainly due to being more or less fixed in constant nominal terms from 2001;
*   apart from the expenditure requirements, there remains a substantial requirement for budgetary
subventions, in the order of one to 1.6 percent of GDP in the first half of the decade, before declining
sharply between 2005 and 2010. Between 2001 and 200*, more than half of this requirement is the
impact of the mid-2000 reduction in the employer contribution rate by two percentage points. Most
of the remainder is traceable to the lack of contributions from economically distressed enterprises that
are protected under decree or are near dissolution (see the arrears discussion below). In 1999, some
of the financing shortfall was related to overall economic contraction combined with a greater than
expected flow of new entrants (again traceable to the economy to some degree, but also to the 1998
law).
Table 2: Sources of Budget Obligations (as % of GDP)
_l~~~~~~~~ __                           _   q           R         11    0       4 
Aggregate Budget Transfers   4.3     4.8     5.8     5.6     4.3     4.2      4.0     1.5
Of which:
Non-contributory pension     2.2     2.1     2.0     2.0     1.9     1.8      1.8     1.5
rights                     I__ _ _          _ _I_ _  __ _                    I__ _
Army, Defenders, Police   1.2      1.4     1.3     1.3     1.3     1.3      1.2    1.1
WW7Iperiods               0.4     0.3     0.3     0.3     0.3     0.3      0.2     0.2
Other Special Pensions    0.6      0.4     0.4    0.3     0.3     0.3      0.3     0.2
Restitution Payments         1.1     1.1     2.2     2.1     1.1     1.0      0.9     0.7
Small Law                 1.1      1.1     1.0    1.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Proposed Restitution Law  N/A      N/A     1.2     1.1     1.1     1.0     0.9     0.7
Required Additional          1.0     1.6     1.6     1.5     1.3     1.4      1.3     0.1
Funding
To cover cut in employer                  0.8     0.8     0.8     0.7      0.7     1.6
contributions and others                                  I                        I
Remaining contributory    0.6      1.3     0.5    0.5      0.4     0.4     0.3     2.6
system
Other administrative      0.5      0.3    0.3     0.2     0.2     0.3      0.3     0.2
.C o sts_                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Source Bank staff estimates, based on PI data. (- means surplus)
Note: high wage growth scenario
35 In addition, the Budget compensates for non-contributory rights within the regular pension system (notably for WWII military
service periods and for police work).



54
16.     The aggregate financing gap is clearly a cause for concern. As of 2001, completely filling this
gap would require the equivalent of 5 percentage points of VAT, or an additional 6.7 percent payroll tax.
While the latter option is clearly not feasible in terms of its labor demand effects, the figures give some
order of magnitude. Looking longer term, a key point to note is that by 2010 the existing contributory
system is projected to be in balance, as a result of the 1998 reformns which increased early and regular
retirement ages, gradually scaled down initial replacement rates, and have less than full wage indexing for
benefits. With payments from the Budget in lieu of contributions, the contributory system will actually
be in surplus.
17.     In contrast, the relative size of the non-contributory parts of overall pension spending is expected
to decrease only very slowly. The much slower decline is mainly driven by army and defenders'
pensions. The benefits paid to Croatian Army pensioners and those entitled under the Defenders' Law are
not subject to the new 1998 rules and the beneficiary population is relatively young. On the other hand,
though the stock of those entitled to WWII credits has been growing through 1999, that group will begin
to die over the next decade, and their rights under the general pension law are subject to changes in the
1998 that reduce costs.
18.     The aggregate long term financial position of the public pension system is expected to be
significantly healthier in 2010, with aggregate transfers projected to be around one quarter of their 2001
level as a share of GDP, at 1.5 percent of 2010 GDP in a high wage growth scenario, and 1.8 percent on
moderate wage growth scenario. However, under both scenarios, the first pillar is in surplus by 2020 in
both cases driven by high surplus in the contributory system more than offsetting continued deficit in the
non-contributory part.36 Despite the longer run causes for optimism, the persistent deficits in the coming
decade suggest that there may need to be serious consideration of either further cuts in expenditure
obligations, or additional financing sources for the public system. One option would clearly be rescinding
the 2000 cut in payroll tax to finance pensions by 2 percentage points, though the effects of such an
increase on labor demand and hence revenue base are uncertain. If there were no consequent reduction in
the revenue base, the annual impact on PI revenues would be around 0.8 percent of GDP.
Alternative scenarios on aggregate State Budgetfinancing requirements:
19.    Table 10 presents the expected range of State Budget financing needs for Croatia's overall
pension spending under various scenarios about both expenditures and income.37 The assumptions vary
from better case to worse case - relative to our baseline assumptions - on both dimensions. The
assumptions used in the baseline scenario and the better and worse variants are outlined in Annex 1. It
shows that, whatever the range of assumptions chosen, budget financing requirements for the pension
system in 2001 will be above 5 percent of GDP, with little variation between better and worse scenarios.
The baseline estimate is greater than even the worse case scenarios because it assumes that the pending
Restitution Law is solved using options 1 or 4, which is more expensive in the short-term (see discussion
below on options).
20.     In 2005, the range of possible budget financing requirements is wider, from 4 to 6 percent of
GDP, with significant possibilities of a requirement at the upper end of the range. This highlights the
need for Government policy to maintain and enhance the contribution base (e.g., no additional
36 Note that if the second pillar impact is taken into account, the estimated date for pension system balance is around
2020.
37 By way of illustration of the two scenarios, in the more optimistic variant, it is assumed that currently non-participating
farmers and self-employed respond positively to the 1998 law. If 15,250 farmers gradually joined the system over the next five
years, Institute revenues would increase over the period by HRK 98 million. If coverage among the self-employed also increased
by a total of 52,000 gradually over the next five years, Institute revenues would increase by HRK 997 million. In the more
pessimistic variant, it is assumed that coverage among farmers and the self-employed does not improve and that bankruptcies and
restructuring leads to further decreases in employment (at least effective contributors). If covered employment gradually
reduced by 20,000 more over the next 5 years, the Institute would lose HRK 834 million (i.e., contributions in 2005 would be 0.1
percent of GDP lower than the baseline).



55
exemptions), not to create additional pension entitlements, and to keep strict controls on the costs of
disability and early retirement. It also suggests that further reforms of existing entitlements may be
necessary.
Table 3: Budget Financing Needs for Pensions in 2001 and 2005
under Alternative Scenarios as Percents of GDP
Better    Wre      Better    Wos
Revenues   Better    5.2      52        3.9       5.
Worse    5.5       5.5       4.8      6.0
Baseline scenario  5.9                4.2
Source: Bank staff estimates.
21.    Both the detailed baseline analysis and scenarios underline the serious state of pension finances in
Croatia. The following sections look in more detail at the evolution of total spending and expenditure
during the 1990s to assess the main sources of financing pressure, and possible areas where reforms might
be considered to ease this pressure. The key measures can be summarized as follows:
On the expenditure side:
* Early retirement: Croatia has a large share of total old age pensioners who retire early, with over half
of old age retirees in the late 1990s retiring before normal retirement age. While this was a
substantial reduction from the earlier 1990s due to elimination of pension buy-out provisions and
higher penalties for early retirement under the 1998 law, it is still of considerable concern. The net
effect of postponed retirement is not simple to calculate. However, by way of illustration, if around
one third of early retirees delayed retirement to normal pension ages, the annual savings in 2005
would be around 0.2 percent of GDP, with a cumulative effect of around 0.5 percent of GDP between
2001 and 2005;
*  Disability and survivor benefits: If the levels of new entry onto disability pension in 2000 can be
sustained, disability and survivor pensions do not threaten the financial viability of the PAYGO
system. However, there is little room for complacency on the issue, as new entrants in the mid-1990s
were at a level that would threaten the financial situation, and there are major risks that disability will
be used - as it has been frequently elsewhere in the region - as a cushion for large-scale industrial
restructuring. The fine balance of this part of the pension systems can be illustrated simply. For
every 4,000 additional new entrants under these programs, the level of expenditures will increase by
0.1 percent of GDP. Thus, the potential for this part of the system to add to an already high deficit is
substantial, and needs both intensive monitoring and longer-term measures to improve the
accountability and transparency of disability assessment and categorization procedures;
*  New restitution payments: While payments under the Small Law will be complete by end-2002, there
remains a large as-yet unresolved issue on restitution under the proposed Restitution Law. While
many options have been discussed, the current proposals of Government cap the 10 year
compensation payments at around 23 billion HRK.38 While this is clearly a high cost, the proposed
solution is strongly preferred to other options that were floated in earlier discussions (see detailed
discussion below). It is important to keep the current proposals as the absolute maximum, as other
options have significantly higher fiscal costs (around 15-27 percent higher over 20 years, depending
on the option);
38 It is important to note that there will be obligations on the budget beyond 2010, remaining around 0.3 percent of GDP in 2020.



56
*   Croatan Armny and Defenders: Disability pensions under these programs have become a serious
fiscal and administrative transparency issue, with one third of new disability pensions between 1995
and 2000 granted under this law. The beneficiary numbers are exacerbated by large differences in
benefit levels, with defenders' disability pensions on average 3.5 times higher than average civilian
benefits, and survivors' benefits under this program 5 times higher. This is an area where the
potential for cost blow out is high. If 15,000 people were to qualify for pensions under these
programs over the next 5 years, the program costs would be 1.1 percent of GDP higher in 2005, with
over 7 billion HRK in additional obligations over the next 5 years. Conversely, if benefit levels of
only new entrants were reduced by 20 percent -leaving them still well above comparable civilian
pensions - the costs saving in 2005 would be around 0.2 percent of GDP. This is therefore a key
spending item, as it has a significant risk of putting unbearable pressures on the system, but equally
significant potential for easing current pressures by reforms which would still retain the important
social recognition of the special rights of this group; and
*  Administrative costs: Administrative costs of the pension system in Croatia are unjustifiably high,
and reflect significant inefficiencies and overstaffing in the Pension Institute. Currently, these costs
run to 3.7 percent of total benefits, while 2 percent is a typical share based on international
experience. Reducing these costs to regular levels would save 0.2 percent of GDP annually, without
significant loss of effectiveness.39
22.    By way of illustration, Table 11 summarizes the potential impact of different policy options on
the required budget transfers in 2005, including a number of measures not outlined above, such as
adjustments in indexation rules. The base case reflects close to present realities, while the variant shows
the impact of different changes noted. The table shows the importance of controlling the rate of new
entrants into the disability system, both in the general system and among the Croatian Army and
Defenders. It also shows that increasing effective coverage rates among the self-employed and to a lesser
extent among farmers could have a significant impact. Finally, this analysis shows that holding to the
option in the draft Restitution Law is important.
Table 4: Croatia Pension Institute Budget Forecast 2001- 2005
Impact on Financing Gap due to changes in assumptions in Kunas million
General system
Disability flow new entrants                    low rate     High rate   -310     -71
Early Retirement                              not cancelled  Cancelled    +90     +1,822
Price indexation instead of Current index         no            yes       +82     +3,727
Croatia & Defenders and Police benefits
Old-age and Disabled                            low rate      High rate  -128     -2,013
Corresponding lay-off sent to the Pension system in 5  3550    15100
years                                                                 I
Level of benefit                               same benefit   Reduced     +20      +287
Other Benefts
Temporary Disability                            Constant       New        47       -800
entrants
Bosnia & Herzegovina benefits                   Not paid        Paid     -238     -1,502
39 Note that under the PPF for the proposed Pension System Investment Project, there is a series of technical assistance
assignments to support improved management and mternal controls within the PI.



57
Contributions
Farmers coverage                              constant      high      +6      +98
Self-employed coverage                        constant      high      +58     +997
Employment                                   constant       high      +48     +834
Basic contribution rate                        19.5         20.5      683     3,793
Taxable minimum indexed on                    wages        prices    -70      -170
Economic Environment
Real Wage growth                            2 % per year  4 % per year  +209  +1,892
0 % per year  -209  -1,708
Source: Bank staff estimates
On the revenue side:
*  Contribudons arrears: The seriousness of this problem can not be overstated. At end 1999, the
overall effective contribution rate was around 82 percent, and much lower in the self-employed and
farmer sectors at 62 percent and 38 percent respectively. This is a product of waivers on
contributions, reductions in taxable payrolls (with and without official endorsement), and various
other measures which contribute to the overall loose collection policy of the PI. There are various
ways of estimating lost revenues, including:
-  if non-contributors had contributed at minimum wages, 1999 revenues would have been HRK
350 higher, and if those contributing at below-minimum rates had done so at the minimum,
revenues would have been a further 180 million HRK higher; and
-  if all employees in the employed sector has contributed at average wage levels, revenues would
have been around 3 billion HRK higher, or X percent of 1999 GDP. Clearly the potential for
improved revenue performance is substantial, and the more detailed discussion of arrears below
identifies some key recommendations for improving the situation;
*  Revenuesfrom assets: While the budget anticipates around 210 million HRK per year in 2001-2003
for the PI from privatization revenues, this remains uncertain. One particular area of concern is that
the portfolio of HMID dos not appear to have been transferred for management and disposition to the
CPF, which has only taken on management of the IMO portfolio, which is likely to have a very low
market value. The continued PI control of the HMID portfolio is a cause for concern, not only in
terms of the negative financial impact of unrealized assets, but also in terms of the negative impact it
has on PI management of its core business, which has a diluted focus and perverse incentives as a
result of its continuing role in companies within the HMID portfolio;
* Commercial borrowing by the PI: The PI had, during 1999 and 2000, engaged in regular borrowing
from the commercial banking sector to cover mismatches between revenues and expenditures.
Borrowing was at high interest rates on short term loans. By the second half of 2000, the stock of
debt was over HRK 800 million. This has now been settled from general revenues, and it is strongly
recommended that the PI not be forced to engage in such borrowings again, as the consolidated
impact on public finances is much worse than ensuring adequate budgetary transfers, and has the
second negative effect of making expenditure levels more transparent.



58
Annex 5: Documents in the Project File
Croatia: Pensions System Investment Project
Bank Staff Assessments
*  White Paper chapter on pensions (2000);
*  PER pension background paper (2001);
*  Arrears in the Croatia Pension System (Anusic, 2000);
*  Poverty and the Pension System (Castel, 2000);
*  Procurement Capacity Assessment (Kovacs, 2001);
*  Economic Vulnerability Study (2000);
*  PER chapter on budget management (2001);
*  Mission Aide-Memoires, 1999-2001;
*  Project cost tables.
Consultants reports:
*  Organizational structure of second pillar agencies (Rofman);
*   Studies of PI management and Procedures (Davis and Edgerton);
*  Assessment of systems for funded pillars database (Davis, Edgerton and Kassum);
*  Capital markets assessment for Croatia pensions (Bender);
*   Critical path analyses of revenue and pension reform (Davis, various versions);
*   IT review of ZAP/GZAOIP systems and projects of reporting and pension reform (Bratranek, 2001);
*   IT assessment of HAGENA (Bratranek, 2001);
*   IT assessment of Pension Institute (Fitzpatrick and Bratranek, 2001);
*  Results of Social survey and focus group research on pension reform (PULS, Zagreb, 2001 and
2002).
*  Pension Reform Education Campaign project document, (PublicImage, Zagreb, 2001).



59
Annex 6: Project Processing Schedule
Croatia: Pension System Investment Project
LENP       Concept Review Meeting          December 13, 1999      December 1999
LENP       RVP/ROC/OC Sign off
LENP       PID to PIC date                      January 2000       February 2000
LENP       Depart Pro-appraisal                February, 2001      February 2001
LENP       Decision Meeting                   December 2001       December 2001
LENA       Authorize Appraisal                December 2001       December 2001
LENA       Update PID to PIC                  December 2001
LENA       EA received date                             N/A
LENA       Depart Appraisal                   December 2001       December 2001
LENN       Authorize Negotiations              February 2002       February 2002
LENN       Invitation to Negotiate             February 2002       February 2002
LENN       Start Negotiations                      May 2002            May 2002
LENN       Board Presentation                      July 2002           July 2002
Completion Note                         June 2007
Prepared by:
Preparation assistance:
The project was prepared with support from a PHRD Grant from the Government of Japan.
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
Name                                   Specialty
Philip O'Keefe                   Sr. Economist, ECSHD
Zoran Anusic                     Sr. Economist, ECCHR
David Lindeman                   Principal Pensions Advisor, HDDSP
Eszter Kovacs                    Procurement Officer, ECCHU
Hiran Herat                      Sr. Financial Management Specialist, ECCHR
Verdon Staines                   Sr. Economist, ECSHD
Imelda Mueller                   Program Assistant, ECSHD
Peer Reviewers:
Herman Von Gersdorff             Lead Economist, LCSFR
Carlos Ferreira                  Manager, ECSPE
Consultants:
Rhoda Davis                      Pensions Consultant
Gerry Fitzpatrick                Pensions Consultant



60
Annex 7: Statement of Loans and Credits
CROATIA: Pension and Tax System Investment Project
07-Nov-2001
Difference between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                             and actual
disbursementsa
Project ID           Purpose                                   IBRD        IDA                 GEF    Cancel     Undisb      Ong    Frm Revld
FY
P070088      2001   TRADE & TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR                 13 93      0 00                0 00      0.00     12 55      3 68      0.00
P065466      2001  COURT&BANKRUPTCYADM(LIL)                        5.00      000                 000       000       500       000       000
P051273      2000   HEALTH SYSTEM                                 29.00      0 00                0.00      0 00     25 97      -3 01     0 00
P039161       1999  RAILWAY MOD. & REST.                         101.00      0.00                0 00      0 00     59 08     52.35      0.00
P057767       1999  TA INST REG REF PSD                            7.30      0 00                0.00      0 00      5.68      2.12      0.00
P040139       1998  INVESTMENT RECOVERY                           30 00      0 00                0.00      3.94      2 27      10.89     0 00
P043444       1998  MUN ENV INFRA                                 36.30      0 00                0 00      0 00     23 50      8 41      0 00
P048983       1998  EAST SLAVONIA REC                             4060       000                 0.80      0.00     2739      2584       000
P044457       1997  EMG TRANS/MINE CLR                           102.00      0 00                0 00      0 00      3 72     25 43      0.00
P008327       1997  EFSAL                                         96.00      000                 000       0.00     3709       4901      4901
P008334       1997  COASTAL FOREST RECON - HR                     42 00      0 00                0.00      0 00      713       6 93      0 00
P008335       1996  FARMER SUPPORT SERV - HR                      17 00      0 00                0.00      2 00      3.24      5.24      *0 49
Total      51913        000               080         594      21262     186.90     4852



61
Page Break here
CROATIA
STATENMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
MAY-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval             Comnpany                     Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity    Quasi   Partic
1998                    Alpe Jadran                   2.22    0.00    0.00     0.00    2.22    0.00     0.00    0.00
1973/81/98              Belisce                      10.40    6.01    0.00     6.72   10.40    6.01     0.00    6.72
1999                    Croatia Capital               0.00    5.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.36     0.00    0.00
1999                    E&S Banka                    14.02    0.00    0.00     0.00   14.02    0.00     0.00    0.00
2001                    Pliva                        25.00    0.00    10.00   12.50   20.00    0.00    10.00   10.00
T.S. Banka D.D.               0.00    1.24     0.00    0.00    0.00    1.24     0.00    0.00
1996/99                 Viktor Lenac                  6.00    1.90    4.20     9.00    2.89    1.90     3.70    4.34
2000
Total Portfolio:         57.64   14.15    14.20    28.22   49.53   11.51    13.70   21.06
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi     Partic
2000                   RZB Pension                      0.00      0.00      3.00      0.00
2001                   Locat Leasing CR                 5.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commnitment:       5.00      0.00      3.00      0.00



62
Annex 8: Country At A Glance
Croatia: Pension System Investment Project
Europe &     Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Cenr      middle.
Croata       Aiab    I   m           elopnent diamond
2000
Popultion. nmd-year (mllons)                             4.4        476      6f47                  Lfe expectancy
GNI per capia (Al/as m",o4 USS)                        4,840      2,010     4,620
GNI (Alas met, US$ bi3Mns)                              21.2        956     2,986
Average anmual growth. 1994400
PopulatIon (%)                                           -0.9       0.1        1.3     G 
Labor forc  6)                                          4-.1        0.8       2.0      GNI                               Gross
per     --sprrimary
Moast rant estimatef (atest year avallable, 1994.00)                                   capita                        enrorament
Poverty (96 of population bobw natonalpover*y ge)          8
Urban popuation (96 ofotialpopuiatin)                     68         87        76
Lfae xpectancy at brth  ,ears)                            73         s9        69
Imfant mortaity (per 1,000 he bats)                        a         21        28
Child nalnutiiton (96 of dchen under 6)                     .         .         ..           Access to iproved water source
Accss to an im,proved water aource  6% ofpopu/Afho)       96         90        67
hiiteiucy (6of pcpuaw weag 1+)                            ..          3        10
Grossprimaryenrollment  (96 ofchool-Wpepppuitho)          99        100       107               Croata
Miale                                                    .        101       106         -     Upe-mkf-rcome group
Female                                                  ..        99        105
KEY ECONOMIC RATiOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1960       1999       2000
Economic rettoe
GDP (USS bWas)                                         .           20.3      22A
Gross domestic InvesenGDP                         .                23.4      22 0                      Trd
Exports of goods and services/GDP                 .        ..      40.6      46.0                       rade
Gross domestIc savIngs/GDP                        .        ..      16.1     I1A
Grss natonal savings/GDP                         ..        .       16.5      18.7
Cunent account balance/GDP                       ..       ..       4.8        -1.8     DomestkIc
Interest payments/GDP                            .         ..       21        2.1         s                          Investment
Total debtGDP                                    ..       ..       46.0      46.6
Total debt service/expOrts                       ..       ..       17.2      20.9
Present value of debUGDP                         ..       ..       46.1
Present value of debtUexports                    ..       ..      101.2
Indebtedness
198040    199040      1999       2000   200044
(eavage annuat growth)
GDP                                     ..      0 6     -04         3.7       44 C4oati
GDP per capita                         ..       1.2      0.6        4 4       3.2          -     (JA-Uppemiddhe-ncome grop
Exports of goods and sevIces            ..      5.6      0 7        6.7       3.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980      1990      19fl       2000      Growth o Investent and GDP (4
(6 of GDP)
AgfHculture                                       .     10.3        9.7       9.5
Industry                                                33.8       33.1      32.8      20
Manufactdung                                    ..    27.7       22.4       23.2                    -'V
Services                                         ..     55.9       57.2      67.7       °
PIvate consumpdon                                ..       ..       67.1      67.2     -20
General government consunrtdon                   ..        .       27.8      285 
Inports of goods and serices                     ..       ..       48.9      50.6     .GD                I           G-P
(average annual growth)                   e198410   199000        1999       2000      Growth of exports and Impola (I9
Agriculture                                      ..     -2 0       -2.0       1.3     30
Industry                                         ..     -2.5        01        165     20o .
Ftanufacturng                                          -3.3       4.1        4.1     10
Services                                         ..      2.2       -0 3       5.0     10*
Private consumption                              ..      2.6       -2 7       4 1      o         *         I   >   -        O
General govemment consumptbon                    .       1.1        08        -0.7    10 -a
Gross domestc Investment                         .       8.4       -2.6      -0.1              -      Exports    *  Imports
Imports of goods and services                   ..       4.8       -2.7       4.2
Note: 2000 data are prlirminarY estimates.
The diamonds show four key indlcators In the country (in bold) compared with Its Income-grup average. i dabt are nitisng the diamond wil
be Inconilete



63
Croatia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
t1980    1W       1999     2000     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                    150
Consumer prices                              ..               4.2      6.2    100
Impliit GDP deflator                         ..               4.1      6.5
Government finance                                                             50
(% of GDP, fndudes cu,rant gants)                                               o -                   _
Current revenue                              ..              47.7     45.2            S5   98    97    98    g     00
Current budget balance                                        1.1     -1.4                 GDP deflator     CP1
Overall surplus/defict                       .        ..     -2.2     -5 2
TRADE
(US$ mgilions)                            1980     1990      1999     2000     Export and Import levets (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          ..       .     4,395    4,507    10,0o
Capital goods                              ..       ..      243      251
Chemicals                                  ..       ..      338      488      7500       *
Manufactures                               ..       ..     2,800    2,751
Total Imports (cif)                          ..      ..     7,093    785       5.000D
Food                                       ..       ..      580      538     2,500
Fuel and energy                            ..        ..     604     1.094
Capital goods                              ..       ..     2,732    2.608       0
Export prke Index (1995=100)                                                         94 .5    99   97  se
Import price Index (1995=100)                 .       ..       ..       ..               * E,qorts      impar
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990      999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(USS milifons)
Exports of goods and services                ..   8,819     8,118    8,651    10
Imports of goods and servies                 ..   7,115     9,791    9,598
Resource balance                             ..    -296    -1.673    -940      5
Net income                                   ..    -192      -350     -310     O
Net cument transfers                         ..   1.541      632      858       E4E                   K
Current account balance                      .    1,053    -1,391     -399               *    f   l
FInancing Items (net)                             -1,053    1,769     981     .10
Changes In net reserves                       .       0      -379     -582    -15
Memo:
Reserves Indluding gold (US$ millions)       .        ..    3,025    3,525
Conversion rate (DEC, locaLUSS)              .                7.0      70
EXTERNAL DEBT antd RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                 Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.L
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         ..      ..     9,335   10,448
IBRD                                                      0387      395                       A 395
IDA                                                          0        0                 a 785      Ci159
Total debt service                                          1 40518 2,085
IBRD                                       .                40       41E111
IDA                                        ..        ..      0        0
Composliton of net resource flows
Official grants
OfRicial creditors                         ..      ..       83       154
Private creditors                         ..               979     1,004
Foreign direct Investment                 ..        .     1,445     898
PortIo equity                             ..       ..      574      733               F 7,495
World Bank program
Commitments                                .        ..     108       29      A - IBRD                  E - Eilateral
Disbursements                             ..        .       85       55      B - IDA  D - Other sultilateral  F - FPrvate
Prnclpal repayments                       ..       ..       18       22      C-IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                  ..      ..       67       34
Interest payments                         ..       ..       22       19
Net transfers                             ..       ..       40       14
Development Economics                                                                                         9/2101






A U S T R I A 6
.2        -*   XjY               <S,>E-W255                H U N G A R Y                              C  R O      A  T I A
_  *_,  >  \  7ZAGORSX4,>                        j                    - L-  REGION BOUNDARIES
0  MAJOR TOWvNS
S SLOVENIA 0         ,_w\sZ4GREBACKA cBIel_°vsrvlhcr<DrevRI---  *>r t>-                         RIVERS
;  A r   FRSACKA/ 00  BJELRSKO-                                             - 2 jk,,m S  -- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
* -.--   r                 .J~~~S4GREB V ZAG  BGEOVRS) 
. _, 92 . > . @ < if ~~~~~~~~~~~P DRAVSKA
( *~* ',. '  RMPPJMORSKC-   Ko  c                      POZESKO-SLAVONSKA
Porec                               SIMACL                        AtMiSL       Von
50           100S
L     h    u     /   R\tv JrfI  I
KROMEIERS
Th. b-,ad..,an anln, d a,nanoan ad ay  lnfannd,n
L)CK0-                                                  w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a d. -,-n*, -n d. Pddo Th. Wodd Dak G-V~, -y adgaeonan tho 6g
\ y4 i ENJ ,   neaay an o, an  any or= omony- an o-nh boad-
\/  SGS \  S  OGaspicL t
Z40ARSK0-                                                                     RUitbAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MR
BOSNIA\AND                                               AN1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H E                   ZE   0 V                                   s.
I-,~~~~~~~~~,U
POLAND
qr \SKA ' E M, URGr  H            / UKRAINE
~~~  .L                     MOI~~,. -- `\ 0DOVA
A                                                                ROMAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~AU1T,~  M 
0~~~~~pJSODLAl~zZ~>                                          j             i+SwO^' 
(  FED. REP OF   M                r .6                Se
- YUGOSLAVIA                   N    I IR/WI)U  WIGARIA
0U8ROVACKOU~KE,.\  ~ (SERBIA!
r-MOTENEGRO             er
_           t        )                             i    9s    >                  \ 5    XEECE teS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A900,n S TURKEY oO
_n
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
co









IMAGING
Report No.:         23714   HR
Type:      PAD



