Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4672 HR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Pension System Investment Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 17, 2002 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4672 HR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 17, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report 
prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
“FINA” means the Borrower’s Financial Agency established under 
the Law on Financial Agency, (Official Gazette 177/2001); 
Page  3
-
2
-
(c) 
“GZAOP” means the Borrower’s Zagreb City Central Computer 
Center established under the Decisions of the City of Zagreb, dated 
April 26, 1977, June 17, 1991, and June 18, 1997, respectively; 
(d) 
“HAGENA” means the Borrower’s Supervisory Agency for 
Pension Funds and Insurance established under the Law on 
Compulsory and Voluntary Pension Funds (Official Gazette 
49/1999); 
(e) 
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be adopted 
by the Steering Committee for PSIP pursuant to paragraph (3) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time;
 
(f) 
“MOLSW” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor and Social 
Welfare;  
(g) 
Operational Manual” means the manual adopted by the Borrower, 
through the Steering Committee for PSIP (as defined hereinafter), 
referred to in paragraph (4) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Pension Institute” means the Croatian Pension Institute established 
under the Law on Pension Insurance (Official Gazette 102/1998); 
(i) 
“PIU” means the Borrower’s project implementation unit 
established within HAGENA, subject to the approval of the 
Steering Committee for PSIP, or any legal successor thereto;  
(j) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter 
agreement signed on behalf of the Bank on January 4, 1999 and on 
behalf of the Borrower on February 1, 1999; 
(k) 
“REGOS” means the Borrower’s Central Register of Affiliates 
established under the Law on Compulsory and Voluntary Pension 
Funds (Official Gazette 49/1999) and Law No. 114/2001 
on 
Collection of Data by Insured Persons on Mandatory Contributions, 
Income Tax and Surtax on Income Tax
 dated December 7, 2001 
and published in the Official Gazette 114/2001; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(l) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement;  
(m) 
“Steering Committee for PSIP” means the committee established 
for the purposes of the Pension System Investment Project (PSIP) 
pursuant to the Decision of Government dated June 13, 2002 as 
referred to in paragraph  2 (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(n) 
“Supplemental Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from 
the Borrower to the Bank setting forth the Project monitoring 
indicators referred to in paragraph (1) (a) of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty 
seven million, three hundred thousand Dollars ($27,300,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services and operating costs  required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
Page  6
-
5
-
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on November 15 and May 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the PIU with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, technical and financial 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:  
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion 
on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time 
to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
Page  8
-
7
-
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the  statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report (FMR), in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds provided under the 
Loan, and explains variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances between the actual
 
and 
planned Project implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.  
 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that: 
(a) 
Law No. 114/2001 on Collection of Data by Insured Persons on 
Mandatory Contributions, Income Tax and Surtax on Income Tax dated December 7, 
2001 and published in the Official Gazette 114/2001 of the Borrower shall have been 
amended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement; and   
 
(b) 
that the Operational Manual shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated or waived without the Bank’s prior consent. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) 
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition
 
to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions; namely that the Borrower has provided evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank that it has issued the Operational Manual referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to 
the Loan Agreement in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 6.02. The date of ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Minister of Finance 
Kanciceva 5 
 
Zagreb 10,000 
Croatia 
 
Telex: 
 
  Facsimile: 
 
862-21215 
 
3851 492 2583 
 
862-28133 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Zagreb, Republic of Croatia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 
By 
/s/  Mato Crkvenac 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/  Andrew N. Vorkink 
Director 
South Central Europe Country Unit 
Europe and Central Asia 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category.
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods 
4,665,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 78% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(2) Consultants' 
7,537,000 
100% 
 services, 
including 
 
training and auditing 
 services 
 
(3) Incremental 
Operating 
11,085,000 
 
costs for FINA and GZAOP  
 
95% 
of 
expenditures 
until June 30, 2003; 
75% of expenditures 
until June 30, 2004; 
50% expenditures  
 
between until June 30,  
 
2005;
25% of  
 
expenditures thereafter 
 
(4) Technical 
services 
256,000 
100% 
Page  13
-
12
-
(5) 
Operating costs of the PIU 
64,000 
95% of expenditures  
 
until June 30, 2003;  
 
75%
of expenditures  
 
until June 30, 2004;  
 
50%
of expenditures  
 
until June 30, 2005;  
 
25%
of expenditures  
 
thereafter 
 
(6) 
Refunding of  
700,000 
Amounts due  
 
Project Prepara- 
 
pursuant to  
 
tion Advance 
 
Section 2.02 (c) 
 
of
this Agreement 
 
(7) 
Front-end fee 
275,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(8) 
Unallocated 
                         2,718,000
TOTAL  
27,300,000 
 
======== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower/Guarantor;  
(c) 
“Training” means expenditures incurred by the Borrower in connection 
with the carrying out of training activities under the Project, including: (i) fees of 
consultants, including educational or other institutions; and organizations providing 
training services; and (ii) cost of study tours, workshops, and related travel and per diem 
allowances of training participants;  
(d) the 
term “technical services” means services related to internet links, 
stock market platform link, and server and software licenses; 
Page  14
-
13
-
(e) 
the term “incremental operating costs of FINA and GZAOP” means 
incremental operating expenditures incurred by, FINA, and GZAOP on account of 
Project implementation, including: non-governmental staff salaries, travel and translation 
expenses; telecommunications and information technology operating costs; office 
equipment and maintenance; office supplies; and vehicle maintenance; and 
 
(f) 
the term “operating costs of PIU” means operating expenditures incurred 
by the PIU on account of Project implementation and management, including: non-
governmental staff salaries, travel and translation expenses; telecommunications costs; 
office equipment and maintenance; office supplies; and vehicle maintenance. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not 
exceeding $2,700,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after January 1, 2002; and any expenditures incurred for the purposes 
of Part C of the Project in Schedule 2 to the Agreement unless the Bank has received 
satisfactory evidence that the Borrower’s government has adopted a reform program for 
the Pension Institute which is satisfactory to the Bank.  
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and technical services 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) for services provided by 
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (c) for 
services provided by individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each, with the exception of the first such contract; and (d) training and 
operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to improve the effectiveness and transparency of 
the Borrower’s system for reporting and enforcement of social contributions and personal 
income tax and strengthen management and regulation capacity in existing and new 
pension agencies. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Public revenue and funded pension reforms
Provision of technical assistance and financing of operating costs to support: (i) 
the database operation and maintenance for unified employer reporting on social 
contributions and personal taxes; (ii) the effective operation of second pillar pensions; 
and (iii) public revenue institutional reform and development of the public debt market.  
Part B:
Strengthening of HAGENA and REGOS
Provision of technical assistance, training, and goods to support institutional 
development and management and regulatory capacity strengthening within HAGENA 
and REGOS.
 
Part C
:
Pension Institute Reform 
1. 
Provision of technical assistance, training, and goods to improve: (i) efficiency 
and effectiveness of the Pension Institute through strategic planning, reengineering 
internal business and recording processes, and effective management of personnel; and 
(ii) the functions of the Pension Institute’s office network.  
2. 
Provision of additional training to Pension Institute’s management and staff; and 
training and other human resource services and incentives to Pension Institute staff made 
redundant as a result of the reform of the entity.
 
Page  16
-
15
-
Part D:
Project Management 
Provision of technical assistance, training, goods and operating costs of the PIU 
for purposes of Project management and implementation and provision of financial 
services to cover for Project auditing services. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)
*
On each November 15 and May 15 
 
1,365,000 
 
beginning November 15, 2007 
  
 
 
through May 15, 2017 
  
_________ 
 
TOTAL  
 
27,300,000 
 
 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and technical services to cost less than $80,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $122,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
Page  19
-
18
-
2. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $916,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  
3. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $295,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines
.
4. Direct 
Contracting
Goods and technical services which must be purchased from the original supplier 
to be compatible with existing equipment and are of a proprietary nature and costing 
$204,700 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract procured under Part B above estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract procured under Part C.4 above and the first 
two contracts procured under Part C.1, Part C.2 and Part C.3 above, the following 
procedures shall apply: 
Page  20
-
19
-
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct contracting 
or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  21
-
20
-
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for audits estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  22
-
21
-
(b) 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(c) 
With respect to the contract for firms selected by Least Cost Selection 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(d) 
With respect to the fir
st two contracts for firms selected by Consultant’s 
Qualifications and estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 the 
qualifications,
 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
(e) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank set 
forth in the Supplemental Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about February 29, 2004, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by May 30, 2004, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
2. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain during the execution of the Project, the PIU with staff and 
resources as shall be required to perform its duties in respect of overall management and 
implementation of the Project, including reporting on the implementation of the Project 
to the Project  Steering Committee PSIP, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
designate by not later than September 30, 2002 and maintain during the 
execution of the Project, liaison staff in the Pension Institute and REGOS with resources 
as shall be required to perform duties in respect of coordination and implementation of 
their respective Project components; and 
 
(c) 
maintain during the execution of the Project the Steering Committee for 
PSIP, with membership, tasks, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, 
including providing oversight and policy guidance for overall implementation of the 
Project. 
Page  24
-
23
-
3. 
The Borrower shall, through the MOLSW: (a) cause the Steering Committee for 
PSIP to carry out the Implementation Agreement under terms and conditions which shall 
have been agreed upon with the Bank and which shall include, 
inter alia
,
provisions 
whereby: (i) the responsibilities and tasks of each entity involved in the Project are 
described for the purposes of Project implementation; (ii) the commitment of each entity 
to coordinate and cooperate in their respective activities for the purposes of the 
implementation of the Project; and (iii) the entities shall be required to implement the 
Project in accordance with the Operational Manual and the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement; and 
 
(b)  
exercise its rights under the Implementation Agreement in such a manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive, the Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof. 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
Operational Manual setting forth the work program for the implementation of the Project 
(PIP) and the key instruments for the execution, coordination of the Project, including 
procurement and financial management procedures and guidelines for the selection 
process and criteria for the provision of human resource services and incentives to staff 
made redundant as a result of structural reforms in the Pension Institute. 
5. 
The Borrower has provided by not later than June 30, 2003 evidence satisfactory 
to the Bank that parallel employer tax reporting forms for pensions health and 
unemployment payroll taxes have been eliminated and are no longer used. 
 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, services, and operating costs required for  the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of US$2,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of US$1,000,000 when 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$3,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Page  26
-
25
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  27
-
26
-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the  
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
