                                    Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00001037



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IBRD-46720)



                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$27.3 MILLION


                                          TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF CROATIA

                                          FOR A

                    PENSION SYSTEM INVESTMENT PROJECT



                                    June 26, 2009




Human Development Sector Unit
Central Europe and the Baltic Countries
Europe and Central Asia Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective June 23, 2009)

                       Currency Unit = Croatian Kuna (HRK)
                                  1.00 = US$0.19
                                US$1.00 =5.2 HRK
                                 FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1-December 31


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS:      Country Assistance Strategy
CPS:      Country Partnership Strategy
HAGENA:   Supervisory Agency for Pension funds and Insurance
HANFA:    Financial Services Supervisory Agency
FINA:     Financial Agency
ICR:      Implementation Completion Report
ISR:      Implementation Status Report
LA:       Loan Agreement
MOELE:    Ministry of Economy, Labor and Entrepreneurship
MOF:      Ministry of Finance
MOLSW:    Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
PAD:      Project Appraisal Document
PI:       Pensions Institute
PIU:      Project Implementation Unit
PDO:      Project Development Objective
PSIP:     Pension System Investment Project
REGOS:    Central Registry of Affiliates


                          Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
                 Acting Country Director: Penelope Jane Aske Williams
                          Sector Director Tamar Manuelyan Atinc
                         Sector Manager: Kathy A. Lindert
                    Project Team Leader: Zoran Anusic
                ICR Team Leader/Author: Ufuk Guven
                                      REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
                                   Pension System Investment Project


                                                    CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 18
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 19
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 20
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 22
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 23
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 25
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 26
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 27
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 40
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 41

  MAP IBRD 33394
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Pension System
Country:                Croatia                 Project Name:
                                                                          Investment Project
Project ID:             P063546                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-46720
ICR Date:               06/30/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          CROATIA (MOF)
Original Total
                        USD 27.3M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 21.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Economy, Labor and Enterpreneurship
 Ministry of Finance
 HZMO
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/18/2000     Effectiveness:                               02/20/2003
                                                                                  09/12/2006
Appraisal:            12/06/2001     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                  12/31/2007
Approval:             07/18/2002     Mid-term Review:        05/30/2004
                                     Closing:                12/31/2006           12/31/2008

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                    Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory            Government:               Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing              Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:          Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower          Moderately
                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:              Unsatisfactory




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     20                   10
Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance                         80                   90


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Regulation and competition policy                                     33                   33
Social risk mitigation                                                67                   67

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                         Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Theodore O. Ahlers                   Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:            Kathy A. Lindert                     Michal J. Rutkowski
Project Team Leader:       Zoran Anusic                         Philip B. O'Keefe
ICR Team Leader:           Ufuk Guven
ICR Primary Author:        Ufuk Guven


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
 PSIP Project Development objectives are:
  - To improve the effectiveness and transparency of Croatia's system for reporting and
enforcement of social contributions and personal income taxes, in particular for the new
system of funded pensions; and
  - To strengthen capacity in existing and new agencies which manage different parts of
the pension system to operate and regulate the new multi-pillar pension system.




                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project Development Objectives (PDOs) were not revised.

  The PAD and the Supplemental Letter has the following five outcome indicators and
sevel intermediate outcome indicators (IOs). The IO indicators were not associated with
the individual components, either in the PAD or in the ISRs. The categorization below
presents the interpretation of the ICR team. The project team monitored the first four IO
indicators. The ICR team reconstructed the remaining indicators (5-7) based on
data/information availability.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval          Target        Completion or
                                              documents)         Values          Target Years
                Unified database of insured individuals and taxpayers operating.
Indicator 1 :
                                            Central database The central
                                            of insured           database of
                                            individuals          insured        20%. Multiple
                                            operating (in        individuals    registrations to
                Initial database of second REGOS), reduced was abolished health, pension and
Value           pillar participants         administrative       in 2004.       tax systems.
quantitative or established within          burden for           Subsequently, REGOS has
Qualitative)    REGOS and monthly           employers, data a new baseline individualized
                reporting stream            exchange between value of 20% database for funded
                                            institutions,        and new target pillar pensions
                                            timetables for       value of 100% only.
                                            integrating parallel was identified
                                            flows developed in the ISRs.
Date achieved 02/20/2003                    12/31/2008           12/31/2008     12/31/2008
                NOT ACHIEVED: Unified database(social contributions, personal income tax
Comments
                and surtax) does not exist. Employers submit separate forms to REGOS and Tax
(incl. %
                Dept. although 70% of the information in these forms is identical. REGOS
achievement)
                collects data for funded pillar.
                Funded pillar contributions channelled into individual accounts.
Indicator 2 :
                                                                            99.7% of
                                                                            contributions
Value                                                                       channeled to
                Funded pension pillar not
quantitative or                           99%                               individual accounts
                operating (0%)
Qualitative)                                                                at the pension fund
                                                                            management
                                                                            companies.
Date achieved 02/20/2003                  12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments        ACHIEVED: The system is functioning smoothly without complaints from main
(incl. %        beneficiaries. REGOS successfully transfers funded pillar contributions to
achievement) individual accounts in the pension fund management companies.


                                               iii
                  Management and staff of HAGENA(currently HANFA) and REGOS trained and
Indicator 3 :
                  performing task
Value
quantitative or   0                       90%                               90%
Qualitative)
Date achieved   02/20/2002                 12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments        ACHIEVED: REGOS and HANFA are fully functional and performing tasks
(incl. %        successfully. Using project funds, 92% of REGOS staff (55 out of total 60), and
achievement)    80% of staff HANFA's pension department were trained.
                PI reform strategy under implementation, including process analysis and internal
Indicator 4 :
                control review.
                                                                             PI Reform Program
                                                                             under
                                                                             implementation.
                                                                             Some 70% of
Value
                                                                             activities
quantitative or No reform strategy         100%
                                                                             completed. PI's
Qualitative)
                                                                             staff severance
                                                                             program
                                                                             implemented in
                                                                             December 2008.
Date achieved 02/20/2003                   12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
                SUBSTANTIALLY ACHIEVED: The delay in the approval of PI program
Comments
                restructuring led to delayed progress under in implementation. The reform
(incl. %
                strategy was developed and some activities completed. PI is funding the
achievement)
                completion of unfinished activities.
                Domestic public debt market within reasonable period issuing longer maturity
Indicator 5 :
                domestic currency instruments.
Value
quantitative or 3 years maturity           10 year maturity                  15 years maturity
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/20/2003                   12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
                ACHIEVED: The maturity of bond market increased and government bonds
(incl. %
                emerged as an important investment tool for the pensions funds.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                             Formally
                                            Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                          Revised
                                              approval                        Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                            documents)                        Target Years
                Components 1 & 2:
Indicator 1 :   Monthly data exchange done on timely and secure basis between
                FINA(Financing Agency)/REGOS and other institutions.
                                                                          50% (REGOS data
Value
                                                                          only). Limited data
(quantitative   no data exchange        100%
                                                                          exchange between
or Qualitative)
                                                                          REGOS and Tax


                                                iv
                                                                               Department on
                                                                               individual
                                                                               contributions
                                                                               calculated and
                                                                               paid. Regular data
                                                                               exchange on tax
                                                                               and contribution
                                                                               liabilities and
                                                                               farmers.
Date achieved 02/20/2002                  12/31/2008                           12/31/2008
Comments        PARTIALLY ACHIEVED: REGOS, Tax Dept do not have structured data
(incl. %        exchange on a monthly basis as Tax Dept did not want to have monthly data on
achievement) social contributions. There is some data exchange but not onindividual basis.
                Component 2:
Indicator 2 : Compliance rates in new revenue system, including timeliness of consolidated
                reporting by employers and self-employed
Value                                                                          94% collection rate
(quantitative   50%                       100%                                 (as reported by
or Qualitative)                                                                Pension Institute).
Date achieved 02/20/2003                  12/31/2008                           12/31/2008
                PARTIALLY ACHIEVED: Project team reported collection rates instead of
Comments
                compliance because of difficulty in agreeing on methodology for calculating
(incl. %
                compliance rates. The 2008 Croatia PER estimated compliance at 84.6%-clearly
achievement)
                an improvement over the baseline
                Components 1 & 2:
Indicator 3 : For registration of second pillar participants, share of target age groups
                registered.
Value
(quantitative   0                         100%                                 100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2008                           12/31/2008
Comments        ACHIEVED: All the participants of the pensions system (both mandatory and
(incl. %        voluntary) were registered. New entrants become part of the second pillar
achievement) automatically once they register.
                Components 1& 2:
Indicator 4 : Data and contribution flows from REGOS/FINA to fund managers occurring on
                agreed time basis and with agreed levels of reliability;
Value
(quantitative   70%                       100%                                 100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/20/2003                  12/31/2008                           12/31/2008
Comments        ACHIEVED: In 2003, the funded pillar was operating and data exchange was in
(incl. %        place. No major issues reported on the data flow. There is overall satisfaction
achievement) with services provided by REGOS.
                Component 2:
Indicator 5 : Fund Managers investing in different classes of assets in accordance with
                portfolio rules.
Value           Investments in            Investments in                       Investments in
(quantitative   Government bonds is       domestic assets                      domestic assets


                                                v
or Qualitative) about 81% of the pension between 50-65%                         about 70% of total
                fund portfolio.            of total                             investments
                                           investments
Date achieved 12/31/2003                   12/31/2008                           12/31/2008
                PARTIALLY ACHIEVED: The share of Govt bonds in pension funds
Comments
                investments was 62% in the first 10 months of 2008, compared to 70% by the
(incl. %
                end of 2008 which reflects the intention of investing in risk-free assets due
achievement)
                financial crisis.
                Component 3:
Indicator 6 :
                Pensions Institute has conducted HR review and implements new HR strategy
                                           Pensions Institute                   Pensions Institute
                Pensions Institute HR      HR review                            HR review
Value
                review not conducted;      conducted and                        conducted and new
(quantitative
                new HR strategy does not new HR strategy                        HR strategy
or Qualitative)
                exist                      produced and                         produced and under
                                           implemented                          implementation
Date achieved 02/20/2003                   12/31/2008                           12/31/2008
Comments        PARTIALLY ACHIEVED: The strategy for restructuring PI business processes
(incl. %        was produced. The implementation of the strategy started during the project. PI
achievement) will complete all remaining activities financed from the 2009 budget.
                Component 3:
Indicator 7 : Number of staff in PI outer project years and number who have undergone
                training and/or out-placed
                                           About 15% of                         Pensions Institute
                                           Pensions Institute                   employs 3,050 staff
Value
                Pensions Institute         staff had                            of which 15% have
(quantitative
                employs 3,310 staff        undergone training                   undergone training
or Qualitative)
                                           and 140 were out-                    and 140 were out-
                                           placed.                              placed.
Date achieved 02/20/2003                   12/31/2008                           12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        ACHIEVED
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                           IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     12/19/2002            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     06/10/2003            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      1.21
  3     12/18/2003            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      6.04
  4     06/22/2004           Unsatisfactory              Satisfactory                      9.38
  5     12/20/2004            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      9.51
  6     06/20/2005            Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory             12.44
  7     01/23/2006            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    13.36
  8     10/10/2006            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    13.75
  9     05/14/2007            Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory             14.28


                                                vi
 10    11/25/2007       Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory   14.28
 11    04/11/2008   Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory   14.78
 12    06/26/2008   Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory   14.78
 13    08/13/2008   Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory   14.78
 14    11/22/2008   Moderately Satisfactory         Satisfactory          15.25
 15    12/31/2008   Moderately Satisfactory         Satisfactory          20.58


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 09/12/2006                S     MS          13.61
 12/31/2007               MS    MS           14.28




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
Following the cessation of armed conflict in 1995, Croatia entered a period of
reconstruction and recovery. This supported a strong economic expansion, with an annual
GDP growth of 6 percent until 1998. One of the important features of this period of
economic growth was the large increase in the public sector primarily due to the increase
in government benefits and programs particularly to groups that were affected by the war.
Increased pension expenditures in the period of transition contributed to the high public
spending. At the same time, efficient revenue collection, accountability and transparency
in the public revenue system were undermined by fragmented revenue data collection
responsibilities across the government institutions. Structural reforms to address the
inefficiencies in the pension sector and in public revenue collection would contribute to
maintaining macro-economic stability and to restoring sustained economic growth.

The Croatian pension system inherited from the socialist times was a traditional defined-
benefit pension system financed on a pay-as-you-go basis (meaning that contributions
from current workers are used to pay benefits to current beneficiaries). The system
suffered from a number of serious design flaws similar to those observed in other
transition economies including low retirement ages and special privileges for certain
occupations, as well as a high incidence of disability among war veterans. The fiscal
balance of the pension system deteriorated steadily throughout 1990s with the deficit
increasing from 1.6% of GDP in 1994 to 5.5% of GDP by 2000. Within a few years of
the country's transition to a market economy, pension expenditures began to increase,
from a level equivalent to 9.7% of GDP in 1994 to 12.8% of GDP by 2000. Over this
same period, pension revenues declined from 8.1% of GDP to 7.3% of GDP, resulting in
a deficit of 5.5% of GDP in 2000. This was mostly the result of steadily rising
expenditures although revenues did fall slightly from 1994 to 2000 as a result of reduced
formal sector employment (partly due to rising unemployment and partly due to
increasing labor market informality) and enterprise restructuring.

Recognizing that these deficits were not sustainable and that the system would face even
greater challenges in the medium to long-term as the population ages, the Government
began a process of pension reform in 1995 to introduce a three-pillar pension system. In
1998, legislation to introduce a second pillar was already in place. For improved pension
system outcomes, the inefficiencies in the Pensions Institute that administers the pay-as-
you-go scheme had to be addressed. Before the implementation of the second pillar
could start, effective collection and institutional arrangements for pension contributions
had to be in place including establishing institutions for registering contributors and
supervising private pension funds. On the revenue side, contributions were separately
collected by the Pensions Institute and Health Insurance Fund while the personal incomes
were collected by the Tax Department. This situation created a heavy reporting burden on
employers required relatively higher resources for inspection than a unified collection
system would have and presented a lack of accountability and transparency in the system
as data sharing was not possible and made it difficult to develop and implement strategies
to improve compliance.



                                            1
The objectives of the Pension System Investment Project (PSIP) responded to the
objectives of the Government to improve the effectiveness of the pension system and the
pension system institutional and supervisory capacity and to improve the efficiency of
collection of social contributions and income taxes. The PSIP was also consistent with
the objectives of the 1999 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) that identified reducing the
size of the public sector and increasing efficiency among its strategic objectives. The
PSIP would contribute to the Government and CAS objectives through assisting the
borrower in improving the effectiveness and transparency of Croatia's system for
reporting and enforcement of social contributions and personal income taxes, in particular
for the new system of funded pensions; and through strengthening capacity in existing
and new agencies which manage different parts of the pension system to operate and
regulate the new multi-pillar pension system.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The Project Development Objectives (PDO) of the PSIP were to (i) improve the
effectiveness and transparency of Croatia's system for reporting and enforcement of
social contributions and personal income taxes, in particular for the new system of funded
pensions; and (ii) strengthen capacity in existing and new agencies which manage
different parts of the pension system to operate and regulate the new multi-pillar pension
system.

The PDO was to be measured by the following five outcome indicators as identified in
Annex 1 of the PAD and in the Supplemental Letter.

a) Continuation of operations of a unified database on unified mandatory contributions
   and income taxes and transfer of data to relevant institutions,
b) Funded pillar contributions channeled efficiently from workers to selected fund
   management companies,
c) Management and staff of HAGENA and REGOS trained and continuing to perform
   tasks effectively,
d) PI reform strategy under implementation, including process analysis and internal
   control review,
e) Domestic public debt market within reasonable period issuing longer maturity
   domestic currency instruments.

The wording of the first two PDO outcome indicators as documented in the project status
reports (ISRs) are different from the original formulation. With respect to the first
indicator, while the PDO in Annex 1 of the PAD and Supplemental Letter referred to a
"continuation of operations of a unified database" implying that such a database already
existed, the ISR indicator - Unified database of insured individuals and taxpayers
operating could be interpreted as the unified database was just starting. The PAD (page
2) identifies the continued effective functioning of the unified reporting and enforcement
as the central monitoring indicator. The PAD (page 4) also indicates that that "unified
reporting has generated a consolidated database operated by REGOS" indicating that the
unified database already existed even before project effectiveness. Based on the
interviews with the project team, the unified reporting was introduced in January 2002



                                            2
and the unified database was regularly updated until 2004 when the unified reporting was
abolished. However, the unified database was never used by Tax Department, Health
Fund , Unemployment Fund or the local governments.

The second indicator in the ISR had a different wording and was phrased as "Funded
Pillar Contributions Channeled into Individual Accounts" , but had a similar meaning
with the indicator in the Annex 1 of the PAD and the Supplemental Letter.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
The PDO was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The main beneficiaries of the project were to be (i) all beneficiaries of public spending in
Croatia, especially those using the pension, health and unemployment systems; (ii) young
generations through a more diversified pension system; (iii) employers who would
benefit from the reduced reporting requirements supported by the project; (iv)
HAGENA, REGOS and PI which would significantly benefit from the project financing
and technical support as well as Tax Department that would benefit from the technical
assistance to further define the institutional and administrative arrangements for public
revenue collection and reporting ; and (v) FINA for which the project will help strengthen
and consolidate its core role in the institutional arrangements.

1.5 Original Components
The project had four components: (i) Capacity Building for HAGENA and REGOS; (ii)
Implementation Support for Public Revenue and Funded Pension Reforms; (iii) Pension
Institute Reform; and (iv)Project Implementation Unit.

Component 1: Capacity Building for HAGENA and REGOS (Total costs US$4.0
million)
This component was designed to support institutional development and strengthening of
capacity of HAGENA and REGOS to operate and regulate the collection and investment
system for privately managed pension funds, including investment in goods, consultancy,
and training.

Component 2: Implementation Support for Public Revenue and Funded Pension
Reforms (Total costs US$18.7 million)
This component was aimed to support the database operation and maintenance for unified
employer reporting on obligatory contributions, as well as costs associated with
introduction of second pillar pensions. It would finance incremental operating costs
associated with the ZAP (successor to FINA)/Central Computer Center for City of
Zagreb activities. It would also finance TA on overall public revenue institutional reform
and development of the public debt market, and TA to strengthen the consolidated control
and enforcement functions under Ministry of Finance.




                                             3
Component 3: Pension Institute Reform (Total costs US$11.3 million)
This component was designed to support improvements in the efficiency and
effectiveness of the PI through investments to support strategic planning, reengineering
internal business processes, and effective management of personnel. It would also finance
IT investments to improve the functions of the PI office network, training for
management and PI staff, and a menu of options for dismissed or outsourced workers.
Investments would be made in goods, training and consultancy.

Component 4: Project Implementation Unit (Total costs US$0.6 million)
This component was designed to support the operations of the PIU, including core
procurement and FM functions, through investments in goods, training, consultancy and
operating costs. It would also support specialist IT and project management TA and
project audits.

1.6 Revised Components
The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
The following changes were introduced in the project implementation arrangements and
funding allocations:

 Amendment to the Loan Agreement was made on October 6, 2006 based on the
 letters from the Borrower on June 9, 2006 and on July 4, 2006:
  The Supervisory Agency for Pension Funds and Insurance (HAGENA) was
     changed to Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency (HANFA) as a result
     of the new institutional structure in Croatia;
  The Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (MOLSW) was changed to the
     Ministry of Economy, Labor and Entrepreneurship (MOELE) as a result of the
     new institutional structure in Croatia;
  The Closing Date of the project was extended from December 31, 2006 to
     December 31, 2007;
  Schedule 1 (Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan) of the LA on was changed
     like the following:1
     1. Goods Category was reduced by US$698,000
     2. Consultants' services including training and audit category was reduced by
          US$2,993,000 of which US$2,467,000 was due to the cancellation of
          "Training of Retrenched PI Staff".
     3. In order to align the activities in the Pension Institute Reform Component of
          the PSIP with the Government's restructuring program for Pensions Institute
          (PI) ­ Basic Principles for Restructuring of PI- adopted on June 2005, a new
          spending category ­ Payments for Labor Restructuring (severance package) in
          the amount of US$3,167,000 was created to finance the Pension Institute's
          severance program.

1
    The first three of the amendments were due to restructuring of the PI component.



                                                       4
 In June 2007 the Steering Committee decided to relocate the Project Implementation
 Unit outside of HANFA.

 Amendment to the Loan Agreement was made on December 20, 2007 based on the
 letters from the Borrower on June 21, 2007 and on December 4, 2007:
  The Closing Date of the project was extended for a second time from December
     31, 2007 to December 31, 2008.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of the Background Analysis: Project preparation was supported by Project
Preparation Facility (PPF).2 Sector work on pension reform including actuarial analysis
of the existing pension system, options for a funded pension scheme and potential capital
market implications and regulation of pension fund investments, budgeting and fiscal
management and tax administration were undertaken under the PPF. The soundness and
scope of work undertaken provided good foundation for project preparation evident from
the information provided in the PAD in explaining pension sector issues.

Quality Enhancement Review (QER) and Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA): The
QER was conducted during preparation which indicated that the project concept
document was frank and well-written and gave a good idea of the tasks that need to be
completed to establish a pension system and risks presented and provided some
comments and observations on the project concept document. The Quality at Entry
Assessment by QAG also rated the quality at entry of PSIP as satisfactory overall and in
all its dimensions.

Assessment of the Project Design: Overall, the project design and objectives were in line
with the Government's objectives also identified in the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS). The responsible agency for the project was the Supervisory Agency for Pension
Funds and Insurance (HAGENA).3 There were multiple agencies supporting the
implementation of reforms in the pension sector and in revenue collection including
HAGENA (later on HANFA), REGOS, FINA, Ministry of Finance (including Tax
Department) and Pensions Institute all of which had complementing roles in the
achievement of project objectives.

Such complementing roles required efficient coordination and collaboration supported by
a similar understanding and level of interest in the project development objectives.
Despite the fact that unified reporting of income taxes and social contributions was in line

2
 The PPF was in the amount of US$1.76 million with an original refinancing date of December 31, 1999.
The refinancing date was extended to September 30, 2009 and subsequently to September 30, 2001.

3
  HAGENA became HANFA in 2005 (official Gazette 140/05) following the unification of              the
supervisory roles for insurance, pensions and securities markets in one agency.



                                                 5
with the Government's objectives, the enthusiasm by the Tax Department for this may
have been less than satisfactory. It seems that the Tax Department, the core institution
for the success of unified reporting, was not fully convinced on the benefits of unified
reporting on tax and social contributions. Even the project team's efforts to convince the
Tax Department supported by technical analysis during implementation were not
sufficient. In retrospect, the project design was technically sound but involved a risk that
the Tax Department would not fully cooperate during implementation.

Adequacy of Government Commitment: The high level of Government ownership for
the project was demonstrated by the fact that the major legislation for the pension reform
had already been issued and the details of overall revenue reforms had been outlined
before the effectiveness of the PSIP. The Government recognized the importance of
policy. The Government also acknowledged that such policies would need to be
supported by successful implementation to achieve the desired objectives. The project
was designed to help the Government in addressing the challenges of implementing such
reforms supported by full commitment of the Government. The PAD notes that the
Government repeatedly indicated its commitment to the operation including during the
discussions of the CAS progress report and in the establishment of the PSIP Steering
Committee. Interviews by the ICR with the deputy prime minister and labor minister at
the time of project approval also indicated this commitment.

Lessons Learned and Incorporated: The PAD noted that the following main lessons
learned were incorporated into the project design with respect to the broader public
revenue activities based on the key lessons of regional experience: (i) revenue collection
is supported by both the World Bank and the IMF as increasing efficiency, accountability
and transparency in the revenue system. The emerging lessons from other examples
including Bulgaria and Slovakia is that the choice of responsible agency for consolidated
revenue collection is country specific based on institutional capacity; (ii) the experience
of the other countries in implementing systemic pension reform, such as the clearing
house that avoids burdensome reporting requirements but requires time for proper design,
is reflected in the project design; (iii) the first pillar reforms should not get neglected
when funded schemes are introduced, to avoid weakening political support when first
pillar contributions are diverted to the second pillar; (iv) the need for effective public
information; and (v) the experience of other countries in restructuring the payment
agency on the basis of the requirements of a market economy.

Assessment of Risks: Identification of risks and mitigation measures were generally
adequate except the risk that that some delay could be experienced in the approval of the
restructuring program for Pension Institute was not foreseen. The fact that institutions
involved in the revenue reform may not fully cooperate was identified as one of the risk
factors in the PAD along with the following mitigation factors: (i) Government decree
mandating cooperation, and agreements in place between REGOS and key institutions;
(ii) Financing under the project to improve IT systems in PI as additional incentive to
cooperate in the new system and ensure security in data exchange; (iii) Parallel reporting
period to enable assessment of weaknesses in the system. However implementation
showed that the mitigation factors were not sufficient to convince the Tax Department to



                                             6
fully cooperate. During implementation, these risks materialized. The Tax Department's
commitment to unified reporting of income taxes and social contributions was less than
satisfactory and contributed to not fully achieving this objective. The delay in the
approval of the restructuring program for the Pension Institute led to delays and
subsequent extensions of the project.

2.2 Implementation

Factors that Contributed to the Success of the Project:
Project Restructuring: Creating a framework for institutional reform in Pension Institute
was delayed until the adoption of the restructuring program "Basic Principles for
Restructuring of the Pension Institute" on June 2, 2005. Project restructuring was needed
to align activities in PI's component with the restructuring program that included
downsizing of PI and an associated severance program. The intention of the Borrower to
finance the PI's severance program from PSIP originated from project appraisal and was
indicated in the minutes of negotiations. Thus, the Borrower's request to amend the Loan
Agreement to include a component for PI's Severance Payment of US$3,167,000
originated from initial project design (changes included in the Loan Agreement are
presented in Section 1.7:Other Significant Changes). The restructuring through
reallocation of funds from other categories to the newly created spending category
initiated the implementation of the restructuring program of the PI (that included
identifying redundant processes, departments, units and possibly offices that need to be
downscaled and restructured) through making available the funds needed for the
severance package of those employees whose positions and skills will not fit into the
planned organizational structure of the PI.

Factors that Affected Project Progress:
Project Management: A project implementation unit (PIU) was established in HAGENA
composed of three officials of HAGENA. Following the new institutional structure in
Croatia, the new institution HANFA that replaced HAGENA had a different set of
responsibilities and additional available resources. As a result HANFA was not willing to
continue to be involved in project management with the view that other institutions
involved would benefit more from the project funds. Moreover, HANFA's view was that
scarce staff resources of HANFA would be better be used in HANFA's core activities
than in the management of PSIP. Due to delays in making the decision as to the future of
the PIU, there was a period when the project activities halted. Eventually, in May 2008,
less than a year before the completion of the project, a decision was taken to cancel the
HANFA related part of the Capacity Building Component and move the PIU to the
Pensions Institute which was not fully prepared for project management. It took some
time for the new PIU to fully take over the project responsibilities despite the eventual
successful implementation within the time period left. The transfer of management from
HANFA to PI and the delay in taking this decision was one of the impediments for the
full completion of the PI component before the closing date. The Government's request
for a third extension of the project to complete the activities related to the PI component
was declined by the Bank.




                                            7
Project Coordination Council: Initially, when the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
(MOLSW) was a member (and chair) of the Steering Committee and in charge of the
project, there was a stronger ownership of the project. When MOLSW was changed to
the Ministry of Economy, Labor and Entrepreneurship (MOELE) by the new
Government in early 2004, the project was not one of the priorities of the Ministry as a
result of the expansion of responsibilities beyond social sectors. This probably was not
something that the project team could have predicted, but this situation resulted in a
reduced frequency of council meetings and slowed the decision making process on
project related issues.

Delay in the Preparation and Approval of the Restructuring Program for Pensions
Institute: The Pensions Institute was not pro-active during appraisal and this remains the
case during project implementation. Implementation of the Pension Institute component
was conditioned upon the adoption of the PI restructuring program. The consulting firm
to work on the restructuring program of PI was hired by the PI in November 2004, about
21 months after project effectiveness. The Government approved the PI restructuring
program in June 2005. In September 2005, PI prepared a revised draft implementation
schedule for the PI component that spread over 2005, 2006 and 2007. PI restructuring
program suggested that the redundancies may require a stronger severance program for
the retrenched staff. It was explained to the project team that the PI's severance program
could not be implemented in 2007 due to multiplied workload of PI arising from the
implementation of new laws and had to be shifter to 2008. Furthermore, more than six
months of delays occurred in the key activities in PI's action plan. This was because the
analysis of the business processes of the PI took longer than expected which then delayed
the procurement of Electronic Document management System and the application
software.

Reluctance of the Tax Department for Unification: Even at the initial stage of project
implementation, the progress on phasing out the parallel reporting processes at the Tax
Department was slow (improving efficiency was to be achieved by elimination of parallel
reporting requirements and centralization of data flows). The Tax Department was
resisting to use the new reporting forms claiming that a switch to the new system
could/should not be done because of different data contained in the two reports. The Tax
Department was focused on efficient collection and believed that personified data was not
needed for efficient collection. Despite major efforts by the project team to convince the
Tax Department of the benefits of unified reporting supported by technical analysis, the
Tax Department resisted the personified reporting and did not collaborate.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The project team used the outcome indicators identified in Annex 1 of the PAD and
Supplemental Letter. The wording of the two PDO outcome indicators monitored in the
ISRs were revised (starting with ISR# 6 dated 06/20/2005) because of changes in the
reform. There were no baseline values in the first five ISRs. Some of the PDO indicators
were more like output indicators than outcome indicators (PDO Indicators 3& 4) as they
intended to measure the actions taken to achieve the outcomes rather than measuring the
achievement of the desired outcomes. As such, some of the indicators were hard to



                                            8
associate with one specific component and were designed to be PDO indicators than
intermediate outcome indicators. For example, intermediate outcome indicator 2 on
compliance rates would be related to almost all components of the project and could have
served as a PDO outcome indicator.

There were seven intermediate outcome indicators of which 3 were not monitored by the
project team. Two of these indicators were related to the PI Component and the project
team indicated to the ICR team that these two were not monitored due to slow progress in
this component. The intermediate outcome indicators were not associated with individual
components of the project.

The PDO indicator 4 was not fully consistent with the intermediate outcome indicator 6.
While the PDO indicator 4 referred to the Pensions Institute Reform Strategy "under
implementation" the intermediate outcome indicator 6 indicated "Pensions institute
conducts and implements HR review" indicating a completion of the implementation of
HR review which was a big part of the Pension Institute's reform strategy.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
No safeguards were triggered. The project was classified as environmental Category C.
Project audits during implementation were satisfactory and there were no procurement
problems.

Financial Management: The Financial Supervision mission conducted in December
2008 indicated that the financial management arrangements of the project continue to be
satisfactory to the Bank. The independent audit concluded that the financial statements
were in accordance with the accounting principles and practices set forth in relevant
World Bank guidelines.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The Government is planning to continue with the Pension Institute Reforms. The
business review of the Pensions Institute's existing business processes have been
undertaken and a strategy for restructuring the business processes including the
downsizing of staff supported by training and severance package was produced. The
implementation of the strategy started during the course of the project but the results were
not fully achieved by the end of the project. The Pensions Institute is fully committed to
complete the activities evidenced by the statements by the senior management of the PI
during the ICR mission and the funds allocated for these tasks in 2009 Government
budget. No follow-up Bank financed operation is currently planned.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The objectives of the project, by virtue of establishing a modern efficient social
protection system and institutions with improved capacity, were relevant to the objectives
of the Government at the time of project approval and remain relevant today.




                                             9
The objectives of the project remain relevant to the Bank's assistance strategy for
Croatia. The Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY09-FY12 presents sustaining
macroeconomic stability and improving quality and efficiency in the social sectors as the
Government's main strategic priorities in the context of Croatia's EU accession process.
As such, the CPS refers to the importance of enhancing the effectiveness and efficient
management of public spending for strengthening the economy's ability to withstand
external shocks and increasing the sustainability and equity of the pension system.

The relevance of the project design related to the unified reporting and central registry is
less clear. The project design envisaged a unified reporting and central registry for all
payroll taxes. However, legislative amendment issued in 2004 during the course of the
project and still in effect, cancelled unified reporting which was the basis of the original
project objective of unified reporting and establishment of a central registry. The
establishment individual accounts for the funded pension pillar, reform of the Pension
Institute and institutional strengthening of HANFA and REGOS are still relevant.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The achievement of the two PDOs is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The following text
discusses the achievement of the project objectives based on the outcome indicators.

PDO #1: Improving the effectiveness and transparency of Croatia's system for reporting
and enforcement of social contributions and personal income taxes, in particular for the
new system of funded pensions - Moderately Satisfactory

The project was designed to provide technical assistance to the Government in improving
the effectiveness and transparency of Croatia's system for reporting and enforcement of
social contributions and personal income taxes, in particular for the new system of funded
pensions. Technical assistance - through consultants and World Bank staff - provided as
part of the project is valued by the institutions involved.

Introduction of monthly individual reporting in 2002, which was an administrative
requirement for the functioning of the second pillar was identified then by the
Government as an opportunity to consolidate reporting requirement for all social
contributions, personal income tax and surtax, instead of introducing yet another report to
be submitted by the second pillar contribution payers and was identified as one of the
PDOs for PSIP. Establishment of REGOS and introduction of the monthly unified
reporting system (RS monthly reporting form) was done with the objective to create a
central individual database of all social contribution and personal income tax payers,
updated centrally with status and monthly income data following a single reporting
stream. The central database was to be used by all the relevant institutions. Parallel
registration and reporting systems were to be unified, providing a simpler and efficient
system to both employers and collection authorities.

However, during the course of the project, the Tax Department resisted to use the new
reporting forms claiming that a switch to the new system could/should not be carried out


                                            10
because of the difference in the data contained in the two reports. While the parallel
reporting in the pension system has been successfully substituted with data from the RS
form from January 2004, there was no progress in reducing reporting requirements to the
Tax Department. Instead of simplifying the process to achieve a more user friendly and
transparent reporting system, the project results were opposite with more forms and more
administrative burden on both employees and processing institutions. The Tax
Department's view remains that the old reporting forms could not be substituted with the
new from. Furthermore, Tax Department claimed that monthly personified data on
income tax and surtax withheld is of no importance for efficient collection.

On the funded pillar, the pension system is running smoothly. About 100% of the funds
are successfully transferred to the individual accounts of the plan participants in the
pension funds by REGOS with support from FINA.

This ICR evaluates the achievement of this objective (PDO #1) by the following three
outcome indicators and five intermediate outcome (IO) indicators as listed in Section F:

PDO Indicator 1: Unified database of insured individuals and taxpayers operating - not
achieved. The central registry of insured individuals and personal income tax payers has
not yet been completed as intended in the project design. REGOS successfully maintains
the database of active insured individuals and taxpayers but not the database of all
individuals insured in the health system. While the registration as a taxpayer occurs
independently through the tax withholding procedure, newly employed still have to
register parallel in the pension and health systems.

PDO Indicator 2: Funded pillar contributions channeled into individual accounts - fully
achieved. Contributions to the funded pillar are diverted successfully to the pension funds
at a rate of 99.7%, very close to 100% and 0.7 percentage points higher than the 99%
target value identified for this indicator. Stakeholders are fully satisfied with the quality
and pace of the process managed by REGOS.

PDO Indicator 5: Domestic public debt market within reasonable period issuing longer
maturity domestic currency instruments - fully achieved. The maturity of the bond
market increased from three years to 15 years by the end of the project, five years longer
than the 10 year maturity identified for this indicator allowing for long term instruments
for the investment of pension fund assets which by nature require relatively long term
investment instruments.

IO Indicator 1: Monthly data exchange done on timely and secure basis between FINA
(Financial Agency)/REGOS and other institutions - partially achieved. There is no
structured monthly data exchange between the Tax Department and REGOS. There is
50% data exchange as reported by REGOS, but not on an individual basis.

IO Indicator 2: Compliance rates in new revenue system, including timeliness of
consolidated reporting by employers and self-employed - unclear. The actual value (94%)
presented in the ISR is the collection rate reported by the Pension Institute (and not the



                                             11
compliance rate) for social insurance contributions. Compliance and collection rates are
similar indicators that measure effectiveness of the system in the collection of
contributions/taxes. While compliance rate measures the ability to register
contributors/tax payers and collection of contributions/taxes, collection rate measures the
ability to collect contributions/taxes that are already declared. The project team indicated
that it was not possible to get an explanation on the methodology for the calculation of
baseline (50%) and target (100%) compliance rates for this indicator and decided to
report the collection rate for social contributions. The project team also felt that 50%
baseline value would be too low both for collection and compliance rate. Therefore the
achievement of this indicator is not clear.

IO Indicator 3: For registration of second pillar participants, share of target age groups
registered - fully achieved. All the participants of the pensions system (both mandatory
and voluntary participants) were registered. New entrants become part of the second
pillar automatically once they register.

IO Indicator 4: Data and contribution flows from REGOS/FINA to fund managers
occurring on agreed time basis and with agreed levels of reliability - fully achieved. No
major issues were reported on the data flow. The interview with the chair of the
association of pension fund management companies indicate satisfaction with the
services provided by REGOS.

IO Indicator 5: Fund Managers investing in different classes of assets in accordance
with portfolio rules - partially achieved. The share of governments bonds in total
investments of pension funds in the first 10 months of 2008 was on the average at 62%
down from 81% in 2002 meaning that the pension fund investments actually diversified
away from the government bonds. The share was at 70% at the end of 2008 probably
with the impact of the financial crisis as the fund managers chose to invest in assets with
less risk in an environment of increased uncertainty for relatively better investment
outcomes for the pensioners.

An important part of this PDO, specifically improving the effectiveness and transparency
of Croatia's system for the new system of funded pensions, has been achieved as
supported by PDO Indicators 2 and 5.


PDO # 2:Strengthening capacity in existing and new agencies which manage different
parts of the pension system to operate and regulate the new multi-pillar pension system ­
Moderately Satisfactory.

The project was designed to strengthen the capacity in existing and new agencies which
manage different parts of the pension system to operate and regulate the new multi-pillar
pension system.

This ICR evaluates the achievement of this objective by the following two PDO
indicators and two intermediate IO indicators as listed in Section F.


                                            12
PDO Indicator 3: Management and Staff of HAGENA and REGOS trained and
performing task - achieved. REGOS, a newly established institution in the beginning of
the project, has emerged as an efficient institution and is fully functional. The IT
infrastructure of REGOS was improved using project funds. HANFA (previously
HAGENA) is performing tasks successfully in the supervision of pension funds market.
About 92% of REGOS staff (55 out of total 60) and 80% (20 out of total 25)of
HANFA's pension department staff were trained through project funds The beneficiaries
of the two institutions are satisfied with the services received from and the roles
performed by these two institutions. With the support of these institutions along with the
others involved in the second pillar, the second pillar is operating successfully with no
major problems reported.

PDO Indicator 4: PI reform strategy under implementation, including process analysis
and internal control review - substantially achieved as the analysis of the current
processes of the Pension Institute was undertaken, a business strategy was produced and
the Pensions Institute started implementing the new HR strategy including out-placing
some of the staff skills of which would not be needed as part of the new business
processes.

IO Indicator 6: Pensions Institute has conducted HR review and implements new HR
strategy - partially achieved. The delay in the approval of the restructuring program for PI
and subsequent implementation delayed the progress in the Pension Institute's
component. The business review of the Pensions Institute's existing business processes
have been undertaken and a strategy for restructuring the business processes including the
downsizing of staff supported by training and severance package was produced. The
implementation of the strategy started during the course of the project but the results were
not fully achieved by the end of the project. The Pensions Institute is fully committed to
complete the activities evidenced by the statements by the senior management of the PI
during the ICR mission and the funds allocated for these tasks in 2009 Government
budget.

IO Indicator 7: Number of staff in PI outer project years and number who have
undergone training and/or out-placed - achieved. Pensions Institute employed 3,320 staff
at the start of the project. At the end of the project period, Pensions Institute employed
3,050 staff, 15% of which received training using project funds and 140 employees were
out-placed with agreed work contract termination with their severance package financed
by the project funds.

3.3 Efficiency
The economic analysis presented in the PAD included the results of actuarial modeling of
the impact of pension reform. The PAD presents the transitional budgetary costs of
moving to a multi pillar scheme (the cumulative deficit was estimated to be at 10-11 % of
GDP (or about 1.1% of GDP annually) in the first ten years of reform implementation
and 3-4% of GDP in the following ten years. The PAD notes that the wider fiscal impact
would be expected by the unification and improvements and to the overall reporting and



                                            13
enforcement on payroll and personal income taxes anticipated under the new system and
provides rough estimates of the fiscal impact to be 1.1-1.2 % of GDP, or almost the
annual transition cost from the second pillar.

Projections undertaken during the project period showed an improvement in the fiscal
balance of the pension scheme such that the deficits of the pension scheme will grow
progressively smaller by 2040. The details of the analysis are presented in Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Both of the two development objectives are rated moderately satisfactory. An important
part of the PDO #1, specifically improving the effectiveness and transparency in the
second pillar has been fully achieved. However, the other part of PDO #1 - improving the
effectiveness and transparency of Croatia's system for reporting of social contributions
and personal income taxes - has not been achieved. The central registry of insured
individuals and personal income tax payers has not yet been completed as initially
designed despite the fact that the data sharing has improved compared to the pre-project
period. The achievement of the intermediate output indicator 2 - Compliance rates in new
revenue system, including timeliness of consolidated reporting by employers and self-
employed - which presents a good measure of the effectiveness of the overall revenue
system is unclear. As for PDO #2 - the capacity of the institutions that manage different
parts of the pension system to operate and regulate the multi-pillar pension system - has
been achieved. REGOS and HANFA are fully functional and performing tasks
successfully. The maturity of the bond market increased and government bonds emerged
as an important investment tool for the pension funds. The reform of the Pension Institute
was initiated and the PI is fully committed to finalize the activities initiated under the
project.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development: Following the
introduction of pension reforms, the fiscal deficit of the pension system is projected to
grow progressively smaller by 2040. If the government resources that were to be used to
finance pension deficits are allocated and efficiently used on sectors such as education,
health and infrastructure that are essential for poverty reduction, the project will
indirectly have had some poverty impact.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening: Institutional strengthening was one of the
objectives of the project. The project was designed to support institutional strengthening
and capacity in existing and new agencies which manage different parts of the pension
system and regulate the new multi-pillar pension system. With support from the project
institutional capacity was improved at HANFA, REGOS, pensions Institute and the
Ministry of Finance.




                                           14
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts: The project included institutional
strengthening in its design but FINA was not a direct beneficiary of the project. As part
of the project, a technical analysis to improve the efficiency of FINA as an institution was
undertaken that provides a basis for FINA to improve the inherent inefficiencies in its
current structure that also affect the revenue particularly the pension system.

As FINA is the main service provider to REGOS, REGOS is paying for the services
provided by FINA. However, due to the inefficiencies inherent in FINA's structure, the
prices charged to REGOS by FINA are relatively higher than the prices charged to other
commercial customers of FINA. If the rates charged by FINA to other clients are
considered as the market rates, it seems that FINA might be overcharging REGOS. As
FINA is also a quasi Government institution and any deficit would need to be covered by
the Government anyway, this relationship between REGOS and FINA prevents the
deficit from being fully transparent.

Another outcome from the way the funded pillar is set up in Croatia is that the pension
fund management companies are not being charged for the services provided by REGOS.
It is not clear if the pension fund management companies would need to introduce
additional charges to the funded pension pillar participants if the companies had to pay
REGOS for services. However, eventually this cost is being paid by the tax revenues (as
the government allocates resources for REGOS for the assigned tasks) and not by the
pensioners that actually benefit from the services of the pension fund management
companies.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not Applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The risk to development outcome is low. Under the fiscal pressure as a result of the
global financial crisis, the Government is considering some changes to the funded
pension pillar including allowing the participants of the second pillar between ages 40-50
to switch back to the first pillar. This is not expected to affect the current multi-pillar
structure of the pension system in Croatia and the roles and functioning of the current
institutions in Croatia. The potential changes may have an impact on the fiscal situation
and the estimated benefits of the switchers compared to the current situation. If such a
shift materializes, the potential impact will vary depending on the number of individuals
that switch back to the first pillar and their age structure.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
During the time of project preparation, necessary work was undertaken on the analysis of
the pensions sector and the results of the actuarial analysis were presented in the PAD.



                                            15
Also, the PAD clearly outlines the institutional structure and the issues related to the
overall revenue collection and pension sector indicating that a great deal of analysis was
undertaken by the project team during preparation that was successfully presented in the
PAD. However, the preparation took a long time. The agreement for the Project
Preparation Facility was signed in January 1999 and the project became effective in
February 2003, more than three years after the starting date of the preparation. The
project documents indicate that the it took time for the new Government to organize itself
in the policy and implementation issues of pension reform. In retrospect, it was a good
decision to not to rush for project effectiveness and wait for the decisions for the main
policies to be taken before project effectiveness. The Bank team also included into the
project design the recommendations of the Quality-at-Entry Review. Overall, the Bank
involvement in project preparation or approval was satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The project was monitored regularly by the Bank. The Bank team was diligent in its
communication with the Government and the Bank Management, providing up-to-date
information and analysis on the status and impact of project activities, issues
encountered, and options as to how best to deal with the changes that occurred during
project implementation. These changes required a number of modifications to the legal
documents which were effectively carried out in a timely manner. The Bank staff had a
good relationship with the institutions involved and provided effective support during
implementation. The issues related to the unified reporting and the slow progress in the
Pensions Institute component were effectively presented in the project documents and the
issues and the actions to be taken were effectively presented in the Aide Memoires. With
efforts of the project team and the restructuring undertaken, the PI component became
effective despite delays. Unfortunately, despite many efforts and attempts by the project
team to convince the Tax Department for cooperation on unified reporting, the results
could have been more positive. There was no mid-term review undertaken for the project.
In retrospect, the Bank team could have requested a mid-term review of the project that
would have provided an objective outside evaluation of the project and could have
provided direction for the project especially on the unified reporting.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank's overall performance is on balance rated Moderately Satisfactory because
while the preparation stage was successful, the Bank was less than successful during the
implementation period. However, the Bank did a good job in realistically assessing the
project implementation and informing the Government institutions on the actions to be
taken to make progress on project implementation.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Pursuing the reform agenda supported by the project required a strong commitment by
the Government. Overall, the authorities supported the project throughout the project



                                           16
implementation period. However, the Restructuring Program for Pensions Institute took
a long time to be approved by the Government. Furthermore, the Government issued
legislation on unified reporting that was not consistent with the project objectives.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The PAD identified the Project Implementation Unit as the implementing agency and the
HANFA (previously HAGENA) as the responsible agency for the project as the PIU was
formed in HANFA. However, there were multiple agencies involved responsible for
different parts of the project along with HANFA including the Ministry of Finance (also
the Tax Department), Pensions Institute and REGOS. FINA was not directly involved in
the project but played an important role in implementation as the service provider to
REGOS. In the course of the project, all the institutions benefited from the technical
assistance provided by the project that contributed to improving their capacity. However,
HANFA was reluctant to continue to have the PIU, and after a long period the PIU was
transferred to the Pension Institute less than a year before the project Closing Date. It
was difficult for the Pensions Institute to carry out all project-related activities while also
implementing its own component, since most of the activities were also taking place in
the last year as the restructuring program was approved with a delay. The Pensions
Institute did a good job in taking over the PIU (consisting of PI staff) and continuing
implementation. On the other hand, it was the slow progress in this component that
caused delays in implementation and led to two years of project extensions. Even after
these two years, project activities were not fully completed, although most were initiated
and there was a strong commitment for sustainability supported by government allocation
of funds in the 2009 budget. REGOS efficiently benefited from the assistance provided
through the project and successful in implementing the funded pension pillar with clients
satisfied with the services it provided. Ministry of Finance was successful in
implementing the debt market related components with outcomes beyond what was
expected as part of the project. The Tax Department was reluctant to cooperate
throughout project implementation and resisted to implement unified reporting and
support central registry despite major efforts by the project team.

The delayed transfer of the PIU by HANFA to the PI, the less than satisfactory
cooperation by the Tax Department and the delays in the implementation of the Pensions
Institute component affected project implementation. Had these institutions' actions been
more closely aligned with the project's objectives, the project could have achieved better
results. Therefore, the performance of the implementing agencies is rated moderately
unsatisfactory.
 (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: The overall rating for Borrower's performance is Moderately Unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
     It is important to thoroughly assess commitment by all the institutions involved as
       the absence of a full buy-in by all the institutions may negatively affect the
       achievement of project objectives.




                                              17
      Consensus building among the stakeholders is critical to the success and
      sustainability of any pension reform.
      It is important to correctly assess the capacity of the institutions to implement
      reforms identified in the project.
      Project teams should agree on a set of well-defined relevant indicators and
      carefully monitor them during project implementation.
      A well planned institutional strategy can support the creation of well functioning
      institutions.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower has reviewed the Bank draft and had no comments or objections. The
Borrower ICR is in Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not Applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not Applicable




                                          18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
Components                   Appraisal     Costs after   Actual/Latest Percentage of
                             Estimate (USD Restructuring Estimate      Appraisal
                             millions)                   (USD
                                                         millions)
1. CAPACITY BUILDING
FOR HAGENA AND                            4.00          2.20             1.77   80.00
REGOS
2. IMPLEMENTATION
SUPPORT FOR PUBLIC
                                         18.70         19.50         16.55      84.87
REVENUE AND FUNDED
PENSION REFORMS
3. PENSION INSTITUTE
                                         11.30         12.30             8.24   70.00
REFORM.
4. PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION                            0.60          0.60             0.26   43.00
UNIT

Total Baseline Cost                      34.60         34.60     26.82          77.51
       Total Project Costs               34.60         34.60     26.82          77.51
Front-end fee PPF                         0.70          0.70     0.46           66.00
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.30          0.30     0.27           90.00
           Total Financing               35.60         35.60     27.55          77.39
                Required

(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                         Type of Co-   Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                          financing     (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                       millions)   millions)
Borrower                                                  8.30        6.33       67.27

 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                         27.30       21.22        77.73
and Development




                                                 19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Capacity Building for HAGENA and REGOS (actual cost is US$1.77
million). This component was designed to support institutional development and
strengthening of capacity of HAGENA and REGOS to operate and regulate the collection
and investment system for privately managed pension funds, including investment in
goods, consultancy, and training.

Achievements under Component 1: This component contributed to the capacity building
of REGOS and HAGENA. With support from the project REGOS is performing its
functions successfully as the registry for the pension system. The database for second
pillar contributors and the transfer of second pillar contributions to the private pension
management companies are managed successfully by REGOS through support by FINA.
HANFA performs successfully as the supervisor of private pension fund management
companies that are fully satisfied with the operations of HANFA.

Funds in this component were used to finance capacity building activities at HANFA and
REGOS through training-including payments to consultants - (IT, management,
institutional development, fund management, actuarial support, workshops, study tours,
etc.) purchase/ upgrade of hardware and software.

Component 2: Implementation Support for Public Revenue and Funded Pension
Reforms (actual cost is US$16.55 million). This component was aimed to support the
database operation and maintenance for unified employer reporting on obligatory
contributions, as well as costs associated with introduction of second pillar pensions. It
would finance incremental operating costs associated with the FINA activities. It would
also finance TA on overall public revenue institutional reform and development of the
public debt market, and TA to strengthen the consolidated control and enforcement
functions under MOF.

Achievements under Component 2: Activities completed under this component include
the development of Bloomberg-terminal auction-based primary T-bills market; a
consultant report on options for reforming the primary government bond market system
towards a combination of the auction and primary dealer system has been delivered and
the follow-up workshop organized; assessment of the roles and responsibilities of Tax
Department and other institutions in payroll tax revenue and information flows
completed; completion of FINA's Development Strategy and payment of incremental
operating costs of FINA related to project implementation that included non-government
personnel wages, travel and translation expenses, office supplies and equipment,
technical services.

Component 3: Pension Institute Reform (actual cost is US$8.24 million). This
component was designed to support improvements in the efficiency and effectiveness of
the PI through investments to support strategic planning, reengineering internal business
processes, and effective management of personnel. It would also finance IT investments



                                           20
to improve the functions of the PI office network, training for management and PI staff,
and a menu of options for dismissed or outsourced workers. Investments would be made
in goods, training and consultancy.

Achievements under Component 3: This component contributed to the restructuring and
capacity building of Pensions Institute. The review and analysis of business processes
(BPR) that also included the training and severance programs was completed. The BPR
included the analysis of all current business processes (about 300 core and supporting
business processes and recommendations on the redesign of future processes along with
the use of information technology. Based on the results of the BPR, the legislation on the
severance program was issued in November 2008 and 140 employees of the Pensions
Institute were out-placed with agreed work termination and with the severance package
financed by the project funds. A plan for professional training of the employees of the
Pensions Institute in 2008 was prepared and about 15% of the total employees (including
the management) at the Pensions Institute took some training on human resources and on
foreign languages.

The document management system (DMS) the objective of which is to move to an
electronic document management system in order to reduce the quantity of paperwork ,
improve the efficiency through simplifying the process and reducing the number of
individuals participating in the process was initiated. The first phase of the document
management system included procurement and installation of the of the IT equipment for
the pilot project. The functional data management specifications for the pilot project were
undertaken and the test version of document management system related to the process
for eligibility for pension rights was developed.

A part of procurement and installation of IT equipment for the first phase of the
Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system implementation module was financed from
the loan. The objective of the ERP is to support the implementation of a system to
improve the efficiency in the execution of financial and administrative activities, and
decision making process in the Pensions Institute.

Component 4: Project Implementation Unit (actual cost is US$0.26 million).
This component was designed to support the operations of the PIU, including core
procurement and FM functions, through investments in goods, training, consultancy and
operating costs. It would also support specialist IT and project management TA and
project audits.

Achievements under Component 4: Funds in this component were used to the training
of the PIU staff, project management and project audit costs.




                                            21
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Among the improvements included in the project design, the fiscal impact of the pension
reform is the one that is measurable. The fiscal balance of the pension system
deteriorated steadily throughout 1990s with the deficit increasing from 1.6% of GDP in
1994 to 5.5% of GDP by 2000. This was mostly the result of steadily rising expenditures
(see Table 1) although revenues did fall slightly from 1996 to 2000 as a result of reduced
formal sector employment (partly due to rising unemployment and partly due to
increasing labor market informality) and enterprise restructuring. The pension system
was expected to face even greater challenges in the medium to long-term under the
expected aging of the Croatian population.

Table 1: Croatian Pension System Fiscal Balance Prior to Reform (Percent of GDP)
                    1994     1995      1996   1997       1998     1999      2000
Revenues             8.1      8.6       8.7     8.6       7.5      7.4       7.3
Expenditures         9.7     10.8      11.4    12.5      12.0     13.3      12.8
Balance             (1.6)    (2.2)     (2.7)  (3.9)      (4.5)    (5.9)     (5.5)
Source: Anusic, O'Keefe and Sujster (2003).

As a result of the Government's reforms, revenues are now projected to remain stable
while expenditures will drop gradually, from 12% of GDP in 2005 to about 9% of GDP
by 2040, such that the deficits of the pension scheme will grow progressively smaller by
2040 (Figure 1).

Figure 1: Estimated Fiscal Balance of the Public Pension Scheme (Percent of GDP)
     14.0%
                          Ex penditure
                                                   Rev enue
     12.0%

     10.0%

      8.0%

      6.0%

      4.0%
                                         Deficit
      2.0%


            2005   2010   2015           2020           2025   2030   2035   2040
     (2.0% )

     (4.0% )

          Source: Anusic (2007).




                                                        22
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Philip O'Keefe            Lead Social Protection Specialist   EASHD
Zoran Anusic              Sr. Economist                       ECSHD
David Lindeman            Principal Pensions Advisor          HDDSP
Eszter Kovacs             Procurement Officer                 ECCHU
                          Sr. Financial Management
Hiran Herat                                                   ECCHR
                          Specialist
Verdon Staines            Sr. Economist                       AFTH3
Imelda Mueller            Operation Analyst                   ECSHD
Herman Von Gersdorff      Sector Leader                       LCSHD
Rhoda Davis               Pensions Consultant
Gerry Fitzpatrick         Pensions Consultant

Supervision/ICR
Neven Bratranek           Consultant                          ECSHD
Ivan Drabek               Operations Officer                  ECSHD
Antonia G. Viyachka       Procurement Specialist              ECSPS
Ufuk Guven                Social Protection Specialist        ECSHD

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                                  114.14
  FY00                                          22.56                    87.38
  FY01                                          27.9                     86.96
  FY02                                          43.7                    133.80
  FY03                                           0.7                      0.437
  FY04                                                                    0.00
  FY05                                                                    0.00
  FY06                                                                    0.00
  FY07                                                                    0.00
  FY08                                                                    0.00
                          Total:                94.86                   422.72




                                           23
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                   0.36
  FY00                          2.45     7.1
  FY01                                   0.00
  FY02                                   0.00
  FY03                       17.44      33.35
  FY04                       22.36      47.98
  FY05                       20.42      46.83
  FY06                       20.2       39.28
  FY07                       21.68      44.73
  FY08                       22.14      39.99
  FY09                       26.26      72.49
                  Total:    152.95     332.12




                           24
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable




                                      25
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable




                                     26
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY, LABOR
AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP
10000 Zagreb, Ulica grada Vukovara 78
PENSION INSURANCE DEPARTMENT

Class: 400-01/09-01/03
Reg. No: 526-09-02/1-09-3
Zagreb, April 15, 2009
                                                            THE WORLD BANK
                                                            Country Office in Croatia
                                                            Radnicka cesta 80/IX
                                                            c/o: Mr. Andras Horvai

Subject: Evaluation of the Pension System Investment Project (PSIP) to be delivered

Dear Sir,

In reference to the completion of the Pension System Investment Project (the loan closing
date is December 31, 2008 and the final deadline for the use of the loan funds is April 30,
2009 because the grace period was approved subsequently) financed with the funds of the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, we hereby submit the Draft
Project Report prepared by the Ministry of Economy, Labor and Entrepreneurship.

The Draft Report includes an overview of activities and assets performed and used by
each loan beneficiary, presented separately, and the evaluation of success of the loan,
made by all institutions that have used it and by the Ministry of Economy, Labor and
Entrepreneurship as an independent body which is in charge for implementation of the
pension reform.

You are kindly requested to submit to us the final report after the subject Draft Report is
consolidated with the part of the report that will be prepared by the World Bank. We will
then submit the final report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for adoption.

                                                                       Yours sincerely,
                                                                   STATE SECRETARY
                                                                           Vera Babi

CC:
1. Ministry of Finance, c/o Zdravko Mari, State Secretary
2. Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, c/o Ivica Letini, Member of the
Board
3. Croatian Institute for Pension Insurance
4. Central Register of Insured Persons, c/o Dario Culi, Director



                                            27
                 PENSION SYSTEM INVESTMENT PROJECT (PSIP)
                             PROJECT DRAFT REPORT
                   Ministry of Economy, Labor and Entrepreneurship
                                    April 14, 2009

1. STATUS PREVIOUS TO SIGNING OF THE LOAN AGREEMENT: It became clear
in 1998 that the existing public pension insurance system in the Republic of Croatia, was
not capable of maintaining the level of pensions for future generations and required
systematic changes. The fragmented nature of the contribution collection system, in
which collection of contributions was divided between Pension Insurance Institute and
Health Insurance Institutes while Tax Administration was in charge of collection of taxes
contributed to the inefficiencies in the system For this reason, a decision was taken for a
comprehensive reform of the pension system..

The objective of the pension reform that started in early 1999 was to establish a pension
system that is fiscally and socially sustainable in the long term, The new pension system
would be financed in two ways: in the current basis and from capitalized pension savings
also allow the possibility of long-term planning of capitalized pension savings and
would address the problems in the existing pay-as-you-go system.

2. LOAN AGREEMENT: As the new pension system required substantial financial
resources that the Republic of Croatia could not provide on its own, a loan was accepted
from the IBRD. And was confirmed with the Act on Confirmation of the Loan
Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the IBRD for the PSIPt (Official Gazette
­ International Contracts No. 2/2003).The Loan Agreement for the PSIP ensured to the
Republic of Croatia USD 27.3 million; together with the share that the Republic of
Croatia had to provide (USD 8.3 million), the overall funds earmarked for the pension
system reform totaled USD 35.6 million. The purpose of the PSIP was to support the
already started activities on pension reform in order to improve the efficiency and
transparency of Croatia's system of compulsory filing and collecting of contributions and
income tax returns for the purpose of the new capitalized system of pension insurance.
Other things that were also planned included financing of the strengthening of
management and regulatory potentials of the existing and new bodies in charge of
management of individual parts of the pension system and further institutional
development of the agencies that would take part in carrying out of the pension reform,
HAGENA (later on HANFA) and the REGOSas the institutional forms, and the reform of
the existing Institute for Pension Insurance (HZMO) ­ a public institution that remained
in charge of the pay-as-you-go system.

The Coordination Committee was founded by a Government decision in June 2002 for
Monitoring and Supervision of the Realization of the Loan Agreement for the PSIP
including the supervision of the work of the Project Implementation Unit under the
HANFA at the time.

In accordance with the modifications in the supervision of financial services, the Agency
for Supervision of Pension Funds and Insurance was replaced with the Croatian Financial



                                            28
Services Supervisory Agency Act (Official Gazette No. 140/05). The Decision on
founding of the Coordination Committee was also modified a number of times based
primarily on the appointment of the members of the Committee in accordance with the
modifications in the internal organization of the Government. The most important
modification was related to the Project Implementation Unit which was moved from
HAGENA to Pension Institute as it remained the last beneficiary of the loan in most of its
part.

3. ASSESSMENTS OF PERFORMANCE OF INDIVIDUAL LOAN BENEFICIARIES:
Further in the text are the individual loan beneficiaries' reports on the activities carried
out within each individual component and assessments of the performance of the
activities carried out.

1. Ministry of Finance (MoF): Establishing of a platform for carrying out of electronic
auctions of securities and elaboration of the placement of primary dealer system for debt
securities was proposed within the stand-by arrangement with the World Bank and with
the World Bank's project "Debt Management Development in the Republic of Croatia."
Based on the above and within the PSIP consultants were selected for preparation of the
expert background for carrying out of electronic auctions and establishing of a primary-
dealer system adapted to Croatian financial market; to this end, resources were earmarked
within the Loan for financing of the licenses for the electronic auction systems.

Establishing of a platform for carrying out of electronic auctions of securities: The said
consultancy engaged in the following activities: (i) reviewing the legal basis for
electronic tendering during security auctions in the Republic of Croatia; (ii) assessing the
compatibility of Bloomberg auction system and Croatian market; (iii) assessing of
securities and defining inadequate functionalities; (iv) exploring whether participants in
Croatian security market have access to or plan to purchase the terminals required for
submission of tenders via Bloomberg auction system; (v) preparing specifications of
security systems in Bloomberg auction system in terms of electronic protection and data
confidentiality; (vi) preparing manuals for auctioneers by defining all auction phases;
(vii) providing training for users of the system; ensuring testing of all systems; providing
support during carrying out of the first "live" auctions by means of Bloomberg auction
system. In the period from February to July 2006, all the planned activities with a total
cost of US$47,250.

Elaboration of the concept of the placement of debt securities through a primary-dealer
system: The consultancy engaged in the following activities: (i) preparing a primary-
dealer market strategy for the MoF; (ii) formulating criteria for selection of primary
dealers; (iii) proposing a supervisory body the basic responsibility of which would be to
supervise fulfillment of primary dealers' obligations as specified in their defined rights
and obligations; (iv) developing application procedures for primary dealers; (v) creating a
model for assessment of the fulfillment of the rights and obligations of primary dealers by
the institution in charge of the supervision; (vi) carrying out of the supervision and
control by the supervising body; (v) defining auction schedules; (vi) preparing of a
manual for auctioneering by using primary dealers with defined procedures and reports



                                            29
that, in a standardized form, would be published on Internet pages or on paper; (vii)
preparing training materials in accordance with the auctioneers' manual and organizing
training courses. In the period from March to July 2006, all the planned activities were
performed and the value of his consultancy contract was US$50,250.

Financing of licenses for Bloomberg system for carrying out of treasury-note
auctions:The contract between Bloomberg L. P. and the Ministry of Finance covers the
following services: (i) moderating electronic security auctions; (ii) announcing security
auctions to all participants in the financial market; (iii) tendering at security auctions;
ranking of bids; closing of auctions; (iv) announcing security auction results; (v)
monitoring prices and returns on domestic and foreign debt securities; (vi) follow-up of
information on the developments in the entire domestic and international financial
markets

Since March 2007, the MoF has been using only the electronic Bloomberg auction
system for carrying out treasury-note auctions. This way, the MoF has improved the
efficiency and transparency of the auction process, acquiring the automated and modern
auction system used by many developed countries of the world in placing of debt
securities. The fee for the use of two licenses for Bloomberg Professional services for a
period of two years was US$66,395.8o and was financed from the Loan.. The new system
improved the efficiency and transparency of the auction process and enabled access to a
wide circle of investors in government securities, which, in turn, has contributed to the
promotion of liquidity of Croatian financial system and to the development of an efficient
infrastructure in Croatian capital market.

2. Financial Agency (FINA): FINA Development Strategy: The objectives were as
follows: ensuring a clearly defined mission, vision and strategy; ensuring division into
basic and supporting activities of FINA; an optimal development plan with defined
dynamics; and an operating plan.. In coordination with the FINA Management, FINA
Supervisory Board and MoF, the vision, mission and strategy was analyzed and defined.
A qualitative and quantitative analysis of the existing situation was also prepared.
Strategic initiatives and goals were selected and an analysis of strategic options was
carried out. An implementation plan connected with options for legal restructuring as was
made.

Human Resources Management Strategy: The project included the following activities:
(i) Evaluation of the complexity of work posts; (ii) A new design of performance
management system; (iii) A new wage system in accordance with the evaluation of new
work posts was prepared. This project is crucial for FINA for the following reasons as,
FINA currently does not have a clearly defined system of work performance follow-up
that would be connected with wage system.

Asset Management Strategy: The main goals of the project were to transfer knowledge
and real-property management methodology to a selected FINA's team and to prepare a
concept of real-property management strategy and define the preconditions which are to
be met so that the FINA-owned real-property activation and management could be



                                            30
successful and efficient. The project had three phases and a series of working meetings
and three workshops were organized according to the adopted schedule.The project and
the work on it have addressed numerous issues, topics and guidelines that helped FINA's
team to realize the complexity of business real-property management.

Based on the above said and on the Project deliveries, our conclusion is that the goals of
the Project have been achieved and that implementation of the Project's results is
currently underway.

Corporate Management Index: The project's goal was to develop a methodology for
calculation of the corporate management index, train FINA's employees to apply it, run
pilot tests in 20 companies and develop a business plan. From the very beginning of the
project, the representatives of the Zagreb Stock Exchange, HANFA and MoF had been
involved in the project through the Coordination Committee in order to establish a
sustainable model. The project was completed at the end of last year, but no final
agreement with the members of the Coordination Committee has been reached on mutual
coordination and support.

3. Central Register of Insured Persons (REGOS): Two new institutions that the
reformed system would need were established with the start of the pension reform: the
Agency for Supervision of Pension Funds and Insurance (HAGENA) and the Central
Register of Insured Persons (REGOS). REGOS was established by the Decree on
Establishing of the Central Register of Insured Persons (Official Gazette No. 101/99).
REGOS's primary task is to conceive, build and improve an operating system and an
appertaining information system for the purpose of pension insurance on the basis of
individual capitalized savings and keeping and maintaining of a register of data on the
contributions to compulsory pension insurance by insurees, i.e. to provide technical
support to the second pillar of pension insurance.

The basic activities and tasks of REGOS include: (i) enabling applying to and changing
of a compulsory pension fund,(ii)gathering and controlling of insure data for compulsory
pension insurances by use of R-S/R-Sm Form; (iii) registering contributions for
individual capitalized savings paid by contribution payers and connecting them with the
appertaining data on the calculated contributions to the second pillar of pension
insurance, as well as contributions to the pay-as-you-go system for the second income;
(iv) keeping personal accounts of compulsory pension insurance fund
members,(v)calculating incoming and outgoing pension benefits and forwarding them to
a compulsory pension company; (vi) converting paid contributions into accounting units;
providing insight into statement of account and account turnover and providing support
when closing down personal accounts and transferring the assets of fund members to
legitimate beneficiaries; (vii) keeping and maintaining of the Register; (viii) issuing
certificates from the Register; (ix) exchanging information from the Register; (x) carrying
out data protection.

For creation and implementation of an operating system, REGOS was using the existing
material and human resources of its outsourcing partners: Financial Agency, Agency for



                                            31
Support to Information Systems and Information Technologies Ltd. ((hereinafter: APIS
IT) and Croatian Institute for Pension Insurance (hereinafter: HZMO).

An overview of the planned and actually spent loan funds divided by categories during
the period of the use of the loan is presented below.

                                                                                                  SPENT,
                   PLANNED                                                                       TOTALLY        SPENT
    CATEGORY         (USD)                       ACTUALLY SPENT (USD)                              (USD)          (%)
        1              2              3              4          5        6            7         8=3+4+5+6+7      9=8/2
                                    2003           2004        2005     2006         2007
INCREMENTAL        11,085,000.00 4,783,799.68   5,825,844.44 475,355.88      0              0   11,085,000.00      100
COSTS
GOODS                105,145.07     52,871.83     25,090.77     25,566.31        0         0       103,528.91     98.46
CONSULTING            96,071.43      4,421.44     30,245.02     24,304.98   587.45 34,112.37        93,671.26      97.5
SERVICES
TECHNICAL             15,926.52            0              0          0,00 3,838.72 10,680.94        14,519.66     91.16
SERVICES
      TOTAL        11,302,143.02 4,841,092.95   5,881,180.23   525,227.17 4,426.17 44,793.31    11,296,719.83     99.95



From its founding to the present-day, REGOS has carried out all the business process
activities from its competence: forming of an integrated insure data base in the system of
individual capitalized savings; applying to and changing of membership in a compulsory
pension fund; receiving R-S/R-Sm Forms; linking the data from R-S/R-Sm Form with the
data on payments of contributions for the second pillar of pension insurance; daily
forwarding of the linked assets of the second-pillar contributions paid to compulsory
pension funds and companies; keeping unified accounting of the personal accounts of
insurees-members of compulsory pension funds; and closing of personal accounts due to
eligibility to a pension from the second pillar of the pension insurance. All the data
gathered through the activities in REGOS's competency are entered in the Registry. The
Register is a set of data systematically kept in an electronic form; it consists of the main
and auxiliary collections and other records. All the data can be found in one place,
categorized by insurees and linked to wages and other receipts. The well designed formal,
accounting and logical controls applied when receiving R-S/R-Sm Forms result in
updated and correct data entered in the Register.

R-S/R-Sm Form has been designed for the purpose of follow-up and distribution of the
contributions for the second pillar of pension insurance to personal accounts of the
second-pillar insurees. REGOS enters the data from R-S/R-Sm Form into the Register.
Replacing the forms with just one form has led to rationalization of the reporting system
and has unburdened both the employers and institutions.

From the Register, the collected data are continually forwarded to other institutions in the
system:
    - Croatian Institute for Pension Insurance ­ every 15 days, data from all the
       received R-S/R-Sm Forms, and once a month, the data on the persons who did not
       have to join one of the compulsory pension funds but decided to do it voluntarily
       and the data on the connected first-pillar payments based on a second income,




                                                     32
   -   Croatian Institute for Pension Insurance ­ every 15 days, data on a second
       income, and once a month, the data on the persons who did not have to join one of
       the compulsory pension funds but decided to do it voluntarily,
   -   Croatian Employment Bureau ­ once a month, data on a second income,
   -   Tax Administration ­ once a month, changes of the balance of contribution payers
       on December 31, 2004, and daily, by means of replication of the base in APIS IT,
       data on the second-pillar insurees,
   -   Ministry of Family, War Veterans and Intergenerational Solidarity ­ periodically,
       not more than twice a month, data on beneficiaries of certain rights arising from
       the Rights of Croatian Homeland War Veterans and Their families Act, for the
       purpose of supervision and control of authorized spending and elimination of
       payments of undeserved cash benefits,
   -   Other users ­ at their request.

The collected data in the Registry of one institution can be used by other institutions by
means of an electronic exchange system for performing activities within their
competencies, with no need for additional administration and no need for obtaining such
data from other subjects in the environment.

Pursuant to the provisions of the Act on Collection of Compulsory Pension Insurance
Contribution Data by Insurees, REGOS issues to insurees, at their request, certificates on
the data entered for such insurees in the Register. A Registry certificate is issued for the
purpose of exercising the rights arising from labor relations and for other purposes (e.g.
taking loans from commercial banks) and is considered as a public document. Except by
means of certificates, insurees-members of compulsory pension funds can have insight
via Internet into the contributions paid for the second pillar of pension system which have
been recorded on their personal accounts. This way, the data collection system for public
payments which refers to the contributions for compulsory pension insurances is
transparent ­ the information that the insurees receive in order to protect their rights is of
better quality and they can undertake necessary actions in disputes with employers when
they have Register certificates serving as public documents.

One of the important implemented activities that is being carried out successfully is
keeping of unified accounting of the personal accounts. Keeping unified accounting of
the personal accounts of the compulsory pension fund members includes: receiving the
total amount of payments for individual capitalized savings; linking it with the data from
the appertaining R-S, Form; forwarding the assets to a compulsory pension fund and a
compulsory pension company; conversion into accounting units and recording it on
personal accounts of pension fund members; keeping records on personal accounts of
pension fund members; transferring assets from one pension fund to another; closing of
personal accounts and forwarding assets to legal receivers; forwarding unrelated
payments to a temporary account and forwarding payments for insurees who have not
chosen their compulsory pension funds within a statutory time limit; withdrawal of
subsequently payments from the temporary account; withdrawal of assets from
compulsory pension funds on the basis of submitted corrective R-Sm Forms; and




                                             33
establishing of data flow systems required for keeping of the unified accounting of
personal accounts.

On December 31, 2008, the second-pillar contributions that were forwarded to
compulsory pension funds accounted for 99.53% of the total contributions paid in the
above mentioned period. Due to the above, it is clear that REGOS has implemented its
part of the Pension System Investment Project, providing technical support to the pension
insurance based on individual capitalized savings. Compared to the period before the
Project, the system has improved owing to the introduction of the system of electronic
data exchange among institutions and increased transparency of the data collection
system in the part of public payments relating to the contributions to compulsory pension
insurance.

4. Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency ­ (HANFA): As one of the users
of the loan for the Pension System Investment Project, former Agency for Supervision of
Pension Funds and Insurance (HAGENA) has been using the loan funds according to the
Procurement Plan from the PAD (Project Appraisal Document), which, together with the
Loan Agreement, is a key document that contains the data on the planned activities.

Within the HAGENA's component, the loan funds have been used as follows: (i)For
purchase of goods (IT equipment, printing of bulletins, purchase of literature, purchase of
computer licenses); (ii)For financing of consultant and technical services (educational
campaign, preparation of studies, Internet connections and information platforms) (iii)For
education (study tours, seminars, workshops, organizing of international conferences).

Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, which started its operation on January
1, 2006, as a legal successor of HAGENA, continued to use the loan funds for purchase
of equipment and education throughout 2006 and in early 2007. Having examined the
course of the Project, having assessed the level of achievement of the Project's strategic
goals and taking into consideration the real needs of the loan beneficiaries, the
Coordination Committee for Monitoring and Supervision of the Pension System
Investment Project made the Decision on Reallocation of Unspent Resources of the
Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency to the Components of Other
Beneficiaries, so that, after passing of the Decision, Croatian Financial Services
Supervisory Agency was not a loan beneficiary any more.

Due to the above and due to reallocation of the resources within the same category and
financing of certain activities from budget funds, some of the activities (specified in the
PAD document) differ from those actually realized. It should also be mentioned that the
procurement plan as such underwent changes during the Project, in accordance with the
needs of beneficiaries and with approval of the World Bank. The goals of the Pension
System Investment Project are connected with the scope of work of numerous
institutions. Based on the indicators specified as crucial in the Project Design Summary
within the PAD document, which concern the competence of Croatian Financial Services
Supervisory Agency (efficient implementation of the pension reform, continuous and
efficient work of Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency and competence of its



                                            34
employees, investment in various types of assets in accordance with rules of
management), our opinion is that the Project was successful and that the goals of the
business operation of Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency were achieved.

5. Croatian Institute for Pension Insurance (HZMO): The table in Annex III (World
Bank PSIP Loan Realization ­ Activities) contains the data on the activities planned,
carried out and not-carried out; funds spent and unspent; and on time periods of every
individual activity. While all planned activities except purchase of the central computer
(HOST) were carried out, some of them were not carried out to the planned extent (e.g.
training of employees) and for some of them not all the earmarked funds were spent.

The host computer was bought with budget funds because it was not possible to reach an
agreement with the World Bank on the form of tendering (number and structure of lots);
as a result, the project funds originally earmarked for purchase of the HOST were
transferred (with the Bank's approval) for financing of new IT equipment for ESUD.

There was a difference between the funds planned and the funds actually spent because
some consulting services and IT equipment were contracted at a price below the planned
amounts and because one IT-equipment contract was not fully realized, so a part of the
contract will be paid from the budget funds (ERP).

The training of retained personnel was not carried out to the planned extent because the
idea of the training was to train the employees of the Institute for acquiring of new
knowledge and skills required for performing job tasks in redesigned business processes
and in the new organizational structure of the Institute. As defining of the required new
knowledge and skills depended on the completion of business process re-engineering
(BPR) which was completed on October 24, 2008, there was not enough time to carry out
the training completely. The training was carried out only for those employees whose job
tasks are included in the redesigned business processes.

Severance pays were lower than planned because the overall funds earmarked for the
purpose were reduced after the budget revision in 2008.

The goals specified in the PSIP Loan were achieved through the activities included in the
procurement plan:

1. Good (IT equipment) for the Needs of ESUD and ERP: Electronic System for
Document Management (ESUD): Given the specific nature of the Institute's business
technology and the possibility of realization, development of a new solution for ESUD
project will have two phases.

Phase I ­ financed from the Loan funds. The IT equipment planned for the ESUD Phase I
(a pilot project) was purchased and installed. A functional specification of the ESUD
pilot project referring to processes of pension entitlement was prepared. For now, Phase I
comprises the requirements for old-age and early retirements and the requirements for
survivors' pensions. A test presentation of the possibilities of ESUD in the part of the



                                           35
included processes was made for the first time on the basis of the functionality that had
been developed. The pilot project will start with production in early March 2009 in the
Split chapter and in the Central Office in Zagreb. By means of web applications, insurees
can request and obtain electronic calculation of their pensions for their information; they
can submit a request for pre-completion of documentation; they can submit a request for
retirement and have insight into and control over the records on their length of service for
retirement and their wages.

Phase II ­ Gradual introduction of the new system will be taking place in other
organizational units of the Institute, subject to fulfillment of technical conditions
(appropriate telecommunication equipment). The second ESUD phase will be financed
with budget funds. In 2009, extension and improvement of the Institute's computer
network will be financed. This will enable implementation of ESUD in all organizational
units of the Institute; it will accelerate access to the network, enable a higher number of
users of applications and speed up the work of around 3,000 employees of the Institute.

Introduction of ESUD will ensure the system's long-term capability of permanent storing
of all relevant documents on insurees and beneficial owners of rights arising from
pension insurance, as well as of business documentation. It will substantially increase the
usability of the stored data for the purpose of maximum efficiency in solving of the status
of insurees and beneficial owners of rights arising from pension insurance, as well as in
the Institute's business operation, and will reduce operating costs of storing and using of
the data.

ERP (Integral Management of the Institute's Resources):Purchase and installation of a
part of the IT equipment for Phase I of the ERP system module implementation was
partly financed with the loan funds. The equipment and services delivered in 2008 will be
paid from the World Bank, while the rest of the contract will be realized in 2009 and paid
with budget funds. The completion of Phase I of the project, which includes
implementation of four modules ­ general ledger and plan; liabilities; payment; and
money transfers ­ is expected in summer this year. The development of an interface for
connecting of the Institute's existing applications, conversion of data, transition of data,
upgrading and implementation of an advanced version of the human resource system will
be completed at the same time. As a part of the planned testing activities, training for 50
users is envisaged in order to improve quality of testing. The training of the remaining
140 users of ERP will be carried out just before production.

The beginning of the remaining ERP modules is planned for the end of 2009 and will be
financed with budget funds .Introduction of ERP will establish the best practices in the
domain of supporting processes of financial transactions in order to ensure maximal
effectiveness in carrying out of financial and administrative tasks. The decision-making
process in HZMO will be improved and will be based on timely information; also, a
common operating system will be provided in order to improve the management of the
organizational units included in the process of financial and administrative tasks.




                                            36
2. Consulting Services: The following aspects of consulting services have been carried
out: (i) Basics of Reorganization of HZMO" Study has been prepared, as a precondition
for use the loan funds (ii) support has been provided to the reorganization of HZMO,
within which five projects crucial for the reorganization have been defined: ESUD, ERP,
HR, IRKI and BPR (iii) Strategic Plan of Development of ICT in HZMO" Study has been
prepared (iv) tender documents for purchase and implementation of the IT equipment for
ESUD and ERP has been prepared (v) consulting services of support to introduction of
ESUD applications have been purchased (vi) consulting services of support to
introduction of ERP business applications have been purchased (vii) analysis project and
redesigning of the Institute's operating processes (BPR) have been carried out: the main
purpose of this project is to make fundamental and supporting processes of HZMO more
efficient for internal and external users, thus contributing to the strategic restructuring of
the Institute. The part of the BPR project that was implemented in cooperation with
consultants and that was paid with the World Bank loan funds was completed when
project documentation was delivered on October 24, 2008 (and when it was adopted by
the Expert Council at its session of December 9, 2008). All operating processes have
been documented (some 300 fundamental and supporting processes, sub-processes and
tasks) and a model of future processes ("To Be") was designed in the conditions of
modern IT technology.

In 2009, implementation of the redesigned operating processes will start. Together with
changing of the organizational structure, a repository of work posts will be improved and
the description of jobs will be adapted to the needs of the redefined processes. The
optimization of 14 operating processes will accelerate a part of the fundamental and
supporting processes connected with exertion of the rights arising from pension
insurance. The automated solutions/manual solutions ratio will be improved and other
improvements will be made, which is planned for the first semester of 2009. The
implementation of the redesigned processes is a multi-year activity that will be carried
out simultaneously with implementation of ESUD and ERP projects and the project of
building and improvement of computer infrastructure (IRKI) - BPR project supervision
and control service has been used.

3. Training: The "2008 HZMO Employees' Advanced Training Plan" has been prepared.
The World Bank approved it on April 22, 2008. Based on the adopted Plan, standardized
"off shelf" courses were contracted, providing IT training for the Institute's employees,
learning of foreign languages for them and for Institute's management, as well as training
in the human resource management. Under the Education Plan for 2009, the advanced
training of the employees is planned in 2009, too.

4. Severance Pays: In accordance with the delivery of BPR ("To Be" fundamental and
supporting processes) and legislative regulations, the "Program of Downsizing of Labor
Force and Job Plan for Redundant Labor in Croatian Institute for Pension Insurance" was
prepared. The World Bank gave its consent on November 12, 2008. Under this Program,
severance pays were made to 140 of the Institute's employees who chose to terminate
their employment by consent. The implementation of the second phase of the labor force
downsizing and a job plan for them in 2009 will depend on external factors: the support



                                             37
of the Ministry of Economy; Labor and Entrepreneurship; Croatian Government's
conclusion on further reorganization of the Institute; economic situation; and state budget
funds.

We assess the PSIP project to be exceptionally successful because it has created
preconditions for modernization and reorganization of the Institute. The overall effect of
all the activities that started under the World Bank's PSIP Loan and the continuation of
which is being financed with state budget funds will be visible after implementation of
the redesigned operating processes, introduction of ESUD and ERP into the entire
business operation of the Institute within the next two or three years.

4. FINAL ASSESSMENT: In general, we assess the PSIP Project as successful. Without
financial support, it would not be possible to carry out the structural reform of the
pension system. This way, the reform has mostly been implemented and its results in the
establishing of a wholly new pension system are unquestionable. Unfortunately, the
reform has had its negative effects, too, such as an excessive difference in the levels of
so-called "old" and "new" pensions earned with the same length of service. However,
this negative effect is primarily a result of multiple interventions in the pay-as-you-go
system over a few years. The intention of these interventions was to correct some of the
mistakes that were taking place in the former system, causing ever-growing gap between
the old and new pensions. But this problem has been solved by passing of a regulation
under which every pension beneficiary who is entitled to his/her pension only under
Pension Insurance Act is also entitled to a certain pension supplement.

We think that the establishment of the personal account system is also successful. It was
one of the goals of the pension reform and it makes the new system different from the old
pay-as-you-go system. We also find successful the consolidation of contribution and tax
data flows, i.e. establishing of a single agency for collection of contributions for
compulsory insurance and taxes, which requires efficient administration. Logistical
support to the system has not failed, too.
Keeping in mind that the purpose of the Project was related to the reform of public
revenue and, as a part of it, the idea to establish a data service for all those using the
flows of data on taxes, surtaxes and contributions for compulsory insurance (pension
insurance, health insurance and unemployment insurance), we must notice that this idea
has not been fully realized and that, therefore, the original purpose of the Project was
much broader than what has been achieved. The role of the Central Registry of Insured
Persons was supposed to be more comprehensive within the capitalized system; however,
with time, voluntary pension insurance was in a way separated from the system covered
by REGOS, so that the purpose of the Pension System Insurance Project has not been
achieved in that part.

Further, Croatian Institute for Pension Insurance started using the loan funds relatively
late. As a result, a part of the funds has remained unused, although the used part was used
in the best possible way. The Project has created preconditions for further modernization
of Croatian Institute for Pension Insurance. This modernization will continue with a help
from some other sources. Also, Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency has



                                            38
failed to use all the available funds, because this agency, which was among the loan
beneficiaries in the initial phase, underwent reorganization during the Project
implementation.

In any case, it is worth mentioning that the implementation of the loan has marked a new
era in the pension insurance system and that, with appropriate upgrading of the
established system, the purpose of the pension reform will be maintained ­ the purpose
being establishing and maintaining of a fiscally and socially acceptable system in which
individuals will take over their share of responsibility for their social situation in old age
and the government will provide a legislative framework for establishing of appropriate
level of pensions for future generations. This way, although the set goals have not been
fully attained, the purpose of the pension reform has been achieved.




                                             39
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                      40
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.  Country Assistance strategy for Croatia. 1999. The World Bank.
2.  Project Appraisal Document. 2002.
3.  Loan Agreement and Supplemental Letter. 2002.
4.  Project Operational Manual
5.  Implementation Status Reports
6.  Project Aide Memoires
7.  Country Partnership Strategy for Croatia. 2008. The World Bank.
8.  Anusic, Z. "Pension System and Pension Reform in Croatia." Background paper
    prepared for Public Finance Review, World Bank.
9. Anusic, Z., P. O'Keefe and S. Madzarevic-Sujster.2003. Pension Reform in
    Croatia, World Bank.
10. Holzmann R., and U. Guven 2009. "Pension Systems in Central, Southern, and
    Eastern Europe: eight Country Studies. World Bank.
11. Borrower's Project Completion Report. 2009.




                                     41
42
