Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20297-AL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$83.46 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR THE
AIN TEMOUCHENT EMERGENCY EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
JUNE 3, 2000
Infrastructure Development Group
Maghreb Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 2000)
Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar
DA 74 = US$ 1
US$ 0.0135 = DA I
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEP           Alimentation d'Eau Potable
BA            Beneficiary Assessment
BAD           Algerian Bank for Development
BMN           Basic Minimum Needs
CGS           National Earthquake Center for Engineering Research
CICS          Interministerial Committee for Coordination
and Follow-up for Reconstruction of the
Ain Temouchent Disaster Area
CRAAG         Center for Astrophysical and Geophysical Research
DGPC          General Directorate for Civil Protection
DUC           Social Rental and Building Administration
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
FMS           Financial Management Specialist or
Financial Management System
GIS           Geographic Information System
GPN           General Procurement Notice
IGF           General Inspectorate of Finance
IT            Information Technology
LAA           Land Acquisition Assessment
LTDA          Local Technical Departments and Agencies
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
NBF           Not Bank-financed
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
O&M           Operations and Maintenance
OPGI          Office for Real Estate Administration
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
PMR           Project Management Report
PRA           Participatory Rural Appraisal
SA            Special Account
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
WWTP          Wastewater treatment plant
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Christian Delvoie
Sector Director:    Jean-Claude Villiard
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Piotr Wilczynski



ALGERIA
AIN TEMOUCHENT EMERGENCY EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      7
3. Benefits and target population                                                     7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          11
4. Indications of borrower commitmnent and ownership                                 12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          12
2. Financial                                                                         12
3. Technical                                                                         13
4. Institutional                                                                     13
5. Environment                                                                       14
6. Social                                                                            15
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                17
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    17
2. Critical risks                                                                    17
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    18



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           18
2. Other                                                                             18
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        19
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         20
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            24
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        49
Annex 4: Economic and Financial Analysis                                                50
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              51
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      52
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    63
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  64
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 65
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           67
Annex 11: Social Assessment                                                             69
Annex 12: Environment Management Plan                                                   80
MAP(S)
IBRD 30909



ALGERIA
Am Temouchent Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSID
Date: June 3, 2000                                Team Leader: Piotr M. Wilczynski
Country Manager/Director: Christian Delvoie       Sector Manager/Director: Jean-Claude Villiard
Project ID: P069947                               Sector(s): BI - Institutional Development, TR - Rural
Roads, UH - Urban Housing, WR - Rural Water Supply &
Sanitation, WU - Urban Water Supply
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL)   Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
Z Loan         O Credit         O Grant         O Guarantee    O Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 83.46
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 2                                Years to maturity: 16.5
Commitment fee: 0.85% of                               Service charge: 0.00%
undisbursed balances for first four
years; 0.75% thereafter
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
GOVERNMENT                                                     24.75           0.67         25.42
IBRD                                                           59.33          24.13         83.46
BENEFICIARIES                                                   3.97           0.00          3.97
Total:                                                         88.05          24.80         112.85
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF ALGERIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF INTERIOR AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
Address: Palais du Gouvemement, Alger
Contact Person: Mr. R. Ould Ameur
Tel: 213-2-732340                Fax: 213-2-736106                 Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
Annual    35.5          39.0          8.9
Cumulative    35.5         74.5         83.4
Project implementation period: 3 Years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/15/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2003
UCS PAD Fm: Re.  ,S 2a000-



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project's development objective is to restore normal functioning of communities damaged by the
December 22, 1999 earthquake in the Wilaya of Ain Temouchent and to increase national preparedness for
future disasters.
Earthquake of Ain Temouchent
On December 22, 1999 an earthquake estimated at magnitude 5.5 occurred in the Wilaya (Province) of Ain
Temouchent, located in western Algeria about 75 kilometers from Oran. The Wilaya of Ain Temouchent
has about 327,000 residents settled in 28 communities.
The earthquake struck at 6:37 p.m. Strong ground motion lasted about 15 seconds, according to the
Algerian National Earthquake Engineering Center. The earthquake occurred along a previously unknown
fault, at an estimated depth of 10 km. Its epicenter is believed to have been 5 km south of the city of Ain
Temouchent, the largest settlement in the wilaya. There was no surface faulting. Ten aftershocks occurred
within a few hours of the earthquake, varying in magnitude from 3.8 to 5.1.
Damage to Housing and Infrastructure. The earthquake caused severest damage in four communities,
Aui Temouchent, Sidi Ben Adda, Ain Tolba and An Lalam. Twenty-seven people died in the collapse of
residential units and 274 people were injured. About 7000 housing units were damaged, as well as water
supply systems, sewerage systems, roads, schools, health facilities and government offices. The disaster
damaged the housing of about 30,000 people in the wilaya. The cost of physical damage from the
earthquake is currently estimated at about US$100-120 million.
National Emergency Response System Severely Tested. At the request of the Algerian government, the
Bank conducted a mission in the afternath of the earthquake. The mission's review of the current
organizational systems for the management of emergencies at the national, provincial and municipal levels,
including enabling laws and decrees, emergency plans, operational procedures, equipment needs, mutual
assistance agreements, roles and responsibilities, and communications capabilities, has pointed out the need
to upgrade the Government's emergency management system to improve future risk management and
disaster preparedness.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The TEERP (Ain Temouchent Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project) will be evaluated against the
following key performance indicators:
*   Families displaced by the earthquake will move into earthquake-resistant permanent housing;
*   Replacements for technical infrastructure (water systems, sewerage, etc.) destroyed by earthquake will
be in use;
*   Replacements for social infrastructure (schools, clinics) destroyed by earthquake will be in use;
*   The Government's new emergency system will be strengthened.
- 2 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 15316-AL          Date of latest CAS discussion: 02/05/96
The project will support in particular the CAS objective of protecting the poor during Algeria's transition
to a market economy, and reflects the CAS priority on interventions, such as housing, that will make a
qualitative and quick difference in the lives of people.
The most recent CAS
The CAS for the current period will be finalized in FY200 1. The previous CAS, formally designed for the
1996-1997 period, made the case that Algeria's transition to a market economy must be carried out with
proper attention to poverty relief. In particular, poverty relief and social protection are now much needed
in the areas affected by the earthquake, as its effects compound an already delicate situation in terms of
unemployment and a housing shortage.
The principles guiding current Bank strategy include:
*   Select interventions that would make a qualitative and quick difference in the lives of people, of which
housing is a principal example;
o   Reinforce solid economic performance;
*   Retain maximum flexibility in choosing Bank assistance instruments, focusing on simple, easily
implementable operations.
The proposed TEERP project is in line with these guiding principles. The project objective is to restore the
living conditions of people, and particularly the poorest inhabitants of the affected region. Construction
planned under the project will generate job opportunities for Algerians. The project will enable the
Government to respond to future emergencies with quick and effective action to support the lives of the
poorest Algerians. The built-in flexibility of the Bank's Algeria strategy and its strong social focus are
fully consistent with this emergency response. The project design is simple, and it is intended that the
project be easily implementable by the Project Coordination Unit.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Preparedness of the disaster response system. Disaster response in Algeria today is structured by the
system set up in the aftermath of the 1980 El Asnam earthquake, a magnitude 7.2 earthquake which killed
2300 people, caused 8300 injuries, left 479,000 homeless, destroyed 20,000 buildings and caused an
estimated direct loss of US$2 billion.
Subsequent to that earthquake, a 1985 decree (No. 85.231) established the legal structure of Algerian civil
protection, providing for decentralized authority and responsibility to the wilayas and their govemors,
although all levels of government were directed to establish plans for emergency preparedness, emergency
response protocols, and procedures, following common operational priorities and guidelines.
In accordance with that decree, disaster organization in Algeria is today highly decentralized.
Municipalities and the govemors of wilayas have lead responsibility for all emergencies, while the role of
the central government is to provide assistance as requested. Inter-ministerial coordination takes place
through structures called crisis cells, which are formed at the provincial level in response to an emergency
and which may be formed at the national level as well: a national-level crisis cell is established when more
-3 -



than one wilaya is affected by an emergency or at the request of the govemor of an affected wilaya. A
national-level Crisis Cell has formed in response to the December 22, 1999 earthquake in response to the
request of the Governor of the Wilaya of Ain Temouchent.
Civil Protection (DGPC) in Algeria performed ably in the hours following the Ain Temouchent earthquake.
Officials at the provincial and national level followed established plans and protocols. Efforts to rescue
trapped victims and provide medical assistance were undertaken immediately; specific requests for
assistance were addressed to adjacent wilayas and the national government in the first hours following the
event; temporary shelters were in place within hours; and the damage assessment process was well
coordinated and timely.
Despite these successes, the Government of Algeria is mindful that the Ain Temouchent was a
moderate-sized earthquake and that the impacts, while severe in some areas, were limited. Reflecting on
the experience gained in the December 22,1999 earthquake, the Government of Algeria has judged that its
current system requires reinforcement.  The Government's priority areas include search and rescue
equipment and training, an upgraded communications and data processing system including GIS, improved
estimates of likely damages to urban areas, and additional training.
Risk management. Algeria's system of risk management principally features legislation providing that the
Government will protect and support the lives of the Algerian population affected by natural disasters. In
situations of natural disaster, many are unprepared to overcome income shocks and would be unable to
secure the minimum necessary food and shelter. In light of this, and in the absence of an affordable
insurance scheme against natural disasters, the Government has obligated itself to supply safe water, food
and shelter to those affected by natural disaster. In light of these considerations, the Government is
interested in ways to improve management of disaster risks. In addition to the measures above which will
reduce risk by improving assessment of vulnerable points and enhancing the Government's ability to take
early and cost-effective measures in case of emergency, the Government intends to assess the feasibility of
instituting a national earthquake insurance program and improve capacity for building code enforcement
and monitoring of construction practices.
Housing shortage. Housing in urban areas was in short supply even before the further losses caused by
the earthquake.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Increasing the preparedness of the disaster response system. The project will assist the Government to
introduce measures to reduce potential losses from natural disasters in the future, by improving the
emergency response system at the central and local levels. Following an assessment of current systems, the
project will support an improved seismic and geographic information base, upgraded communications and
data processing, search and rescue equipment and training.
Support for risk management strategies. The project will support the Government's effort to manage the
risks of disaster through (a) improvement of capacity for building code enforcement and enforcement of
seismic-resistant construction, and (b) policy assessment of the feasibility of a national earthquake
insurance program. No strategic choices have yet been made with respect to these issues; assessment of
current standards and practices is an early project activity.
Provide housing in the Wilaya of Ain Temouchent The project will support recovery of the affected
region through reconstruction and rehabilitation of housing and technical/social infrastructure. The new
-4 -



housing will be built to seismically-resistant standards. The project will not attempt to address long-term
sectoral issues; however, in accordance with the Bank-supported move to private ownership as well as
Government policy, the new units will be available for purchase by beneficianies.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component A: Disaster Organization and Risk Management (US$9.37 million)
Objective. The objectives of this component are: (i) to strengthen the institutional capacity of emergency
management in Algeria to prepare for and manage the consequences of large-scale emergencies, especially
earthquakes; and (ii) to promote a nationwide, comprehensive risk management strategy through:
*   Enhancement of the capability of Algerian Civil Protection to carry out essential initial emergency
response activities including search and rescue operations;
* Enhancement of the national communications and information management capacities;
*   Enhancement of national seismic monitoring systems and understandings of the nature of seismic risk
in the Ain Temouchent region;
*   Enhancement of the capacity to enforce building codes and monitor construction practices; and
* Promoting consideration of policy alternatives, especially the use of insurance and other risk transfer
mechanisms, that could moderate the financial strain on governmental operating budgets following
natural disasters.
The activities defined in this Project will enhance the Government of Algeria's current disaster management
system and risk management strategies and programs.
The component will finance:
-   Acquisition of emergency response and search-and-rescue capacity in Algeria through the purchase of
specialized equipment and training in the use and maintenance of the equipment;
-   Construction of facilities in Ain Temouchent and Ain Tolba to support the operations of Civil
Protection in the region;
i   Assessment of Civil Protection's current voice and data communications capacities, the development of
recommendations for upgrades that build on current capabilities, and the enhancement of voice and
data systems and development of detailed earthquake response plans based upon detailed planning
scenarios;
*  Completion of a seismic risk assessment and microzonation for Ain Temouchent;
*  Enhancement of the Algerian seismic monitoring network;
*  Review of current standards, practices, and institutional capacities in building code enforcement and
construction monitoring, including recommendations enhancing effectiveness;
* Assessment of the policy altematives and feasibility of instituting a national earthquake insurance
program in Algeria based on a review of current international practices.
Component B: Housing (US$65.78 million)
The principal objective of this component is to assist the Government of Algeria in the reconstruction of
permanent housing in the areas affected by the earthquake.
-5 -



* The Social Rental Housing Reconstruction sub-component will finance technical assistance, design,
supervision, training, and all necessary construction-related investments, to replace collapsed housing
units and those units having to be demolished whether due to unsafe conditions and heavy damage or
due to risky location. It is estimated that approximately 3,400 housing units are eligible for
reconstruction.
* The Individual Non-grouped Housing Reconstruction sub-component will finance: (i) materials for 800
units with contribution of sweat equity from beneficiaries; (ii) technical assistance, standard design,
supervision, and training. Construction training will be provided, through which the beneficiaries will
gain qualification and experience in the construction of earthquake-resistant buildings in order to
undertake construction activities. Strict geo-technical and structural requirements will be applied to
each site and to each housing unit. The beneficiaries will purchase materials according to technical
specifications. No modifications will be made to the standard designs, and no materials will be allowed
for use without prior approval from the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
The supervision of construction of both the individual non-grouped housing and the social rental housing
will be provided through independent consultants to be employed by the PCU, or through the PCU staff, as
appropriate.
Expenditures under this component may be eligible for retroactive financing.
Component C: Technical Infrastructure (US$8.39 million)
The objective of this component is to restore essential infrastructure for the benefit of the population at
large and in particular for the population affected by the December 22, 1999 earthquake. The component
includes design of infrastructure and supervision of its construction: water supply systems, sewerage
systems and wastewater treatment plants, and roads. Construction of these facilities will be carried out in
accordance with current standards in Algeria, incorporating recommendations of the engineering
consultants who, under contract with the PCU, will supervise the design and construction of the facilities.
Component D: Social Infrastructure (US$26.78 million)
The principal objective of this component is to assist and provide financing for the reconstruction of public
buildings which provide vital social services, including schools, hospitals, recreation centers, and
government offices. Restoration of these facilities is essential to bringing back a sense of stability and
normality to the community and to restoring confidence in the Government's ability to deal with major
catastrophes.
The Government of Algeria has conducted an assessment of damages, and these data have been reviewed
and investigated by a team of national specialists financed by the World Bank. Among the findings were
the following:
* Of the 39 school buildings located within the Wilaya of Ain Temouchent, 12 were found to be heavily
damaged and will have to be reconstructed. The largest of these schools, Lycee Bachir Ibrahimi in Ain
Temouchent, formerly had about 1340 students. Besides the 12 schools which will need reconstruction,
the earthquake also effectively damaged four additional schools, which will require major repairs.
Construction of primary schools may be eligible for retroactive financing.
* The earthquake also destroyed or damaged numerous regional health facilities, including the main
- 6 -



hospital in Ain Temouchent. Five health centers were severely damaged and need to be reconstructed.
* Three public buildings were seriously damaged and will have to be completely rebuilt. Several others
were damaged and will have to be repaired.
Component E: Project Implementation (US$1.69 million)
This component will finance the creation and maintenance of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) during the
implementation period.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M
Component A: Disaster Organization   Institutional    9.37       8.3      7.16       8.6
and Risk Management               Development
Component B: Housing              Urban Housing      65.78      58.3    46.11       55.2
Component C: Technical Infrastructure  Other Water    8.39       7.4      6.80       8.1
Supply &
Sanitation
Component D: Social Infrastructure  Other Social    26.78       23.7    21.49       25.7
Sector
Component E: Project Implementation   Institutional   1.69       1.5      1.06       1.3
Development
Total Project Costs                 112.01      99.3    82.62       99.0
Front-end fee                   0.84        0.7     0.84        1.0
Total Financing Required                 112.85      100.0    83.46      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Building code. An updated building code was approved in Algeria in 1999. The Ain Temouchent
Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project will support the enforcement of the building code by (a)
strengthening institutional capacity to enforce building codes and to monitor construction practices, (b)
designing structures which conform to the code, and (c) demonstrating earthquake-resistant construction in
Ain Temouchent.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will target the earthquake-affected population as well as the whole Algerian population through
strengthening of country's disaster management system.
Housing for displaced persons. Families displaced by the earthquake will benefit from housing
constructed under this project.
Recovery in affected communities. All members of the communities which have lost access to safe water,
sewerage, roads, schools, and clinics will benefit from the reconstruction of technical and social
infrastructure.
Safer housing. Inproved building code enforcement will protect the Algerian population from the negative
effects of future earthquakes.
-7 -



Timely and well-targeted aid to those affected by disasters. The support for capacity-building in
disaster management will benefit the Algerian population in future emergencies, when people affected by
catastrophes will receive timely aid, well-targeted to their anticipated needs.
Increased effectiveness of national expenditure. The national budget will be less affected by future
disasters once risk management measures are in place.
Social cohesion. The project supports the Algerian Government's efforts to protect the poor and assure
social cohesion through the support provided for shelter and safe water to those in need following natural
catastrophes.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented over a three year period from July 15, 2000 to June 30, 2003.
Interministerial Committee. An Interministerial Committee for Coordination, and Follow-up for
Reconstruction of Ain Temouchent Disaster Area, or CICS (also called "ISC" in the Loan Agreement) will
be established. Its membership will include the Minister of Interior or his representative (Chair) as well as
representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Housing, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Water
Resources, Ministry of Public Works, Environment, Urban Affairs and Education, and representatives of
the affected population. The CICS will be responsible for providing project oversight, advice and overall
guidance for the implementation of the project. The CICS will review the project's quarterly progress
reports.
Cooperation between the Project Coordination Unit and Local Technical Departments and Agencies
(LTDAs) in Ain Temouchent. Local technical departments and agencies (LTDAs), the implementing
agencies, in close coordination with and supported by the Project Coordination Unit (see below) will
establish implementation schedules for each component and define the responsibilities of each party
involved in project implementation. Based on terms of reference developed by LTDAs in cooperation with
the PCU, the LTDAs in coordination with the PCU will prepare bidding documents and contracts for
construction works, goods and consultant services for all components. The PCU will assure quality control
of contracted activities; together with the responsible implementing agencies it will issue the letters of
compliance to be attached to invoices sent to the Banque Algerienne du Developpement (BAD) for
payment. The PCU will arrange periodic social assessments and monitor compliance with Algerian and
World Bank environmental regulations. The PCU will serve as a secretariat to the CICS, prepare the
working documents for the meetings of the CICS, and submit quarterly progress reports and annual audit
reports to the Governor of the Wilaya of Ain Temouchent, CICS, and the Bank.
Project Coordination Unit. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will assist implementing agencies and in
close cooperation with them will help in implementation of the project. The PCU will be responsible for
overall coordination and supervision of the project. It will be established in the city of Ain Temouchent,
and managed by a Director who will report directly to the Governor of the Wilaya. The Director will be
responsible for hiring the staff of the PCU, subject to Bank's no-objection. The project will be implemented
under the overall guidance of the CICS and in close coordination with the LTDAs.
Financial Management:
The Algerian Development Bank (BAD - Banque Algerienne du Developpement) will be responsible for
- 8 -



project financial management, including processing of all financial transactions, reconciliation of
expenditures with the approved project budget, as well as project records with the Bank records, and the
Special Account replenishments. The BAD financial management system (FMS) now in place is based on
principles and procedures defined by the legal framework applicable to the public sector. BAD maintains
an accounting system based on the cash basis and on the outline of budget components, according to the
provisions of the Public Accounting Law. Transactions in terms of comnmitmnents and disbursements are
reflected in BAD accounting books maintained manually. BAD's financial management arrangements
satisfy the Bank's minimum requirements, as the public accounting legal framework used by the BAD
ensures financial accountability. However, the BAD manual financial management system currently in use
has no capacity to generate the Bank-required management-oriented project reporting. Therefore, project
reporting and accounting functions will be the responsibility of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
located in Ain Temouchent.
Proiect Coordination Unit. The PCU will be responsible for control of eligibility of project expenditures to
be paid by the BAD, and for project accounting and reporting. To fulfill these functions, the PCU will be
adequately staffed, including an Accountant and a BAD staff member delegated to the PCU, by July 31,
2000 (a dated Loan covenant confirmed during Negotiations). Terms of reference (TORs) for the
Accountant are included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
Reporting. The PCU will prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) following the Cash
Model. In order to generate the PMRs, the PCU will establish a computerized project financial
management information system. Appropriate specialists would be hired to assist the PCU in developing of
the project financial management information system and supporting documentation. Setting up the PCU
financial management information system is to be completed no later than October 31, 2000. The content
of PMRs, agreed with the Borrower during Negotiations, is described in the Project Irnplementation Plan
(PIP) and in Annex 6.
Audit. An annual audit of project records and accounts, including audit of the Special Account (SA), and
disbursements under Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) will be performed by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank, according to the Intemational Standards of Accounting as issued by the
International Federation of Accountants, the Bank's Guidelines (e.g., "Financial, accounting, reporting and
auditing handbook - FARAH") and specific Terms of Reference (TORs) acceptable to the Bank. The
auditor will express a professional opinion on the annual project financial statements and will submit to the
Bank an annual audit report within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Expenditure Control and Disbursements: Disbursements from the Bank loan will be made using the
traditional disbursement procedures. The MOF will delegate to the BAD management of the Special
Account that will be opened at the Central Bank of Algeria. The BAD senior officials who are designated
by the MOF will have the right to sign withdrawal applications. The BAD would prepare a request for
initial advance to the SA, and replenishment applications thereafter. GOA will ensure that the local
currency equivalent to the amount advanced to the SA, and counterpart funds for the project, are available
to the BAD through budgetary allocations. The budgetary allocations would be based on the annual budget
for the Project activities prepared by the PCU in collaboration with the MOF.
All expenditures to be paid by the BAD will be reviewed an approved by the PCU Director in two phases:
(i) before commitrnents are made and contracts signed -- in terms of their eligibility under the Loan
Agreement; (ii) when invoices are presented for payments -- in terms of an applicable contract existing as
well as confinnation that goods were delivered, works executed, or services rendered. Upon approval by
the PCU Director of invoices submitted for payment, the BAD staff delegated to the PCU in Ain
-9-



Temouchent will be expected to pay them within five days.
Procurement: Considering the emergency nature of the project, most of the procurement of goods, works,
and services will be done nationally. However, for consultancy services required to oversee and certify the
design and construction of facilities such as housing, schools, hospitals, and other infrastructure prepared
by the local firms, particularly the seismic design, as well as to ensure that the best level of
cost-effectiveness is reached, the consultants' services will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 revised September
1997 and January 1999.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements.  The PCU would be responsible for monitoring progress
against agreed-upon monitoring and performance indicators. The PCU would submit quarterly and annual
progress reports to the Governor of the Wilaya (the Wali), the CICS and the Bank.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Institutional arrangements. Project implementation by a national government ministry was considered
and rejected in favor of a PCU assisting and cooperating with local technical departments and agencies in
Ain Temouchent. This organizational design complies with the decentralized disaster management
procedures now in place in Algeria. Moreover, a regionally-based arrangement will allow for more flexible
project implementation than would central administration.
Reconstruction Relief Program without Support for Reform of Building Codes. The option of
designing a project without building in any institutional capacity enhancement was considered. However,
without efficient building code enforcement, the effects of even a relatively minor earthquake will strain the
national budget. The Bank cannot provide the needed resources in every such case. Moreover, due to the
size of emergency loans, they tend to crowd out other important development lending programs which either
have to be postponed or substantially reduced. Finally, excessive government reliance on the Bank
retroactive lending and emergency donor relief cannot be considered sustainable in light of the high
probability for the disaster occurrence in this country.
In situ construction versus new sites. In the case of social rental housing, reconstruction on the site of the
destroyed units was considered and rejected, because rebuilding these in situ would require scattered
construction processes that would significantly increase the complexity of the construction and therefore
cause delay and raise costs.
Beneficiary selection. Several means of beneficiary selection were considered. It was decided that
eligibility would be decided by a commission operating under the supervision of the Wali (the Govemor of
the Wilaya) and consisting of elected representatives to local government, the Director of the Office for
Real Estate Administration, the Director of the Social Rental and Building Administration, and the
President of the Association of Disaster Victims. This combination was judged likely to produce a
transparent and fair result.
Cost recovery. Stronger support for reform of the housing sector was considered, such as requiring rental
levels achieving actual cost recovery on new construction, but this was rejected as an inappropriate burden
for an emergency operation.
- 10 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
9Cg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lts $^u .M ":o
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Mascara Emergency Reconstruction   Loan No. 3813-AL                 S             S
Project
Cadastre Project                  Loan No. 3488-AL                  S             S
Low Income Housing Project        Loan No. 4361 -AL                 S             S
Other development agencies                                             - :
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory). U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Activities intended to reduce the impact of the next disaster must be an integral part of recovery.
Bank experience with disaster assistance to many countries worldwide has shown that mitigation activities,
intended to reduce the impact of the next disasters, must be an integral part of both recovery and
pre-disaster planning. TEERP incorporates this lesson in activities under Component A.
The most immediate need following a disaster is provision of shelter. Experience from recent Bank
emergency reconstruction operations is that the best solution is to build to a habitable standard and assume
that the beneficiary will underwrite additional costs. TEERP accordingly intends to provide social housing
designs to a basic standard.
Project design should be simple for an emergency operation. The design should be based on
participation by the local community and take into account local implementation capacity. Implementation
should be flexible to ensure responsiveness to community needs. TEERP has a simple project design and
has simplified procurement arrangements as much as possible. The project has incorporated the findings of
an early social assessment, and anticipates incorporation of the findings of future social assessments into
ongoing implementation.
Rebuilt houses must be earthquake-resistant. The experience from the previous emergency projects
teaches that disaster-affected families should be provided with guidance in earthquake-resistant building
techniques. Low cost reconstruction is desirable, but economizing on the structure of buildings is not cost
effective given the recurrent character of disasters. Accordingly, TEERP-financed housing will be
constructed to a high standard of earthquake resistance; basic structures will be required to conform to an
earthquake-resistant design which will itself be a project output.
- 11 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Project is response to Government request. The Government of Algeria requested the Bank's assistance
to develop a project addressing earthquake recovery and protection as an urgent operation. During
discussions held between the Bank and the Govermment during the identification mission of January 2000,
agreement was reached on the key points relating to the loan amount, allocation of funds, implementation
arrangements, main project components and priority actions, and project preparation.
Continuing support. The Government has demonstrated continuous commitment through the involvement
and cooperation of its agencies at the central and regional levels.  Similar commitment has been
demonstrated during the project preparation by the Governor of the Wilaya of Ain Temouchent. The
Govermment has already selected a candidate to take a post of the PCU Director, so that the eventual
Director will have been involved from the outset in project preparation and implementation.
Institutional arrangements are linked to national disaster management structures. In the aftermath of
the December 22 earthquake, the Governor of Ain Temouchent Wilaya established a Crisis Cell that
included representatives of the key ministries including Housing, Health, Water, General Directorate for the
Environment and Interior. At the national level a similar structure was set up in Algiers headed by a senior
official from the Ministry of Interior. Those structures are the basis for the Interministerial Committee
(CICS) which will furnish guidance to the PCU throughout project implementation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
With the experience gained in emergency projects worldwide, and with its long history of support for
development in Algeria, the Bank brings to the recovery and reconstruction process an organizational
framework and clear process for identifying, selecting and implementing priority investments for
municipal/rural infrastructure and emergency response management. Through the emergency project, the
Bank can provide funding when it is most critical.
The Bank is in a unique position among donors to retain an overall view of reconstruction/recovery
requirements and has a unique ability to focus on policy and institutional reform and the economic and
social aspects of reconstruction as well as the physical.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR   % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
n/a
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
n/a
Fiscal Impact:
n/a
- 12 -



3. Technical:
The project's technical design is well suited to Algerian requirements for rapid investment for repair of
municipal technical and social infrastructure, public housing, and disaster hazard reduction. Specific
investment identification and cost estimates have been calculated on the basis of data compiled and
analyzed by the preparation and appraisal missions, and reflect the priorities and costs identified by local
government and technical agencies, within an acceptable margin of error for costs. Allowances are made
for physical and price contingencies consistent with rapid disbursement for investment.
4. Institutional:
Institutional arrangements for the project are relatively simple and decentralized in order to speed the
recovery process in the affected area.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Interministerial Committee for Coordination, and Follow-up for Reconstruction of Ain Temouchent
Disaster Area (CICS). The CICS will provide project oversight, advice and overall guidance for the
implementation of the project. The composition of the CICS largely mirrors the Crisis Cell established by
the Government in the aftermath of the December 22 earthquake. The Crisis Cell was responsible for
coordination of activities immediately taken to provide assistance to the affected Ain Temouchent region.
Ministry of Interior and Local Governments (MoW). The Minister of Interior or the Minister's
representative will chair the CICS. The Minister of Interior will be responsible for resolving issues which
cannot be resolved at the local level and which could form obstacles to expedited project implementation.
Governor of Wilaya. The Governor of the Wilaya of Ain Temouchent will oversee implementation of the
project at the local level. The Director of the PCU will refer to the Governor in relation to the issues
beyond the scope of PCU authority.
Civil Protection (DGPC). Civil Protection (DGPC) and its regional offices are organizationally located
under the Ministry of Interior. DGPC is responsible for wide range of activities related to emergency
situations. For the purposes of the project, it will establish an ad-hoc risk management task force that will
have a lead responsibility for implementation of Component A. This team will be supported by the PCU
for all matters related to implementation.
4.2 Project management:
Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The PCU will be established in the city of Ain Temouchent, and
managed by a Director who reports directly to the Governor of the Wilaya. The Director will be
responsible for hiring the staff of the PCU, subject to Bank's no-objection. The project will be implemented
under the overall guidance of the CICS in close coordination with local technical departments and agencies.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement assessment was undertaken in April 2000. Algeria has procurement legislation which is
generally in line with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, although there are certain rules that are not
acceptable to the Bank. For this project, the Bank's procedures and guidelines will supersede the national
legislation. A procurement action plan to improve procurement management will be implemented (see
Annex 6).
4.4 Financial management issues:
The risks related to the project's financial management are three, primarily related to ability to generate
- 13 -



timely and accurate management-oriented project reports:
(i) Capacity of staff in the PCU. Staffing the PCU with a qualified accountant by July 31, 2000 is a
dated Loan covenant.
(ii) Capacity of project financial management information system to generate the agreed Project
Management Reports (PMRs). Setting up of the PCU project financial management information
system is to be completed by October 31, 2000 to generate PMRs as per agreed deadline.
(iii) Delays in preparation of Project Management Reports (PMRs). Preparation of the first PMRs,
acceptable to the Bank, by October 31, 2000, is a dated Loan covenant.
The project financial management implementation milestones, as reflected in the dated Loan covenants,
were designed to mitigate the risk linked to the reporting insufficiencies identified in the BAD existing
reporting system. The agreed actions will be progressively implemented to build up an adequate project
financial management information system by October 31, 2000.
The Bank will give special attention to the project financial management during the project implementation
by providing the necessary technical assistance and training. In particular, project management reporting
requirements were agreed during Negotiations. The reporting formats together with TORs for the
Accountant are described in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). The financial management risks will be
subject to a rigorous follow-up during the supervision missions. The general design of the financial
management reporting system for the project would be reviewed by no later than October 31, 2000.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The most appropriate tool to ensure that environmental considerations are given adequate attention under
an Emergency Recovery Project is an Environmental Management Plan. The EMP addresses the following
issues:
?  Identification of impacts and definition of mitigation measures;
3 Institutional strengthening with regard to the integration of environmental considerations into
project design and implementation;
3 Definition of a monitoring scheme and related indicators.
The reconstruction/rehabilitation components of the project could lead to significant environmental impacts.
The two major issues to be dealt with are (a) the proper siting of the wastewater treatment plant and (b) the
proper siting of the housing agglomerations. The other environmental issues that should be dealt with are
the impacts of the road rehabilitation program as well as the public buildings reconstruction program
(schools and hospitals mainly). The acceptable disposal of the construction debris is also another
environmental concem that should be addressed.
The issue of consultation and disclosure will be addressed in the early stages of project implementation.
This is exceptional practice only acceptable for emergency projects.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The project EMP has built-in features that should lead to enhanced ownership by the client. Enforcement
of the environmental standards and procedures is responsibility of the local Inspectorate of Environment
and will be monitored by NGOs and the PCU environmental specialist. Although this is an emergency
operation, environmental requirements will be fulfilled by implementing agencies and contractors in
accordance with local regulations and in a manner acceptable to the Bank. Bank financing will be provided
to only these investments that meet the environmental criteria.
- 14-



5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: 04/05/00
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) enviromnental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environmenit management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Because of the disaster and emergency nature of the issues to be addressed by the Government to supply
shelter and basic needs, only limited attention has been given to public consultation so far. Nevertheless,
the technical departments of the regional government of Ain Temouchent conducted a survey in
consultation with the affected population and agreed on immediate and medium-term measures to address
environmental health and protection issues. Special attention will be paid to the sustainability of selected
technical infrastructure investment projects by allowing for O&M cost recovery and placing the ownership
of these investments with the beneficiary community.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environrnent? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Reporting will be the main source of verification of the extent of achievements and success of the
mitigation measures recommended. Water and wastewater quality analyses will be conducted to insure that
the quality of water supply and treated wastewater complies with the standards.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
About thirty percent of the population is unemployed. Precarious econornic standing, not only in the
quake-affected wilaya but countrywide, has poised much of the Algerian population on the edge of
vulnerability. This volatility places numerous groups at risk in the face of income shocks or natural
disasters, jeopardizing their ability to secure the food and shelter necessary for survival.
The communities targeted for this project - Ain Temouchent, Sidi Ben Adda, Ain Tolba and Ain Lalam -
reside in poor economic conditions. A social survey conducted after the quake to help assess damage in the
four communities revealed that of the 4,200 families interviewed, only about 34% of those questioned were
employed (salaried). Only 2,262 of those interviewed were insured. Each family has about three children to
support, with a total of 13,650 children in the families of those questioned. Within the four settlements, 518
people were handicapped, of whom 285 suffered from chronic illnesses. Thus according to the results from
the social survey, the population exposed to vulnerability by being impoverished and without resources is
roughly 66% (2,772) - including those without income, those who have no resources, those who are
handicapped, and those who have acute illnesses.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Community participation in the project cycle will increase a sense of ownership by beneficiaries and the
willingness to maintain (and protect) completed works; improve implementation efficiency; foster inclusion
through project implementation; help to identify vulnerable groups; and aid in leaving behind functional
institutions and increased capacity. Participatory methods should include local administration,
representatives from various civil society organizations, and a wide selection of commune members.
Institutionalizing participation requires organizational and technical capacity, thus the PCU and project
implementers must be adequately staffed and trained. Adequate community participation may be achieved
by:
- 15 -



*   Conducting a participatory social assessment (using participatory rural appraisal and beneficiary
assessment techniques) to capture baseline information and identify/prioritize needs and concerns of the
communes in relation to project objectives
*   Fostering systematic participation of the local population during project implementation, including if
possible labor based works for reconstruction, monitoring and evaluation, and in-kind contributions
(suggested materials or labor since finances are scarce).
Moreover, the Association of Disaster Victims of Ain Temouchent is part of the commission selecting
beneficiaries of the housing supported by the project. Also, a representative of the Association will
participate in the CICS which has an overview of the project and provides general guidance to TEERP
implementation.
Findings from the social assessments should be reviewed with the community (including beneficiaries, civil
society representatives, and local admirnistration) to validate results and ensure that consultation and survey
results were interpreted correctly.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
At the initiative of the regional government an initial social assessment was conducted shortly after the
earthquake. The results of this survey identified the key beneficiaries and allowed structuring of the project
to meet their needs, taking into account affordability concems, especially for the housing component. To
assure proper attention to social issues, a social scientist will be hired by the PCU. She/he will be
responsible for organizing public consultations and to assure that the findings of those are taken into
account. The social scientist will also conduct social monitoring for the project following the social
indicators.
During its implementation phase, the project will consult with local civil society organizations. Also,
periodical assessment will be carried out, wherever possible, by non-govenmmental organizations.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project will support training for the PCU, related to the social aspects of the disaster recovery and
project implementation. Periodical field assessment will be conducted in accordance with recomnmendations
provided during the project preparation and included in the Social Assessment. At the completion of the
project, a social evaluation will be performed by the independent external consultants.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
During project implementation, the PCU should regularly visit the community to monitor and evaluate
community participation. Based on baseline information gathered in the initial social assessment, the PCU
should: (i) establish regular consultations with stakeholders during implementation to gain their insight on
progress and what should be indicators; (ii) review the community's in-kind contributions and identify
related problems; (iii) assist in the solution of problems encountered; and (iv) gain local perceptions on the
developmental impacts of the projects and potential improvements to existing structure. Each monitoring
visit should last 1-2 days, with each site being monitored 2-3 times during implementation if time pernits.
There should be a standard form to report fndings from each of the participatory monitoring visits.
- 16-



A final evaluation exercise (social audit) should be undertaken, using participatory rural appraisal (PRA)
and beneficiary assessment (BA) techniques (described in Annex 1 1A), as well as participant observation.
The final evaluation should be based on issues raised during the initial social assessment and those used on
monitoring reporting forms. This final evaluation should be carried out independently of the PCU and of
any consultants who may have been involved earlier in the assessment and monitoring process.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safe ard policies ap  to the roect?
M Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01. GP 4.01)            | Yes El No
El Natural habitats (OP 4.04. BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   OL Yes 1 No
El Forestry (OP 4.36. GP 4.36)                                    Ll Yes 1 No
El Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      OL Yes 1 No
El Cultural Propertty OPN 11.03)                                  El Yes M No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   El Yes X No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             El Yes N No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37. BP 4.37)                               L Yes 1 No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50. BP 7.50. GP 7.50    El Yes 1 No
LI Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60. BP 7.60. GP 7.60)         El Yes 1 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
A Land Acquisition Assessment (LAA) will be conducted. No involuntary resettlement is to take place
under the project.
The Environment Management Plan (EMP) has been prepared and agreed upon with the client. In order to
ensure compliance with the environmental standards, the PCU will have an Environmental Specialist as a
staff member who will review and provide environmental clearance for project activities as required.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Factors critical to the sustainability of the project include strong motivation on the part of national, regional
and local governments to quickly implement earthquake recovery and risk reduction measures which will
protect public health and safety and limit future economic losses. The improved enforcement of quality
standards and the support for enforcement of building codes will contribute to project sustainability.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                                             k --tn 
From Outputs to Objective
Component A: Government will decline        S         Involvement of Minister of Interior on CICS will
to fund operations and maintenance of the             assure that funding is provided from that budget.
disaster response system.
Components B, C, D: New construction        M         New construction will be earthquake-resistant
may be damaged by a later earthquake.                 according to intemational standards.
-17 -



Components B, C, D: New construction        M         Building codes and disaster response system will
may be damaged by other disasters.                    make the investment more sustainable in case of
unforeseen disasters.
From Components to Outputs
Components B,C,D: Building materials        M         Government will ensure supply of proper quality
not available                                         construction materials.
Component B: Suitable sites for             M         The Government has identified an initial set of
construction are not provided.                        potential sites already designated for urban
housing.
Components B,C,D: Required scale of         M         The size of contract packages was developed in
construction is beyond the capacity of                consistency with capacity of local construction
bidding firms.                                        firns.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Efficient management of operations and maintenance of the newly constructed buildings is mandatory
under this project in order to ensure the sustainability of the investments. This requires that an appropriate
level of maintenance be established and financed. Based on the average unit cost US$13,750 per unit, the
annual cost of maintenance is estimated at US$300 in the first few years after construction (rising to
US$700 beyond year 10). This cost is about DA 1750/month, which is consistent with the Government's
proposed rent level of DA 2100 on average. For families of income DA 10,000/month/family, the cost of
maintenance in the early years would then be about 17.5% of family income, and the overall rental level
which would finance maintenance would be affordable. However, for families with incomes below DA
10,000/month, the rental level which would finance maintenance may be unaffordable. The Government
will assure that maintenance is funded at the needed level, covering the shortfall for those families unable to
pay rent at the proposed level.
The proposed arrangement should not interfere with overall changes in rental policies and major policy
reforms in the housing sector, which the Government of Algeria has undertaken and which the Bank has
addressed in a housing sector project now under preparation.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Dated covenants:
*   The Borrower shall, not later than July 31, 2000, establish and thereafter maintain, the PCU.
*   The Borrower shall cause BAD, not later than July 31, 2000, to designate a representative to be part of
the PCU staff in the Wilaya of Ain Temouchent.
*   The Borrower shall, not later than July 31, 2000 select potential sites in size and location satisfactory
- 18-



to the Bank for the purposes of carrying out of Parts B2, B3, Cl, Dl, D2 and D3 of the Project.
* The Borrower shall review a progress report with the Bank, by January 1, 2001 or later as the Bank
may request, and thereafter take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the report and the Bank's views on the matter.
H. Readiness for Implementation
El 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
D 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
L 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
X 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
DI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Piotr M. Wilcude Villiard                                         Christian Delvoie
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director          Coun    nager/Director
- 19 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ALGERIA: Ain Temouchent Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project
g~~~~~~~1s _                 i*wmm.#,.
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To protect the poor during  *  Availability of         * National statistics    Availability of safe water and
Algeria's transition to a      permanent housing and    * Country reports       shelter will support human
market economy                 safe water in the Wilaya   *  Housing sector studies  development and alleviate
of Ain Temouchent                               poverty.
* Preparedness of the
Government in future
emergencies to protect
the living conditions of
low-income families
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
* To restore normal      0 Families displaced by    *  PCU quarterly reports  *  Housing under this
functioning of           the earthquake move    *  Supervision mission        project will increase the
communities              into permanent            reports                    supply available to
damaged by the           housing                *  Project evaluation         low-income families in
December 22, 1999     *  Replacements for                                     the long term.
earthquake in the        technical infrastructure                          *  Housing and
Wilaya of Ain            (water systems,                                     infrastructure
Temouchent               sewerage, etc.)                                      constructed under this
destroyed by                                        project will be
earthquake are in use                               maintained in the long
*  Replacements for                                    term.
social infrastructure
destroyed by
earthquake are in use
*  To increase national   *  The Government's                                  *  The Government will
preparedness for future    emergency system is                                 devote sufficient budget
disasters                 strengthened.                                        to maintain the disaster
response system at an
effective level.
-20 -



Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
A. The Govermment's disaster   *  Update of national     *  PCU quarterly reports.    *  The Government will
response system was upgraded    earthquake risk          *  Supervision mission         fund operations and
to handle future emergencies.   assessment carried out.     reports                     maintenance of the
*  Assessment of national    *  Project evaluation        disaster response
emergency system                                       system.
carried out.
*  Recommended
equipment procured.
*  Recommended training
provided.
*  System tested.
B. Low-income housing units   *  3400 new social rental    *  PCU quarterly reports.    *  Families find the new
destroyed in the earthquake     units constructed        *  Supervision mission        housing preferable to
were replaced.               *  800 new individual          reports                    tent camps and
non-grouped units       *  Project evaluation          acceptable for the long
constructed                                            term.
*  Newly built units are not
destroyed in later
earthquake or other
disaster.
C. Technical infrastructure  *  Technical infrastructure   *  PCU quarterly reports.    *  Municipalities take on
destroyed in the earthquake     destroyed in the         *  Supervision mission        responsibility to operate
was replaced.                   earthquake is identified.   reports                     and maintain the
*  Reconstructed           *  Project evaluation          reconstructed technical
infrastructure is                                     infrastructure.
designed and the design                             *  Reconstructed
meets govermment's                                    infrastructure not
standards and the new                                  destroyed in later
building code.                                         earthquake or other
*  Reconstructed                                          disaster.
infrastructure is built.
D. Social infrastructure     *  Social infrastructure    *  PCU quarterly reports   *  Govemments re-open
destroyed in the earthquake     destroyed in the         *  Supervision mission         social facilities.
was replaced.                   earthquake is identified.   reports                 *  New facilities not
*  Reconstructed           *  Project evaluation          destroyed in earthquake
infrastructure is                                      or other disaster.
designed and the design
meets govermmenfts
applicable standards and
the new building code.
*  Reconstruction of social
infrastructure is carried
out.
-21-



E7 A Project Coordination     *  PCU Director is           *  PCU quarterly reports     *  Project activities
Unit supported project activity   identified.              *  Supervision mission          continue to receive
'enabling rapid provision of  *  PCU staff are hired.         reports                      strong support from all
sustainable solutions.        *  PCU carries out           *  Project evaluation           agencies and
identification of needed                                 stakeholders.
works.
*  PCU carries out
procurement actions.
*  PCU supervises
construction.
*  PCU provides all
required reports.
-22 -



Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                             Outputs)
A. Upgrade disaster        US$9.37 million               *  PCU quarterly reports   *  Government agencies
management system,                                       *  Supervision mission         will cooperate with
especially with regard to                                   reports                     consultants in studies
earthquakes.                                             *  Annual audit reports       and policy assessments
* Categories and degrees
of emergency which will
affect Algeria in the
planning period can be
correctly estimated at
reasonable cost
B. Construct about 4200    US$65.78 million                                         *  Adequate supply of
permanent housing units in                                                              building materials is
the commnunities affected by                                                            available
earthquake destruction.                                                             *  Suitable sites for
construction are made
available
C. Reconstruct essential   US$8.39 million                                           *  Government provides its
technical infrastructure                                                               share of financing
destroyed by earthquake.                                                             *  Construction firms and
others bidding on
project contracts have
adequate capacity
D. Reconstruct essential   US$26.78 million                                         *  Security situation does
social infrastructure destroyed                                                         not interfere with project
by earthquake.                                                                          activity
E. Launch operations of a    US$1.69 million                                        *  PCU retains support of
Project Coordination Unit.                                                              government agencies
and other stakeholders
necessary to resolve land
titling, procurement,
contracting, and other
issues speedily.
23 -



Annex 2: Project Description
ALGERIA: Ain Temouchent Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$9.37 million
Component A: Disaster Organization and Risk Management
The component will finance:
*  Acquisition of emergency response and search-and-rescue capacity in Algeria through the purchase of
specialized equipment and training in the use and maintenance of the equipment;
*   Construction of facilities in Ain Temouchent and Ain Tolba to support the operations of Civil
Protection in the region;
*  Assessment of Civil Protection's current voice and data communications capacities, development of
recommendations for upgrades that build on current capabilities, enhancement of voice and data
systems, and development of detailed earthquake response plans based upon detailed planning
scenarios;
3 Completion of a seismic risk assessment and microzonation for Ain Temouchent;
3 Enhancement of the Algerian seismic monitoring network;
3 Review of the current standards, practices, and institutional capacities in building code enforcement
and construction monitoring, including recommendations enhancing effectiveness;
3 Assessment of the policy alternatives and feasibility of instituting a national earthquake insurance
program in Algeria based on a review of current international practices.
A detailed description of the activities follows:
A.1. Emergency Response and Rescue Equipment
International experience demonstrates that the emergency operations in the immediate aftermath of major
earthquakes are complex and require special capabilities and equipment. The project will support a
program to enhance the operations of Algerian Civil Protection (including but not limited to search and
rescue) through the purchase of specialized equipment as well as training in the use and maintenance of the
equipment. Algerian Civil Protection will develop an equipment acquisitions report that details the strategic
objectives, functions, type, deployment and training requirements for the proposed equipment for review by
international consultants.
A.2. Construction of Civil Protection Facilities in Ain Temouchent and Ain Tolba
The decentralized Algerian Civil Protection system depends on the capabilities found in each region,
wilaya, municipality and settlement. The December 1999 earthquake destroyed the principal operational
facility in Ain Temouchent, which provides emergency response coordination for the Wilaya and adjacent
areas. In addition, the facility in the village of Ain Tolba was destroyed. The project will support the efforts
of the Government of Algeria to construct two new facilities to meet the needs of Civil Protection in the
region.
A.3. Assessment of Communications, Data and Information Management Systems used by Algerian
Civil Protection
-24 -



The cornerstone of a rapid, coordinated and effective response to natural disasters is an effective
communications system -- voice and data (including Geographic Information Systems) -- that links the
municipal, regional and national levels of govermment. An effective system has redundancy, so that the
failure of a single cormponent will not destroy the network, and the capacity to handle the large volume of
information created following a natural disaster. The timely receipt, organization, analysis and display of
this information guides the establishment of essential emergency response priorities and the deployment of
critical resources to save lives and minimize property losses.
The current communications system used by Algerian Civil Protection, while remaining fully
functional during the Ain Temouchent earthquake, is highly dependent on telephones and fax machines and
a network of microwave repeaters. There is minimal use of modern information management software and
geographic information systems.
In coordination with Civil Protection, the Project will support an assessment by international
consultants of current emergency communications, information management and decision support systems
in Algeria and the development of recommendations for priority equipment acquisitions.
A.4. Upgrading Communications, Information Management and Operational Systems for Algerian
Civil Protection
Based on the assessments and recommendations developed in A.3, the Project will support the acquisition
of upgraded communications and information management equipment and systems. International
experience demonstrates that the effective use of this equipment by disaster response officials is greatly
enhanced by decision support systems that combine the use of information management programs with
realistic planning scenarios that provide a guide to potential losses and resource requirements. As part of
the deployment of the enhanced communications, information management and decision support systems,
the project will support the development by international consultants of an earthquake planning scenario for
an Algerian metropolitan region that is considered to have significant seismic risk. This planning scenario is
to serve as a guide in refining Algerian Civil Protection's management strategies for the emergency
response to a large-scale, major earthquake.
A.5. Seismic Risk Assessment and Microzonation for Ain Temouchent
As noted above, prior to the December 22 earthquake, the Ain Temouchent region was not considered an
area of significant seismic risk. Building codes placed the region in Zone 1, indicating low risk. In order to
more completely understand the seismic risk in this region, and inform the building code development and
implementation process, the Project will support technical assistance by international consultants to
develop a study of the Ain Temouchent region.
A.6. Seismic Monitoring Network Upgrades
A dense array of monitoring instruments is essential to understanding seismic risk and providing rapid,
accurate data to Civil Protection in the immediate aftermath of earthquakes. Since 1980 the Government of
Algeria has expanded its seismic monitoring system on a regular basis; the Center for Geophysical
Research (CRAAG) maintains a telemetered seismographic network and the National Earthquake Center
for Engineering Research (CGS) maintains a network of 210 accelerometers to measure strong ground
motion. Virtually all of the instruments are analog. The project will support enhancement of these networks
and the purchase of digital instrunents based on priorities established by a joint committee of CRAAG,
CGS and Civil Protection officials.
- 25 -



A.7. Assessment of Current Practices in Building Code Enforcement
In Ain Temouchent and other areas of Algeria there are large numbers of residential and commercial
building projects underway. Effective management of the nation's seismic risk can only be achieved through
careful monitoring of new construction to ensure adherence to the nation's building codes. The project will
support the preparation by intemational consultants of a study of current practices and institutional
capacities related to the enforcement of building codes. The study shall include recommendations for
enhancing, as appr( .:ate, the capabilities of Algerian agencies and organizations in the training,
monitoring and supervision of building code enforcement for both public and private construction.
A.8. Assessment of International Practices in Natural Hazards Insurance Programs
Though losses from the Ain Temouchent earthquake were moderate, the overall seismic risk in Algeria
suggests that large-magnitude earthquakes affecting one of the metropolitan areas would severely stress the
national government's re- arces. In addition, there is little residential or commercial earthquake coverage in
Algeria, and the insurance mechanism does not currently act as an incentive for individuals or businesses to
undertake risk reduction measures. A recent trend among nations facing risk from large-scale natural
disasters is to implement some form of earthquake insurance program to moderate strain on governmental
operating budgets and to promote more effective risk reduction mechanisms. The project will support the
preparation by intemational consultants of a study of altemative public insurance strategies for managing
risk. This study is to include, but not necessarily be limited to, current programs in France, New Zealand,
Germany, the United States (both federal and state), and Turkey. The study will include recommendations
of altemative strategies, including potential costs, benefits and barriers to implementation, for consideration
by the Algerian Government. The study will include discussions of current models used in each country to
estimate risk and determine insurance rates, discussions of strategies used in securing reinsurance or other
risk transfer strategies, as well as recommendations of altemative strategies, including potential costs,
benefits and barriers to implementation, for consideration by the Algerian government.
- 26 -



Costs of Component A
Totals including Contingencies
by Financier
Government
Total      Bank      of Algeria
I. Investment Costs
A. Disaster Organization
1. Emergency Response and Rescue Equipment (Al) /a         2,532,863 2,000,962      531,901
2. Construction of Civil Protection in Ain T. and Ain Tolba (A2)  2,214,500  1,904,470  310,030
3. Data/Communications Assessment and Design (A3)            250,480   250,480
4. Data/Communications Enhancement (A4)                    2,268,294 1,791,953      476,342
Subtotal Disaster Organization                               7,266,138 5,947,865     1,318,273
B. Risk Management
1. Seismic Risk Assess. & Microzonation for Ain Tem. (A5)    350,470   350,470
2. Seismic Monitoring System Enhancement (A6)               1,090,232   861,283     228,949
3. Study of Bldg Code Enforcement Practices (A7)             151,500         -      151,500
4. Assessment of Alternative Public Insurance Strategies (A8)  193,435       -      193,435
Subtotal Risk Management                                      1,785,637 1,211,753     573,884
Total Investment Costs                                          9,051,775 7,159,618    1,892,157
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Operating Cost
Remedial Search and Rescue Training                           83,767         -       83,767
B. Incremental Staff
Communications Staff for Civil Protection                    118,177         -      118,177
Seismic Monitoring Staff at CRAGG                            118,177         -      118,177
Subtotal Incremental Staff                                     236,354         -      236,354
Total Recurrent Costs                                            320,121         -       320,121
Total                                                           9,371,895 7,159,618    2,212,278
\a Algerian Civil Protection is exempt of customs tax.
Project Component 2 - US$65.78 million
Component B: Housing
Damage overview. The earthquake of December 22, 1999 affected four communities: Ain Temouchent
Sidi Ben Adda, Ain Tolba, and Ain Lalam. The majority of the damaged housing occurred in heavily
populated areas, particularly in the town of Ain Temouchent which has a population of approximately
65,000.
The main causes of structural damage were:
* The age of many buildings, in conjunction with the method of construction for older buildings which
used load-bearing, stone masonry walls. Cohesion of these walls failed, leading to the collapse or
severe damage of the structures;
* Inadequate design and construction methods in newer buildings. This resulted in loss of structural
integrity in columns and column-beam connections, leading to collapse or severe damage;
* Lack of awareness and proper studies of geological and geo-technical conditions.
- 27 -



Within a few days following the earthquake, the Government of Algeria conducted an assessment of
damages. Depending upon the degree of damage, the housing units were classified as follows:
red category:    Units completely destroyed - To be reconstructed.
orange category:  Units severely damaged - Secondary inspection required
to deternine whether each unit should be repaired or
demolished. Repairs would be justified up to 50 percent
of a unit's replacement cost.
green category:   Units lightly damaged - These would qualify for minor
repair.
The inspection teams assessed 3,470 buildings consisting of 6,940 housing units. hn total, 6,734 units
were declared damaged, of which 2,708 were completely destroyed.
Overview of Damaged Housing Units
Community/           Heavily         Medium Damage         Light Damage      SUm
Municipality      Damaged (red)           (orange)            (green)
Ain Temouchent                 1,350                 1,080               933    3,363
Sidi Ben Adda                    543                  432                373     1,348
Ain Tolba                        543                   432               373     1,348
Ain Lalam                        272                   216               187       675
Total                    2,708                 2,160             1,866    6,734
Demand for Reconstruction
The above assessment refers to both single-family houses and multi-family buildings. However, most of the
damage occurred in two-story multi-family buildings located in the old town of Ain Temouchent.
The data provided by the Government of Algeria were reviewed and investigated by a team of national
specialists financed by the World Bank. The numbers provided by the Government of Algeria are generally
consistent with those of the independent consultants.
The secondary assessment of the orange category determined that 1,306 units needs to be reconstructed and
that the remaining units could be repaired. In addition, it was found that about 10 percent of the units
classified as green need to be demolished because of their proximity to units which have either collapsed or
which qualify for demolition.
Based on these findings, the total number of housing units to be reconstructed is estimated at 4,200, of
which 3,400 are social rental and 800 are individual non-grouped housing units.
- 28 -



Demand for housing reconstruction
Category      Category      Category      Total
Red         Orange         Green
Housing units to be reconstructed        2,708         1,306*          186*       4,200
Social Rental Housing                                                             3,400
Individual Non-grouped Housing                                                    800*
*based on a secondary assessment
Beneficiary selection criteria. Only housing units that have to be reconstructed will be financed under this
operation. Families eligible for assistance will be determined according to the Ministry of Housing decision
which requires creation of a Commission under the supervision of the Wali, and consisting of: (i) elected
representatives to local government; (ii) the Director of OPGI (Office for the Real Estate Administration);
(iii) The Director of DUC (Social Rental and Building Administration); and (iv) The President of the
Association of Disaster Victims.
The procedures for beneficiary selection depend on two broad criteria: (a) demonstration that a family's
housing unit was totally or severely destroyed, and (b) demonstration of eligibility for social housing under
the Governnent's usual standards for social housing. These two criteria are applied in a process of up to
three steps. First, through a participatory approach, documentation provided by an applicant is reviewed to
show that the household resided in one of the units listed as having been damaged. The applicant may
provide proof of ownership of such a unit, primary or secondary residence in such a unit according to the
Acte de Location, or the list of the Wilaya, voters' registration, the census taken in 1998, rent contracts,
utility bills or other records. If documentary proof is acceptable, then a dossier characterizing need is
reviewed according to an algorithm which assigns points to various characteristics, including employment,
household members, etc. If a certain number of points (110) is exceeded, then, together with loss of
housing in the earthquake, this establishes eligibility for a unit financed by the project. If an application is
rejected by the municipality, for example in the case of lack of documentation of residence, then the
applicant may appeal to the Wali. If the Wali rejects the application, the applicant may appeal to the
national level. These detailed procedures will be adopted and incorporated in the Project Implementation
Plan.
The following principles apply to the project:
*   Investment must be implemented under controlled and sound construction practices;
*   New construction must utilize appropriate, cost-effective design standards that protect against future
seismic risks;
*   Investment must comply with environmental and social standards;
*   Investment is to be implemented in a timely manner;
*   The Borrower is responsible for providing an update of the damage assessment and list of eligible
beneficiaries two weeks prior to distribution of bidding documents. Based on the update, the Bank will
review the total number of housing units to be constructed;
*   Beneficiary records have to be filed at the PCU and presented to the Bank for review upon request.
-29-



Component B1:        Demolition
Costs associated with the demolition and the removal of debris is estimated at US$2.0 million. Demolition
and debris removal is eligible for retroactive financing under Bank rules. This subcomponent will be
carried out on the basis of environmental good practices (see Environmental Management Plan, Annex 12).
Component B2:        Social Rental Housing Reconstruction.
This sub-component will finance reconstruction of housing units which have collapsed or cannot be
repaired. In addition, units are eligible under this component if repair cost exceeds 50 percent of
replacement cost. Based on the damage reports provided by the Government and the review by the team of
specialists, approximately 3,400 social rental housing units will be financed under this operation.
Based on social assessment and the request from the Government it is estimated that 100% of housing
reconstruction falls into the category of social rental housing targeting the most deprived low-income
families. The project will finance all of these units on sites to be identified and provided by the Borrower.
The Government will be responsible for allocation of these units among the beneficiaries. Under the current
policy, low income families (monthly income up to 15,000 DA) are eligible for social rental units.
Housing space standards particularly fir low incomes are determined based on the following distribution of
family size:
Category     Number of persons            area in m
Fl                 1-3                     30
F2                 4-5                     45
F3                 6+                      60
According to the results of the social survey, confimned by the independent World Bank consultants and
Government of Algeria investigations, Fl, F2 and F3 units will be required to meet the space needs of the
earthquake struck population. Based on the distribution of family sizes, the average unit size is estimated at
50 m2.
The cost per housing unit will vary depending on unit size and the site location. Based on recently
completed projects in Ain Temouchent region and after adjusting for an added 5% seismic premium,
average m2 cost is estimated at US$235. The Govemment representatives confirmed that this estimate
includes the cost of studies, design and supervision as well as taxes (7% for construction of social housing).
Therefore, construction unit cost is approximately US$200 per m2, that is US$10,000 per unit on average.
In addition, an estimated US$2,000 per unit (or US$40 per square meter) is allocated for on-site and
partially off-site infrastructure, including cost of taxes, studies, design and supervision. Excluding taxes,
studies, design and supervision, the average cost per m2 of infrastructure is US$33. The table below
aggregates the cost of studies, design and supervision for construction and infrastructure.  It next
aggregates taxes for construction and infrastructure. Excluding the cost of land, the total cost for
reconstruction of a housing unit is calculated at US$13,750.
- 30 -



Construction Cost, Including Off-Site Infrastructure, Per m2 and Per
Unit
Item                            Cost per    Cost per
M2       50 m2 unit
US$      US$
(A) Construction cost              200      10,000
(B) Infrastructure                 33       1,650
Design, supervision at 11%         24       1,200
= (A+B)* 11%
Taxes at 7%                        18       900
=(A+B)*7%
Total                              275      13,750
* Excluding cost of land,
physical and price contingencies.
Based on the damage assessment, it can be estimated that 59% of those units will be reconstructed in Ain
Temouchent, 20% in Sidi Ben Adda, 18% in Ain Tolba and 3% in Ain Lalam.
Construction Cost for Reconstruction of Social Rental Housing Units
Community/            Social rental    Cost per Unit   Total cost*
Municipality            housing
Number of units        US$         US$
Ain Temouchent           2,014         11,650          23,463,100
Sidi Ben Adda             682         11,650           7,945,300
Ain Tolba                 602         11,650           7,013,300
Ain Lalam                  102         11,650           1,188,300
Total              3,400                          39,610,000
*Excluding design and supervision
(included in Component B4), taxes,
cost of land, physical and price
contingencies.
- 31 -



Construction of up to 1000 units of housing is eligible for retroactive financing under the project. Houses
under construction will be reviewed by an independent engineering company to assure compliance with
Algeria's para-seismic standards as adopted by the Government in 1999. Retroactive financing will apply
only after the Bank's review of the stated audit and the Bank's no-objection to a finding of satisfactory to
such a review.
Maintenance of rental units
A number of reforms are underway with regard to management and cost recovery in the rental sector. For
the units under public management, a number of changes have been introduced. First, the right to
permanent occupation has been suppressed for new entrants, who now have three year renewable lease
contracts. Second, gradual increases in the level of rent continue. The Government has implemented five
increases in rent since 1998. A further rent increase is being implemented at present, to DA1,200 for a one
room unit, DA1,800 for a two room, and DA3,000 for a three room unit. Current monthly rentals amount
to 1,000 DA on average, which is 10 % of the average income of the occupants. The collection rate has
improved with the use of rent collectors from 29% to 52%.
The Government of Algeria is fully aware of the need for broader reforms in rent levels. The rent levels are
far from adequate to cover even current costs. Based on the average unit cost of US$13,750, the annual
maintenance cost (estimated at 2% of the value of the investment in initial years) would be approximately
US$300 during the first years of the project. This cost would amount to at least 1750 DA/monthlfamily.
Taling into consideration amortization of the housing investment, the level of rent which would ensure
proper maintenance as well as amortization of the investment would represent on average more than 50%
of the income of the Project's eligible beneficiaries. Therefore, it was decided with the Government that
OPGI will be subsidized in order to ensure proper maintenance for a period of four years.
Site Selection. The Borrower will be responsible for providing land with all necessary legal requirements in
place for residential housing development as potential sites for new pernanent housing construction. The
Government of Algeria has identified several potential housing development sites and provided the Bank
with the list. Detailed Terms of Reference for the final selection of sites will be developed by the Borrower
and approved by the Bank. The Terms of Reference will address the following considerations in full.
A. Urban/Regional Planning. The sites of the destroyed housing units are generally not ideal for the
reconstruction process due to the complexity of land ownership patterns. Rebuilding in situ would require
scattered construction processes that would significantly increase the complexity of the construction
process and therefore cause delay and raise costs.
Selection of new sites must meet planning criteria that would minimize social and economic dislocation.
The new sites must be suitable for long-term community building and go beyond the more limited criteria
that would apply to strictly emergency housing. The cost-effectiveness of new construction should also be
an important factor in selection of new sites. These criteria should include: a) proximity to existing
infrastructure, social facilities, transportation and employment opportunities; b) housing standards that are
appropriate for lower-middle class families; c) recognition of nearby housing capacity (capacity existing,
planned, or under construction); and d) consideration of existing structural and land-use plans.
- 32 -



B. Social/lEnvironmental Issues. The Bank's environmental and social requirements, together with local
laws and regulations, to be taken into account for the proposed sites are as follows:
* Existing patterns of population and settlement;
* Existing land use, de facto and regulated, such as protected heritage or natural resource sites,
watershed or conservation areas;
* Client consultation.
C.   Geo-Technical Investigation.   Each proposed site will be investigated by a geo-technical
consultant/expert to determine seismic and other conditions that may either eliminate the site or require
special structural/foundation design. A geo-technical expert will establish Terms of Reference, and the
above evaluation will be a prior condition for final site selection approval and for the procurement of design
services. The geo-technical investigation will further identify sites where geological conditions would
require special structural design, recommend suitable structural systems, and provide preliminary cost
estimates.
D. Infrastructure. Complete, up-to-date infrastructure based on local standards will be required for the
new sites.
The proposed sites will take into consideration proximity to existing, functioning infrastructure networks to
minimize off-site infrastructure investment. The cost of necessary off-site infrastructure will be part of the
development cost for each site and is estimated at US$2,000 per housing unit.
Site Planning and Building Design. 3,400 new housing units need to be constructed. These units will be
located in all four areas affected by the earthquake. The density of construction will depend on local and
national government preferences and availability as well as site characteristics.
A. Site Planning. Standards established by DUC and OPGI will guide the site planning process, focusing
on beneficiary participation in site design and planning. The Bank will review site layouts, planning
criteria, and methods to ensure beneficiary consultation.
B. Building Design. The building design process will include beneficiary consultations.
Based on similar design practices in the area (for example, the residential development of Hai Zeitoune in
the Ain Temouchent district) building heights should not exceed five stories. This simplifies structural
requirements, optimizes costs, and is in line with population expectations. The structural design will follow
very strict anti-seismic requirements.
It is preferable that whenever possible, more traditional construction methods be used, requiring intensive
use of the local labor force in order to ease the hardships of the earthquake-affected population.
Despite the possibility of a slight increase in cost, the building design will seek to introduce variety in both
apartment architecture and urban design massing in order to allow for aesthetic diversity essential to future
economic and social sustainability.
Component B3:        Individual Non-grouped Housing Reconstruction.
The sub-component will finance the re-construction of individual non-grouped housing units. The
beneficiaries under the supervision of independent consultants will undertake the construction activities. In
addition, construction training will be provided through which the beneficiaries will gain qualification and
experience in seismic-resistant construction. Strict geo-technical and structural requirements will be applied
- 33 -



to each site and to each housing unit. The beneficiaries will purchase materials according to technical
specifications. No modifications will be made to the standard designs, and no materials may be used that
do not have prior approval from the PCU.
Payments to beneficiaries will be made in increments. The first advance payment will be made only after
evidence of clear title to the land is provided by the beneficiaries. The remaining payments will be made in
stages as approved by the PCU.
Approximately 800 housing units are estimated to be eligible for reconstruction. The average size of a
projected individual non-grouped housing unit is 50 m2 and average cost per m2 is estimated at
approximately US$ 180, which includes house connection but excludes the cost of land and off-site
infrastructure. Thus, the reconstruction of an average individual non-grouped unit is calculated at
US$9,000, equivalent to DA 630,000.
As in social rental areas, the component will provide a subsidy scheme for individual non-grouped families
based on the income distribution. The grants can only be used for purchasing construction materials.
Family Income            Yearly            Grant for materials
(FI)              Income (YI)         DA
DA
FI< 2SNMG*            YI< 144,000         350,000
* SNMG stands for the minimal wage, which in
1999 was DA 6,000 per month
The sweat contribution of the beneficiaries is estimated at 44 percent of the total reconstruction cost. In
case of the low-income beneficiaries, the grant for materials is sufficient to finance 56 percent of the total
re-construction cost.
Income       Grant            Beneficiary         Beneficiary      Total
Group         for         Sweat Contribution       Financial        DA
Materials            DA               Contribution
DA                                     DA
I         350,000            280,000                0         630,000
56%                44%                  0%         100%
Based on Social Assessment and following the policy of the Govermment of Algeria it is estimated at this
time that 100% of beneficiaries will fall into income group I. It is agreed that this sub-component will be
financed by the Government of Algeria.
Taking the above into account, the cost for the individual non-grouped housing sub-component is estimated
at US$7.2 Million.
- 34 -



Component B4:       Consultant Services for Design, Site Investigation,
Soil Investigations and Supervision.
Design offices as well as independent consultants will be required to prepare site plans, carry out
geo-technical soil studies and site investigations, undertake architectural and structural design and
supervise apartment building construction during implementation of social rental housing reconstruction.
For individual non-grouped housing reconstruction, consultants will prepare standard designs and provide
training, construction management and supervision. In addition, consultants will ensure that specified
materials are purchased and used, construction is supervised, and payments are approved according to
progress in construction.
Estimated Cost for Consultant Services
Consultant Services    Site selection, survey building design    Supervision  TOTAL
(US$)
(US$)          (US$)
Social Rental Housing    2,050,000                          2,050,000      4,100,000
Individual Non-grouped   300,000                            500,000        800,000
Housing
Total                  2,350,000                            2,550,000      4,900,000
- 35 -



Costs of Component B
Total including Contingencies
By Financier
Government
Total      Bank      of Algeria    Beneficiaries
I. Investment Costs
A. Demolition and Debris Disposal /a               2,000,000  1,600,000     400,000
B. Social Rental Housing Reconstruction
Ain Temouchent                                  27,345,784 23,462,683    3,883,101
Sidi Ben Adda                                    9,260,092  7,945,159    1,314,933
Ain Tolba                                        8,173,864  7,013,175    1,160,689
Ain Lalam                                        1,384,940  1,188,279     196,662
Subtotal Social Rental Housing Reconstruction     46,164,681 39,609,296    6,555,385
C. Individual Non-Grouped Housing Reconstruction   7,935,506        -      3,967,753     3,967,753
D. Site Selection, Survey, Design and Supervision
1. Social Rental Housing Related                 5,439,760  4,099,947    1,339,813            -
2. Individual Housing Related                    1,061,417   799,990      261,427
Subtotal Site Selection, Survey, Design and
Supervision                                        6,501,176  4,899,936    1,601,240            -
Total Investment Costs                              62,601,363 46,109,233    12,524,377    3,967,753
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Housing Maintenance                             3,177,548        -      3,177,548            -
Total Recurrent Costs                                3,177,548        -      3,177,548            -
Total                                               65,778,911 46,109,233    15,701,926    3,967,753
\a Eligible for retroactive financing.
Project Component 3 - USS 8.39 million
Component C: Technical Infrastructure
Objective. The objective of this component is to restore essential infrastructure in the area affected by the
December 22, 1999 earthquake. The component includes design, supervision and reconstruction of
infrastructure: water supply systems, sewerage systems and wastewater treatment plants (including
construction of a new one for Ain Temouchent), roads and sidewalks. The reconstruction of these facilities
shall be made in accordance with the current standards prevailing in Algeria, incorporating
recommendations of the engineering consultants who will supervise the designs and construction of the
facilities under contract with the PCU. Experts will also determine the need for assistance to local
communities in procurement, design, construction, supervision and various field surveys required to assure
compliance with quality standards and regulations.
The component does not include financing of power distribution and telecommunication systems, since
major damages to these sectors were not reported.
Specific required investments have been identified by the representatives of municipal and provincial
governments in the province as having the highest priority based upon local needs. Technical and cost data
for each investment have been prepared by the Algerian authorities and verified by outside independent
consultants working with the local authorities and the Bank.
- 36 -



Component Cl: Municipal Water and Wastewater Systems.
Following the earthquake, the City of Ain Temouchent and several adjoining localities, including the towns
of Sidi Ben Adda, Ain Tolba, and Ain El Allem have been without a reliable drinking water supply. The
main water conveyance line which delivers water from a 40,000m3 reservoir was ruptured. The pipeline
crosses a major fault line along which the earthquake occurred. Other pipelines (Alirnentation d'Eau
Potable, or AEP) were also damaged as were some 12 water well installations which need to be tested and
rehabilitated.
Additionally, four concrete water pressure storage tanks near Sidi Ben Adda and Ain Tolba were damaged
(two severely), and need to be repaired or replaced. All are of reinforced concrete. Two have 100m3
capacity; one has 1501rn; one has 250mr. It should be noted here that the type of construction used for these
tanks (reportedly built during colonial times) makes them inherently susceptible to damage during
earthquakes; and repairing them is unlikely to ensure their structural integrity during future seismic events.
The damages sustained, still under assessment, appear to be serious enough to render support for
consideration of replacing the tanks with modern steel or reinforced concrete tanks designed to resist
daamage during more severe earthquakes. The decision as to which type of tanks should be built to replace
the existing ones, should be based on economic analysis taking into account installation and maintenance
costs, estimated tank life, and resistance to earthquakes.
A drinking water supply system which would function during a natural catastrophe such as an earthquake
could prevent many water-related problems which contribute to additional devastation and human
suffering. Consequently, the improvement of the structural safety of the entire water supply and distribution
system in the Wilaya should become a high priority item on the road to full recovery.
Additionally, it is indicated that an engineering dam safety review of the main water storage reservoir near
Ain Temouchent needs to be undertaken to ensure that this structure did not sustain any significant damage
during the earthquake, and is capable of withstanding any future ones.
According to the data provided by the local authorities, there was some damage to sewer lines within Ain
Temouchent and other affected communities. These lines will have to be repaired and/or replaced.
The part of the city of Ain Temouchent where most of the household units are going to be built is not
serviced by a wastewater treatment plant (WWTP). The existing WWTP is located on the other side of the
city and has a limited capacity of 15,000 eq. inhabitants. The Bank recognizes the necessity of providing
appropriate sanitation to the beneficiaries of the housing component but also to neighboring population, and
consequently recommends that the necessary financing for this facility be included in the current loan
package. A pre-feasibility study will first be conducted in order to assess the appropriate technology from
the point of view of cost-effectiveness, operations and maintenance.
The idea of constructing the plant as part of emergency infrastructure restoration was discussed and
approved by the Ministry of Hydraulics which had developed a preliminary technological design for it. The
plant construction cost was estimated by this government agency at US$ 2A million. This cost appears low
in western standards for a conventional secondary wastewater plant of this size, however the design based
on "modular" simple biological system and exclusion of the purchase of the land (to be provided by the
- 37 -



Wilaya) that often represents 30 to 40% of the operation would significantly reduce the total cost of the
above investment. At this stage there is no rational reason to arbitrarily increase the above estimated cost.
It is recommended that independent experts evaluate proposed design and cost estimate.
The table below summarizes the estimated investment costs for reconstruction of the water and wastewater
infrastructure within the Wilaya of Ain Temouchent. The estimates are based on the information furnished
by the Wilaya's offices and by the independent consultants under contract to the Bank. Additional US$
300,000 is allocated for dam/water reservoir study.
Rehabilitation of Water and Wastewater Systems
Tasks                       Estimated Cost
in US$ million *
Reconstruction of water lines,   2.2
including rebuilding of storage
tanks
Construction of new         2.4
wastewater treatrnent
plantlsewer lines
Inspection and repair of    0.2
distribution lines and water
wells
Total                       4.8
* excluding taxes and contingencies
Component C2: National, Regional and Local Roads.
A total of about 45 km of roads need to be repaired or partly reconstructed. This includes the rehabilitation
of the national roads RN2, RN35 and RN96, the Wilaya Road CW10, and the rural road CR leading to
Ain Alem. An estimate of the investment cost -- US$1,2 million -- was provided to the Bank's mission for
these repairs, which would include engineering, demolishing sections of the existing roads, excavation and
backfill, new road base, culverts and erosion protection work, asphalting, traffic control works, and
supervision of construction. The proposed expenditures for specific key items are summarized in the table
below:
Road reconstruction
Tasks                                    Estimated Cost in US$ million *
Repair of RN2, RN35, RN96                0.7
Repair of local Wilaya Road CW1O         0.3
- 38 -



Repair of rural road                    0.1
Total                                    1.1
* excluding taxes and contingencies
The above estimate is for the repairs of road damages sustained during the earthquake; costs for road
improvements which go beyond their pre-earthquake condition, are not included.
Component C3:       Consultant Services for Design, Site Investigation,
Soil Investigations and Supervision.
Design offices as well as independent consultants will be required to carry out geo-technical soil studies,
laboratory tests and site investigations, undertake engineering and structural design and supervise
construction during implementation. Estimated costs of these services are shown in the table below and
represent approximately 10% of the cost of investments with 5% towards studies and design and 5% for
supervision. Additional US$ 300,000 is allocated for dam/water reservoir study.
Estimated Cost for Consultant Services
Services                            Site investigation, survey  Supervision   TOTAL
engineering and design                  (in US$)
Rehabilitation of Water and                         250,000        250,000     500,000
Wastewater Systems
Road Reconstruction                                  50,000         50,000     100,000
Dam/Reservoir Safety Study                          300,000                    300,000
Total                                               600,000        300,000     900,000
- 39 -



Costs of Component C
Totals Including Contingencies
By Financier
Total       Bank      Govemment
I. Investment Costs
A. Municipal Water Supply and Wastewater Systems
Reconstruct water lines & rebuild storage tanks        2,665,531    2,179,338     486,193
Constructon of new wastewater treatment plant/sewer lines  2,962,382    2,422,044  540,338
Inspection and repair of distrbution lines and water wells  242,321  198,122       44,199
Subtotal Municipal Water Supply and Wastewater Systems    5,870,234    4,799,504   1,070,731
B. National, Regional and Local Roads
Repair of RN2,RN35,RN96                                  858,727     702,095      156,632
Repair of Local Wilaya Road CW10                         368,026     300,898       67,128
Repair of rural road                                     122,675      100,299      22,376
Subtotal National, Regional and Local Roads               1,349,428    1,103,292    246,136
C. Studies, Designs and Supervision
1. Water and Wastewater Related
Site investig., Survey and Design & Dam Safety Study   714,649     549,994      164,655
Supervision                                            324,840     249,997       74,843
Subtotal Water and Wastewater Related                   1,039,489    799,991      239,498
2. Road Reconstruction Related
Site Investig., Survey and Design                       64,968      49,999       14,969
Supervision                                             64,968      49,999       14,969
Subtotal Road Reconstruction Related                     129,936      99,999       29,937
Subtotal Studies, Designs and Supervision                 1,169,425    899,990      269,436
Total                                                       8,389,087    6,802,785   1,586,302
Project Component 4 - US$26.78 million
Component D: Social Infrastructure
Objective. The principal objective of this component is to assist and provide financing for the
reconstruction of public buildings which provide normal social services and include schools, hospitals,
recreation centers, local and central government offices. Restoration of such facilities is essential to
bringing back a sense of stability and normality to the community, and restoring confidence in the
government's ability to deal with public catastrophes.
The Government of Algeria conducted an assessment of darnages and the data were reviewed and
investigated by a team of national specialists financed by the World Bank.
Component DI: Education.
Of the 39 school buildings located within the Wilaya Ain Temouchent, 12 were heavily damaged and will
have to be reconstructed. The largest of these schools was Lycee Bachir Ibrahimi in Ain Temouchent which
had about 1340 students. This school was devastated and will have to be completely reconstructed. The
earthquake also effectively damaged four others which will require major repairs.
The schools damaged or destroyed by the earthquake were built during different periods, using a variety of
construction techniques and materials. Consequently, in order to ensure that the reconstruction cost
estimates are realistic, the estimates must reflect differences in the type of construction.
- 40 -



The building construction varied from the old colonial period type of brick and stone masonry reinforced by
steel girders, to a more modem construction of reinforced concrete beamns and column frames with slabs.
Both types of buildings suffered severe damage, due to inappropriate designs such as inadequate
reinforcement ofjoint connections, weak foundations, and/or poor quality-control of building materials.
It is thus of paramount importance to ensure that the reconstruction of these buildings is carried out in
accordance with appropriate seismic codes and is supervised by qualified engineering consultants and
experienced contractors. The siting of each school should be investigated from a geo-technical point of view
to avoid geologic and soil conditions unfavorable to seismic stability as well as from an environmental
point of view (see EMP, Annex 12). In many instances, these considerations may require relocation of a
school from its current site. A new site may have to be supplied with additional infrastructure which may
increase overall reconstruction cost. Therefore, any final site selection should be based on an analysis of
site-specific requirements and their impacts on cost. The necessary infrastructure included in unit cost per
m2 was estimated to be 10% of construction cost.
The table below presents a list of schools which will have to be rebuilt, and provides the estimated capital
cost investment for the reconstruction of each facility.
Construction Cost for School Reconstruction
Name of the school        Number of   Area m2         Unit Cost    Estimated Cost in
students                   $/M2*        US$
Primary schools: 1st and                  (2.5m2/
2nd cycle                                 student)
Mouloud Feraoun               331           830           320                  265,600
El Ghazali                    393          1000           320                  320,000
Marie Curie                   356           900           320                  288,000
Larbi Fekhar                  182           455           320                  145,600
Ibn Badiss                    228           500           320                  160,000
Taleb Abderahmane             281           700           320                  224,000
Bekhit el Hadj                625          1600           320                  512,000
Ibn Badiss (Ain Tolba)        430          1100           320                  352,000
Tahar Ahmed                   363           900           320                  288,000
Subtotal                                                                     2,555,200
Middle schools: 3rd cycle              (5m2/student)
CEM 17 Octobre                545          2725           360                  981,000
-41 -



CEM Max Marchand              453          2265           360                  815,000
Subtotal.                                                                    1,796,000
Secondary schools                      (5m2/student)
Lycee B. El Ibrahim *         1500         7500          450                 3,375,000
TOTAL                                                                        7,726,200
* Construction cost
excluding cost for:
design, supervision,
taxes, contingencies
and land
The unit costs per square meter shown above were based upon an examination of common practices and
comparison with similar school construction projects. It has been assumed that each school would be
reconstructed approximately to its pre-earthquake size taking however into consideration local norms
regarding the necessary per student area. The estimates were developed by the consultants financed by the
Bank and confirmed with local authorities during the appraisal mission.
Based upon the consultants' evaluation, all of the above schools will, in all probability, have to be
completely rebuilt. A more detailed engineering inspection will be conducted during the implementation
process.
The remaining schools that were damaged, but can be repaired in the consultants' judgement, are not listed
here and their repair costs are to be covered by the Government.
Reconstruction of primary schools is eligible for retroactive financing.
Component D2: Health
The earthquake also destroyed or damaged numerous regional health facilities. Eight small health centers
were severely damaged and three partially damaged. Some of these were very old and will need to be
completely rebuilt (see the table below) to new standards. Of special concern is the main hospital in Ain
Temouchent. this hospital, more than 100 years old, was severely damaged: three pavilions collapsed and
several others were severely damaged. The remaining buildings are in high risk in case of another
earthquake. The Government has requested that a 240-bed hospital be built to partially replace the old
hospital.
The unit cost per m2 of health facilities was estimated based upon examination of similar construction
projects by the consultants working with the Bank and confirmed with local authorities during the appraisal
mission. The infrastructure included in unit prices was estimated to be 20% of construction cost for the
hospital and 10% of construction cost for smaller health centers.
Construction Cost for Health Facility Reconstruction
(excluding the cost of design, supervision, equipment, taxes, contingencies, and land)
- 42 -



Name of Health Facility  Type             Area M2    Unit Cost    Estimated cost
/rn2        (US$)
Ain Temouchent           Hospital             10250  600                   6,150,000
Meghni Sendid            Health Clinic          100  400                      40,000
Sidi Said                Health Clinic          300  400                     120,000
Sidi Ben Adda            Health Clinic          180  400                      72,000
Cheouilef Salah          Nursing Center         200  400                      80,000
Amour Ahmed              Health Clinic          400  400                     160,000
6,622,000
Total
The equipment cost for all health facilities was estimated at US$4,485,000 with US$4,285,000 for the
equipment for the Hospital in Ain Temouchent and US$200,000 for smaller health centers.
Component D3: Public Buildings
Three public buildings were seriously damaged and fourteen others will require major repairs. This
component does not include financing for the restoration of two official residences.
The most damaged administrative public building, for which financing will be made available, is the Court
Building at Ain Temouchent, which will need a complete reconstruction. Post office buildings in Sidi Ben
Adda and Ain Tolba sustained damage which can be repaired. However, the regional art center at Ain
Temouchent was heavily damaged. Damage estimates for the public buildings were made by the Bank
consultants and are as follows:
Total Cost for Reconstruction of Public Buildings and Facilities
Namne of the building                  Location                   Estimated cost (USD
million)
Folk Art Center                        Ain Temouchent                            0.120
Main Post Office                       Ain Temouchent                            0.360
Court House                            Ain Temouchent                            0.400
Total                                                                            0.880
Site Selection and Geo-Technical Investigations
-43 -



The rebuilding of public facilities destroyed by the earthquake will require a careful engineering analysis
of the causes of such destruction - which may lead to the conclusion that a given facility may have to be
relocated. In such cases, it shall be the responsibility of the Borrower to identify and designate state or
local public land suitable for siting the new facilities. Such sites will be investigated to identify specific
geo-technical conditions, and the resulting engineering design criteria. The investigations will focus on:
* defining geologic and soil site conditions;
*   defining, where appropriate, environmental requirements or mitigating
measures;
*   providing cost estimates for foundations and structure(s);
*   estimating costs of additional infrastructure requirements (utilities, access roads etc. not available at
the new site;
*   comparing the overall cost of relocation with the estimated cost of the same facility seismically
reinforced at its original site (in some situations such a comparison may not be possible due to
unacceptable geo-technical conditions).
The final decision as to where a given public facility is to be located should also take into consideration
how critical this facility becomes in the event of a public disaster; for example, a functioning hospital
would be certainly more important than a recreational facility.
Notwithstanding the above, the reconstruction of all public facilities must adhere to modem building design
codes, follow proven construction practices in seismically-prone regions, and ensure the use of the
specified quality of construction materials. The fact that serious damages occurred to both buildings
constructed in 1950s and before, as well as to those built as recently as the late 1980s, indicates that these
guidelines were not being followed.
Component D4:        Consultant Services for Design, Site Investigation,
Soil Investigations and Supervision.
Design offices as well as independent consultants will be required to carry out geo-technical soil studies,
laboratory tests and site investigations, undertake architectural and structural design and supervise
construction during implementation. Estimated costs of these services are shown in the table below and
represent approximately 12% of the cost of investments with 6% towards studies and design and 6% for
supervision.
Estimated Cost for Consultant Services
Services                     Site investigation,       Supervision         TOTAL
Survey engineering                            (in US$)
and design
School Reconstruction                       460,000           460,000         920,000
Health                                      400,000           350,000         750,000
Public Buildings                              55,000            50,000        105,000
Total                                       915,000        860,000           1,775,000
-44 -



Costs of Component D.
Totals Including Contingencies
By Financier
Total     Bank   Governmen
I. Investment Costs
A. Reconstruction of Schools
Mouloud Feraoun                                325,825   265,580    60,245
El Ghazali                                     392,561   319,976    72,584
Marie Curie                                    353,305   287,979    65,326
Larbi Fekhar                                   178,615   145,589    33,026
Ibn Badiss (Ain Tolba)                         196,280   159,988    36,292
Taleb Abderahmane                              274,793   223,983    50,809
Bekhit El Hadj                                 628,097   511,962   116,135
Ibn Badiss                                     431,817   351,974    79,843
Tahar Ahmed                                    353,305   287,979    65,326
CEM 17 Octobre                                1,203,444   980,927   222,517
CEM Max Marchand                               999,803   814,940   184,864
Lycee B. El Ibrahim                          4,140,289  3,374,750   765,539
Subtotal Reconstruction of Schools              9,478,133  7,725,627  1,752,507
B. Reconstruction of Health Facilities
Ain Temouchent Hospital                       7,492,986  6,149,494  1,343,492
Medical Equipment for Ain T. Hospital        5,570,823  4,285,077  1,285,746
Meghni Sendid Clinic                            48,735    39,997     8,738
Sidi Said Clinic                               146,205   119,990    26,214
Sidi Ben Adda Clinic                            87,723    71,994    15,729
Cheouilef Salah Nursing Center                  97,470    79,993    17,476
Amour Ahmed Health Clinic                      194,939   159,987    34,953
Medical Equipment - Other Hospitals            260,015   200,004    60,011
Subtotal Reconstruction of Health Facilities   13,898,896 11,106,535 2,792,360
C. Reconstruction of Public Buildings
Folk Art Center - Ain Temouchent               147,210   119,991    27,219
Main Post Office - Ain Temouchent              441,631   359,973    81,658
Court House - Ain Temouchent                   490,701   399,970    90,731
Subtotal Reconstruction of Public Buildings     1,079,542   879,935   199,607
D. Investigations, Designs and Supervision
1. School Reconstruction
Site Invest., Survey and Design              603,195   459,996   143,198
Supervision                                  603,195   459,996   143,198
Subtotal School Reconstruction                1,206,389   919,992   286,397
2. Health Facilities Reconstruction
Site Invest., Survey and Design              524,517   399,997   124,520
Supervision                                  458,952   349,997   108,955
Subtotal Health Facilities Reconstruction      983,470   749,994   233,476
3. Public Buildings
Site Invest., Survey and Design               72,121    55,000    17,122
Supervision                                   65,565    50,000    15,565
Subtotal Public Buildings                      137,686   104,999    32,687
Subtotal Investigations, Designs and Supervision  2,327,545  1,774,985   552,559
Total                                            26,784,116 21,487,082  5,297,033
Project Component 5 - US$1.69 million
-45 -



Component E: Project Implementation
To allow for a timely and efficient implementation of the project, the following institutional arrangements
are foreseen.
Interministerial Committee for Coordination, and Follow-up for Reconstruction of Ain Temouchent
Disaster Area (CICS). The Intenninisterial Committee for Coordination, and Follow-up for
Reconstruction of Ain Temouchent Disaster Area (CICS) will be established. Its membership will include
the Minister of Interior or his representative (Chair), the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Housing, the
Minister of Health, the Minister of Water, the Director of the General Directorate of Environment, and
representatives of non-governmental organizations. The CICS will be responsible for providing project
oversight, advice and overall guidance for the implementation of the project, and will review the project's
quarterly progress reports.
Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The Project Coordination Unit will assist implementing agencies and in
close cooperation with them will help in implementation of the project. The PCU will report to the
Govemor of the Wilaya who will oversee its activities. The Director of the PCU will have the authority of
hiring or dismissing staff of the PCU, subject to the Bank's approval.
T'he PCU together with implementing agencies will be responsible for issuing procurement notices, inviting
tenders, and appointment of a selection committee. In its procurement activities, the PCU will incorporate
designs and technical specifications provided to it by the corresponding sector agencies of the Wilaya (for
Components B, C and D) and by the General Directorate of Civil Protection (for Component A). Contracts
prepared by the PCU will be signed by the Governor of the Wilaya or the Governor's designee, which may
be the Director of the PCU and the Head of a respective implementing agency.
The PCU will be responsible for continuous monitoring of progress in project implementation, preparation
of quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs), quality control, and together with implementing agency
will issue a letter of compliance with tenns of contract and submit the letter to the BAD for payment.
Based on terms of reference developed by local technical departments and agencies in cooperation with the
PCU, the PCU (in coordination with the local technical departments and agencies) will prepare bidding
documents and contracts for construction works, goods and consultant services for all components. The
PCU together with implementing agencies will also establish work programs and detailed implementations
schedules for each component, and defne precisely responsibilities of each party involved in project
implementation.
The Director of PCU will report to the Governor of Wilaya, but in cases which require higher authority to
resolve issues that can be only cleared through a central level intervention, the Director will be able to refer
directly to the Minister of Interior.
In order to ensure application of the proper procurement procedure and to monitor these functions, the PCU
will hire an experienced Procurement Specialist familiar with the Bank's procurement procedures and
guidelines.
The PCU will be responsible for monitoring compliance of the supported by project activities with
environmental standards. For this purpose the PCU staff will include an Environmental Specialist.
In order to effectively monitor social aspects of project implementation, the PCU will hire a Social Scientist
who will conduct surveys, field visits, and prepare quarterly reports in accordance with the guidelines
- 46 -



provided in the Social Assessment.
For timely payment of invoices to the works, goods, and service providers, a designated BAD
representative will become a staff member of the PCU, and perform his/her functions within its structure.
The PCU will monitor the financial flows resulting from realization of contracts and progress in
implementation of individual activities. In order to effectively perform this function, the PCU will set up
and maintain a computerized monitoring and management system which will comply with the World Bank
standards. The established system will enable the PCU to prepare the quarterly progress reports and other
necessary documents in a timely and accurate manner.
The following chart depicts implementation arrangements designed for the project, including a proposed
internal organizational structure for the PCU itself.
Project Organization Chart
Governor    CvlPoeinUnit
d           (Compoent B)
WilayaI
Com nctoreofAPCU D e  Oo  Rai Ranagement U
managemnttasforceillbe locatd in t al  eTaskForce  l
a   Prcurement      r             o CGS, AdAAso     C
Specialbst   ll
F HinangTalhepronnjl  Depuct t     w   Deputo nDib for  impleentin the c     a wonitoopn9 ent, |al
C anagen  -  HousingR   STiae   Technical have an Covrdal     Teo  m   Leader c  i o
| OminHl(22)  g |  bffsshbt' Arc^hitatuEnginee         niomn                     oS1
l X | ~Represnbtivt 
Implementation Modalities. While the above institutional arrangement reflects the general framework of
the project management, there are some modalities conceiming implementation of the specific components.
These variations are described below.
Component A - Disaster Organization and Risk Management. Under this component an ad-hoc risk
management task force will be located in the General Directorate of Civil Protection (DGPC) in Algiers
and will include, besides DGPC representatives, representatives of CGS, CRAAG, CTC and the Ministry
of Housing. The project team will be responsible for implementing the component, and will refer to the
PCU in Ain Temouchent for all matters related to procurement. In the process of implementation the task
force will cooperate with other relevant agencies.
Component B  - Hlousing.    The PCU  will have an overall responsibility for coordination and
implementation of this component.
The OPGI will be responsible for drafting the TORs, technical specifications, participation in the
procurement selection comrnittee at the Governor's level. Also, the OPGI will be involved in supervision
and quality control.
-47 -



The PCU would be responsible for carrying out the procurement and signing of contracts together with
OPGI and the representative of the Governor (co-signing). The PCU would also hire international and
national consultants to supervise construction works, to review designs and to have overall quality control
responsibility.
Component C - Technical Infrastructure and Component D - Social Infrastructure.  The full
responsibility for implementation of this component rests within the PCU and respective local technical
departments and agencies. Relevant sector specialists from the Ministries of Interior, Water, Education
and Health in the Wilaya will be responsible for the preparation of design criteria for the reconstruction of
various public facilities damaged during the earthquake, the preparation of appropriate terms of reference
under the PCU guidance, and ensuring that the sector accepted design and construction practices, are being
followed. PCU will issue appropriate terms of reference and jointly with the sector representatives, will
select needed independent consultants and contractors to carry out the required work.
PCU staff and their consultants will carry out periodic quality control inspections of both the design and
construction work and will assist contractors in obtaining the necessary permits, resolving any
controversies or issues which may impede work progress, and ensuring that the Government and Bank
seismic standards and environmental regulations, are complied with.
Costs. The following table shows the breakdown of the project management costs.
Costs for Component E
Total Costs Including Contingencies
By Financier
Total     Bank   Government
I. Investment Costs
Staff Salaries and Fees          505,300         -    505,300
Training                         324,620   324,620           -
PCU Operating Costs             539,267   485,090       54,177
Equipment and Furniture         318,731   253,816       64,915
Total                             1,687,918  1,063,526   624,392
Customs and Duties. Bank funds cannot be used to finance local taxes (such as customs duties, sales tax,
income tax, etc.). The import tax due on any Bank-financed goods will be paid by the Government or
beneficiary.
Monitoring and Evaluation. The PCU will continuously monitor the implementation of the project. The
staffing of the PCU includes specialists who will deal with specific aspects of the implementation, and the
computerized monitoring and management infonmation system that will be established will allow for timely
and accurate data collection and reporting. Also, supervision will be carried out by the Bank team in
cooperation with local consultants.
Beyond regular Bank midterm review of the project, one year after effectiveness the Bank will conduct a
review of key project issues, including progress on Disaster Organization and Risk Management, demand
for housing, maintenance of housing and other works financed by the project, and other issues.
-48 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ALGERIA: Ain Temouchent Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project
A. Disaster Organization and Risk Management             3.28          5.28         8.56
B. Housing                                              53.25          7.20        60.45
C. Technical Infrastructure                              6.65          1.16         7.81
D. Social Infrastructure                                 16.77         8.16        24.93
E. Project Implementation                                 1.04         0.55         1.59
Total Baseline Cost                                     80.99         22.35       103.34
Physical Contingencies                                  2.53          1.07         3.60
Price Contingencies                                     4.51          0.55         5.06
Total Project Costs             88.03        23.97       112.00
Front-end fee                    0.84         0.84
Total Financing Required             88.03        24.81        112.84
Goods                                                      3.08          8.96         12.04
Works                                                     78.06          9.28        87.34
Technical Assistance and Training                          6.37          5.72         12.09
Operating Cost                                             0.54          0.00         0.54
Total Project Costs    88.05         23.96       112.01
Front-end fee                   0.84         0.84
Total Financing Required    88.05         24.80        112.85
-49 -



Annex 4
ALGERIA: Ain Temouchent Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project
The economic and financial analysis is not required in accordance with OP 8.50.
- 50 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ALGERIA: Ain Temouchent Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project
Years Ending
2001-2003
Year I    Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          44.8      50.4       13.4       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.4        1.4       1.7        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs        45.2       51.8       15.1       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Front-end fee    0.8       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Financing             46.0      51.8       15.1       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                 35.5       39.0       8.9        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Government                9.3       11.2       4.9        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Central                0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   1.1        1.6       1.2        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    45.9      51.8       15.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
|Year 1  |Year 2  |Year 3  |Year 4  |Year 5  |Year 6  |Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs          2.0        2.3       2.6        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         2.0       2.3        2.6        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Front-end fee   0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Total Financing             2.0       2.3        2.6        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                 0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Government               2.0        2.3       2.6        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Central               0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers            0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries  0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                   0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    2.0       2.3        2.6        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
The operational period for the Algeria TEERP is assumed to be 3 years.
-51 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ALGERIA: Ain Temouchent Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project
Procurement
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published in January 1995, revised
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999, as well as Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, published in January 1997 and revised January
1999, and also the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. A list of procurement items has been
identified and procurement plans prepared and agreed with the Borrower at appraisal. Additional items
may be identified during implementation. In such cases the procurement plan will be revised following the
principles agreed at appraisal, with minimum processing times for the Borrower and the Bank.
Procurement Review Arrangements: Given the speedy action required at each step in the process,
agreement will be reached with the Borrower on standard processing times for actions such as preparation
of bidding documents and specifications, bid evaluation and award recommendation, award and contract
signing, etc. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) shall be established as soon as possible. Delegation of
functions and approval procedures within the Government should be streamlined and agreed to avoid
delays. The PCU shall have a procurement specialist on staff. In addition, the Borrower will consider
support of qualified procurement consultants from MNA to advise and train the PCU.
Delay in procurement actions will not be used to justify emergency procurement procedures. Given
the large volume of procurement work to be completed in a short period of time, a representative with
adequate power from the Governor's office will be identified to co-ordinate all emergency activities.
Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS) in MNA should coordinate the procurement function. The RPA's
office should be consulted for mandatory reviews and any other guidance.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Goods
ICB. For contracts each estimated to cost US$0.5 million or more, simplified ICB procedures as
described below will be used.
(a)     Advertisement. As early as possible but no later than the time major items to be procured
are identified, a General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published for every project in Development
Business announcing ICB procurement packages and consultant services and inviting interested eligible
suppliers, contractors and consultants to send their expression of interest to the PCU in Algeria. The GPN
will also be published in the local Algerian press. The GPN will be followed by specific advertisements for
individual contracts in the local press. Bidding documents will be sent to suppliers who will respond to the
GPN. The GPN will be updated each year.
(b)     Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. The most recent bidding documents approved by
the Bank for each method of procurement of Goods, Works and Consulting Services will be used by the
PCU. An agreement will be reached with the Bank on sample documents for each method before use. The
period allowed for submission of bids may be reduced to four weeks at the discretion of the PCU.
-52 -



International Shopping (IS). IS will be used for procuring goods (including equipment, materials,
commodities, etc.) of standard specifications available off-the-shelf for contracts each estimated to cost
US$100,000 or more but less than US$0.5 million. IS requires comparison of price quotation obtained
from at least three suppliers from two countries. The list of firms will be prepared by giving first
consideration to those who have expressed interest in response to the press publications (e.g. GPN, local
press). In order to obtain the minimum three quotations, efforts would be made to request bids from more
than three firms where practical, as a means of taking into account the possibility that some of them may
not submit quotations. Under Intemational and National Shopping procedures, requests for quotations may
be sent and quotations obtained by fax.
National Shopping (NS). This method wil be used for contracts for goods available off-the-shelf in
Algeria for contracts each estimated to cost less than US$100,000 by obtaining at least three quotations.
Preparation of the list of firms to be invited to bid will follow the same principle as in the case of IS except
that all firms may be nationals of Algeria.
Works
ICB. Procedures for advertising and use of bidding documents will be those described in the case of
ICB - Goods. ICB procedures for Works will be used for contracts each estimated to cost US$5 million or
more.
NCB. Considering the political environment in Algeria and the works being dispersed and of a
nature such that foreign contractors may not be interested in participating (repairs to roads, etc.), NCB
will used for contracts each estimated to cost US$0.5 million or more but less than US$5 million.
However, interested foreign contractors will be allowed to participate in NCB. Not less than three weeks
will be allowed for submission of bids, the applicable minimum depending upon the nature and size of
procurement. There will be no need for pre-qualification. A sample NCB document for Works will be
cleared for use by the PCU as in the case of ICB. No bids will be rejected based on pre-determined
bracketing (cut-off above and below the engineer's estimates). Awards will be made to the lowest
evaluated responsive bidder based on bid evaluation criteria specified in the bidding documents and no new
criteria will be adopted. Bids will be opened in public the same day and time when these are received.
Procurement of Small Works. The standard bidding document cleared by the Bank for Small
Works will be used for Works contracts each estimated to cost less than US$0.5 million. These works will
be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price or unit rate contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained
from at least three qualified local contractors in response to local advertisement. The bidding document
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion
period, a basic form of agreement consistent with the standard document cleared by the Bank, and relevant
drawings where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the
contract.
Oversight and Supervision. Considering the failure of structures in the recent earthquake in spite
of Temouchent being a low-seismic-risk area, it would be advisable to have the design of proposed
structures be prepared by a qualified firm or at least vetted by an intemational finn or some reputable
independent agency. An intemationally recruited consulting firm or firms should be selected to supervise
construction, especially for the cases of large contracts. Bank supervision of construction should be by
technical staff.
-53 -



Consulting Services
Consultants will be procured in accordance with the Bank Guidelines which shall include both
competitive and single-source selection in accordance with paragraphs 3.8 and 3.11 of the Consultant
Guidelines. The single-source packages will be identified and justified in the procurement plan for each
project. Urgent studies required for the selection of construction sites, and preparation of construction
designs estimated to cost equivalent of US$100,000 or less, may be procured under Direct Contracting .
Single-source selection during project implementation will need the Bank's prior approval. QCBS method
will be used for procuring the services of consulting firms. QCBS and consultants engaged as individuals
will be applicable metiods for consulfing services.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            7.49          61.69           7.03           0.00          76.21
(6.15)        (52.38)         (5.71)        (0.00)         (64.24)
2. Goods                            5.83           0.00           6.21           3.97          16.01
(4.49)         (0.00)         (4.90)        (0.00)         (9.39)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00           10.92          0.43          11.35
/Training                          (0.00)         (0.00)         (8.50)         (0.00)         (8.50)
4. Beneficiary Contribution         0.00           0.00           0.00           3.97           3.97
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                    0.00           0.00           0.84           0.00           0.84
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.84)         (0.00)         (0.84)
6. Operating Cost                   0.00           0.00           0.54           0.75           1.29
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.49)        (0.00)         (0.49)
7. Housing Maintenance              0.00           0.00           0.00           3.18           3.18
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                            13.32          61.69         25.54          12.30          112.85
(10.64)        (52.38)       (20.44)         (0.00)        (83.46)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through shopping and consulting services.
Under Goods, other methods include IS Contracts (US$5.89 million), NS contracts (US$0.32 million), Materials
(US$3.97).
Under Services, other methods include QCBS contract (US$10.60 million), Individual consultant contracts
(US$0.32 million). Training is also included in Consulting Services (USS.08 million) in NBF.
-54 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Cos1g~            .; .      .      .      . iect oi.M.t0a t
A. Firms           10.60     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     0.43      11.03
(8.18)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (8.18)
B. Individuals     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.32      0.00      0.32
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.32)    (0.00)    (0.32)
Total  10.60     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.32      0.43      11.35
(8.18)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.32)    (0.00)    (8.50)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 55 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Goods and Works. All contracts for Goods and Works following ICB procedures, as well as the first two
contracts under NCB and Small Works, the first two under IS for Goods and the first two under NS for
Goods will be subject to Bank prior review. All other contracts will be subject to selective post review by
the Bank.
Consulting Contracts. Procurement documentation for consultant contracts procured competitively and
each estimated to cost US$0.1 million or more with firms, or $50,000 or more with individuals, as well as
all sole-source contracts, will be subject to the Bank's prior review. Follow-up assignments will be
permissible to the extent that these are indicated in initial TORs. Contracts below the above amounts will
be subject to selective post review.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works                       >5,000                    ICB                   7.49 (6.17)
<5,000                   NCB                    5.00 (4.1)
<500                    MW                     3.13 (2.58)
2. Goods                        >500                     ICB                   5.83 (4.81)
<500                     IS                    1.0 (0.83)
<100                     NS                    0.32 (0.26)
3. Services                     >200                     QCBS                  10.60 (8.18)
<50                   Individual              .100 (0.68)
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    33.47 (27.61)
or 30% (33%)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 56 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proposed Bank loan of US$83.46 million would be disbursed over a period of three years.
Disbursements would be made against eligible project expenditures for goods, technical services, works and
consultants' services according to the financing percentages indicated in the Table below.
Due to the emergency nature of the operation and the need to provide immediate assistance to people living
in the disaster area the Bank agrees to apply retroactive financing up to 20% of the loan amount, US$16.8
million. Procurement should be conducted according to the Bank guidelines. Retroactive financing may be
used for payments made for expenditures incurred within four (4) months prior to the date of signing of the
Loan Agreement, but after December 23, 1999.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Works                                      64.24                        80%
Goods                                      9.39           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consultants' Services and Training
a. Design and supervision of physical    8.18                         100%
works under Components A, B, C and
D
b. Other consultants' services           0.33                         100%
Incremental Operating Expenditures         0.49                         90%
Total Project Costs                        82.63
Front-end fee         0.83                         100%
Total                                      83.46
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Project funds will be disbursed under the Bank's established traditional disbursement procedures,
including statements of expenditure (SOEs). Disbursements against contracts below the following
thresholds will be made against SOEs: (i) US$5.0 million for civil works; (ii) US$0.5 million for goods;
(iii) US$0.1 for consulting firm contracts; (iv)  US$50,000 for individual consultant contracts.
Supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained by the Borrower (originals of documentation will be
retained by the BAD, and copies by the PCU), be made available to the Bank during project supervision,
and be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank All disbursements above these
thresholds will be submitted to the Bank for payment on the basis of full documentation.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Borrower (Ministry of Finance - MOF) will
open a Special Account (SA) maintained in US dollars in the Central Bank of Algeria (CA) under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Management of the SA would be delegated by the MOF to the
Algerian Development Bank, or BAD (Banque Algerienne du Developpement), a financial institution of
- 57 -



the MOF. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will delegate the right for signing withdrawal applications to
the designated BAD senior managers (three designated signing senior managers are envisaged). The BAD
would prepare a request for initial advance to the SA and replenishment applications thereafter. GOA will
bear the foreign exchange risk.
The Bank would, upon request, make an authorized allocation of US$8.0 million. Initially the allocation
would be limited to US$5.0 million, until disbursements have reached equivalent of US $20.0 million, at
which time the full authorized allocation could be claimed. Withdrawals from loan proceeds will be based
on Bank's traditional disbursement procedures. Requests for disbursements under contracts above the
prior review thresholds should be fully documented. Requests for disbursements under contracts above
the prior review thresholds should be fully documented. The minimum application size for payments to be
made directly by the Bank to the contractors and suppliers or for issuance of Special Commitments is 20%
of the authorized allocation to the Special Account. Applications for replenishment will be submitted
monthly or when 33% of the initial deposit is disbursed, whichever occurs sooner. Replenishment
applications will be supported by the necessary documentation including the SA statement and a
reconciliation of the SA statement to the project's records based on invoices and other documents. The SA
will be audited annually by auditors acceptable to the Bank.
After one year, the Bank together with the Borrower will conduct an analysis of implementation progress.
Given the emergency nature of the project, if inefficiencies are found in the flow of funds, the Bank and the
Government will then agree on an alternative mechanism for flow of funds.
Financial Management
The Algerian Development Bank (or BAD, Banque Algerienne du Developpement) will be responsible for
project financial management, including processing of all financial transactions, reconciliation of
expenditures with the approved project budget as well as project records with the Bank records and the
Special Account replenishments.
* Accounting system. The BAD financial management system (FMS) in place is based on principles and
procedures defined by the legal framework applicable to the public sector. The BAD maintains an
accounting system based on the cash basis and the outline of budget components according to the
provisions of the Public Accounting Law. Transactions in terms of commitments and disbursements
are reflected in BAD accounting books maintained manually.
*  Budgeting system. GOA will ensure that local currency equivalent to the amount advanced to the
Special Account (SA), and counterpart funds for the project are available to the BAD through
budgetary allocations. Budgetary allocations would be based on the annual budget for the project
activities prepared by the PCU in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The total project
budget includes the Government's contribution as well as funds to be used from a Special Account.
* Control of the budget execution. A fiduciary responsibility for control of the budget execution and
monitoring is assigned to Ministry of Finance through a specialized audit department, "Inspection Gene
rale des Finances" (IGF). The BAD financial management arrangements satisfy the Bank minimum
requirements as the public accounting legal framework used by the BAD ensures financial
accountability. However, the BAD manual financial management system currently in use has no
capacity to generate the Bank-required management-oriented project reporting. Therefore, project
reporting and accounting functions will be the responsibility of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
located in Ain-Temouchent
Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The PCU will be responsible for control of eligibility of project
- 58 -



expenditures to be paid by the BAD, and for project accounting and reporting. To fulfill these functions,
the PCU will be adequately staffed, including an Accountant and a BAD staff member delegated to the
PCU, by July 31, 2000 (a dated Loan covenant confirmed during Negotiations). The staff salaries will be
covered by the GOA. Detailed implementation arrangements, including staffing of the PCU and terms of
reference (TORs) for the Accountant, are included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
Project accounts and expenditure documentation. Project accounts would be maintained on a cash basis
principle using the project management information system developed for this purpose which will be
implemented by no later than October 31, 2000. The PCU Accountant will ensure that copies of all the
project expenditure documentation (contracts, invoices, etc.) are kept on project files in Ain-Temouchent.
Project accounting would cover all sources of project funds, and all utilization of project funds. This
would include payments made and expenditures incurred. Project expenditures will be classified by
disbursement category and cross-referenced to project documents. All project-related transactions (whether
involving cash or not) would be taken into account in the reporting system.
Expenditure control. All expenditures to be paid by the BAD will be reviewed and approved by the PCU
Director in two phases: (i) before commitments are made and contracts signed -- in terms of their eligibility
under the Loan Agreement; (ii) when invoices are presented for payments -- in terms of an applicable
contract before and confirmation that goods were delivered, works executed, or services rendered. Upon
approval by the PCU Director of invoices submitted for payment, the BAD staff delegated to the PCU in
Ain-Temouchent will be expected to pay them within five days.
Reporting.
The PCU will prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) following the Cash Model. In order
to generate the PMRs, the PCU will establish a computerized financial management information system.
The PCU will acquire a PC computer and a project financial management information software program
that permits maintaining accounting records in US dollars and Dinars with a reporting capability to prepare
project financial management reports (PMRs). Appropriate specialists would be hired to assist the PCU in
developing of the project financial management information system and supporting documentation. Setting
up the PCU financial management infonnation system is to be completed no later than October 31, 2000.
Project Management Reports (PMRs).  Although disbursements will be made using traditional
disbursement procedures, the PCU will prepare and submit quarterly Project Management Reports (PMIRs
-- Cash Model) to the Bank. The reports would include: (i) a comparison of budgeted and actual
expenditure, including sources and application of World Bank funds (by components and expenditure
categories), and on physical parameters and unit rates for selected key items; (ii) procurement management
reports. The reports would be management-oriented (i.e., summaries rather than transactional details) and
would be used for project monitoring and implementation. The PMRs should include the three following
parts:
(i)    Financial Statements that include:
-     Summary of sources and uses of World Bank funds
-     Uses of funds by project activity
-     Cash withdrawals (disbursements)
-     Special account statement
(ii)   Project progress statements that include:
-     Output monitoring report using contract management information, or
-     Output monitoring report using unit variance as monitoring indicator
(iii) Procurement management report that includes:
-     Contract expenditure report - Goods and works
- 59 -



-     Contract expenditure report - Consultants
-     Procurement management report - Goods and works
-     Procurement management report - Consultants
The format of PMRs, agreed with the Borrower during Negotiations, is described in the Project
hnplementation Plan (PIP).
Audit Arrangements
An annual audit of project records and accounts, including audit of the Special Account (SA), and
disbursements under Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) will be performed by an independent auditor,
acceptable to the Bank, according to the Intemational Standards of Auditing as issued by the International
Federation of Accountants, the Banlk's Guidelines ("Financial, Accounting, Reporting and Auditing
Handbook - FARAH") and specific terms of reference (TORs) acceptable to the Bank. The auditor will
express a professional opinion on the annual project financial statements and will submit to the Bank an
annual audit report within six months after the end of each government fiscal year.
Financial Management Risks
The risks related to the project's financial management system are three, and they are primarily related to
ability to generate timely and accurate management-oriented project reports:
(i) Capacity of PCU staff. Staffing the PCU with a qualified accountant by July 31, 2000, is a dated
Loan covenant.
(ii) Capacity of project financial management system to generate the agreed Project Management
Reports (PMRs). Setting up of the PCU project financial management information system is to be
completed by October 31, 2000 to generate the PMRs.
(iii) Delays in preparation of Project Management Reports (PMRs). Preparation of the first PMRs,
acceptable to the Bank, by October 31, 2000, is a dated Loan covenant.
The project financial management milestones as reflected in the dated Loan covenants were designed to
mitigate the risk linked to reporting insufficiencies identified in BAD's existing reporting system. The
agreed actions will be progressively implemented to build up an adequate project financial management
information system by October 31, 2000.
The Bank will give special attention to the project financial management during the project implementation
by providing the necessary technical assistance and training. In particular, project management reporting
requirements were agreed during Negotiations. The reporting formats together with TORs for the
Accountant are described in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). The financial management risks will
be subject to a rigorous follow-up during the supervision missions.
Reaching the milestones in project implementation related to project fnancial management will be closely
monitored by the Bank. These milestones include:
(i) establishment of fully staffed PCU - July 31, 2000.
(ii) putting in place project financial management information system and preparation of PMRs -- O6tober
31, 2000. The general design of the financial management reporting system for the project would be
reviewed by no later than October 31, 2000.
- 60 -



Procurement Assessment/Action Plan
For Improvement of Procurement Capacity and Mana2ement
Procurement Coordination and Organization Arrangements:
1.     Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be responsible for procurement related activities, which will
be carried out in accordance with World Bank procedures, for all components. The PCU will be
responsible carrying out the procurement activities for the project in coordination with the implementing
agencies. In its procurement activities, the PCU will incorporate designs and technical specifications
provided to it by the corresponding sector agencies of the Wilaya (for Components D and E) and by
national Civil Protection (for Component A). Contracts prepared by the PCU will be signed by the
Governor of the Wilaya or the Govemor's designee, which may be the Director of the PCU.
2.    An organizational structure for the PCU and the number of staff, required skills and salary levels
were has been agreed to.
3.     Salaries of PCU staff will be covered by the Government's contribution to the project. Training of
the staff and technical assistance to the PCU will be provided by MNA procurement staff when required.
4.    A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) shall be established as soon as possible. Delegation of
functions and approval procedures within the Government should be streamlined and agreed to avoid
delays. The PCU shall have a Procurement Specialist on staff.
5.    Any specific procurement matters requiring clarification, all complaints, and requests for approval
of any changes in the above-mentioned procedures, will be submitted to the Regional Procurement Adviser,
MNA, for clearance.
Assessment of PCU's Capacity to Conduct Procurement.
6.    Mr. Gurdev Singh, Procurement Accredited Officer, conducted a procurement assessment of the
Agency and the PCU. PCU is not fully staffed and equipped. PCU Director who has been hired does not
have any procurement experience. Neither PCU or the Agency has any experience with World Bank funded
projects. The assessment focused primarily on the capacity, and proposed recommendations for
improvements.
- 61 -



Action Plan
Agency    Issue           Action                                    Due Date
PCU       Staffing        Recruitment of a Procurement Specialist (PS)  By Effectiveness
with substantial experience in international
projects preferably WB projects. MNA will
provide training to PS.
WB                        Procurement book containing the Bank's  Before
standard procurement documents will be  Effectiveness
provided to the PCU just after Board
Presentation
The project launch workshop, which will be  Before
held before effectiveness and should devote  Effectiveness
adequate time to updating the PCU staff
procurement skills. During this workshop, the
contents of the procurement book should be
explained to the PCU staff.
PCU       Planning    &   Establish a monitoring of all procurement  At Project Launch
reporting (i)  activities and for all procurement processes
(tendering,  evaluation,  contract  signing,
implementation period, delivery, etc.).
- 62 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ALGERIA: Ain Temouchent Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project
~ag~~t $e=~wt.u.. .                                              .
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       3
First Bank mission (identification)             01/22/2000                    01/22/2000
Appraisal mission departure                      04/09/2000                   04/09/2000
Negotiations                                    05/03/2000                    05/03/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/15/2000          _
Prepared by:
Bank team in cooperation with the Government of Algeria.
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Piotr Wilczynski                  Task Team Leader
Sonia Hammam                      Sector Manager - Urban Development
Christoph Pusch                   Housing/Technical and Social Infrastructure
Jolanta Kryspin-Watson            Operations/Institutional Arrangement
Douglas I. Graham                 Financial Management
Gurdev Singh                      Procurement
Mark Zeydler                      Housing/Technical and Social hifrastructure
Suha Satana                       Costs
Mohammed Al-Sheikh                Lawyer
Marie Khoury                      Disbursements
Ferid Belhaj                      Lawyer
Milena Messori                    Operations
Michelle Cullen                   Social Assessment
Hocine Chalal                     Environmental Specialist
Edwige Reichelt                   Office Manager
Richard Andrews                   Disaster Response and Risk Management
Peter Doty                        Housing Finance
Helene Talon                      Translator
Nicole Wautiez de Blaye           Translator
Anna Danuta Staszewicz            Financial Management, Disbursement, New Financial Products
Lucy Hancock                      Research/Operations
Maria Nikolov                     Program Assistant
Mariusz Safm                      Economic Analysis
- 63 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ALGERIA: Ain Temouchent Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Implementation of Ain Temouchent Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
WILAYA D'AIN TEMOUCHENT: Rapports d'evaluation des dommages causes par le seisme du 22
decembre 1999 (Assessment of damages caused by December 22, 1999 earthquake)
Evaluation des dommages causes aux edifices publics par le seisme du 22 decembre 1999 (Assessment of
infrastructure damaged by December 22, 1999 earthquake); Ketfi Ammar
Evaluation des dommages dans le secteur de l'habitat (Assessment of damages in housing sector);
Mohamed Ayadi
*Including electronic files
-64 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ALGERIA: Ain Temouchent Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                       IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd
P004964        1992 Algera                    ALG-CADASTRE                                       33.00       0.00       2.27       5.93       8.20       4.21
P004954       1993 Algefia                    BASIC & SEC. EDUCATI                               40.00       0.00       0.00      11.92       9.91       0.00
P004907        1995 Algefia                   DZ-HIGHWAYS Vl                                    130.00       0.00       0.00      80.66      60.86       0.00
P042940       1998 Algena                     DZ-LOW INCOME HOUSING                             150.00       0.00       0.00     140.00      42.50       0.00
P004974        1994 Algeria                   DZ-WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE                      110.00       0.00       0.00      9427       75.27       1.35
P004960        1996 Algeria                   IND.POLLUTION CTRL.                                78.00       0.00       0.00      70.63      26.79       4.63
P043724       1997 Algeria                    RURAL EMPLOYMENT                                   89.00       0.00       0.00      68.88      62.28       3.88
P004978       1996 Algera                     SOCIAL SAFETY I                                    50.00       0.00       0.00       8.54       7.54       7.54
Total:      680.00        0.00        2.27      480.83    293.35      21.61
-65-



ALGERIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998               ABCA                            0.00     2.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    1.88     0.00    0.00
1992               Helios                          4.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998                SGA                            0.00     1.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.19     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         4.00     3.00     0.00    0.00    4.00    2.07      0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1999               Aldaph                          7274.75      0.00   1700.00   6235.50
Total Pending Commitment:      7274.75       0.00   1700.00   6235.50
- 66 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ALGERIA: Ain Temouchent Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project
-          M ~~East   1o W*1-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            & North   middl-_
Algeria    Africa   incoe -    Development dlamond'
1998
Population. mid-vear (millions)                        30.0       285        908                  Life expectancy
GNP Per capita Mias method, U$$           1-t550                 2,060     1.710
GNP (Atlas method. US$ billions)                       46.5       586    1t557
Average annual growth, 199248                                                                           T
Population tXJ                                          2.2        2.        1;1
Labor force (%3)                                        44         3.0       1.5      GNP                              Gross
Mos- re-ent estimate (isteatycar sysuabte. 1992-961             per                             primary
Most recent estinate ate-y4aaallabi  1992-981    -capita                                                            enrollment
Poverty ($ of popul4tioJo below national povetvi Afro)   23
Urban population ($6 f total Population)                 58        S8         56
Life expectancy at blrt (m8ars):                         70         67        68
Infant nortality (per:1.000 five births)                 32         49        38
Child matnurtrition f% of children under 5)              1 3        14 I                        Access to safe water
Access to safe ~water f% of population) -                           6 1       75
Illiteracy (of poPulation 0ae 15+)                       40         38  1i     4
Gross prinary enrolment ('A ofschool-age population)    108         96-      103   -          Algena
Male                                                  113        103       105         --------- Lower-middle-income group
Female                          -102                              89       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
-1977    1987       1997         8
Economic retloe
GDP (tUJ  billions)                           21.0     64.5       46.9      48.4
Gross domestic investmentUDp-P                46.8     30.0       23.8      27.2
Exports of aoods and servlcestGP              30,SS    14.7       30.6      23.4                      Trade
Gross domestic savingsGDP                - 35.7        31.9       32.2      27T2
Gross national savins/GDP                    34.8     36.9       29.8      25.4
Current accountbetanceIGOP                   -11.0      0.1        7.4       -L9
Interest paymentslG0P                          2;0      2A         4.1       39       Domestic                     Investment
Total debttGDP                                50.4     37.8       65.8      63.4      Savings                        vse
Total d*bt service/exPorts                    25.3    -182        27.2      40.9
Present value-of debtlGDP                              -          6.3
Present value of debt/exports                    _       -       180.9
-                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Indebtedness
1977-87  1968-98     1997       1998   1999-03
(averSaoe annual gro wth.
GDP                                   4.4      0.9      1i1        5.1       6.0           "Algeria
GNP Per capita                        1.1     -1.4      0.6        3.7       4.0                Lower-middle-income grvup
Exports of ooodt and services         2.8      1.9      6.$        3.6       4.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of outputand investment(%l
($6 of GOP) 2
Aariculture                                   10.0      12.4      10.3       12.1     20
Industry                                      51.2     43.4       52.3      47.3      10-
Manufacturing                                9.3      13.5        9.3      10.6
Services                                      38.8     44.2       37.4      40.6      o            5      9        s t
Private consumption                           51.0     49.5       51.0      54.7     -a                              7
General government consumption                13.3     18.5       16.7      18.1                   GDI        _GDP
Imports of qoods and services                 41.6     12.8       22.2      23.3
(average annual growth)                    1977-87  19SS-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports 1%)
Agriculture                                    4.9       2.8     -13.5       11.4    'o
Industry                                       3.9     -0.7        4.3       4.1      5
Manufacturinq                               10.7    -10.7        -3.8       8.4      o
Services                                       5.3      2.8        2.6       4.4                          S\  98 f97   go
Private consumption                            5.8     -1.4       -2.6       1.6    .5 -                       s        s
General govemment consumption                  6.4      4.0        2.0       3.0
Gross domestic investment                      0.1      -1.9      -0.4       17.4    15
Imports of goods and services                 -0.2     -2.3        2.4       5.8    1         E    Exports         Imports
Gross national oroduct                         4.3      0.9        2.7       5.8
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four kev Indicators in the countrv (in bold) comDared with its income-group averaae. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomolete.
- 67 -



Algeria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997     1998      Inflation ()
(% chang,e)                                                                         .
Consumer prices                             12.2      7A        5.7       5.0     a_
Implicit GDP deflator                       11.8      6.2       6.5      -4.2    20.
Governmont finance                                                                ID->
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               o
Current revenue                                ..    30.4      33.5      27.8 6   F            94   ss   96   97
Current budqet balance                         ..     9.4      10.2       4.0              -GDP deflator   *CPI
OveraD surplus/deficit                        ..    -7.2        2.4      -3.9
TRADE
(US$ miiiirjns,i                           1977    1987        1997     1998      Export and Import levels (US$ millons)
Total exports (fob)                            .,   8,745    13,820   10,145     1.000
Natural qas                                         852      5,847    4,371
Refined products                                  1,975      2,358    1,487    12,000
Manufactures                                ..       37        40        42
Total imports (cif)                           ..   7,904      8,130    8,629      8,000 .    ,                      IL
Food                                              1,745      2,166    2,481      ,0**
Fuel and energ, y                                   161       103       102
Capital goods                               .. 1,893         1,927    2,492        o1       "
ExDortpriceindex(1995=100)                    67     110        111       78 62   93  94  95                  97   98
Import price index (19956=00)                 65      67         96       88                oExpors     a*Imports
Termsof trade (1995=100)                     104      163       116        8a
3ALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1977,   1987        1997     1998      Current account balance to GDP ratlio%)
Exports of goods and services              6,331    9,290    14,890   10.903      8-
Imports of aoods and services              8,476    9,407    10,280    10,940     8-
Resource balance                          -2,146    -117      4,610       -37     4
Net income                                  -367   -1,332    -2,220   -1,946      2
Net current transfers                        190    1,487     1,00    1,064       o
Current account balance                   -2,323      39      3,450      -919    -2  92   93                   97 0
Financing items (net)                      1,943       9        260      -175
Changes in net reserves                      380     -48    -3,710      1,094    41
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)     1,684    4,341    10,190     8,138
C-onversion rate (DEC, locaOlUS$)            4.1      4.8      58.9      57.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997     1998
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millIons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      10,600   24,402    30,890   30,666
IBRD                                       138     924      1,795    1,676    |G: 106     1,671
IDA                                          0       0          0        0    |                           c  011
Total debt service                         1,686   -1,837     4,420    5.1368:904                                :.1
IBRD                                        10     141        354      332    |t4
IDA                                         0        0          0        0
Composition of net resoure flows
Offrial grants                              ..       ..        30       55
Official creditors                         -46   -3,297       122     -125
Private creditors                        1,994    1,003      -557   -1,328
Foreign direct investment                  -58    -109        260      505
Portfolio equity                             0       0          8        2                             E: 15,025
World Bank program                                                                A -18RD                     E Biiateral
Commitments                                170     464         89      150    IS-IDA      D- Olher mulbiatera   F-Private
Disbursements                              53      129        256       56      C c IMF                     G
Principal repayments                         0      79        234      208
Net flows                                   53      50         22      -152
Interest payments                           10      62        120      124
Net transfers                              43      -13        -98      -278
MNCMG                                                                                                               9/9/99
- 68 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Ain Temouchent Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project
Social Assessment
Since 1992, Algeria has been affected by instability and political problems. Government changes in 1999
have given much hope that stability and potential for growth and development will increase. During the oil
boom years preceding the eruption of hostilities, social indicators improved markedly and poverty declined
due to high investment in education, health, and basic infrastructure. With the fall of oil prices in 1986, this
progress reversed as unemployment grew rapidly to about 25% (65% among youth). Acute housing
shortages developed, averaging an occupancy rate of 8 persons per unit, the highest in North Africa. A high
population growth rate of 2.9% and rural migration to the cities compounded this crisis.
In addition, changing demographics (age composition) and cultural conditions are fundamentally altering
Algeria's social topography. Poor economic conditions and political instability, combined with the changes
in Algerian social topography, has put much of the country at increased risk in terms of income shocks or
disasters.
T'he earthquake that hit the wilaya of Ain Temouchent on December 22, 1999 revealed this increased
vulnerability of Algerians in this commune in terms of lost resources, income, and housing and highlighted
various areas of improvement for the Algerian government in terms of disaster organization and risk
management. The TEERP will address these needs while also providing for the immediate needs of
financial relief for emergency and recovery operations already implemented and the reconstruction of
housing and technical and social infrastructure.
Key social issues relevant to the project objectives
Roughly one quarter of Algerians live below the poverty line, and up to thirty percent of the population is
unemployed. Precarious economic standing, not only in the quake-affected wilaya but countrywide, has
poised much of the Algerian population on the edge of vulnerability. This volatility places numerous groups
as risk in the face of income shocks or natural disasters, jeopardizing their abilities to secure the food and
shelter necessary for survival.
The people of the four communities hit by the quake and targeted for this project - Ain Temouchent, Sidi
Ben Adda, Ain Tolba, and Ain Lalam - reside in poor economic conditions. A social survey conducted
after the quake to help assess damage revealed that of the 4,200 families interviewed, In the commune of
d'Ain Temouchent 2,184 families were surveyed (52% of those surveyed); in Sidi Ben Adda, 546 families
were surveyed (13%); in Ain Tolba, 1,008 families were questioned (24%); and in the locality of d'Ain
Allem, 462 families were surveyed (11%). only about 34% of those questioned (1,428 families) were
employed (salaried). Only 2,262 of those interviewed were insured. Each family has roughly 3.25 children
to support, with a total of 13,650 children under the guise of those questioned. Within the four sites, 518
people were handicapped, of which 285 suffered from chronic illnesses. Thus according to the results from
the social survey, the population exposed to vulnerability by being impoverished and without resources is
roughly 66% (2,772) - including those without income, those who have no resources, those who are
handicapped, and those who have acute illnesses. TEERP design and implementation should do what it can
to help alleviate the wilaya's grave socio-economic conditions.
-69 -



Housing and Technical and Social Infrastructure
For each of these three components, beneficiaries should be consulted in participatory consultations to gain
insight on their concerns, needs, and thoughts in regards to reconstruction / repair (as part of the social
assessment and monitoring and evaluation as described below). Maps of the previous city layout should be
used as a basis for beneficiaries to assist with the new urban planning and site selection (although this also
will need input from technical experts in terms of what sites are feasible, etc.). Site selection, in addition to
being done with technical and government input, should involve beneficiary consultation, and investigate
patterns of population, settlement, and land use (de facto and regulated, such as protected heritage or
natural resource sites, watershed or conservation areas). Consultations should include input on housing and
building design (in terms of structure and aesthetics), and on the new locations of public buildings (health
centers, schools, post office, etc.). The placement of public buildings should ensure equal access for the
residing populations.
Beneficiaries in the rural areas may have certain fears about being returned to former areas of residence (or
near old areas of residence) due to potential aftershocks and future earthquakes. If relocation will be near
old housing sites hit by the earthquake, a public information dissemination program should be implemented
to make beneficiaries aware of why this site is safe and why it has been selected to allay potential fears.
It may be beneficial to conduct a public education program on disaster mitigation and guidance in
disaster-resistant building techniques for those in rural areas to help improve their abilities to deal with
potential future earthquakes. The social assessment that is conducted should examine the specifics of what
locals feel may be needed in this area, which can then be combined with materials from technical experts.
Local involvement, including people from local administration and civil society (including mosques and
NGOs), will be key to this project's success and sustainability. If at all possible, building materials should
be used that will support local production, able earthquake victims should be employed with any public
works affiliated with reconstruction (and trained as appropriate), and local fins should be used for
building and construction.
Project Implementation
Beneficiary input should be sought for both project design and implementation including monitoring and
evaluation. If at all possible, locals should be contracted to assist with the reconstruction process, thus
helping to alleviate some of their imnmediate financial needs and leaving capacity within the wilaya
(assuming training and capacity building are provided as needed).
It is suggested that a Social Scientist be hired or kept 'on call' for overseeing social assessments,
participatory monitoring and evaluation, and giving input as design and implementation move forward.
The representative of the Ministry of Housing in the wilaya will be responsible for the setting up of criteria
for beneficiary selection, the selection of beneficiaries, maintaining beneficiary files, writing up the TOR
for the contract with the PCU, and keeping track of beneficiary contributions. It is of the utmost importance
for each of these activities to be done in the most transparent of manners. Beneficiaries must feel that the
project is being designed and implemented under fair and just conditions and that each has access to relief
based on need.
- 70 -



Participatory Approach
Community participation in the project cycle will increase a sense of ownership by beneficiaries and the
willingness to maintain (and protect) completed works; improve implementation efficiency; foster inclusion
through project implementation; help to identify vulnerable groups. In addition, as Algeria has been a state
plagued by conflict for eight years, participatory methods may also help reconcile local differences and
encourage group discussions to emerge as local mechanisms for conflict resolution. Participatory methods
should include local administration, representatives from various civil society organizations, and a wide
selection of commune members. istitutionalzing participation requires organizational and technical
capacity, thus the PCU and project implementers must be adequately staffed and trained. Adequate
community participation may be achieved by:
*     Conducting a participatory social assessment (using participatory rural appraisal and beneficiary
assessment techniques) to capture baseline information and identify / prioritize needs and concerns of the
communes in relation to project objectives
*     Fostering systematic participation of the local population during project implementation, including
if possible labor based works for reconstruction, monitoring and evaluation, and in-kind contributions
(suggested materials or labor since finances are scarce).
The participatory social assessment process be implemented and overseen by the PCU, although local
consultants from the wilaya should be hired (if possible) to lead consultations and survey implementation
affiliated with the social assessment and monitoring and evaluation. By using local consultants, capacity
for participatory and conflict resolution methods will be left within the wilaya. Prior to using participatory
methods, training should be provided to the PCU and local consultants on social assessment techniques,
mainly participatory rural appraisal (PRA) and beneficiary assessment (BA) (see Appendix I for suggested
guidelines for both).
The social assessment should contain: i) baseline information including a brief description of the
community (demographics, socio-economic conditions, etc.,) and a map of its extant economy and social
and economic infrastructure; ii) a list of needs and priorities that fit within the project objectives; iii) cost
recovery and cost sharing models for operation and maintenance costs after project completion; and iv)
recommendations on how adverse impacts may be avoided or minimized. The social assessment process
will also help:
*     Enhance the opportunities for self-reliance of vulnerable populations and communities
*     Strengthen local capacity to implement and manage reconstruction and development activities
*     Promote awareness and sensitivity for gender equity and the protection of the specially
disadvantaged (e.g., female-headed households, widows, orphans and the disabled) in the decision-making
process
Encourage trust building through community-based reconstruction and development activities and
attend to the conflict resolution capacity at the communal level.
Findings from the social assessments should be reviewed with the community (including beneficiaries, civil
society representatives, and local administration) to validate results and ensure that consultation and survey
results were interpreted correctly.
Monitoring of performance in terms of social development outcomes
During project implementation, the PCU should regularly visit the community to monitor and evaluate
community participation (recommended with the aid of a social scientist, preferably the one who assisted
- 71 -



with the initial participatory social assessment). Based on baseline information gathered in the initial social
assessment, the PCU should: i) establish regular consultations with stakeholders during implementation to
gain their insight on progress and what should be indicators; ii) review the community's in-kind
contributions and identify related problems; iii) assist in the solution of problems encountered; and (iv) gain
local perceptions on the developmental impacts of the projects and potential improvements to existing
structure. Project design should remain flexible, able to change according to results obtained during the
monitoring process.
An final evaluation exercise (social audit) should be undertaken, using PRA and BA techniques, as well as
participant observation. The final evaluation should be based on issues raised during the initial social
assessment and those used on monitoring reporting forms. This final evaluation should be carried out
however independently of the PCU and any consultants who may have been involved earlier in the
assessment and monitoring process.
Social safeguard compliance
The resettlement policy does not apply to people who lose their assets as a result of a natural disaster.
However, the policy would apply to those whose land and other assets may be acquired to rehabilitate the
people affected by a natural disaster. A Land Acquisition Assessment will be performed, and subsequent
actions will depend on its results. Also, in case of any preventive relocation away from disaster prone
areas, if the relocating population provide their full consent to move (even though they have an option to
refuse to move) the resettlement would be considered voluntary, and therefore, not subject to the provisions
of the resettlement policy.
- 72 -



ANNEX 11A
Guidelines for participation in social assessment and monitoring and evaluation
A. Baseline social assessment
Before the implementation of the housing project, an overall Social Assessment of the affected wilaya
should be completed to establish baseline information that will help specify current needs and be needed for
subsequent monitoring and evaluation (M&E). The social assessment should be done in a participatory
manner, involving a wide range of stakeholders in consultations that utilize Participatory Rural Appraisal
(PRA) and Beneficiary Assessment (BA) methods. The use of participatory methods is important, for they:
*      improve awareness of the project and related development issues;
*      enable the community generate and take charge of their own recovery and development plans;
*      create a greater sense of ownership; empower and build the capacity of community members;
*      allow local insight and perspective to be gained by implementers (both government and Bank);
increase the likelihood of sustainability.
Ideally this participation will be in all phases of the project cycle: design, planning, implementation, and
evaluation. The participation continuum begins with information-sharing, moves up to consultation, then
advances to collaboration, and hopefully results in empowerment.
To facilitate the selection of actors to be involved in the project development process, and the assess the
capacity of those institutions that may be able to assist with implementation (including NGOs and other
civil society organizations), the social assessment should include a brief Stakeholder Analysis that outlines:
*      the main stakeholders (who are the potential beneficiaries; who might be adversely impacted; who
are the vulnerable groups; who is likely to support the project; what are the relationships between the
stakeholders)
*      the interests of the stakeholders and potential impact of the project on their interests (what are the
stakeholders' expectations; how will the stakeholders benefit from the project; what resources might the
stakeholder be able and willing to mobilize; what stakeholder interests conflict with project goals)
*      the influence and importance of each stakeholder (their power and status; degree of organization;
control of strategic resources; informal influence; power relations with other stakeholders; importance to
the success of the project)
*      how each may participate (according to 'their interests, importance, and influence; their capacity to
assist with implementation; previous experience with development projects; particular efforts needed to
involve important stakeholders who lack influence).
After the stakeholder analysis, the Social Assessment should examine the following issues:
*      Demographic and socio-economic factors
*      Social mobility, risk, vulnerability, opportunities
*      Socio-political context (including security, exclusion, crime, and conflict)
*      Social capital (trust, civic engagement patterns and levels); social cohesion (bridging social capital,
government-community links); local leadership; links with external agencies (including national
government)
*      Institutional mapping and analysis (including rating of institutions in terms of trust, confidence,
effectiveness, people's influence, and support during crisis)
*      Gender analysis (in terms of normal daily activities, responsibilities, ownership, roles, power,
decision-maldng, resources and their use, etc.)
- 73 -



Who has been able to best cope from the disaster, what are their characteristics and coping
mechanisms
*     The wilaya's current conditions (access to basic services and market activities, living conditions,
etc.), needs, priorities
*     Other ongoing development work in the wilaya and their perceptions of its success
*     How locals would change the way other development work has been implemented.
Social Assessments should also include a basic minimum needs (BMN) analysis, based on a sustainable
use of the local natural resources (environmental carrying capacity). This includes:
*     Agriculture: grazing, arable cropping, agro-forestry, irrigation.
*     Use of natural resources like forests, swamps, valleys and water resources for agricultural
purposes, other income-generating activities.
*     Lodging in general: identification of needs necessary for safeguarding, rehabilitating or
constructing permnanent shelter.
*      Social and economic infrastructure: schools, rural health centers, water supply and sanitation;
roads, bridges, etc.
Settlement policies: the dispersed pattem of households in the hills as opposed to the concentrated
village model and their consequences for the use of natural resources.
Any other, like requirements for small scale enterprises or income generating activities.
This will help flesh out what social differences may exist within the wilaya, what the potential impact and
adverse effects may be of project implementation, local perceptions of their conditions and previous
development efforts, and encourage ownership of the project and its design and implementation.
The social assessment should take anywhere from 3-10 days depending on the expertise of the consultant
hired and his/her familiarity with the wilaya. It is suggested that a local social scientist be employed to
conduct the social assessment if possible; training may need to be provided to ensure quality but local
familiarity will greatly enhance results. Ideally, this social scientist would also be available to the PCU (or
sit on the PCU) during implementation and oversee the monitoring and evaluation process.
The importance of using both PRA and BA methods during this social assessment process stems from the
need to flesh out indicators that may be used for M&E derived from the stakeholders themselves, yet that
also enable comparison with extemal projects. This means that PRA methods, such as visual tools prepared
by participants and local-led analysis, should be combined with the semi-structured dialogue and its
possible external analysis that is typical to BA. By combining these approaches, the project will be able to
synthesize local perceptions of the project with the necessary standardized indicators.
Brief overview of participatory methods (PRA and BA) to be used for the social assessment
Participatory Rural Appraisal is a research methodology that incorporates locally led dialogue,
stimulated by visuals done by participants, and local analysis of discussion and results. PRA sampling
should be done according to approximate stratification of the community by location, wealth, gender, and
age. In addition to this dialogue, observation of participants, the community, and how the dialogue is
received should be incorporated into PRA analysis. All findings from PRA should be cross-checked with
other methods, and reviewed by participants for their comments.
PRA is an excellent tool for participatory analysis, however it does have a few limitations. The nature of
PRA itself makes it not very conducive to statistical analysis. And, since analysis is locally led, issues
- 74-



covered may differ from other project locations, thereby making external comparison difficult. Sensitive
topics should not be addressed in PRAs, as these are better discussed with individuals.
Primarv PRA techniques include:
A. Ranking (problems, preferences, wealth)
Ranking can be done in different ways. One could apply pair ranking or preference ranking, direct matrix
ranking and/or wealth ranking. All three methods can be used having men and women ranking separately,
or having those being member of a community-based group ranking as opposed to those not, etc.
Pair ranking: This is a technique to obtain the views of local people on the virtues and drawbacks of
different categories such as tree species, crops, household tasks, activities etc. It allows to determine
quickly the main categories, problems of preferences of individual households and farmers and enables the
priorities to be easily compared. The list of categories to be prioritized is drawn up from secondary
information sources. Each participant is asked to give the favored items in order of priority. Such could be
done by choosing which one is preferred from 2 at a time, until all possible pair combinations have been
presented. The final ranking is obtained by laying out the categories according relative preference. This
technique is very useful for comparing preferences between different wealth groups, men and women,
young and old etc.
Direct matrix ranking: This is a more refined version of the pair-wise ranking method. The criteria elicited
from the pair-wise ranking exercise are listed down one side of the matrix table and the items (e.g. crops)
are listed across the top of the table. Informants are then asked to rank the items according to each criterion
in turn. Matrix ranking is an useful tool to compare formal scientific evaluations of resources with local
peoples' own evaluation of the same resources.
Wealth ranking: There are inequalities in wealth in every commune, differences that determine people's
behavior, coping strategies and views. As wealth can be a very sensitive topic this method should be done
carefully in order to produce the desired results. Wealth ranlking uses the perception of informants to rank
households within their community according to overall wealth and ensures that any discussion of wealth
does not take place with reference to specific households. Each household is assigned a number, while at
least three key informants from the community will be asked to independently sort each of the cards into
wealth categories, using their own criteria. The average score of each household will finally determine their
ranling according to wealth categories. As this method can be done with a great deal of participation on the
part of the community it can identify e.g. the vulnerable in a given community.
All stakeholders, with their different attitudes and perceptions, should be taken into account in this topic.
Based on the outcome of all rankings a community action plan per zone or sector could be drafted.
B. Mapping exercises (community, personal, institutional) and trend analysis (history, seasonal, daily
activities)
Diagrams can capture and present information that will be less precise and less clear if expressed in words.
They are most useful in helping to identify problems or opportunities in specific areas, time periods or
activities. The shared information they contain can be checked, discussed, amended if necessary and can
therefore create consensus and facilitate communication between different people and disciplines.
Thematic mapping: maps which reflect essential information on a specific theme in an area: indicating what
has been destroyed, what has already been rehabilitated, what needs to be (re)build, etc.
Seasonal or agricultural calendars: simple diagrams to indicate the seasonal features and changes over
-75 -



time. These diagrams are composed with the months of the year. The calendars are useful to identify
critical times in the year for each activity or phenomenon.
Activity profiles: are similar to seasonal calendars in that they are usually theme-specific, but they depict
activities over shorter periods, like a day, a week or at given times of the year.
The strategy used for most methods could be a group discussion, while agricultural calendars be used for
specific groups like livestock owners and cultivators, and individual mapping be used for information
collection on household level. The key issue will be to prioritize the different interests, distinguish
concerning community resources between conflicts and perceived concerns, to recognize different
stakeholders (according to age, sex, vulnerability etc.), and identify the degree of importance and magnitude
to each of these stakeholders in order to arrive at a mutually acceptable conflict resolution.
C. Semi-structured interviews
Semi structured interviewing is one of the main tools used in PRAs. It is a form of guided interview,
whereby only some of the questions are predetermined. PRA interviews are at most a checklist of topics to
be covered in note form as a flexible guide. Most questions will be formulated during the interview. If
questions are irrelevant to the specific situation, they can be skipped. Questions will usually come from the
interviewee's response, the use of ranking methods, observations of things around and the PRA team's
background and experience. One could interview individuals, groups and key infornants. Informnation
obtained from individual interviews is more personal than information from group interviews and is more
likely to reveal conflicts within the community since respondents may feel they can speak more freely
without their neighbors present.
D. Interviews/discussions with individuals, households, focal grouyps. and communitv
Focused group discussions with officials, project staff, and beneficiary groups; flow diagrams and charts.
Random interviews with passers-by (e.g. during transect walks) may reveal in addition useful information
and unexpected viewpoints.
Interviewing key informants will be done to obtain special knowledge. A key informant is anyone who has
special knowledge on a particular subject. They are expected to answer questions about the knowledge and
behavior of others and especially about the operations of the broader systems. Key informants could be
traders or merchants, midwifes, teachers and people who married into the community. Their information
should be used to check information gained from the other PRA techniques.
Interview questions should always be ordered in an open-ended and unthreatening way, and should
therefore be in such a way that they require explanation rather than allowing an answer with 'yes' or 'no'.
Respondents should be interviewed in comfortable settings and questions should be phrased in a way that is
understood by all the people involved. All questions should only be asked one at a time. The subject should
go from general topics to more specific topics. Discussions on sensitive issues should be left for the last
part of the discussion and one should avoid leading questions, as it is always up to interviewed group or
person to identify their constraints and possibilities.
Beneficiary Assessment produces qualitative information, which can also be quantified. BA brings
together project stakeholders (beneficiaries, local administration, village elders and leaders, project staff,
etc.) and initiates dialogue based on a pre-determined set of issues. It is action-oriented in terms of
producing a specific outcome, i.e. project recommendations geared toward decision-makers and other
involved actors.
- 76 -



However, BA, which produces information that is externally analyzed, may be limited in its level of
participation, for it rates relatively low on the participation continuum (consultation) and may be seen as a
very extractive process if not conducted properly.
BA techniques include:
Participant observation (facilitator) - With participation observation, it is necessary to explain the reason
for stay from the outset. In the community, strategic residence among the beneficiaries should be chosen,
cultivating a few close contacts from diverse and major segments of the population. It is important not to
get too close to any one group. Around 5-10 households should be visited regularly to discuss issues and
concerns for the project (based on a set interview guide). The facilitator who conducts the participant
observation should try to participate in organizations and activities to be appreciated and identified, but not
be seen as over-committed. Independence should be retained. All observations and interview results should
be documented.
Conversational interviews are conducted with beneficiaries, program managers, field staff, community
leaders - based on a semi-structured conversation guide outlining key issues to be covered.
Focus group discussions with take place with community members and other involved actors. A few key
topics should be identified from the outset (watch out for biases from each group). People should be
notified well in advance of the event, which should be held in a conducive, comfortable atmosphere. The
discussion should begin with brief introduction explaining purpose of meeting. The facilitator should keep
the discussion on track, yet be sensitive to each attendees' participation. Issues of a more controversial in
nature should be left to individual interviews (or left to be discussed near the end of the event). The groups
should be composed of 4-12 people with common concerns. The discussions should not last longer than a
few hours.
A combined PRA and BA technique approach is an important tool in order to obtain active community
participation in needs identification, planning and project formulation.
B. Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation
T'he participatory monitoring and evaluation (PM&E), should build on the relationships and conclusions
already established in the initial social assessment. By allowing for local participation, community
members aren't just sources of information, but again have a chance to build capacity and ownership in
relation to the project and its development; and help to formulate and implement corrective action during
the project's implementation. By continuing to combine PRA and BA methods, evaluation can take place
by the stakeholders themselves, while evaluation results are standardized for comparison. In order for
communities to be successfully involved in PM&E efforts, some brief related training must occur in the
PRA affiliated with the initial social assessment (who does it, why important, how and what to do with
results); and baseline information on the community before the project must exist.
PM&E fulfills conventional functions of M&E for project impact assessment and management and
planning, but it also allows for the managing and resolving conflicts - a skill transferred to locals that will
help long past the project's end date. In addition, PM&E strengthens self-development initiatives in villages
and provides public accountability of local and national government programs to communities.
- 77 -



PM&E consists of data collection registration, compilation, analysis and then sharing it again with those
who are to use the information. The key question for PM&E efforts is who is going to interpret the
infonnation and who will use the information.
Information derived from PM&E should be integrated into project progress reports undertaken by the PCU.
Not only will PM&E help verify technical and financial reports, but it will also get perceptions of how the
community views the development project, and its effectiveness, problems, local involvement, and impact.
Monitoring involves observing change and on-going assessment of activities and trends, while evaluation is
comprised of the assessment of strategic issues, changes, achievements, and impact (efficiency or
programs). For PM&E to truly be effective, it must include four core principles: participation, learning,
negotiation, and flexibility.
People's participation in M&E however is mitigated by several factors, among those including:
*      Their perceived benefits (and partial or short term costs) to participating in M&E
*      The relevance of PM&E to the priorities of participants
*      Quick and relevant feedback of findings
*      Attempting to meet expectations that arise from the ongoing PM&E process (or at least address
these concerns if they cannot be met). This helps ensure long term participation.
*      Not overly focusing on either short term or long term needs, but balancing efforts on addressing
both
*      Degree of capabilities, leadership, and identity of the groups involved, including openness to
sharing power
*      Local political history, as this influences society's openness to stakeholders initiatives
*      Incentives to make the PM&E possible (pens, books, paper, etc.)
Some indicators for PM&E are chosen by the participants. This is an essential process for it helps build
consensus about the vision for development in the community. In addition, a set of indicators to standardize
evaluation must also be selected. However, it is important not to utilize too many indicators for monitoring
and evaluation, for it can obfuscate and misdirect the exercise. Instead, there should be relatively few,
precise indicators which cover a broad base of areas related to each sub-project and the project overall. It is
also important to make sure that these few indicators meet the different information needs of those
involved, including short and long term aspects, general development process issues and concrete
initiatives, and qualitative and quantitative standards.
Pointers for participatory M&E (which uses both PRA and BA methods):
Need to identify a lead facilitator for workshop / seminar (PCU or local social scientist)
Initiate a process that will allow for the self-organization of PM&E
It should be undertaken on a continuous and iterative basis
Measure process and outputs (try to integrate quantitative data from the technical reports with
qualitative data derived from PM&E)
Compare the community before and after the project, illustrated by mapping, ranking, and/or
diagram exercises
What has been the development impact - has access to services changed (health, education, water,
sanitation), socio-economic factors
What has been the institutional impact (stakeholder/institutional analysis)
Has the project effected levels and density of social capital, assess by examining factors such as
trust and social cohesion
Develop action plans for any next steps or corrective action and identify actors involved (and their
- 78 -



responsibilities)
*       Address issues of sustainability, will the project's end products (infrastructure, disaster and risk
management groups) be able to be sustained after the its completion?
*       Disseminate  results  and  get feedback  from   community  and  actors  involved  (including
decision-makers)
- 79 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Ain Temouchent Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project
Environment Management Plan
A      Overview
I     Context and project objectives
a) Context of the Ain Temouchent situation after the earthquake
Ain Temouchent is a city located in western Algeria 75 km south-west from Oran, the largest
city in western Algeria, and which has given its name to the wilaya (Department) of Ain
Temouchent populated by nearly 326.000 inhabitants. The wilaya is divided into 28
municipalities. The capital of the wilaya has a population of around 65.000 inhabitants.
The economy of the wilaya of Ain Temouchent is based mainly on agriculture with minor
industrial activities.
On December 22, 1999 the Ain Temouchent area was hit by an earthquake of 5.5 magnitude
on the Richter scale. Three municipalities were particularly concerned by the damages, Ain
Temouchent, Sidi Ben Adda and Ain Tolba. Twenty seven persons died in the collapse of
buildings and three hundred were injured.
k Scope of intervention
The government of Algeria responded rapidly to the situation and set up a rescue organization
(ORSEC) in order to provide immediate assistance to the people in need. Crisis cells were
established both at the local and the central level.
At the request of the government of Algeria, the Bank has prepared an emergency project
aimed at contributing to the reconstruction of the area and at strengthening the institutional
capacity needed in the event of future catastrophic events through the design and financing of
actions organized in the following six main project components:
Component A: Disaster Organization and Risk Management
Technical assistance in order to improve the institutional capacity for emergency management
in Algeria especially with regard to disaster organization and risk management.
Comionent B: Housing
Financing of the residential housing reconstruction program in the urban (3400 units) and
rural (800 households) areas affected by the earthquake
ComPonent C: Technical Infrastructure
Design, supervision and investments towards the restoration of the essential public
infrastructure such as water supplies, sewerage system, roads.
- 80 -



Component D: Social Infrastructure
Design, supervision and investments towards the restoration of damaged public buildings such
as schools (15 have been reported as heavily damaged) and administrative buildings
Component E: Project Implementation
An Interninisterial Committee for Coordination and Followup for Reconstruction of Ain
Temouchent (CICS), constituted by essentially the members of the existing crisis cell at the
central level will be established for overall guidance and supervision. At the local level, a
project coordination unit will be set up and will report to the Wali of Ain Temouchent.
2      Project environment category
According to the Bank's Safeguards policies, the project has been rated as a category B
project with regards to its expected environmental impacts. This project being an emergency
operation will be the subject of an enviromental assessment process in such a manner as not
to slow down its implementation. Environmental concerns will be addressed within the
Environmental Management Plan designed to help the PCU and the local government in
meeting environmental requirements during project implementation.
Also, environmental impact assessments will be conducted in case of construction of a new
wastewater facility as well as for the siting of the housing sub-project.
3      Algeria's institutional framework with regards to environment
a) Existing national regulations on environment
A great deal of regulation exists in Algeria in relation with environmental protection. The
basic law is the law no. 83-03 (February 5, 1983) establishing the principles of environmental
protection in Algeria. The most important regulation is the decree no. 90-78 (February 27,
1990) that introduced the environmnental impact assessment as a mandatory process prior to
operation approval of potentially environmentally harmful projects.
Another decree of importance is the decree 93-160 (July 10, 1993) regulating wastewater
discharge from industries.
The Water Act no. 83-17 (July 16, 1983) amended in 1996 also includes important sections
on water resource management including water quality.
Q) Organization of the national environment authoritv
Since late 1999, a General Directorate of Environment is the main national authority for environment
protection and is part of the ministry of Public Works, Land Planning, Environment & Urbanism.
The General Directorate of Environment is concerned by both policy making and policy implementation.
In each Wilaya an inspectorate of Environment is reporting to the General Directorate and is also in
charge of implementing the national policies at the regional level.
- 81 -



c) Existing national regulation on NGOs
The NGO's are traditionally very active in environmental protection. The law in force on non
political associations has been adopted in December 1990 (Law 90-31). The law distinguishes
between local an national associations. Many associations have been created both at the
national and local level which are totally or partly oriented towards the protection of
environment. Their main difficulties are financial and managerial. Nevertheless, these
associations represent potential intermediaries with local populations that could be of great
help after proper selection and capacity improvement.
4      Experience gained from previous similar projects in Algeria
In August 18, 1994, an earthquake struck the region of Beni Chougrane in the wilaya of
Mascara, in the western part of Algeria. The Algerian government requested from the World
Bank that an emergency reconstruction project be designed and financed with the principal
objective of rebuilding, in the shortest possible time, the economic, social and physical assets
that were destroyed by the earthquake. The various components of the projects dealt with
reconstruction and repairs of facilities in the following sectors: a) education, b) housing, c)
agriculture, d) public health, e) roads f) water supply and sewerage, as well as g) earthquake
hazard reduction and prevention, and h) social rehabilitation. The positive imnpact on the
environment was set also as an important objective.
However, this project has been recently terminated and although the overall objectives were
reached environmental issues have not been given the appropriate consideration. One of the
main sub-component with direct environmental impacts, i.e. the wastewater collection and
treatment system has been lagging and has not yet been completed (two aerated stabilization
lagoons in Hacine and Bou Hanifia, the latter being a renown thermal bath site, with a
capacity of, respectively, 20.000 and 60.000 inhabitants equivalent). Although the technical
aspects were given proper consideration, weak ownership did not allow for an efficient
management of the sub-component. The limited prerogatives of the project management unit
did not allow for stimulation of the other stakeholders. There has been practically no
institutional strengthening during the project maybe because of the difficulties entailed by the
security conditions at the time.
- 82 -



B      The Environmental Manaeement Plan
For the Am Temouchent Reconstruction project the implementation of an Enviromnental
Management Plan will improve the quality of the project and will ensure participation of other
stakeholders, mainly the Environment protection authority as well as the local population
either through direct participatory approach or through local dedicated NGO's
The Environmental Management Plan will encompass three kinds of measures:
-   Strengthening of the capacity to address environmental issues that should be dealt with in
disaster response programs.
-   Mitigation of the impacts of the reconstruction activities (housing, technical facilities and public
buildings).
-   Monitoring of the environmental action plan to make sure that the projects components will be
implemented in an environmentally acceptable manner with no major deviation from good practices
and in compliance with the recommended mitigation and/or compensation measures.
To address the issue of proper siting of the housing agglomeration, and in case of
construction of a new wastewater treatment plant, impact assessments will be conducted in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
The implementation of the Environmental Management Plan will be the responsibility of the
client under the Bank's supervision. The ToR for the impact assessments will be approved by
the Bank. The implementation of the EMP will be an integral part of the PCU's prerogatives.
An environmental engineer will be part of the PCU. Periodic project progress report will
include chapters on monitoring of environmental issues.
5      Institutional component of the EMP
The central point of this component is the improvement of institutional capabilities both at the
local and the central level in order for the targeted institutions to be able to face up future
catastrophic events in a more efficient manner integrating environmental considerations for
more sustainable solutions.
-83 -



EMP component                   Actions                        Resources needed
Institutional      Modification of the emergency             Team of three experts - study
capacity          procedures in order to integrate the   and presentation (4.5 men.month)
strengthening     dimension of environmental protection in
case of disaster                          Technical assistance of expert
Design and implementation of a       (social scientist or specialist in
communication strategy and population  public participation), 1 man.month
participation                             5 days taining of 5 persons
- Integrating in the training program a  (local including inspectorate of
component on environment related aspects   environment) and 10 persons
of emergency program, including       (central including DGPC and
appropriate use of GIS tools and valuation   General Directorate of
of environmental costs                Environment), with the assistance
of three consultants
(Environmental specialist, GIS
specialist, Environmental
economist)
6      Environmental mitigation:
The following mitigation measures (not to be considered complete) related to expected impacts will be
implemented in the course of the project.
Type of           Potential impacts            Mitigation measures        Responsible
Subproject                                                                   Agency
Housing        -     Negative impacts of the    -  Dismantling of tent camps    PCU and
provisory facilities           after housing reconstruction.  public works
-     Negative impacts due to    -  Rehabilitation of camp sites   department
improper facility of the new  -  Clean-up of construction
housing agglomeration         rubbles and debris
- Rehabilitation of selected
areas within the city through
planting trees and landscaping
green areas
- Impact assessment of the
new site for the housing
sub-component
Technical      -     Clogging of natural      -  Maintain ditches          PCU and
infrastructures  drainage channels                                         public works
(Roads         -     Dumping of construction   -  Proper disposal of       department
rehabilitation)   wastes and accidental spills of  construction wastes
machine fuels, etc.
- 84 -



Technical       -      Cross contamination       -  Audit of the wastewater      PCU and water
infrastructures   sewage and water lines         treatment plant by specialist   works
(Water supply   -      Improper disposal of      -  Audit of the wastewater      departnent
and sanitation)  construction debris             treatment plant by three experts
-      Pollution of water        (civil engineer, waterworks
courses                          specialist and sanitary engineer)
- Proper disposal of
construction wastes
- Rehabilitation or
construction of a new
wastewater facility
Social          Health hazards due to poor       Rehabilitation of the sanitary  PCU and
infrastructures   sanitation                     facilities along with the schools   public works
(schools and                                     and other public facilities     department
public                                           rehabilitation (Integrate in the
buildings)                                       technical specifications in
works procurement)
7      Environmental monitoring
Monitoring will be essentially the responsibility of the PCU along with the concerned technical
Departments of the Wilaya. The table below indicates the proper indicators to be used as well as the
frequency of the reporting or monitoring actions.
Type of Subproject              Monitoring Indicator             Responsibility    Frequency
Housing                   -   Number of tents dismantled          PCU                3 months
Technical infrastructures   -   Kilometers of road properly       PCU                3 months
(Roads rehabilitation)    rehabilitated
Technical infrastructures   -   Kilometers of water supply lines  PCU                3 months
(Water supply and         constructed
sanitation)               -   Kilometers of wastewater lines
constructed
-   Efficiency of wastewater treatment
plant and/or progress towards
completion of the new wastewater
treatment plant
Social infrastructures    -   Number of sanitary facilities       PCU                3 months
(schools and public       (latrines or lavatories) built
buildings)
-85-



C      Implementation schedule and cost
The EMP implementation would be integrated into the overall schedule for the proposed project and a
timetable for key activities is provided in Table 1. It is currently estimated that the EMP
implementation would cost US$81,500 for consultants, training activities and other incurred costs as
presented in the section on mitigation measures and monitoring. These costs are included in the cost
categories of Component E.
This total cost includes provisions for environmental impact assessment in view of the proper siting of
the housing agglomeration sub-component and also for the wastewater treatment plant in case it is
decided to build a new facility.
Table 1: EMP implementation schedule
Year I                  Year 2                  Year 3
Q1     Q2      Q3        Q1     Q2      Q3       Ql    Q2       Q3
Q4                      Q4                       Q4
Institutional capacity    oooo
strengthening
Environmental Impact       ooooooo
assessment
Mitigations actions                                                    ooooooooooooooo
ooooooooooo
Monitoring and
evaluation           oo                       oo                      oo
Training                  oo
-86 -



Table 2: Cost estimate for the EMP implementation
Activities                          Total cost in US$
Training of staff and major stakeholders     25 500
Technical assistance                         25 500
Environmental imnpact assessment and/or audit  15 000
Environrmental engineer in PCU               16 500
TOTAL                                        81500
- 87 -






MAP SECTION






IRRD 30909
2                                             4                                            P                                                                                        R- n-                                       
AIN         1\)N E                      E                                                             ,                                                                                                   '                   Ann
EARTHQUAKE REPCOER PC JECT
ADRAF   39   E   OUED   30  OUARGLA  ~~~~~[ t: WILAYA HEADQUARTERS 2 ~~~~~<",;;;/g ! " - E . E a2~
46 A N TE)            c                   AOENT   3     6    ~7 XE IL~   TARF                                48  RELIZANE ~ - ~ PAVED NATIONAL ROADS P El
16 ALGIE~~~~~~~~~~~~~RS 47GH                                                                         RDI 20   SAIDA4                                                6fe7   NATOA +AIA g ;<      
5b                       AT NA~   33y.  \LEI2 SK D                                                                                           AR A    LOD W IAYA30NiDjRE    lgS,    /    / '- i.    ,,! t
9   6LIDA 3 AGHOUAT l ~~>~A2                                                                                CEBESS A    /          A       IROR          T 19-            ITERN                A O     NAL BUDRISj 
272[ELA 3 ORNb1 TLMCE KIOMTERnizenet o th f38,>t                                                                                                                                                                                  5 )  ay, 7Nt4, r ay SJonElneedn   2  o    Rain  |
- Xtannmo"  j  n5        1A
X                               ,i    2 iSr~~~~~14                      I                    -
'-                                      "     o ,\                                ,~~~~~~~~~4~                                                                                       d   "                1
f  ,       -                                       $  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                       K~~~~3E lic,24c
N                                                                                          -  AAtagheuat>                                                                Is~~~Sp  48m;,-
Tw,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 K
I AD6AR  32 RL RATASH         35 OUARTLA
44 ~    ~      ~      - AI  EL  9R  SE4OMELRUOIWAAHAOATR
46 A N TRMOUCHET,T  36 EL TAEF  4R RELITANE                                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K   PAVEINATONALROAD
16 ALOIERO  47 OHAeSAIA  20 SAIDA                                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
R KA                AH3A                 12AAN0      SOTA
9 ELISA        29 MASCARA~~~~~2         12TRRS-IROT
10 ROSIRA        43 MILA~~~1~~            37 T.NDOS
30 ROSMERDES       27~4    MOTONM      4%       IAATrsipeeeueLImIpeg   2I(I,4
2 CHEP  8 MILA   R TSOEOILT5                                           5          10          100Thehoe,de,,, 4Ie,.424222e242, 2J4ye2nr.EemM-d,
23 CNSTNT E  4 NAAA       1 92 OoOS                                                                                    erIe n,pdeeunply 2 W pet e tI WeN 8eE Oeep 42
17 DIELPA31 ORAN      3 T.EMCP                                                KILOMETRS                          144e2,2242 thIegeIsIe2, et 42teEnIet7e2eepmeEen22e2I4
45                                       3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22/Inel4h42e,,



