                            Document of
                        The World Bank




                                                   Report No:ICR000034




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         ( IBRD-70230 )




                              ON A

              LOAN / CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF
                       US$ MILLION 78.60

                   (US$ 78.60 MILLION LOAN)

                               TO

                             Algeria

                              FOR

       Ain Temouchent Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project




                        December 1, 2006




FFPSI Group
Alg/Libya/Malta/Morocco/Tun
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA




                                1

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          ( Exchange Rate Effective )
                          Currency Unit =
                                    1.00 = US$
                               US$ 1.00 =


                                  Fiscal Year




                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




     Vice President: Daniela Gressani

   Country Director: Cecile Fruman

    Sector Manager: Hedi Larbi

Project Team Leader: Francois Noisette




                                       2

                                                          Algeria
              Ain Temouchent Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project




                                                      CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
8. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 13
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 16
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 17
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 19
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 22
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 23
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 25
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 27
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 28
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................. 30
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 31
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 32
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 33
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 34
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 35
Annex 13. Additional Annexes..................................................................................... 36
13.1................................................................................................................................ 36
MAP.............................................................................................................................. 38




                                                                3

1. Basic Information
                                                                      Ain Temouchent
Country:                Algeria                 Project Name:         Emergency Earthquake
                                                                      Recovery Project
Project ID:             P069947                 L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-70230
ICR Date:               12/18/2006              ICR Type:             Core ICR

Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:             GOVERNMENT OF
                                                                      ALGERIA
Original Total
Commitment:             USD 83.5M               Disbursed Amount:     USD 78.6M

Environmental Category:B
Implementing Agencies

Ministry of Interior
Central Steering Committee
Local Steering Committee
Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
5 Sector Direct. of the Wilaya of Ain Temouchent:Urban Dvlpt., Educ.,Health, Pub.
Works,Hydraulics
Public Entity for Housing
Central Directorate for Civil Protection (DGPC)
Earthquake Research Center
Seismic Construction Research Center
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process               Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review: 02/04/2000             Effectiveness:     01/17/2001       01/17/2001
Appraisal:          04/10/2000         Restructuring(s):
Approval:           06/22/2000         Mid-term Review:                    02/12/2002
                                       Closing:           12/31/2003       05/31/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory




                                               1

3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance         Indicators      QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                    No             Quality at Entry (QEA):         Satisfactory

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                         Yes            Quality of Supervision (QSA):   Satisfactory

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:          Satisfactory


4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                        10                 7
Other social services                                                    26                43
Roads and highways                                                        2                 1
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                     6                 3
Housing construction                                                     56                46
                                                           Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Natural disaster management                                 Primary           Primary


5. Bank Staff
                        Positions                               At ICR        At Approval
Vice President:                                           Daniela Gressani Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:                                         Cecile Fruman     Christian Delvoie

Sector Manager:                                           Hedi Larbi        Jean-Claude
                                                                            Villiard

Project Team Leader:                                      Francois Noisette Piotr M.
                                                                            Wilczynski

ICR Team Leader:                                          Sateh Chafic El-
                                                          Arnaout
ICR Primary Author:                                       Francois Noisette




                                                2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


The macro-economic stabilization program launched in the mid-1990s improved the
macro-economic situation of the country but did not substantially improve the living
conditions of the 20% of the Algerian population who still lived in poverty. Rapid
urbanization had complicated the issues on housing and urban services provision while
significant exposure of the country to recurrent natural risks of earthquakes and flooding
increased the vulnerability of the economic infrastructure and the livelihood of the
people, mainly the poor. Natural calamities resulted in recurring loss of human lives,
social, financial and economic well-being, and the need to shift resources from
productive investment to fund recovery and reconstruction had significantly curtailed
Algeria's attempts to stabilize its economic and social situation.

Disaster response in Algeria, organized under the 1985 Decree, established a legal
structure for civil protection and decentralized authority and responsibility to the wilayas
(Provinces) and their Walis (Governors). This was done to enable a response to local
emergency situations, although all levels of government were directed to establish
emergency preparedness plans and emergency response protocols and procedures,
following common operational priorities and guideline

The moderate-level earthquake of December 22, 1999 in the Wilaya of Ain Temouchent
in Western Algeria, about 75 km from the city of Oran, caused substantial damages in
four communities, where residential units collapsed and twenty-seven people died and
274 were injured. About 7,000 housing units were damaged, as well as water supply
systems, roads, schools, health facilities and government offices. The cost of physical
damages was estimated at US$ 100-120 million

Civil protection performed ably in the hours following the earthquake, with officials
following established protocols and mounting immediate efforts to rescue trapped victims
and provide medical assistance. Temporary shelters were in place within hours and the
damage assessment process was well coordinated and timely. Despite these successes,
the Government of Algeria was mindful that the Ain Temouchent was a moderate-sized
earthquake with limited impacts and decided that its system for disaster response required
reinforcement

As part of its disaster and risk management strategy, Algeria had legislation which
provides that Government will protect and support the lives of the population affected by
natural disasters. Government intends to supplement this with measures to improve the
disaster response system, institute a national earthquake insurance program and improve
its capacity to monitor construction practices and enforce compliance with building
codes.



                                              3

The Bank's assistance aimed to bring international experience in the area of natural
hazard response and management to help Algeria manage its vulnerability to natural
hazards. The Bank's focus on disaster prevention comprised: (a) assisting clients in
implementing measures to minimize the likelihood of occurrence of natural and man-
made disasters; (b) integrating disaster mitigation into development efforts; and (c)
building a national culture of prevention and preparedness.




6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


The overall Project Development Objective was to restore normal functioning of
communities damaged by the December 22, 1999 earthquake in the region of Ain
Temouchent and to increase national preparedness for future disasters. The cost of the
damage was estimated in the US$100-120 million range.

The objective would be reached by:
    -    strengthening the capacity to disaster response of the civil protection entities;
    -    strengthening of the existing system of earthquakes monitoring and studies;
    -     strengthening the guidelines for para-seismical design and control of
        construction;
    -    promoting risk coverage, specially insurance, to reduce the financial impact of
        disaster on the national budget;
    -    supporting the government for the construction of durable housing units in the
        earthquake affected area;
    -    Restoring the essential urban services (drinkable water, sewage, roads);
    -      Rebuilding the public social equipments for education, health, and
        administration.


6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

Project objectives have not been revised.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

The beneficiaries of the project were the earthquake-affected population in Ain



                                             4

Temouchent, as well as the whole Algerian population which would benefit through
strengthening of the country's disaster management system. DGPC (the Central
Directorate for Civil Protection) and the other entities on charge of seismic monitoring and
disaster management would also benefit from the project in terms of institutional
strengthening and improved facilities to conduct their work.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)


The project included five components:

Component A: Disaster Organization and Risk Management (US$9.37 million). The
component's objectives were to strengthen the institutional capacity of emergency
management inAlgeria and promote a nationwide and comprehensive risk management
strategy. The component was expected to enhance the capacities of various agencies and
functions as follows: (i) the Algerian Civil Protection to carry out essential initial
emergency response activities; (ii) national communications and information
management; (iii) national seismic monitoring; and (iv) enforcement of building codes
and monitoring of construction practices. The component also sought to develop policy
alternatives, including use of insurance to moderate the impact of disasters on public
finance.

The component provided for the acquisition of specialized equipment and training, the
construction of facilities for the Civil Protection Directorate in the region, the completion
of seismic risk assessment, the review of standards and practices in building codes and an
assessment of an insurance system covering disaster risks and other risk transfer
mechanisms.

Component B: Housing (US$65.78 million) to assist in (i) the reconstruction of about
3,400 social housing units; and (ii) to provide materials and technical assistance to
beneficiaries in rural areas for the construction of 800 individual housing units financed
by the Government.

Component C: Technical Infrastructure (US$8.39 million) to restore essential
infrastructure, including water supply and sewerage system and roads and to build a new
wastewater treatment plant.

Component D: Social Infrastructure (US$26.78 million) to reconstruct facilities,
including nine primary schools, two middle schools, and one high school for 1,400
students; five health care units, one hospital of 240 beds, and government offices (court,
post office and a handicraft center).

Component E: Project Implementation (US$1.69 million) to support the creation and
operation of a Project Coordination Unit.



                                                5

6.6 Revised Components

Components have not been revised.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

The Government of Algeria requested the cancellation of non-committed funds
amounting to US$0.79 million (0.95% of the loan amount) as of February 1st, 2006 and
an additional amount of US$ 4.07 million was not disbursed. These cancellations did not
have an impact on the project completion because the Ministry of Public Health had
allocated Algerian funds for the remaining items of non-medical equipment and works.
The construction of the sewerage plant (included in Component C) and the acquisition of
communication equipments for Civil Protection were not completed by the end of the
project; however, the Government is completing these with funding from its own budget
(outside the project).

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)


    Key factors affecting the satisfactory outcome of
    project implementation include the following:

    (i)    The project was in line with the 1996-97 CAS (Country Assistance Strategy)
            forAlgeria which, among other objectives, emphasized poverty alleviation and
            the protection of vulnerable groups. The project supported interventions such
            as emergency public and social services and improved housing which
            significantly improved the living conditions and life of the poorest inhabitants
            of the affected region.

    (ii)      Project preparation was thorough and consultative.              The inventory of
            damages was prepared by the Government, reviewed by independent
            consultants and provided a good basis for identifying the works to be
            implemented. The project was prepared in close cooperation with the local
            authorities and excellent participation of the affected people who were
            represented by an association created after the earthquake. These measures
            considerably facilitated implementation of the project.



                                                6

(iii)   The decision to provide retroactive financing for the housing component
      enabled an early launch of the reconstruction effort.

(iv)    Lessons from Bank experience in earthquake relief projects were taken into
      account, including the need to:

      · keep the project design simple;
      · include, within the recovery and rehabilitation program, design measures
          intended to increase resistance and reduce the damage from future such
          disasters (e.g. ensure that buildings are more earthquake resistant);
      · ensure that buildings are adequately maintained to minimize the impact of
          future such earthquakes;
     · build partnerships between the central and local agencies, and devolve
          implementation and detailed coordination to the local authorities who can
          more effectively monitor and ensure that the project is implemented
          according to plan.

(v)     Overall, the project risks were accurately assessed, including the 'substantial'
      risk of shortfall of Government funds for operation and maintenance of the
      disaster response system, which the project addressed by financing needed
      additional equipments and training. All other risks were rated as 'modest';
      they included the failure to use earthquake resistant building standards, the
      shortage of building materials, the failure to provide suitable sites for
      construction, and the weak capacity of local building firms. One risk which
      was not fully anticipated were the several delays in project implementation
      (e.g. the loan became effective six months after Board approval, the
      implementation unit was put in place about seven months after effectiveness
      and the closing date was extended twice). For a rapidly-prepared emergency
      operation, however, these delays due to the need to coordinate among the
      activities and bureaucracy of nine implementing and sectoral agencies are not
      excessive and project management was able to rally and still largely meet its
      targets (see sections 8 and 10 below).

Two sub-components that perhaps could have been better appraised, had there been
      more than the two months available for project preparation, were a new
      hospital to serve regional needs and the proposed wastewater treatment plant.
      The new hospital was a bold venture to build and equip a regional facility to
      serve the population in the area, using facilities afforded under the project.
      Project authorities managed to implement this sub-project successfully
      although the project had to be extended two times to secure all the approvals
      required from the Ministry of Health and the logistics to enable the
      completion     of    this   ambitious     but  much-needed      sub-component.
      Arrangements for managing and funding the waste-water treatment plant


                                         7

            required many decisions between the central and provincial Government
            authorities and could not be completed in time for construction under the
            project.   Government and the Bank subsequently agreed that thtis sub-
            component would be financed and implemented by the Government, outside
            of the project period.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

Overall, the factors that contributed to the successful implementation of the project
included effective decentralization of decision making and implementation overview to
the local level, competent project leadership and a local Steering Committee headed by a
committed local leader (in this case, the Wali or Governor of Ain Temouchent Province)
who enjoyed the confidence of the central and sectoral agencies and was empowered to
take decisions. The fact that the PMU was located in the Wali's Wilaya also helped the
coordination process immensely.

 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency

No event outside the control of the government has negatively affected implementation
of the project. The Boumerdes earthquake which occurred during the project period
(May 2003) actually reinforced the determination of the Government to build up its
capacity to prepare for and manage the consequences of large-scale emergencies.

Factors generally subject to government control

The central and local governments took all necessary measures to ensure the smooth
implementation of the project. The central government provided the financial resources
required on time and their local representatives were at the forefront of reconstruction
efforts, ensuring close consultation with local beneficiaries and the quality of
construction. The Wali was heavily involved in ensuring that building materials would
be provided to the sites on time. The Algerian Bank for Development (Mascara branch)
set up special procedures to ensure that contractors would be paid without undue delays.
Delays in establishing the Project Coordination Unit did not result in inordinate delays in
project implementation as much planning and design was undertaken in the interim and
the subcomponents were being implemented by the existing public sector agencies.

Factors generally subject to implementing agency control

The nine agencies in charge of project implementation worked hard to complete the
reconstruction of facilities as rapidly as possible and within estimated budgets. The local
procurement committee met as needed on urgent procedures.                    Land needed for
reconstruction was made available immediately. The Wali visited the worksites at least


                                               8

once a week. Contractors were paid on time and had priority for being supplied needed
construction materials (cement, gravel, etc) from public plants. Except for the hospital
which was completed two years later than (unrealistically) targeted, and the waste-water
treatment plant which was dropped from the project , all the damaged utilities and
buildings (including the housing units) were rebuilt on time.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


A Monitoring and Evaluation system was set up and used to report on inputs, outputs and
implementation progress. At the provincial level, the PCU successfully arranged the weekly
coordination meetings (which were chaired by the Governor) among all concerned agencies and
stakeholders. It also monitored project progress against the agreed monitoring and performance
indicators, and produced quarterly reports on implementation progress. At the national level, the
Central Steering Committee monitored implementation progress at least once a month. At the
local level, the elected local authorities and the Associations which were created to represent the
local project beneficiaries diligently monitored and ensured the timely relocation of affected
families into their new homes and their access to basic facilities and services provided under the
project.


Being an emergency operation, the project did not manage to set up a monitoring and evaluation
system to evaluate longer-term developmental outcomes.          Even so, it was clear that the local
population was highly appreciative of the project's contribution to their immediate security,
safety and well-being.       Government agencies gained valuable experience of the close
collaboration and clarity of monitoring and reporting required for decision-making and to achieve
timely and effective results on the ground; they also learnt to participate in stock-taking of
needed project inputs and how to effectively deliver the promised outputs in a timely manner.
The funds were effectively used for the purposes intended.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Safeguard and fiduciary requirements were met. Relocation of affected persons in new rental
housing units was done properly and in consultation with local (Association) representatives and
the elected local authorities. The environment around of the newly-constructed buildings was
improved by the construction of additional public facilities such as markets, administrative
offices, gardens, stadiums, tree plantations along the streets, schools and health centers provided
under the project and financed by the national budget.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)


.
The new replacement facilities created under the project are being operated and managed as the


                                                  9

previous facilities were prior to the earthquake, except that the new facilities were designed to be
more resistant to seismic shock and would therefore more durable and sustainable.


All project components were satisfactorily completed except for the waste-water treatment plant
(see para 7.1 above). The project did an excellent job in deferring construction until decisions
were finalized between the central and local government agencies about the sustainable
institutional arrangements for its operation and management. It was finally decided that this sub-
project will be taken out of the project and constructed and financed by the national budget.


The management of the new hospital is being privatized and this is also expected to improve its
prospects for post-completion operation and financial sustainability.


Following the successful experience of this project, a Bank-financed urban natural hazard
vulnerability reduction project was designed in response to the Bab-El-Oued flooding in Algiers ;
this is another step in strengthening Government's capacity to undertake disaster mitigation and
management.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)


The project objectives were in line with the 1996-97 CAS which was then being updated
to support the transition ofAlgeria to a market economy, while ensuring proper attention
to poverty relief and the protection of vulnerable groups. The project components were
relevant to the project objective of restoring normal functioning of communities damaged
by the earthquake and strengthening national preparedness for future disasters.              As an
emergency operation, the project responded in a timely way to complement the
Government's efforts to rapidly rebuild the social and economic infrastructure of the
earthquake-damaged area. Government essentially designed the program and requested
the Bank's support in financing, technical advice and implementation. Implementation of
the project by the concerned existing sector agencies with coordination at the local
(Wilaya) and central levels proved to be the most effective strategy for implementation
as the agencies had the capacity to implement their part of the project and could be
immediately operational. The project components and costs were reflected in the
government's development plans and budgets.               The one sub-component which was
eventually dropped from the project was the waste- water treatment plant which would
have met a longer-term need (currently, only one or two plants are working, out of a total
of some 60 treatment plants in the country) and required much more study and
consultation (between central and local government agencies over institutional
arrangements) than could be completed within the project. Government has since agreed
with the Bank to complete this plant with its own resources outside of the project period.




                                                 10

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)

Overall rating: Satisfactory
The first objective of the project was to restore normal functioning of communities
affected by the earthquake. All three indicators used to assess implementation of the first
objective were rapidly achieved:
    (a) all 4,200 families displaced by the earthquake were relocated into permanent
    housing by September 2002 and had access to services at a level at least equivalent to
    the one they had before;
    (b) all essential technical infrastructure were operational by February 2002; and
    (c) most social facilities were in place and fully operational by the end of 2002.

The second objective of the project, to enhance national preparedness for future disasters
was also achieved. All but one of the components aiming to achieve this objective were
successfully implemented (please indicate which of the following were "achieved are far above
the project objectives") :
    (a) civil protection facilities for the Wilaya were constructed and equipped;
    (b) risk identification of the areas around Ain Temouchent was completed;
    (c) the earthquake monitoring network was enhanced;
    (d) "special earthquake" equipment was provided for 25 Wilaya site rescue teams which will
    minimize loss of human lives in future earthquakes;
    (e) measures were taken by the government to enhance the implementation of construction
    code relating to safe construction;
    (f) a risk insurance system was set up by the Government, following the recommendations of
    studies completed under the project. The study carried out under this project provided the
    basis for enacting mandatory insurance legislation on insurance which has had huge impact
    on risk management strategy inAlgeria. At present, some 0.3 million out of a total of 3.0
    million, houses are insured in Algeria, a healthy start on an important and ambitious program,
    compared to other the achievement of other similar Bank-funded projects.



The enhanced communication systems for the Civil Protection Directorate was not implemented
in time due to procurement issues (lack of specialized consultants responding to the consultation.



8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

The economic and financial analysis was not computed for this emergency reconstruction
project. However, the economic value of the infrastructure destroyed by the earthquake


                                                   11

that was reconstructed or replaced by the project is indisputable.
Financially, the project was able to achieve considerable cost savings over the appraisal
estimates forall components, except for the hospital. Both the PMU and the Wali
exercised excellent supervision over the building and implementation processes and were
flexible enough to make on-the-spot adjustments where necessary to facilitate operations.
The cost of investments were deemed to be lower than similar other investments
elsewhere in the country, for instance, the cost of construction of housing units and
schools was about 10% to 15% lower than the current prices in the region. Two major
reasons for this was the use of small and medium sized local contractors as well as the
availability of construction materials from factories located close to the worksites which
considerably reduced transportation costs of the materials.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall outcome is rated 'satisfactory' in view of the relevance of the PDO to the country
situation and the appropriateness of the components, the efficiency of implementation under very
difficult circumstances, the proper utilization of the facilities by the people and the achievement
of project outputs and assets within the planned budget and on time for almost all the
components. The project ended with a total cancellation of US$4.9 million (5% of the
original loan amount).

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Most of the persons affected by the earthquake were the poor living in precarious shelters. The
project improved their living conditions by relocating them in best-practice examples of durable
housing units in new developed sites equipped and integrated with improved urban and social
infrastructure and facilities. The significant improvements in primary, middle and high school
graduation rates in Ain Temouchent have been attributed to the new schools, the improved
housing and social environment created under the project.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)


The project was successful in creating a decentralized coordination structure at the provincial
level which contributed to speedy implementation, local ownership, the application of local
knowledge and resources, effective use of existing capacity of different ministries rather creating
a separate implementation capacity and greater opportunities for beneficiary participation in
decision-making. In this project, the Wali's leadership was the single most important factor in
ensuring effective implementation of the project.


The project also successfully strengthened the earthquake monitoring institutions and networks
and the civil protection units, as well as enforced construction codes relating to safe construction;


                                                 12

enforcement and control over the quality of construction of public buildings was excellent though
it was harder to validate the practices in private construction. The new system to insure against
earthquake risks will reduce the burden on public expenditures for reconstruction necessitated by
any future natural disasters.


Overall, the project played a significant role in preparing national and provincial governments to
respond to other similar disasters. A case in point is the 2003 Bourmedes earthquake, a much
bigger earthquake which resulted in greater damage (2,266 lives lost; economic losses of
approximately US$5 billion) and which occurred during the project period. Greater national
preparedness was evident in the Ministry of Interior and the General Directorate of Civil
Protection which had better-equipped search and rescue teams, better facilities for civil protection
as well as trained staff, who were well prepared and were very effective on the ground.




(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

The housing component had a positive impact in developing small and medium consulting and
construction firms and in local job creation. The decision to drop the construction of the waste-
water treatment plant from the project and have it built by the Government itself was useful in
that the discussions triggered healthy debate about sustainable options for its operation and
management after construction; the subsequent decision by Government to do it within a nation-
wide waste water treatment program is a positive and more sustainable outcome for the
management of this sub-sector in the country.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

None

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible

The awareness of the Government, the local authorities and of all the population
regarding disaster prevention and management is very high. The capacity developed
under the project for earthquake monitoring and disaster management would make
durable the development outcome of the project. The new hospital is totally equipped
and staffed, training is underway and the hospital will be fully operational by the
beginning of 2007, serving a region that desperately needs such a facility. Even the
component that was dropped, the waste-water plant, is being financed by the
government.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank



                                                  13

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank responded quickly to the disaster. The project was consistent with the CAS.
The dialogue with local authorities during the preparation phase was excellent. The
project design was simple and the decision to use country systems for project
implementation was well taken. The selection of emergency management measures was
appropriate. The risks were adequately assessed. On the other hand, the short two month
period for project design did not permit a full appraisal of the cost and time needed for
building two major new facilities which were strongly requested by the Wilaya ­ the
regional hospital and the waste-water treatment plant. Also underestimated was the
difficulty of obtaining local clearances for technical designs and time needed to clarify
and resolve all the decisions that had to be agreed on between central and local
government agencies regarding the operation and management of the waste-water
treatment plant. The environment management plan also did not sufficiently focus on
specific and sensitive issues such as wastes from building sites and the quality of
sewerage networks.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank was flexible and prompt in responding to government requests. Throughout
the life of the project, it provided strong support to the agencies in charge of project
implementation and helped to create a team of local consultants who have ensured the
regular monitoring of project management and provided guidance as appropriate. The
Bank stressed the importance of applying high construction standards and facilitated the
reallocation of funds to the most pressing requirements. Despite a high turnover of Task
Team leaders, succession was well planned with overlap of time to ensure smooth
transitions. Supervision missions were well staffed (see Annex 6) and always supported
by an environmentalist and social scientist. Attention was paid to fiduciary and safeguard
requirements and the candor and quality of performance tracking and reporting. The
Task Teams enjoyed a high level of trust in their relations with the local authorities.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The project was prepared in close consultation with central and local authorities and the
beneficiaries. The project was well supervised by competent and problem solving Bank
teams (see para above) and was clearly successful in restoring quickly the living
conditions of the families affected by the earthquake. Bank management was fully
supportive of the project task teams supervising this complex project.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance


                                                14

Rating: Satisfactory

The Government was highly committed to the project. Both the national and provincial
level steering committees were established at the start of the project and provided
excellent guidance to project implementation, helping to address issues and remove
bottlenecks. In particular, they ensured that (i) adequate resources were allocated to the
project; (ii) contractors had access to building materials and imports of equipment; and
(iii) contractors were paid within reasonable time. The two committees helped to develop
and implement a comprehensive program of actions based on the results of two studies,
one on building regulations and the other on disaster insurance. Annual reports on
project implementation and financial statements were generally not submitted on time,
however.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


Implementing Agency           Performance
                              Nine agencies were involved in the implementation of the
                              project.

                              At the regional level, six agencies were responsible for the
                              implementation of the reconstruction program, including five
                              regional directorates of central ministries (Health, Urban
                              development, Housing, Water works, and Public works) and
                              the Public Office for Estate Management. All agencies
                              worked efficiently under the supervision of the Wali
                              (Governor). These agencies were able to mobilize adequate
                              resources and establish close cooperation with the Project
                              Coordination Unit.

                              At the national level, the Ministries of Housing and Finance
Ministry of Interior          were responsible for the implementation of a large part of the
                              institutional component (sub-components A7 and 8). They
                              took the required action to implement the recommendations
                              of the two studies on building regulation and disaster
                              insurance. The two research centers under the supervision of
                              the Ministry of Higher Education and Research,
                              implemented sub-component A6 (seismic monitoring
                              network upgrades) in a very satisfactory manner; indeed,
                              Algeria has become a leader in the region in terms of its
                              seismic risk reduction program, observation and data
                              collection network. The Civil Protection Directorate
                              implemented sub-component A1 (emergency response and
                              rescue equipment) in a satisfactory manner but did not
                              launch the study on its communications equipment on time,
                              resulting in the delay of sub-component A4 (upgrading of



                                              15

                               communications systems).




                               In 2002, two supervision missions rated the DO and IP of the
                               project 'unsatisfactory' due to the long delays over approvals
                               of the Ministry of Health of the hospital design; though this
                               was subsequently resolved, it caused significant delay in
                               implementation and necessitated an extension of the project
                               period.
Central Steering Committee
Local Steering Committee
Project Coordination Unit
(PCU)
5 Sector Direct. of the Wilaya
of Ain Temouchent:Urban
Dvlpt., Educ.,Health, Pub.
Works,Hydraulics
Public Entity for Housing
Central Directorate for Civil
Protection (DGPC)
Earthquake Research Center
Seismic Construction
Research Center


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, the Government and the implementing agencies were strongly committed to the
project, and more generally to mitigate the consequences of the earthquake as rapidly as
possible. The Borrower is to be commended on two particular counts: the effective
mobilization of the resources required for the maintenance of the new hospital and the
social housing units, and the upgrading of communications systems for the Civil
Protection Directorate which is essential for an early response to disasters.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

It is important to ensure that the proposed investments are aligned to the PDO.
There was some debate about whether a project for emergency reconstruction such as
this should have included a new waste water treatment plant in the first place. The plant
was proposed by local authorities who seized the opportunity to also upgrade the local
infrastructure such as a new wastewater treatment plan and a new hospital to serve the
entire northern and westernAlgeria region, which lacks proper health infrastructure.
These new facilities are clearly needed to address long-standing problems and is justified
in terms of the second half of the Project Development Objective, "to increase national



                                               16

preparedness for future disasters". However, as discussed in Section 7.1 above, they
required more extensive studies, multiple clearances and detailed coordination
arrangements than was fully appreciated at appraisal and that the two month project
preparation allowed. This should have been more fully recognized as a risk at appraisal.
To the credit of the Government and the Bank, the project did what it could within the
time and resources available: the hospital was completed with an extension of the project
period, while the waste-water treatment facility was dropped (see discussion in Section
10.1 above).


It is important to carefully select the appropriate procurement and implementation
procedures.      An assessment of local resources is required to ensure that the best
procurement procedures are adopted under the circumstances. The decision to divide the
housing reconstruction program into small lots was essential for the mobilization of a
number of small contractors. The program was also implemented efficiently at a lower
cost than initially estimated. Payment procedures were adjusted to facilitate payment of
contractors without undue delays. An additional lesson that can be learnt here is that the
project could have included the formulation of a generic kit comprising tested operational
procedures and training modules as a template from which to design location-specific
programs for local authorities facing future such emergencies.

It is important that emergency operations such as this project be able to depend on
decentralized implementation through existing sectoral institutions and capacity which
is much more appropriate and effective than using a centrally-located project
management unit or other ad hoc implementation arrangements (see also para 7.2 above).



Finally, it is important to use the lessons identified from local project monitoring to
inform national level decision-making and policy making. Although the local-level
Steering Committee responded extremely well to the emergency, the project could have
provided for a more systematic evaluation of experience and a managed transfer of
learning outcomes to benefit specific areas of policy development in the area of natural
disaster management. The project may have missed an opportunity to help government to
develop a national strategy for disaster management to address the disaster risks in all provinces
prone to disasters, (ii) strengthen inter-ministerial coordination at the apex level through a
national agency for the disaster mitigation and management in Algeria. Though these aspects
were not fully built into project design, this is a lesson that has also become evident from other
emergency projects in the area - for example, in Iran where the lessons from Manzil were not
applied to other provinces so that the Bam earthquake caught everyone in Iran unprepared, and in
India where the lessons from Latur were not applied in other provinces so that there was poor
readiness for the Bhuj earthquake, when it happened.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies




                                                   17

The main issue raised by the Borrower is the delay in project implementation due to Bank
procedures on procurement, and the lack of experience of the implementing agencies on Bank
procedures (and also on national procedures). Procurement procedures were streamlined for civil
works where almost all the contracts were under NCB and below the threshold for Bank prior
review, except for equipments and the construction of the hospital which used ICB procedures.


(b) Cofinanciers

N/A


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)



During meetings with Bank missions, the "Association des sinistrés du séisme d'Ain
Témouchent" expressed their satisfaction with the relocation process of the affected
persons to the new houses. Satisfaction was also expressed on the high quality of the
new housing units, the new schools, and the public buildings like the health centers and
the post office which were built under the project.




                                              18

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The overall Project Development Objective was to restore normal functioning of
communities damaged by the December 22, 1999 earthquake in the region of Ain
Temouchent and to increase national preparedness for future disasters. The cost of the
damage was estimated in the US$100-120 million range.

The objective would be reached by:
    -   strengthening the capacity to disaster response of the civil protection entities;
    -   strengthening of the existing system of earthquakes monitoring and studies;
    -     strengthening the guidelines for para-seismical design and control of
        construction;
    -    promoting risk coverage, specially insurance, to reduce the financial impact of
        disaster on the national budget;
    -    supporting the government for the construction of durable housing units in the
        earthquake affected area;
    -   Restoring the essential urban services (drinkable water, sewage, roads);
    -      Rebuilding the public social equipments for education, health, and
        administration.



Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

Project objectives have not been revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                                                  Formally    Actual Value

  Indicator      Baseline Value   Original Target Values (from Revised        Achieved at
                                        approval documents)        Target    Completion or
                                                                   Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 : Families displaced by the earthquake move into permanent housing
Value
(quantitative 4200 families have  4200 families have been
or            been displaced by   relocated in new housing
Qualitative)  the earthquake

Date achieved 12/22/1999          09/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %      100% achieved in excellent conditions
achievement)
Indicator 2 : replacement for technical infrastructure
Value         Water (main tank    100 % of infrastructures repair
(quantitative and pipes, wells)   or rebuild: water System (main



                                               19

or            and wastewater       tank and pipes, wells),
Qualitative)  systems and main     wastewater pipes, and main
              roads (45km) need    roads (45km), except waste
              to be repaired or    water treatment plant that was
              rebuild.             withdrawn from the project.
Date achieved 12/22/1999           09/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %      The wastewater plant was underestimated and was an improvement of the sewage

achievement)  system.

Indicator 3 : Replacement of social infrastructure destroyed by earthquake are in use
Value
(quantitative 12 schools have
or            been destroyed       12 schools rebuilt

Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/22/1999           09/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %      100%
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Replacement of social infrastructure destroyed by earthquake are in use
              Five health centers
Value         and 3 public
(quantitative buildings (Court     Five health centers and 3 public
or            House, Post Office buildings are rebuilt
Qualitative)  and Folk Art Center)
              have been destroyed
Date achieved 12/31/2003           09/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %      100%
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Replacement of social infrastructure destroyed by earthquake are in use
Value
(quantitative The city hospital    New hospital of 240 beds built,
or            was partially        equiped and operational
Qualitative)  destroyed

Date achieved 12/22/1999           05/31/2006
Comments      This hospital was not a replacement of the existing hospital(as this damaged
(incl. %      building was repaired) but was an additional hospital for the region of Ain
achievement) Temouchent which was requested by the Government and built 100%
Indicator 6 : The Government's emergency system is strengthened

Value         Rescue equipment

(quantitative and seismic          Rescue equipment and seismic

or            monitoring network monitoring network upgrades

Qualitative)  upgrades are in poor are completed and in use
              state
Date achieved 12/22/1999           12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %      100% Additional Training of the civil protection staff was provied by other donors




                                              20

achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                   Original Target           Formally       Actual Value Achieved
   Indicator      Baseline
                    Value           Values (from         Revised Target       at Completion or
                                approval documents)           Values             Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Identification of reconstruction sites, detailed studies of equipment and
                infrastructures to be built under Dzioua Dam Dzioua Dam safety are completed
Value
(quantitative orproject to be 100% of studies

Qualitative)    designed       completed

Date achieved 12/22/1999       05/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        100%
achievement)
                Identification of reconstruction sites, detailed studies of equipment and
Indicator 2 :   infrastructures to be built under the project, and Dzioua Dam safety are
                completed
Value
(quantitative orproject to be 100% of studies

Qualitative)    designed       completed

Date achieved 12/22/1999       05/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                21

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                                Not Applicable




                                     22

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                            Appraisal
               Components                Estimate (USD     Actual/Latest   Percentage of

                                              M)         Estimate (USD M)   Appraisal

COMPONENT A: DISASTER
ORGANIZATION AND RISK                              9.37              6.67         71.18
MANAGEMENT
COMPONENT B: HOUSING                              65.78             48.42         73.61
COMPONENT C: TECHNICAL
INFRASTRUCTURE                                     8.39              3.81         45.41

COMPONENT D: SOCIAL
INFRASTRUCTURE                                    26.78             49.22        183.79

COMPONENT E: PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION                                     1.69              0.17         10.06

                     Total Baseline Cost        112.01             108.29
Physical Contingencies                             0.00
Price Contingencies                                0.00
                     Total Project Costs        112.01
Front-end fee PPF                                  0.00              0.00          0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                 0.84              0.84          0.84
               Total Financing Required         112.85             109.13



(b) Financing


                                                Appraisal    Actual/Latest
         Source of Funds             Type of                               Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing  Estimate     Estimate (USD
                                                (USD M)            M)        Appraisal

  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND                                    83.46           78.60       94.18
DEVELOPMENT
  LOCAL: BENEFICIARIES                                25.40           30.53      120.20


(c) Disbursement Profile




                                          23

24

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Component A: Disaster organization and management. The component is rated as
satisfactory

The seismic monitoring systems in the Ain Temouchent region have been enhanced
through improved risk assessment, strengthening of monitoring networks, and
construction of facilities for civil protection. Twenty five regions have been provided
with special rescue equipment. The Government has taken measures to enforce and
monitor new earthquake resistant building standards. It has also established a compulsory
insurance system to cover the risk of earthquakes, as a follow up to the studies financed
under the project. On the other hand, the Government has not initiated the study on how
to reinforce communication systems of the Civil Protection Directorate, and cancelled the
related equipment sub-component. Modernization of communication systems was
considered as essential, however, for reducing the delays experienced in mobilizing
resources from other regions after the Ain Temouchent earthquake.

Component B: Housing. The component is rated as highly satisfactory

All the housing units (3,400 social renting units and 800 individual units) have been built
up to earthquake resistant standards, and delivered between September 2002 and
December 2003. The decision made to build the 2,000 renting units on a single site,
known asnew city of Othmane, was well taken. The new city is considered as a best
practice for urban quality, architectural diversity and the level of equipment. This
decision has facilitated implementation of the component, and helped reduce unit cost.
Construction was split into packages of less than 200 units. This allowed small
contractors to participate in the reconstruction and eased the issue of building materials
availability. It was more complicated to administer, however, but was better adapted to
the context.

The individual housing sub-component was delayed because of the funding mechanism
selected, entailing a leasing scheme with a down payment, which was too high for the
poorest families. Eventually it took off and was well managed. It was financed by the
government and the beneficiaries.

Overall, the actual cost of the housing component is 7 percent lower than estimated.

Component C: Technical infrastructure. The component is rated as satisfactory

The rehabilitation of road, water, and sewerage networks was fully completed in
December 2002. The component was well managed, resulting in savings, which have
been allocated to an additional sewerage works completed in October 2003. On the other
hand, the wastewater treatment plant was not built, because its cost had been under


                                             25

estimated. Funds for its construction were allocated in the 2006 government budget. The
project was to finance a study for stabilizing the Dzioua water reservoir. However, only
the first phase of the study was completed, because of delays in procurement procedures.
The second phase will be financed by the Algerian Government.

Component D: Social infrastructure. The component is rated as satisfactory

All social facilities have been completed on time, with the exception of the new hospital
which was completed with delay. Schools were completed on time for the beginning of
the new school year in September 2001. Construction of the health centers took longer,
however. They were all delivered by the end of 2002. The cost of the hospital and the
time needed for its construction were underestimated. The hospital is expected to be
operational shortly. Contracts have been signed for the maintenance of medical
equipment. Overall the quality of infrastructure is much better than what existed before
the earthquake.

Component E: Project Management. The component is rated as satisfactory

The Inter-ministerial Steering and Monitoring Committee was established and provided
strong guidance to the reconstruction efforts. The two successive governors in charge of
the region were heavily involved in facilitating project implementation. The Project
Coordination Unit, which had the responsibility of coordinating nine implementing
agencies, was established with much delay. Its procurement capacity was weak. Its
resources were sharply reduced at the end of 2004.
However, it is worth noting the commitment and the efficiency of the team and the
implementing agencies which have executed the project under the coordination of the Wali of
Ain Temouchen and the Chairman of the CICS.




                                            26

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the
analysis)

NA




                                    27

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title                  Unit     Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Claude H.
Archambault            Consultant               MNSIF

Elisabetta Capannelli  Senior Infrastructure
                       Speciali                 MNSIF

Hocine Chalal          Sr Environmental
                       Spec.                    MNSRE

Natasha Hafez          E T Temporary            MNSIF

Souhila Harchouche     Financial Management
                       Specialis                MNAFM

Abdelghani Inal        Consultant               MNAPR
Mayumi Kato            Sr Urban Mgmt. Spec.     EASUR
Georges Raphael
Khoury-Haddad          Consultant               MNAPR

Thouria T. Nana-
Sinkam                 Temporary                MNCA4

Francois Noisette      Sr Urban Mgmt. Spec.     MNSIF
Bekhaled Taibi         Consultant               MNSIF
Ai Chin Wee            Sr Operations Off.       MNSRE
Ghada Youness          Sr Counsel               LEGMS


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No.     Date ISR                                            Actual Disbursements (USD
        Archived            DO                     IP                  M)
1   06/30/2000          Satisfactory      Satisfactory                            0.00
2   12/06/2000          Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory                          0.00
3   02/20/2001          Satisfactory      Satisfactory                            5.83
4   09/28/2001          Satisfactory      Satisfactory                           12.03
5   11/13/2001          Satisfactory      Satisfactory                           13.52
6   03/07/2002          Satisfactory      Satisfactory                           17.76

7   08/09/2002         Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory                         25.87

8   11/15/2002         Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory                         33.59

9   04/09/2003          Satisfactory      Satisfactory                           39.62
10 05/01/2003           Satisfactory      Satisfactory                           39.62




                                              28

12 11/20/2003           Satisfactory   Satisfactory                                41.81
13 04/12/2004           Satisfactory   Satisfactory                                53.33
14 10/14/2004           Satisfactory   Satisfactory                                56.89

15 03/29/2005           Satisfactory   Moderately
                                     Satisfactory                                  64.52

16 07/22/2005           Satisfactory   Moderately
                                     Satisfactory                                  65.61

17 09/28/2005           Satisfactory   Satisfactory                                68.40
18 03/09/2006           Satisfactory   Satisfactory                                70.75
19 05/02/2006           Satisfactory   Satisfactory                                74.66


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands
                                                No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                      consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY00                                        51                358.22
                    FY01                                                            0.66
                    FY02                                          1                 1.25
                    FY03                                                            0.00
                    FY04                                                            0.00
                    FY05                                                            0.00
                    FY06                                                            0.00
                    FY07                                                            0.00
                                      Total:                    52                360.13
Supervision/ICR
                    FY00                                                            2.60
                    FY01                                        25                110.85
                    FY02                                          9               101.27
                    FY03                                        11                 68.76
                    FY04                                        18                 85.13
                    FY05                                        22                 99.05
                    FY06                                        11                 49.13
                    FY07                                          2                 9.06
                                      Total:                    98                525.85




                                            29

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings        Borrower             Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Satisfactory      Government:       Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory      Implementing
                                          Agency/Agencies:  Satisfactory

Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory      Performance:      Satisfactory




                                         30

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

None




                                       31

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

None




                                  32

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                  33

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None




                                    34

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents




                                    35

Annex 13. Additional Annexes
13.1

Procurement Arrangements:




Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (Appraisal Estimate)

(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                      ICB    NCB     Other NBF Total Cost
1- Works                                    7.49 61.69 7.03             76.21
                                           (6.15) (52.38) (5.71)       (64.24)
2- Goods                                    5.83           6.21 3.97    16.01
                                           (4.49)        (4.90) (0.00)  (9.39)
3- Consultant services                                    10.92 0.43    11.35
                                                         (8.50) (0.00)  (8.50)
4- Beneficiaries                                                 3.97    3.97
                                                                (0.00)  (0.00)
5- Front end fee                                           0.84          0.84
                                                         (0.84)         (0.84)
6- Operating cost                                          0.54 0.75     1.29
                                                         (0.49) (0.00)  (0.49)
7- Housing maintenance                                          (3.18)   3.18
                                                                (0.00)  (0.00)
Total                                       13.32 61.69 25.54 12.30    112.85
                                            10.64 52.38 20.44 0.00     (83.46)

ICB : International Competitive Bidding
NCB : National Competitive Bidding
Other : Consultants, shopping, sole source
NBF : Not Bank financed


Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (Actual Latest Estimate)

(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                      ICB    NCB     Other NBF Total Cost
1- Civil works                              22.62 53.53         10.58   86.73

                                          (18.10) (42.82)              (60.92)
2- Goods                                    10.85   1.04 0.14 2.98      15.01

                                          (10.85) (0.83) (0.11)        (11.79)




                                          36

3- Consultant services                     5.02 1.50   6.52

                                          (5.02)      (5.02)
4- Beneficiaries                                       0.00
5- Front end fee                           0.84        0.84

                                          (0.84)      (0.84)
6- Operating costs                         0.03        0.03

                                          (0.03)      (0.03)
7- Housing maintenance                          0.00   0.00

Total                       33.47 54.57 6.03 15.06   109.13

                          (28.95) (43.65) (6.00)     (78.60)




                          37

MAP




       38

