E- 350
Ain Temouchent Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project
Environment Management Plan
A Overview
1 Context and project objectives
a) Context of the Ain Temouchent situation after the earthquake
Ain Temouchent is a city located in western Algeria 75 km south-west from Oran, the
largest city in western Algeria, and which has given its name to the wilaya (Department) of
Ain Temouchent populated by nearly 326.000 inhabitants. The wilaya is divided into 28
municipalities. The capital of the wilaya has a population of around 65.000 inhabitants.
The economy of the wilaya of Ain Temouchent is based mainly on agriculture with minor
industrial activities.
On December 22, 1999 the Ain Temouchent area was hit by an earthquake of 5.5 magnitude
on the Richter scale. Three municipalities were particularly concerned by the damages, Ain
Temouchent, Sidi Ben Adda and Ain Tolba. Twenty seven persons died in the collapse of
buildings and three hundred were injured.
b) Scope of intervention
The government of Algeria responded rapidly to the situation and set up a rescue
organization (ORSEC) in order to provide immediate assistance to the people in need. Crisis
cells were established both at the local and the central level.
At the request of the government of Algeria, the Bank has prepared an emergency project
aimed at contributing to the reconstruction of the area and at strengthening the institutional
capacity needed in the event of future catastrophic events through the design and financing
of actions organized in the following six main project components:
Component A: Disaster Organization and Risk Management
Technical assistance in order to improve the institutional capacity for emergency
management in Algeria especially with regard to disaster organization and risk management.
Component B: Housing
Financing of the residential housing reconstruction program in the urban (3400 units) and
rural (800 households) areas affected by the earthquake
Component C: Technical Infrastructure
Design, supervision and investments towards the restoration of the essential public
infrastructure such as water supplies, sewerage system, roads.
Component D: Social Infrastructure
Design, supervision and investments towards the restoration of damaged public buildings
such as schools (15 have been reported as heavily damaged) and administrative buildings



Component E: Project Implementation
An Interministerial Committee for Coordination and Followup for Reconstruction of Ain
Temouchent (CICS), constituted by essentially the members of the existing crisis cell at the
central level will be established for overall guidance and supervision. At the local level, a
project coordination unit will be set up and will report to the Wali of Ain Temouchent.
2 Project environment category
According to the Bank's Safeguards policies, the project has been rated as a category B
project with regards to its expected environmental impacts. This project being an emergency
operation will be the subject of an environmental assessment process in such a manner as
not to slow down its implementation. Environmental concerns will be addressed within the
Environmental Management Plan designed to help the PCU and the local government in
meeting environmental requirements during project implementation.
Also, environmental impact assessments will be conducted in case of construction of a new
wastewater facility as well as for the siting of the housing sub-project.
3 Algeria's institutional framework with regards to environment
a) Existing national regulations on environment
A great deal of regulation exists in Algeria in relation with environmental protection. The
basic law is the law no. 83-03 (February 5, 1983) establishing the principles of
environmental protection in Algeria. The most important regulation is the decree no. 90-78
(February 27, 1990) that introduced the environmental impact assessment as a mandatory
process prior to operation approval of potentially environmentally harmful projects.
Another decree of importance is the decree 93-160 (July 10, 1993) regulating wastewater
discharge from industries.
The Water Act no. 83-17 (July 16, 1983) amended in 1996 also includes important sections
on water resource management including water quality.
b)  Organization of the national environment authority
Since late 1999, a General Directorate of Environment is the main national authority for environment
protection and is part of the ministry of Public Works, Land Planning, Environment & Urbanism.
The General Directorate of Environment is concerned by both policy making and policy
implementation. In each Wilaya an inspectorate of Environment is reporting to the General
Directorate and is also in charge of implementing the national policies at the regional level.
c) Existing national regulation on NGOs
The NGO's are traditionally very active in environmental protection. The law in force on
non political associations has been adopted in December 1990 (Law 90-31). The law
distinguishes between local an national associations. Many associations have been created
both at the national and local level which are totally or partly oriented towards the
protection of environment. Their main difficulties are financial and managerial.
Nevertheless, these associations represent potential intermediaries with local populations
that could be of great help after proper selection and capacity improvement.



4 Experience gained from previous similar proiects in Algeria
In August 18, 1994, an earthquake struck the region of Beni Chougrane in the wilaya of
Mascara, in the western part of Algeria. The Algerian government requested from the World
Bank that an emergency reconstruction project be designed and financed with the principal
objective of rebuilding, in the shortest possible time, the economic, social and physical
assets that were destroyed by the earthquake. The various components of the projects dealt
with reconstruction and repairs of facilities in the following sectors: a) education, b)
housing, c) agriculture, d) public health, e) roads f) water supply and sewerage, as well as g)
earthquake hazard reduction and prevention, and h) social rehabilitation. The positive impact
on the environment was set also as an important objective.
However, this project has been recently terminated and although the overall objectives were
reached environmental issues have not been given the appropriate consideration. One of the
main sub-component with direct environmental impacts, i.e. the wastewater collection and
treatment system has been lagging and has not yet been completed (two aerated stabilization
lagoons in Hacine and Bou Hanifia, the latter being a renown thermal bath site, with a
capacity of, respectively, 20.000 and 60.000 inhabitants equivalent). Although the technical
aspects were given proper consideration, weak ownership did not allow for an efficient
management of the sub-component. The limited prerogatives of the project management unit
did not allow for stimulation of the other stakeholders. There has been practically no
institutional strengthening during the project maybe because of the difficulties entailed by
the          security         conditions          at         the           time.






B The Environmental Management Plan
For the Ain Temouchent Reconstruction project the implementation of an Environmental
Management Plan will improve the quality of the project and will ensure participation of
other stakeholders, mainly the Environment protection authority as well as the local
population either through direct participatory approach or through local dedicated NGO's
The Environmental Management Plan will encompass three kinds of measures:
-     Strengthening of the capacity to address environmental issues that should be dealt with in
disaster response programs.
-     Mitigation of the impacts of the reconstruction activities (housing, technical facilities and
public buildings).
-     Monitoring of the environmental action plan to make sure that the projects components will
be implemented in an environmentally acceptable manner with no major deviation from good
practices and in compliance with the recommended mitigation and/or compensation measures.
To address the issue of proper siting of the housing agglomeration, and in case of
construction of a new wastewater treatment plant, impact assessments will be conducted in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
The implementation of the Environmental Management Plan will be the responsibility of the
client under the Bank's supervision. The ToR for the impact assessments will be approved
by the Bank. The implementation of the EMP will be an integral part of the PCU's
prerogatives. An environmental engineer will be part of the PCU. Periodic project progress
report will include chapters on monitoring of environmental issues.
5 Institutional component of the EMP
The central point of this component is the improvement of institutional capabilities both at
the local and the central level in order for the targeted institutions to be able to face up
future catastrophic events in a more efficient manner integrating environmental
considerations for more sustainable solutions.
EMP component                         Actions                            Resources needed
Institutional capacity   *      Modification of the emergency             Team of three experts - study
strengthening            procedures in order to integrate the dimension    and presentation (4.5 men.month)
of environmental protection in case of disaster
Design and implementation of a
communication strategy and population      *     Technical assistance of expert
participation                              (social scientist or specialist in public
participation), 1 man.month
Integrating in the training program a      5 days training of 5 persons
component on environment related aspects of   (local including inspectorate of
emergency program, including appropriate use   environment) and 10 persons (central
of GIS tools and valuation of environmental    including DGPC and General
costs                                      Directorate of Environment), with the
assistance of three consultants
(Environmental specialist, GIS



specialist, Environmental economist)
6 Environmental mitigation:
The following mitigation measures (not to be considered complete) related to expected impacts will be
implemented in the course of the project.
Typeof                Potential impacts                 Mitigation measures           Responsible
Subproject                                                                                Agency
Housing            -       Negative impacts of the     -      Dismantling of tent camps  PCU and public
provisory facilities               after housing reconstruction.     works department
-     Negative impacts due to      -      Rehabilitation of camp
improper facility of the new       sites
housing agglomeration              -      Clean-up of construction
rubbles and debris
-     Rehabilitation of selected
areas within the city through
planting trees and landscaping
green areas
-   I Impact assessment of the
new site for the housing sub-
component
Technical          -       Clogging of natural drainage  -    Maintain ditches           PCU and public
infrastructures    channels                                                              works department
(Roads              -      Dumping of construction     -      Proper disposal of
rehabilitation)     wastes and accidental spills of     construction wastes
machine fuels, etc.
Technical          -       Cross contamination sewage  -      Audit of the wastewater    PCU and water
infrastructures    and water lines                     treatment plant by specialist     works department
(Water supply and    -     Improper disposal of        -      Audit of the wastewater
sanitation)         construction debris                treatment plant by three experts
-     Pollution of water courses   (civil engineer, waterworks
specialist and sanitary engineer)
-     Proper disposal of
construction wastes
-     Rehabilitation or
construction of a new wastewater
facility
Social             Health hazards due to poor sanitation  Rehabilitation of the sanitary  PCU and public
infrastructures                                        facilities along with the schools  works department
(schools and public                                    and other public facilities
buildings)                                             rehabilitation (Integrate in the
technical specifications in works
procurement)



7 Environmental monitoring
Monitoring will be essentially the responsibility of the PCU along with the concerned technical
Departments of the Wilaya. The table below indicates the proper indicators to be used as well as the
frequency of the reporting or monitoring actions.
Type of Subproject              Monitoring Indicator             Responsibility    Frequency
Housing                     -     Number of tents dismantled       PCU                3 months
Technical infrastructures   -      Kilometers of road properly      PCU               3 months
(Roads rehabilitation)      rehabilitated
Technical infrastructures   -      Kilometers of water supply lines  PCU              3 months
(Water supply and sanitation)   constructed
-     Kilometers of wastewater lines
constructed
-     Efficiency of wastewater treatment
plant and/or progress towards completion of
the new wastewater treatment plant
Social infrastructures (schools  -  Number of sanitary facilities   PCU               3 months
and public buildings)      (latrines or lavatories) built
C Impilementation schedule and cost
The EMP implementation would be integrated into the overall schedule for the proposed project and
a timetable for key activities is provided in Table 1. It is currently estimated that the EMP
implementation would cost US$ 81,500 for consultants, training activities and other incurred costs
as presented in the section on mitigation measures and monitoring. These costs are included in the
cost categories of Component E.
This total cost includes provisions for environmental impact assessment in view of the proper siting
of the housing agglomeration sub-component and also for the wastewater treatment plant in case it is
decided to build a new facility.
Table 1: EMP implementation schedule
Year 1                   Year 2                   Year 3
Ql    Q2      Q3          QI    Q2       Q3        Ql    Q2       Q3
Q4                        Q4                       Q4
Institutional capacity   oooo
strengthening
Environmental Impact      ooooooooooooooooo
assessment
Mitigations actions              ooooooooooo  ooooooooooooooooooooo   ooooooooooooooo
Monitoring and
evaluation           oo                        00                        00
Training                 oo



Table 2: Cost estimate for the EMP implementation
Activities                                          Total cost in US$
Training of staff and major stakeholders                             25 500
Technical assistance                                                  25 500
Environmental impact assessment and/or audit                          15 000
Environmental engineer in PCU                                         16 500
TOTAL                                                                 81 500
World Bank User
A:\EMP-TEERP2.doc
04/26/00 1:46 AM
World Bank User
\\StreetTalk\Projects@Files4@MNA\ALGERIA\ID\69947\NEG\EMP-infoshop.doc
05/16/00 3:54 PM



