Report No. PID8703
Project Name                     Algeria-Emergency Reconstruction (@+) ...
Ain Temouchent Emergency Earthquake
Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                          Institutional Development; Rural Roads; Urban
Housing; Rural Water Supply & Sanitation;
Urban Water Supply
Project ID                       DZPE69947
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF ALGERIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF INTERIOR
Address: Palais du Gouvernement, Alger
Contact Person: M. Ould Ameur
Tel: 213-2-732340
Fax: 213-2-734367
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 28, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 10, 2000
Projected Board Date             May 4, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Preparedness of the disaster response system. Disaster response in
Algeria today is structured by the system set up in the aftermath of the
1980 El Asnam earthquake, a magnitude 7.2 earthquake which killed 2300
people, caused 8300 injuries, left 479,000 homeless, destroyed 20,000
buildings and caused an estimated direct loss of US$2 billion.Subsequent
to that earthquake, a 1985 decree (No. 85.231) established the legal
structure of Algerian Civil Protection, providing for decentralized
authority and responsibility to the wilayas and their governors although
all levels of government were directed to establish plans for emergency
preparedness, emergency response protocols and procedures, following
common operational priorities and guidelines.In accordance with that
decree, the Disaster Organization in Algeria is today highly
decentralized. Municipalities and the governors of wilayas have lead
responsibility for all emergencies, while the role of the central
government is to provide assistance as requested. Inter-ministerial
coordination takes place through structures called crisis cells, which are
formed at the provincial level in response to an emergency and which may
be formed at the national level as well: a national-level crisis cell is
established when more than one wilaya is impacted by an emergency or at
the request of the governor of an affected wilaya. A national-level
Crisis Cell has formed in response to the December 22 earthquake in
response to the request of the Governor of the Wilaya of Ain Temouchent.
Civil Protection in Algeria performed ably in the hours following the Ain
Temouchent earthquake. Officials and the provincial and national level
followed established plans and protocols. Efforts to rescue trapped
victims and provide medical assistance were undertaken immediately;
specific requests for assistance were forwarded to adjacent Wilayas and



the national government in the first hours following the event; temporary
shelters were in place within hours, and the damage assessment process was
well coordinated and timely.Despite these successes, the Government of
Algeria is mindful that the Ain Temouchent was a moderate-sized earthquake
and that the impacts, while severe in some areas, were limited.
Reflecting on the experience gained in the December 22 earthquake, the
Government of Algeria has judged that its current system requires
reinforcement, and has requested the Bank's assistance in efforts to
upgrade its preparedness for future disasters. The Government's priority
areas include search and rescue equipment and training, an upgraded
communications and data processing system including GIS, improved
estimates of likely damages to urban areas, and additional training.Risk
management. Algeria's system of risk management principally features
legislation providing that the Government will protect and support the
lives of the Algerian population affected by natural disasters. The
national guarantee was motivated by the fact that 23t of Algerians live
below the poverty line. In situations of natural disaster, many are
unprepared to overcome income shocks and would be unable to secure the
minimum necessary food and shelter. In light of this, and in the absence
of an affordable insurance scheme against natural disasters, the
Government has obligated itself to supply safe water, food and shelter to
those affected by natural disaster.Fulfilment of its obligations in the
aftermath of the December earthquake cost the Government about $3.4
million on the shortest of notice to provide first aid. These short term
costs have already been a significant fiscal shock which may negatively
affect the Government's capacity to fulfill regular social obligations
(including health and education) critical to Algerians. As for the longer
term, the earthquake is estimated to have caused $100-$120 million in
physical damages altogether.The Government is motivated by these
considerations to study ways to improve management of disaster risks. In
addition to measures above which will reduce risk by improving assessment
of vulnerable points and enhancing the Government's ability to take early
and cost-effective measures in case of emergency, the Government would
also like to undertake consideration of national earthquake insurance and
to improve the building code and its enforcement.Housing shortage.
Housing in urban areas was in severely short supply even before the
further losses caused by the earthquake.
2. Objectives
The project's development objective is to restore normal functioning of
communities damaged by the December 22, 1999 earthquake in the Wilaya of
Ain Temouchent and to increase national preparedness for future
disasters.Earthquake of Ain TemouchentOn December 22, 1999 an earthquake
estimated at magnitude 5.5 occurred in the Wilaya (Province) of Ain
Temouchent, located in western Algeria about 75 kilometers from Oran. The
Wilaya of Ain Temouchent has about 327,000 residents settled in 28
communities.The earthquake struck at 6:37 p.m. as people were breaking the
Ramadan fast. Strong ground motion lasted about 15 seconds, according to
the Algerian National Earthquake Engineering Center (CSG). The earthquake
occurred along a previously unknown fault, at an estimated depth of 10
km. Its epicenter is believed to have been 5 km south of the city of Ain
Temouchent, the largest settlement in the Wilaya. There was no surface
faulting. Ten aftershocks occurred within a few hours of the earthquake,
varying in magnitude from 3.8 to 5.1.Damage to Housing and
Infrastructure. The earthquake caused severest damage in three
-2 -



communities, Ain-Temouchent, Sidi Ben Adda and Ain Tolba. Twenty-seven
people died in the collapse of residential units and 274 people were
injured. About 7000 housing units were damaged, as well as water supply
systems, sewerage systems, waste treatment plants, roads, schools, health
facilities and government offices. The cost of physical damage from the
earthquake is currently estimated at about US$100-120 million.National
Emergency Response System Severely Tested. At the request of the Algerian
government, the Bank conducted a mission in the aftermath of the
earthquake. The mission's review of the current organizational systems
for the management of emergencies at the national, provincial and
municipal levels, including enabling laws and decrees, emergency plans,
operational procedures, equipment needs, mutual assistance agreements,
roles and responsibilities, and communications capabilities, has pointed
out the need to upgrade the Government's emergency management system to
improve future risk management and disaster preparedness.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
With the experience gained in emergency projects worldwide, and with its
long history of support for development in Algeria, the Bank brings to the
recovery and reconstruction process an organizational framework and clear
process for identifying, selecting and implementing priority investments
for municipal/rural infrastructure and emergency response management.
Through the emergency project, the Bank can provide critical funding when
it is most needed.The Bank is in a unique position among donors to retain
an overall view of reconstruction/recovery requirements and has a unique
ability to focus on policy and institutional reform and the economic and
social aspects of reconstruction as well as the physical.
4. Description
Component A: Budget Support and Aid (US$ 3.4 million)This component will
provide retroactive financing of the costs incurred in the early stages of
the Government's disaster response, up to US$3.0 million. Up-front
balance of payments support will bolster Algeria's international reserves
and provide budgetary support to help fund current spending priorities,
including social programs for earthquake victims. Component B: Disaster
Organization and Risk Management (US$ 10.5 million)The objective of this
component is twofold: (1) to strengthen the institutional capacity of
emergency management in Algeria to prepare for and manage the consequences
of large-scale emergencies, especially earthquakes, that pose a
significant risk to the nation's most heavily populated areas; and (2) to
promote a nationwide, comprehensive risk management strategy
through:enhancement of the understanding of the seismic risks in the Ain
Temouchent region;understanding the potential losses that could occur
following large-magnitude earthquakes affecting heavily populated
areas;development of procedures and policies for more effective
enforcement of building codes including monitoring of construction
practices; andconsideration of policy alternatives, especially the use of
insurance, that would enable the Government of Algeria to ease the
financial impacts on operating budgets as well as provide incentives for
risk reduction initiatives by individuals and government.To achieve these
objectives, this component will finance the acquisition of search and
rescue equipment, an analysis of communications and data needs and
upgrading of current systems, training programs in managing large-scale
disasters, the development of seismic risk assessments for the Ain
Temouchent region, the development of loss estimation studies for the city
-3 -



of Algiers, training opportunities for building officials, and an
assessment of policy alternatives for establishing a national earthquake
insurance program.Component C: Housing (US$ 83.7 million)The principal
objective of this component is to assist the Government of Algeria in the
reconstruction of permanent housing in the urban and rural areas affected
by the earthquake.The Urban Housing Reconstruction sub-component will
finance technical assistance, design, supervision, training and all
necessary construction-related investments to replace collapsed housing
units and those units having to be demolished, due to either unsafe
conditions and heavy damage or risky location. Approximately 3,400 housing
units are estimated to be eligible for reconstruction. The Bank will
finance these units on sites to be identified by the Borrower following
the requirements stated below. Construction of these units is planned to
start as soon as possible, approximately in early summer 2000. Sufficient
time is necessary for the selection of beneficiaries, careful site
selections, and technical documentation. The Rural Housing Reconstruction
sub-component will finance: i) materials for 800 units with initial
contribution from beneficiaries; ii) technical assistance, standard
design, supervision, and training. Construction training will be provided
through which the beneficiaries will gain qualification and experience in
the construction of seismic resistant buildings in order to undertake
construction activities. Strict geo-technical and structural requirements
will be applied to each site and to each housing unit. The beneficiaries
will purchase materials according to technical specifications. No
modifications will be made to the standard designs, and no materials are
allowed to be used without prior approval from the PIU. The supervision of
construction will be provided through the independent consultants to be
employed by the PIU or through the PIU staff, as appropriate.
Component D: Technical Infrastructure (US$ 9.1 million)The objective of
this component is to restore essential infrastructure in the
municipalities and rural communities affected by the December 22, 1999
earthquake. The component includes design of infrastructure and
supervision of its construction: water supply systems, sewerage systems
and wastewater treatment plants, and roads.. Construction of these
facilities shall be carried out in accordance with the current standards
in Algeria, incorporating recommendations of the engineering consultants
who, under contract with the PIU, will supervise the design and
construction of the facilities. Experts will also determine the level of
need for assistance to local communities in the areas of procurement,
design, construction, supervision and various field surveys, to assure
compliance with quality standards and regulations.          Component E:
Social Infrastructure (US$ 28.9 million)The principal objective of this
component is to assist and provide financing for the reconstruction of
public buildings which provide vital social services, including schools,
hospitals, recreation centers, and government offices. Restoration of
these facilities is essential to bringing back a sense of stability and
normality to the community and to restoring confidence in the government's
ability to deal with public catastrophes.The Government of Algeria has
conducted an assessment of damages, and these data have been reviewed and
investigated by a team of national specialists financed by the World
Bank. Among the findings were the following:Of the 39 school buildings
located within the Wilaya Ain Temouchent, 12 were found to be heavily
damaged and will have to be reconstructed. The largest of these schools,
Lycee Bachir Ibrahimi in Ain Temouchent, formerly had about 1340 students.
Besides the twelve schools which will need reconstruction, the earthquake
-4 -



also effectively damaged four additional schools, which will require major
repairs.The earthquake also destroyed or damaged numerous regional health
facilities, including the main hospital in Ain Temouchent. Eight health
centers were severely damaged and three partially damaged.Four public
buildings were seriously damaged and will have to be completely rebuilt.
Several others were damaged and will have to be repaired.Component F:
Project Implementation (US$ 2.2 million)This component will finance the
creation and maintenance of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) during the
implementation period.
Component A: Budget Support and Aid
Component B: Disaster Organization and Risk Management
Component C: Housing
Component D: Technical Infrastructure
Component E: Social Infrastructure
Component F: Project Implementation
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               20.59
IBRD                     114.86
IDA
BENEFICIARIES            3.51
Total Project Cost       138.96
6. Implementation
Project Implementation Unit. The Project Implementation Unit will be
responsible for the overall implementation of the project. It will be
established in the city of Ain Temouchent, and managed by a Director who
reports directly to the Governor of the Wilaya. The Director will be
responsible for hiring the staff of the PIU, subject to pre-approval by
the Bank. The PIU will implement the project under the overall guidance
of the National Steering Committee (see below) and in close coordination
with related ministries and agencies.The PIU will establish work programs
and detailed implementation schedules for each component, and define the
responsibilities of each party involved in project implementation. The
PIU will prepare terms of reference in cooperation with sector ministries
and agencies, as well as bidding documents and contracts for construction
works, goods and consultancy services. It will assure quality control of
contracted activities; authorize payment of invoices submitted by
contractors; arrange periodic social assessments; and monitor compliance
with Algerian and World Bank environmental regulations. The PIU will
serve as a secretariat to the National Steering Committee, prepare the
working documents for the meetings of the Steering Committee, and submit
quarterly progress reports and annual audit reports to the Governor of the
Wilaya of Ain Temouchent, the National Steering Committee, and the
Bank.National Steering Committee. The National Steering Committee (NSC)
will be chaired by the Minister of Interior, and consist of Deputy
Ministers or other representatives of the ministries currently composing
the "Crisis Cell": Housing, Health, Water and Environment, besides
Interior, as well as representatives of NGO community. The NSC will be
responsible for providing advice and overall guidance to the Governor of
the Wilaya of Ain Temouchent who oversees the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU). The NSC will review the quarterly progress reports. Should there be
a need to reallocate project funds among components, the NSC will approve
such changes before they are submitted for the Bank's approval.
- 5 -



7. Sustainability
Factors critical to the sustainability of the project include strong
motivation on the part of national, regional and local governments to
implement quickly earthquake recovery and risk reduction measures which
will protect public health and safety and limit future economic losses.
The improved enforcement of quality standards and the support for
enforcement of building codes will contribute to project sustainability.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Activities intended to reduce the impact of the next disaster must be an
integral part of recovery. Bank experience with a disaster assistance to
many countries worldwide has shown that mitigation activities, intended to
reduce the impact of the next disasters, must be an integral part of both
recovery and pre-disaster planning. TEER incorporates this lesson in
activities under Component B.The most immediate need following a disaster
is provision of shelter. Experience from latest Bank emergency
reconstruction operations is that the best solution is to build to a
habitable standard and assume that the beneficiary will underwrite
additional costs; moreover, any cost recovery calculation based on lending
terms should take into account affordability and sustainability of the
investments. TEER accordingly intends to provide housing designs to a
basic standard, and award these units take into consideration
beneficiaries' ability to pay and contribute.Project design should be
simple for an emergency operation. The design should be based on
participation by the local community, and take into account local
implementation capacity. Implementation should be flexible to ensure
responsiveness to community needs. TEER has a simple project design and
has simplified procurement arrangements as much as possible. The project
has incorporated the findings of an early social assessment, and
anticipates incorporation of the findings of future social assessments
into ongoing implementation. Rebuilt houses must be disaster-resistant.
The experience from the previous emergency projects teaches that
disaster-affected families should be provided with guidance in
disaster-resistant building techniques. Low cost reconstruction is
desirable, but economizing on the structure of buildings is not cost
effective given the recurrent character of disasters. Accordingly,
TEER-financed housing will be initially constructed to a high standard of
earthquake resistance; basic structures will be required to conform to an
earthquake-resistant design which will itself be a project output.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The most appropriate tool to ensure that
environmental considerations are given adequate attention under an
Emergency Recovery Project is an Environmental Management Plan. The EMP
addresses the following issues:Identification of impacts and definition of
mitigation measures;Institutional strengthening with regard to the
integration of environmental considerations into project design and
implementation;Definition of a monitoring scheme and related
indicators.The issue of consultation and disclosure will be addressed in
the early stages of project implementation: This is exceptional practice
only acceptable for emergency projects. The necessity to satisfy
conditions of disclosure and consultation will be included in the loan
agreement.
-6-



11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Piotr M. Wilczynski
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-2513
Fax: 202-614-0752
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 31, 2000.
- 7-



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-8-



