Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7023-AL
Loan Agreement
(Ain Temouchent Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 24, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7023-AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 24, 2000, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR 
REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
(the Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank dated September 
1, 1999 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
Page  2
(a)
"BAD" means the Borrower’s Algerian Development Bank (Banque 
Algérienne de Développement), established and operating pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Ordinance No. 71-47, dated June 30, 1971, as the same may be 
amended from time to time;
(b)
"Banque d'Algérie" means the Borrower's central bank, 
operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 90-10, dated April 14, 1990, 
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c)
"Beneficiary" means the owner and/or renter of a dwelling, 
destroyed or damaged in the Earthquake (as this term is hereinafter 
defined), who has been determined by the Commission to be eligible for 
assistance under the Loan;
(d)
"Commission" means the commission established by the 
Ministry of Housing of the Borrower on January 10, 2000, whose 
responsibilities include the determination of the families eligible for 
assistance;
(e)
"DGPC" means the Directorate of Civil Protection (Direction 
Générale de la Protection Civile) within the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Interior and Local Collectivities;
(f)
"Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest 
Period, the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in said Interest Period;
(g)
"Earthquake" means the earthquake referred to under 
sub-paragraph (k) below;
(h)
"Environmental Management Plan" means the plan, dated April 
15, 2000, for the implementation of the Project in accordance with 
appropriate environmental standards and guidelines, including an 
environmental mitigation plan, an environmental monitoring plan and 
certain institutional strengthening measures, as such plan may be updated 
from time to time by agreement of the Borrower and the Bank;
(i)
"Maturity Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the 
date on which the amortization schedule for said Disbursed Amount is 
established, such date being the first day of the Interest Period next 
following the Interest Period in which said Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn;
(j)
"ISC" means the Interministerial Steering Committee for the 
Project to be established in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
A.1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(k)
"Project Area" means the Wilaya (as this term is hereinafter 
defined) of Ain Temouchent, which was struck by an earthquake on December 
22, 1999;
(l)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit to be established 
under the authority of the Wali of Ain Temouchent, as hereinafter 
defined, pursuant to the provisions of Section A.2 (a) of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement and to the PIP, as hereinafter defined;
(m)
"Project Implementation Plan" and "PIP" mean the Borrower’s 
plan, agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, for the implementation of 
the Project which sets out the targets, indicators to be used in 
evaluating progress toward the achievement of the objectives of the 
Project, and the management, financial, administrative and other 
guidelines and procedures governing the carrying out of Parts B.2 and B.3 
of the Project;
(n)
"Implementing Entities" (Maitres d’Ouvrages) means, at the 
local level, the directors of the Wilayas, as hereinafter defined, the 
bureau of real estate promotion and management (Office de la Promotion et 
de la Gestion Immobiliaire); and, at the national level, the general 
directorate for civil protection (Directorat Général de la Protection 
Civile) and the Ministry of Urban Affairs;
Page  3
(o)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Annex 5 
to this Agreement;
(p)
"Wali" means the representative of the Borrower in the 
Wilaya of Ain Temouchent, as hereinafter defined; 
(q)
"Wilaya" means an administrative division of the Borrower 
organized pursuant to the Borrower’s Wilaya Law (Loi Relative à la 
Wilaya) No. 90-09, dated April 7, 1990, as the same may be amended from 
time to time; and
(r)
"Project Management Report" means the report referred to in 
Section 4.02 of the Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount 
equal to eighty-three million four hundred sixty thousand Dollars 
($83,460,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through 
a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 
of this Agreement.
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open 
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the Banque d’Algérie 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in 
an amount equal to eight hundred thirty four thousand six hundred Dollars 
($834,600). The Borrower agrees that on or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to 
time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty-five one-hundredths of one percent 
(0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge commences to accrue 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy-five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum 
thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in 
respect of each Interest Period at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such 
amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest, commitments and other charges shall be 
payable semi-annually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan 
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15, the 
Page  4
first such installment to be payable on the 5th Interest Payment Date 
following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount and the last 
such installment to be payable on the 33rd Interest Payment Date 
following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. Each 
installment except for the last one shall be equal to one over 
twenty-nine (1/29) of said Disbursed Amount.  The last installment shall 
be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of said Disbursed Amount.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section, if any one or more installments of principal of any Disbursed 
Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of such paragraph (a), be 
payable after October 15, 2019, the Borrower shall also pay on such date 
the aggregate amount of all such installments.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the amortization 
schedule for each Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing 
Date for said Disbursed Amount.
(d)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) 
of this Section, in the event of a Currency Conversion of all or any 
portion of a Disbursed Amount to an Approved Currency, the amount so 
converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved 
Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of 
the Screen Rate.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; and
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", 
as defined in Section 2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be 
effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless 
otherwise notified by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of 
the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate 
for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, technical, administrative, engineering and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Page  5
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and the 
Environmental Management Plan.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time 
to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
Page  6
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound Action 
Plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of its financial 
management system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, not 
later than October 31, 2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, 
to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, 
each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under contracts financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Immeuble Maurétania
Algiers
Democratic and Popular Republic
  of Algeria
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINPLAN
67073
(213) 
2-736440
Algiers
Page  7
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Prague, Czech Republic, as of the day and year 
first above written.
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR 
  REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
By /s/ Abdellatif Benachenhou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
   64,244,000
80%
(2)
Goods
    9,393,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory 
cost); and 
80% of 
local 
expenditures 
for
other items 
procured 
locally
(3)
Consultants’
services and training
Page  8
(a)
design and supervision  8,176,000
100%
of physical works under
Parts A, B, C and D of
the Project
(b)
other consultants’
  325,000
100%
services
(4)
Incremental Operating
        487,400
90%
Expenditures
(5)
Fee
        834,600
Amount due 
under
Section 2.04 
of this 
Agreement
TOTAL
   83,460,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Expenditures" means 
expenditures incurred by the PCU on account of utility charges, rent, 
maintenance of vehicles, fuel, office supplies, banking charges, 
communication services, travel costs and labor costs but excluding 
salaries of officials of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding the equivalent of $16,800,000, may be made on account of 
payments made for expenditures incurred within four (4) months prior to 
the date of this Agreement but after December 23, 1999.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods 
under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent each; (ii) works 
under contracts costing less than $5,000,000 equivalent each; (iii) 
services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for 
consulting firms; (iv) services under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each for individual consultants; (v) training; and (vi) 
Incremental Operating Expenditures, all under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) restore normal living 
conditions and economic growth in communities damaged by the Earthquake 
in the Wilaya of Ain Temouchent; and (b) increase the Borrower’s national 
preparedness for future natural disasters.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Disaster Organization and Risk Management
Carrying out a program, consisting of the provision of works, 
goods, training and consultants’ services, to: (a) strengthen the 
institutional capacity of the Borrower to enable it to prepare for, and 
manage the consequences of, large-scale emergencies; and (b) promote a 
Page  9
national risk management strategy, said program to include: (i) provision 
of emergency response and rescue equipment; (ii) construction of DGPC 
facilities in Ain Temouchent and Ain Tolba; (iii) conducting an 
assessment of communications, data and information management systems for 
the DGPC; (iv) upgrading communications, information management and 
operational systems for DGPC; (v) conducting a seismic risk assessment 
for the Project Area; (vi) upgrading the seismic monitoring network; 
(vii) conducting an assessment of current practices in building code 
enforcement; and (viii) preparing a study of alternative public insurance 
strategies for managing risk based on an assessment of international 
practices in natural hazards insurance programs.
Part B:
Housing
1.
The demolition of damaged buildings and the removal of debris.
2.
Carrying out a program to reconstruct urban socio-rental household 
units in the Project Area.
3.
Carrying out a program to reconstruct individual household units in 
the Project Area.
4.
The design, site investigation, soil investigations and supervision 
of Parts B.1, B.2 and B.3 of the Project, through the provision of 
consultants’ services.
Part C:
Technical Infrastructure
1.
The rehabilitation of the municipal water and wastewater systems in 
the Project Area and several adjoining localities, through the provision 
of works, goods and consultants’ services, said rehabilitation to 
include, inter alia: (a) the rehabilitation of water lines, including 
rebuilding of storage tanks; (b) the construction of new wastewater 
treatment plant and sewer lines; and (c) the inspection and repair of 
distribution lines and water wells.
2.
The rehabilitation of national roads, Wilayas’ and communal roads.
3.
The design, soil investigations, environmental impact and 
supervision of Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project.
Part D:
Social Infrastructure
1.
Technical studies and reconstruction of twelve (12) schools in the 
Project Area.
2.
Technical studies and reconstruction of the Ain Temouchent 
hospital, together with five (5) health centers in the Project Area.
3.
Technical studies and reconstruction of three (3) public buildings 
in the Project Area.
4.
Technical studies, soil investigations and supervision of Parts 
D.1, D.2 and D.3 of the Project.
Part E:
Project Management
Provision of consultants’ services, training and equipment for 
establishing and operating the PCU.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Page  10
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits", published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 
and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,500,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,900,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $320,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, 
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding 
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; (ii) each contract for works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more; (iii) the first 
two (2) contracts procured in accordance with Part C.4 above; and (iv) 
the first two (2) contracts procured in accordance with national 
competitive procedures, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Page  11
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two (2) contracts for goods to be 
procured in accordance with the procedures referred to under Parts C.2 
and C.3 above, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of 
any contract under shopping procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  12
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
In order to facilitate the efficient oversight of the 
Project, the Borrower has established and shall thereafter at all times 
maintain the ISC. The ISC shall include, under the chairmanship of the 
Minister of Interior and Local Collectivities or his representative, 
representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Housing, Health, Water 
Resources, the ministry in charge of the environment and representatives 
of the Victims Association of the Ain Temouchent Earthquake.
(b)
ISC shall be responsible for providing Project oversight, 
advice and overall guidance for the implementation of the Project. The 
ISC shall review the Project's quarterly progress reports.
2.
(a)
The Borrower shall, not later than July 31, 2000, establish 
and thereafter maintain the PCU.  The PCU shall assist the Implementing 
Entities in the carrying out of Parts A, B, C, and D of the Project and 
shall operate in the city of Ain Temouchent.  The PCU shall be managed by 
a director who shall be responsible for hiring the staff of the PCU whose 
qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the Bank.
(b)
The PCU shall submit quarterly progress reports to the Wali 
of Ain Temouchent, the ISC and the Bank.
(c)
The PCU shall support the DGPC in the implementation of Part 
A of the Project.
3.
Without any limitations or restrictions upon paragraphs A.1 and A.2 
of this Schedule, the DGPC shall implement Part A of the Project through 
the ad-hoc committee in charge of implementing Part A of the Project.  
The latter shall coordinate with related ministries and agencies.
4.
The Borrower shall cause BAD, not later than July 31, 2000, to 
designate a representative to be part of the PCU staff in the Wilaya of 
Ain Temouchent.
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the 
Page  13
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, on or about November 1, 2001, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by January 1, 2002, or such later date 
as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Bank’s views on the matter.
B.
Selection of Sites and Beneficiaries
1.
In order to achieve the objectives of Parts B.2 and B.3 of the 
Project, the Borrower shall put in place arrangements satisfactory to the 
Bank pursuant to which the Borrower shall, not later than July 31, 2000, 
select sites in the Project Area to be developed for residential housing 
under Parts B.2 and B.3 of the Project. Said sites shall meet planning 
criteria that shall minimize social and economic dislocation of the 
Earthquake victims.  In connection with each such selected site, the 
Borrower shall furnish, for the Bank’s approval, a summary note which 
shall, inter alia: (a) describe the site’s perimeter, including any land 
use plan related thereto; (b) describe the site’s proximity to existing 
infrastructure, social facilities, means of public transportation and 
employment opportunities; (c) describe the prevailing environmental 
conditions on the site; (d) describe the housing standards to be adopted 
in connection with the housing units to be erected on the site; (e) 
certify that the Borrower has good and marketable title to the site; and 
(f) certify that Parts B.2 and B.3 of the Project shall, in connection 
with each site selected in accordance with the provisions of this 
paragraph B, be carried out in accordance with the environmental measures 
set forth in the Environmental Management Plan. To that end, the Borrower 
shall furnish evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, showing that the 
carrying out of Parts B.2 and B.3 of the Project shall, in connection 
with each site selected in accordance with the provisions of this 
paragraph B, comply with the measures provided for in the Environmental 
Management Plan, such evidence to include, inter alia, an environmental 
assessment report and a public consultation process for prior approval by 
the Bank.
2.
In order to achieve the objectives of Parts C.1, D.1, D.2 and D.3 
of the Project, the Borrower shall put in place arrangements satisfactory 
to the Bank pursuant to which the Borrower shall, not later than July 31, 
2000, select sites in the Project Area for the construction of a 
wastewater treatment plant and social infrastructures under Parts C.1, 
D.1, D.2 and D.3 of the Project. Said sites shall meet planning criteria 
that shall be technically and environmentally acceptable.  For the 
selected sites, the Borrower shall furnish, for the Bank’s approval, a 
summary note which shall, inter alia: (a) describe the site’s perimeter, 
including any land use plan related thereto; (b) describe the prevailing 
environmental conditions on the site; (c) describe the catchment area of 
the wastewater treatment plant or the population served by the social 
infrastructures; (d) describe the type of process that will be 
implemented for the treatment of wastewater or the main features of the 
social infrastructures; (e) certify that the Borrower has good and 
marketable title to the sites; and (f) certify that Parts C.1, D.1, D.2 
and D.3 of the Project shall, for the site selected, be carried out in 
accordance with the environmental measures set forth in the Environmental 
Management Plan. To that end, the Borrower shall furnish evidence, 
satisfactory to the Bank, showing that the carrying out of Parts C.1, 
D.1, D.2 and D.3 of the Project shall, for each sites selected, comply 
with the measures provided for in the Environmental Management Plan, such 
evidence to include, inter alia, environmental assessment reports and 
public consultation process for prior approval by the Bank.
Page  14
3.
No Beneficiary shall receive assistance under the Project unless 
the Beneficiary shall have first demonstrated to the Commission that: (a) 
his or her housing unit was totally destroyed or severely damaged as a 
result of the Earthquake; and (b) he or she is eligible to receive 
assistance under one of the Borrower’s social housing programs.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), 
(3)(a), (3)(b) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent 
to $8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $20,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from 
the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
Page  15
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
