Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
RePwt NO. 12582
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PILOT PROJECT
(LOAN 2583-HO)
DECEMBER 6, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12582
Type: PCR
Infrastructure and Energy Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of -
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 6, 1993)
Currency Unit           Lempirms (L)
US$1.00                 L. 6.12
GTOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BANMA                          -     Banco Municipal Aut6nomo
(Autonomous Municipal Bank)
CONSUPLANE (SECPLAN)          -      Consejo Superior de Planificaci6n
Econ6mica (Superior Council for
Economic Planning)
ENE                            -     Empresa Nacional de Energfa
Eldctrica (National Electricity
Company)
ESW                            -     Economic Sector Work
IDB                            -     Inter-American Development
Bank
MCI                           -      Municipal Credit Institution
MDPP                          -      Municipal Development Pilot
Project
SANAA                          -     Servicio Aut6nomo Nacional de
Acueductos y Alcantarillados
(National Autonomous Water and
Sewerage Service)
SECOPT                        -      Secretara de Comunicaciones,
Obras Piblicas y Transportes
(Secretariat of Communications,
Public Works and Transportation)
SHCP                          -      Secretarfa de Hacienda y Credito
Pibtico (Secretariat of Finance
and Public Credit)
SOl                            -     Secretarfa del Interior (Secretariat
of Interior)
SP                             -     Secretarfa de la Presidencia
(Secretariat of the Presidency)
UNDP                           -     United Nations Development
Program
USAID                          -     United States Agency for
International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Office of Direetor-General
Operations Evaluation
December 6, 1993
MKNORANDUH TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND rIdZ PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:       Project Completion Report on Honduras
Municipal Development Pilot Project
(Loan 2583-NO)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Honduras: Municipal Development Pilot
Project (Loan 2583-HO)Pb prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the Latin America and
the Caribbean, Country Department 1I.  The Borrower contributed a substantive Part II which
recognizes the failure to reach major project objectives but highlights the esogenous factors and
the partial achievement of this operation.
Due in part to an adverse macroeconomic environment, the project failed to achieve
its oF'I-ectives concerning the strengthening of the Autonomous Municipal Bask (Banco Municipal
Autonow, BABMA) and selected municipalities. When Honduras failed to service its debt to the Bank,
loan Cisburasements were suspended and physical works came to a stop. Aside from theae erogenous
factors, the project design was too complex and institutionally demanding, particularly considering
the very weak context of municipal development in Honduras. The lack of success of this operation
highlights the need to be more realistic upfront during project design.
Lack of coordination with other international donors (IDB, AID) compounded
difficulties: the approval by other donors of similar operations on softer teoms than the Bank's
undemined the appeal of the project to the Implementing agencies. Weak supervision management by
the Bank at a critical time of implementation on most of the subprojects contemplated under the
operation were not begun or left partially completed. The financial mechanisms at the municipal
level lacked autonomy. A technical assistance program to the planning agency concerning urban and
regional planning (CONSUPLANE) was completed, but the executed studies had no impact.  As a
consequence of discussions between the Bank and the Government following the lifting of the prolonged
suspension of disbursements, the Government requested, and the Bank concurred with, cancellation of
more than two-thirds of the loan amount (US$6.9 million equivalent) in recognition of the project's
unsatisfactory performance as a pilot program.
On balance, the project is rated as unsatisfactory, its inatitutional development
impact as negligible, and the sustainability of project benefits as unlikely. The quality of the
PCR is satisfactory. The project may be audited together with other municipal development projects.
This dotoant has e restricted distribution and nay be used by recipients onty in the performance of
their officfat duties. Its contents Day not otherwise be disctosed without Wortd Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPIETION REPORT
HONDURAS
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMET PILOT PROJECT
(LOAN 2583-HO)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface ....................... . .. ..i
Evaluation Summary .......................................        ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECIVE..  1
Project Idendty .1
Background .1
MDPP Objectives and Description.                                  4
MDPP Design and Organization.                                     6
MDPP Implementaion.                                               9
Major Results of the Project .10
Project Sustainability .11
Bank Performance .13
Bo-rrower Performance .13
Project Relationship .14
Consulting Services .14
Procurement Issues .14
Project Documentation and Data.                                  15
Lessons Learned.                                                 15
PART HI: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S
PERSPECrIVE .18
Project Origin and Background .18
Project Scope and Objectives .19
Lessons and Results of Project Implementation .19
Sustainability ....................                              24
Conclusions and Lessons.                                         25
Table 1: Financial Resources of LoanAgreement .26
Table 2: Financial Situation of Sub-loans .27
PART I: STATISIICALINFORMATION .28
Table I    Related  anB   Loans and/or Credits .....  .......... 28
Table 2    Project Timetable .............. ............. 28
Table 3.1  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements .... ... 28
Table 3.2  BANMA Disbursements for Sub Projects .....    ....... 29
Table 4.1  Project Costs on Appraisa ........    ............. 30
Table 4.2 Project Costs: Actual .31
Table 4.3 Project Financing .31
TableS  Status of Major Covenants .32
Table 6.1  Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle .34
Table 6.2 Missions .35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



HONDURAS
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PILOT PROJECT (LOAN 2583-HO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Municipal
Development Pilot Project in Honduras, for which Loan 2583-HO in the
amount of US$6.9 million was ap!oroved or. June 13, 1985. The loan was
closed on December 31, 1990, two years and three months behind schedule.
The last disbursement of US$450 was made on September 26, 1989 and the
outstanding balance of US$4.68 million was cancelled on May 29, 1991.
2.    The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy
Operations Division, Department II of the Latin American and the Caribbean
Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the
Borrower (Part II).
3.    Preparation of this PCR is based on the Report and Recommendation
of the President to the Executive Directors; Loan and Project Agreements;
supervision reports; progress reports; correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower; internal Bank correspondence; and a visit to Honduras to
review project achievements.



- ii -
IONDURAS
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PILOT PROJECT (LOAN 2583- HO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The primary objective of the project was to strengthen Banco
Municipal Aut6nomo (BANMA) as the principal source of financial and
technical assistance for municipal development programs and to address
financial and managerial weaknesses in selected municipalities. This
objective was to be met through three basic components aiming at BANMA,
the Consejo Superior de Plamficaci6n Econ6mica (CONSUPLANE), and
four municipalities, selected for being the fastest growing urban centers and
those whose financial problems were the main cause of BANMA's own
financial problems. These components involved: (a) a technical assistance
program; (b) an investment program to finance a limited number of
previously identified sub-projects; and (c) a pre-investment fund to finance
feasibility and engineering studies (Part I, paras. 3.2 and 3.3).
2.    To reinforce the Municipal Development Pilot Project's (MDPP)
policy and institutional strengthening goals, the Loan and Project Agreements
included specific covenants detailing actions to be taken and targets to be
achieved, before disbursements were made. The most important of these
covenants were: (a) participating municipalities were required to develop
financial plans, and to submit annual reports demonstrating adherence to
them; (b) the Distrito Central, which includes the Municipality of
Tegucigalpa, was required to develop an acceptable plan for restructuring its
large arrears with BANMA; and (c) targets for reducing BANMA's
indebtedness and arrears level were set (Part I, para. 3.4).
Iinplementation Experience
3.    Implementation of the MDPP can be divided in two different phases:
the first, from project effectiveness roughly to December 1987, at the onset
of the Honduran debt crisis, and the second, from there on, in which project
implementation came to a virtual halt. During the earlier phase of
implementation, the MDPP advanced reasonably well. On the one hand,
substantial progress was made in the implementation of the institutional
strengthening component, particularly in the case of BANMA, while
municipalities made serious efforts to develop their financial plans. On the
other hand, disbursements for the capital investment program were delayed
for nearly a year after the project became effective, and progress on physical
works proceeded slowly throughout 1987, due to the time needed to prepare



- iii -
municipal finance plans, to changes in the municipal administrations, and to a
laboriously slow system of contracting and procurement. As implementation
advanced, the MDPP gradually fell behind schedule and its inherent
weaknesses became more evident, chiefly because no substantial
improvement was obtained in the debt service performance of BANMA's
borrowers (Part 11, paras. 5.1 and 5.2). The Borrower considers that non-
reimbursable funds should have been included in the project design for
implementation of institutional strengthenng and training, and mentions as
obstacles to project implementation both the lack of flexibility in reallocating
resources among sub-projects and the higher cost of Bank funds relative to
other available sources (Part 11, paras. 3.1 and 4).
4.    During 1988-1990 on several occasions the Bank suspended loan
disbursements to Honduras due to its failure to service its Bank debt. While
some work could be continued on the project's technical assistance
component during this period, physical works effectively halted. By the time
the Government had implemented satisfactorily a Bank-supported structural
adjustment and debt workout program, any chance of resuming the project
and completing the original investr,ments program was effectively lost. It had
become apparent that the mechanisms set up by the project would not have
the envisaged results, since BANMA's financial condition had deteriorated
precipitously. Also other donors had approved, one, a loan for the same
purposes on much softer terms than that of the Bank and, another, a grant for
technical assistance directly to the municipalities. As a consequence, Bank
funds lost much of their appeal to both BANMA and the municipalities. In
December 1990 the Bank and the Government of Honduras agreed to cancel
the MDPP (Part I, paras. 5.3 and 5.4).
Results
5.    Project results evaluated against objectives indicate the MDPP to be
largely a failure. The technical assistance program, intended to improve
BANMA's management and its capacity to assist municipalities, Vwas
completed but became increasingly ineffective, given the overall deterioration
of BANMA. The provision of technical assistance to 'ONSUPLANE to
strengthen its capacity in urban and regional planning was totally executed
but the contracted studies had no discernible impact. Most of the technical
assistance activities which focused directly on municipalities were not
completed, while resources from the pre-investment fund were utilized on
two engineering studies. The project demonstrated a similar lack of success
in completing its capital investments program; with few exceptions most
projects were either not begun or were left partially completed (Part I, paras.
6.1-6.6). The Borrower's evaluation is more positive, asserting that some
important results were obtained, since agencies and municipalities took
advantage of the institutional strengthening program, acquired equipment,
carried out pre-investment studies and benefited from the partial
implementation of significant infrastructure works (Part II, para. 3).



. iv -
Sustainablility
6.    Given the MDPP's results, the project itself cannot be termed
sustainable. However, the Honduran Government has initiated a profound
process of reforms in the municipal sector which takes into consideration the
lessons of experience provided by the operation and to a lesser degree by
other various bi-and multilateral donors. Two very important measures were
taken by the Government: the publication on November 1990 of the new Ley
de Municipalidades; and second, the creation on June 1992, of the Comite
Interinsitucional de Descentralizaci6n y Fortalecimiento Municipal. The
Bank has followed these developments closely and issued two reports with
recommendations both for BANMA as well as with respect to the new law
(Part I, para. 8.1). These recommendations, if followed, could have a
significant impact and would provide delayed vindication for the project (Part
I, paras. 7.1 and 7.2).
1sIndings and Lessons Learned
7.    Lessons from the MDPP's design and implementation experience are:
(a) the need for continuing close coordination between donor agencies; (b)
projects which aim at substantial transformation of the performance of
complex decentralized institutions, such as local governments, must address
the overall system of incentives within which they operate, first and foremost
of which is the legislative and regulatory framework that provides for the
organization of public services delivery and which establishes the structure of
municipal revenue; (c) addressing the overall system of incentives that affects
local governments requires a lengthy process which ought to be compatible
with the time needed to achieve political consensus on issues and also with
the long learning process typical of decentralized institutions. This lengthy
process may have to go beyond the duration of one single operation; (d)
technical assistance for institution strengthening must be provided within an
appropriate environment and have the duration of the protracted learning
process of institutions; (e) it would be desirable to develop systems that rely
on private capital markets to mobilize and allocate savings for municipalities;
(f) the definition, for an individual country, of a specific project agenda to
address complex decentralizationn issues, such as municipal finance, for
which there are but some general guiding principles, requires a thorough
understanding of the particularities of that country; and (g) close Bank
supervision, through which information and support is timely provided, is
particularly important in the case of promotion of institutional ref)rm (Part I,
para. 14.2).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PILOT PROJECT
(LOAN 2583-HO)
PART I: PROJECr REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity.
Project Name:     Municipal Development Pilot Project
Loan No.:         2583-HO
RVP Unit:         Latin America and the Caribbean
Country:          Honduras
Sector:           Urban
Subsector:        Municipal Development
2.   Background
2.1 Urban Growth and Urban Infrastructure. The Honduran
government approached the Bank in late 1982 about possible financing of a
shelter project. During project identificationa it became apparent that there
was a major unmet demand both for shelter and for urban infrastructure,
either of which might serve as the basis for a project. It was also apparent
that the Honduran municipal finance system was afflicted by a number of
problems which were impeding a more prompt provision of urban
infrastructure.
2.2   From 1960 to 1980, the urban population of Honduras had more than
tripled to reach about 1.4 million, or about 32 percent of the total population
of the country. Continuing uibanization trends indicated that by the year
2000, the urban population would triple and would account for 55 percent of
the total population, and that by the end of the 1990s, 83 percent of the
urban population would be concentrated in Tegucigalpa, Comayaguela and
San Pedro Sula. Rapid urbanization had placed continuing strains on urban
infrastructure. Surveys which had been conducted by Banco Municipal
Aut6nomo (BANMA) in 41 municipalities, indicated severe deficiencies in
the provision of even basic municipal services: access to water supply and
sewerage were considered to be low relative to other countries in the region;
unpaved urban roads contributed to severely limiting public transport; poor
drainage caused extensive health-related problem and disruption of economic
activity during and after seasonal rains; solid waste management was either
poor or non-existent; and markets and slaughterhouses were badly
maintained. One of the most evident consequences of the pace of the
urbanization process was the housing deficit; the low-income population of



-2 -
urban centers was unable to access even the lowest-priced housing units and
settled in squatter communities that lacked basic sanitary services.
2.3 The Institutional Framework. Central Government. Urban
services were provided within an institutional framework that depended on
the action of both municipalities and agencies of the central government.
The most active of the latter were: Secretarfa del Intenor (SOD which was
responsible for dealing with municipalities and also provided training for
municipal staff; Secretarta de Hacienda y Credito P1iblico (SHCP) which
under a broader mandate also guaranteed municipal loans; Secretar(a de la
Presidencia (SP) which was the main provider of financial assistance to
municipalities through discretionary grmnts; Consejo Superor de
Planificacidn Econdmica (CONSUPLANE) which was responsible for
planning the investments of central govemment agencies in urban areas;
Directorfa de Urbardidn of the Secretar(a de Comundcaciones, Obras
PNblicas y Transportes (SECOPI) which prepared city plans that were,
however, rarely used as a basis for implementing municipal development
programs. Water and sanitation, on the one hand, and electricity, on the
other, were under two national public enterprises, Servicio Autdnomo
Nacional de Acueductos y Alcantarillados (SANAA) and Empresa Nacional
de Energfa Eletrica CUM.
2.4 Municipalities. These had been delegated diverse service
responsibilities and had some political and operational autonomy. They had,
however, financial constrants which inhibited their ability to discharge their
service responsibilities and impeded the emergence of effective autonomy.
Municipal revenue performance was poor, its improvement hindered by weak
administration, while inflation (a relatively new phenomenon in Honduras)
contributed to revenue reduction in real terms. At the time of project
appraisal, there were signs that the situation was deteriorating progressively.
The mobilization of resources by local governments in Honduras was poor
and often insufficient to meet operating capital needs, let alone finance capital
investments. Hence, the contribution of municipalities to their capital
investmerts had been negligible, and urgently needed infrastrucue
improvements had to be financed from borrowing. As a consequence, local
debt service as a component of municipal budgets showed a rising trend, and
in some cases was allowed to accumulate to unmanageable levels, while only
a few municipalities had any remaining indebtedness capacity.
2.5 The Banco Municipal Autdnomo (BANMA). As a state autonomous
municipal credit institution (MCI), BANMA provided technical assistance to
local governments, and acted as a financial intermediary towards them.
Since its creation in the nid-1960s, the MCI had financed 170 loans in about
60 municipalities but its effectiveness was severely constrained by its poor
financial position, since most nmunicipalities, particularly the Distrito Central,
were in arrears. These were rescheduled on such a regular basis that the
correWonding debts resembled grant funding. Thus, with no casn generation
coming from its loan portfolio, BANMA was unable to contribute to a



- 3 -
significant extent to the financing of the municipalities' investment program,
nor had it established reasonable reserves against contingent liabilities. Some
85 percent of BANMA's loans were fiduciary, i,e. secured by the general
revenues of municipalities. In many instances, the municipalities debt service
obligations were paid by the Government in order to keep BANMA solvent.
Moreover, the fact that the central goverment guaranteed municipal loans
encouraged lack of discipline, both within the municipalities and in their
relations with the central government.
2.6   During 1983-1985, the period from project identification to appraisal,
the possibility of designing a municipal development project for Honduras
appeared to be supported by the growing unmet demand for urban
infrastructure, the need to prepare municipalities to contribute to respond to
this demand, and, in the central government, the presence of a number of
institutions, especially BANMA and CONSUPLANE, dedicated to municipal
issues. Several factors suggested that there might be an opening for
removing some of the barriers confronting the operation of these institutions.
BANMA, which had long been the recipient of funding from the United
States Agency for Intemational Development (USAID), had recently seen this
relationship severed. On the other hand, additional funding from the central
government, whose finances were increasingly deteriorating, was unlikely.
Thus, it appeared that Bank funds, directed through BANMA, and attached
to a technical assistance program both to BANMA and the municipalities,
could have considerable leverage to improve the management of municipal
finances. The reforms necessarily set forth by this project, by encouraging
discipline and by promoting more municipal self-reliance in the long-run,
were expected to have the additional reward of helping the promotion of
central government's adjustment goals, by decreasing reliance of
municipalities in the national budget. In fact, the prevailing macroeconomic
situation prompted a project along these lines.
2.7   The Macroeconomic and the Debt Environment. Honduras per
capita GNP was about il S$660 in 1982 and its population of 4 million was
growing rapidly at 3.4 percent a year. A three decade historical record of
the Honduran economy had not been encouraging. During the 1950-1975
period, GDP grew at 3.7 percent a year while per capita income grew by less
than 1 percent a year. GDP recovered notably during 1976-1979, growing
by 7.7 percent a year, while inflation averaged 7 percent a year. Exports
and investment led growth oriented by aggressive Government development
policies. During 1980-1983, however, the economic situation seriously
deteriorated, with GDP per capita declining by about 9 percent a year.
Political events in Central America had deterred private investment and
depreciated terms of trade had weakened exports performance while central
government's finance had deteriorated.
2.8   By the time the project was being appraised, Honduras was going
through a modest economic recovery. In mid-1984, the government
undertook measures to improve its financial position, raising taxes and more



-4-
tightly controlling current expenditures, and, in December 1984, it reached
an agreement with fior:gn commercial banks to refinance debts of some
public agencies. Hence, the expectation at project appraisal was that the
modest recovery inidated in 1984 would continue in 1985, although the
political climate in Centl America could have a dampening effect on private
investment and increase capital flight. Substantial inflows of bilateral
assistance were anticipated to continue through the late 1980s and, in the
shorter run, external fimncing was expected to cover about 85 percent of the
central government's envisioned deficit for 1985. It was also anticipated that
there would be an increase in commodity prices and the reduction of fuel
imports due to the completion of the large El Cajon Hydroelectric project,
that the Bank had helped to finance. Honduras' manageable external debt
service and the expected continuing large official fows on concessionary
terms made the country creditworthy for modest amounts of Bank lending.
Nevertheless, development of the project was affected by concern about
Honduras' macroeconomic and fiscal situation and its creditworffiiness.
Nonetheless, maintenance of a minimal lending program that would "keep the
communication lines open" during a period when it was hoped the
government would be initiating its reform process, was considered desirable.
The Municipal Development Pilot Project (MDPP) was approved in June 13,
1985 for US$6.9 million.
3.   1IIDPP Objectives and Description
3.1   Strategy. In view of the constraints set forth by the poor financial
situation both of BANMA and of the municipalities, the pre-conditions for
proceeding directly with a broad-based urban investment program did not
exist. As a first step, the MDPP was designed to help prepare such a
program for possible financing by the Bank, and was to establish in BANMA4
the institutional basis for its implementation. If the MDPP had achieved the
key targets established for its first year of implementation, the Bank would
proceed to prepare a broader-based sequel project of support for the urban
sector as a whole, with BANMA as the implementing agency. The improved
efficiency of BANMA's principal municipal clients was important to the
solution of BANMA's own financial problems and the development of its
ability to support the sector. Consequently, the MDPP would channel both
technical assistance funding and financing for specific investments to four
municipalities: the Distrito Central, San Pedro Sula, El Progreso and Puerto
Cortes. These are the largest and the fastest growing urban centers and those
whose financial problems, once resolved, would also resolve BANMA's own
problems (para. 2.5). The MDDP objectives, components, covenants and
project administration were designed according to the above strategy.
3.2   Project Objectives. The objectives of the MDPP were:
(a) to strengthen BANMA as the principal source of financial and
technical assistance for municipal development programs; and



-5 -
(b) to address financial and managerial weakness in selected
municipalities.
3,3   Project Components. The MDPP's objectives were to be met
through three components:
(a) BANMA. US$0.4 million of technical assistance program to
strengthen the agency's:
* overall organization by updating its organizational manual
and personnel management policies;
* financial planning and control to define financial policies
regarding interest rates and collateral support for BANMA's
lending operations; procedures for collection and enforcement;
measures to strengthen the financial accounting system;
programs and procedures for internal audit and control; and
* project evaluation processes by strengthening its appraisal
capability.
(b) PARTICIPATING MUNICIPALITES.
* US$0.67 million for consultant services in revenue
administration, budgetary management and financial planning,
and also urban planning;
* US$0.92 million for a pre-investment fund to be managed
by BANMA to finance feasibility and engineering studies; and
* US$5.17 million for an investment program to finance a
limited number of previously identified sub-projects in the
municipalities of the Distrito Central, San Pedro Sula, El
Progreso and Puerto Cort6s. (The full list of sub-projects is
provided in Part HI, Table 3.2).
(c) CONSUPLANE. US$0.132 million to assist in the formulaton of
an urban-municipal development policy to be included in the central
govemnment's five-year plan.
3.4   Conditions and Covenants. To reinforce the MDPPs policy and
institutional strengthening goals, the Loan and Project Agreements included
specific covenants (The full list of which is provided in Part I, Table 5),
deiling actions to be taken and targets to be achieved, before disbursements
were made. For the objectives of the MDPP, the most important of these
covenants were:



- 6 -
(a) participating municipalities were required to develop financial
plans and to submit annual reports demonstrating adherence to them;
(b) the Distrito Central was required to develop an acceptable plan
for restructuring its large arrears with BANMA; and
(c) targets for reducing BANMA's indebtedness and arrears level
were set.
3.5  Implementation. BANMA was to be the lead institution in the
MDPP, on-lending funds to the municipalities and overseeing technical
assistance, with the exception of that provided to CONSUPLANE. A
steering committee, comprising representatives of CONSUPLANE, SHCP
and BANMA, which had provided support during project preparation, would
be maintained to provide policy guidance and liaison with Govenment
agencies. In each municipality, a coordinator would be appointed to monitor
progress of the expenditures, consulting work and investments, and to report
on such progress to BANMA on a quarterly basis.
4.    MDPP Design and Organization
4.1 Conceptual Foundation. Bank involvement in municipal finance
projects worldwide dates from the 1970s1. In this initial phase, the Bank
financed over 40 projects for single or pre-selected groups of cities, with
property tax components; existing information suggests, however, that these
projects have not resulted in significant, sustained increases in property tax
revenues, which reflects a political environment in which governments, both
central and local, are reluctant to suffer the political consequences of a
property tax increase.
4.2   The MDPP fits well within a second generation of municipal finance
interventions initiated in the 1980s, which broadened the Bank's approach to
municipal finance. The Bank urban operations, of which the MDDP design
is a good examnple, scaled-up, shifting from single cities projects to projects
involving entire regions or classes of local governments, a shift which
required increasing reliance on financial intermediaries, MCIs such as
BANMA, to act as agents for its projects, assisting in project identification,
appraisal, supervision, and loan administration. In the case of the MDPP, a
major policy-objective was a shift from grant-financing to loan financing, at
interest rates intended to approximate the opportunity cost of capital. The
MDDP sought to increase municipal revenue generation (through the
acquisition of cadastre equipment to make billing attd collection more
efficient) and, in consonance with other Bank-financed projects of its
generation, emphasized systematic project selection by requiring the
1. World Bank Sector Polcy and Research. Ifastrctre and Urban Development
Departmet. ^FY92 Sector Review. Urban Development' Washington D.C



-7-
preparation of municipal plans. The MDPP was theoretically up-to-date and
acin to the municipal development projects being developed in the mid-
1980s; it was one of the first such projects to create or support MCIs as
providers of long-term municipal credit.
4.3   The MDDP was also carefully designed and attentive to the relations
with the counterpart agencies. From the beginning of project preparation,
cental government agencies, BANMA and representatives from the
municipalities were involved, and their specific roles and responsibilities
were clearly defined and apparently understood by all the participants.
4.4  Inadequate Iwstitutional Framework. With the benefit of hindsight,
a limitation of the MDPP was the lacling evaluation: (a) of the relations
between the central government and municipalities in the then prevailing
political environment; and (b) of the limits and potential of Honduran
municipalities for increasing revenues and providing urban infrastructure, in
the context of the legal and institutional framework in which they operated.
This led to an optimistic assessment of the feasibility of BANMA operating
as the principal source of financial and technical assistance for municipal
development programs in an efficient manner, and to an optimistic
expectation that municipalities' financial and managerial weaknesses could be
addressed adequately by the means proposed in the MDPP. With hindsight,
both BANMA and CONSUPLANE, were incorrectly perceived as possible
agents of positive change, when in fact their roles were part of the problems
faced by the sector. Lack of attention to an increased role by the private
sector should also be noted. However, as previously noted, in these regards
the project did not differ much from most other municipal development
projects approved at the time.
4.5   Honduran municipalities did not possess any effective financial
autonomy. On the one hand, local revenues were meager and even if the
central government did not exercise control over local taxes, expectations as
to the feasibility of increasing them, by means of administrative procedures,
may have been optimistic, both on political grounds and with respect to their
economic basis (para. 4.1). On the other hand, the central government
assumed the main responsibility for municipal financing of urban
infrastructure, providing a considerable volume of transfers on a
discretionary basis, and providing guarantees for municipal loans. Both
transfers and guarantees were at least partly dependent on political factors,
and ultimately favored the larger and richer cities while deterring acditional
resource mobilization on the part of the municipalities.
4.6   Before municipalities could have been assumed to be capable of
responding to the requirements and incentives set forth in the MDPP,
profound reforms would have to have been implemented in the legal and
institutional framework in which municipalities operated. Reforms would
have had to include the assignment of revenue sources appropriate to their
functional responsibilities, i.e., the definition of clear principles for the



-8 -
transfer of resources from the central government to municipalities and for
the municipalities' taxation powers, which, in turn, would have permitted
municipalities to become good credit risks. Addressing the overall system of
incentives that affects local govemments requires a lengthy process which
ought to be compatible with the time needed to achieve political consensus on
issues and also with the long learning process typical of decentralized
institutions.
4.7   BANMA's FeasibUity as an MCI. While it might seem reasonable
to take an MCI, such as BANMA, as the instrument to provide municipalities
with access to long term financing, by the time of the MDPP appraisal,
BANMA had a long and checkered history. Political considerations, rather
than financial policies, had been a dominant factor influencing BANMA's
operations, and serious weaknesses continued to impair its institutional
effectiveness and its capacity to lend to municipalities and absorb additional
debt. BANMA's history is not an isolated example and it should be seen in
the wider framework of the operational difficulties which impair the
functioning of institutions of a similar nature. Even without complete
evaluation of Bank experiences with this type of institutions, for MCIs to
operate independently one has to ask govemnments to observe exacting pre-
conditions: clear separation of governments' own developmental interests in
project selection from the financial role that the institution is intended to
perform; holding MCIs accountable for overall financial performance;
conditioning further financial backing on satisfactory financial return and loan
recovery; and refraining from undermining the market for MCI lending
through government grants or soft loan programs that directly compete with
the loans that the MCIs are designed to make. By the time of project
preparatiorn, none of these pre-conditions had been met and this situation
continued during project implementation. A lesson from this experience
seems to be that it is better to try to develop systems that rely on private
capital markets to mobilize and allocate savings for municipalities.
4.8   Limitations to Institutional Strengthening. The MDPP proceeded
from the assumption that institutional strengthening within the existing
framework could make a major impact on the overall municipal finance
sector, and that it could be achieved by introducing better administrative
procedures in BANMA, CONSUPLANE and the municipalities. In
particular, BANMA's weak financial position was viewed as the consequence
of poor financial and fiscal management within the municipalities and not, as
it was, the result of a system of distribution of resources based largely on
political considerations. Consequently, the MDPP did not attempt to address
the definition of the appropriate role of BANMA; the indication here might
have been, for example, the advisability of separating the technical assistance
from the finance function of the institution. Also, there was no assessment
of whether sufficient incentives existed to promote the acceptance of the
intended institutional strengthening reforms. In the case of BANMA, there
were corporate motives which favored their adoption, but this was not so
with munieinalities which, without significant fiscal and expenditure



-9-
autonomy, had no incentives to either increase their revenues or to be more
cost conscious, and consequently, had no long-term incentives to adhere to
reform efforts. Finally, the project relied on short-termn technical assistance
operations which provided but an initial stimulus that faded away towards the
closing of the operation
5.    MDPP Implementation
5.1   Early Implementation: Institutional Strengthening and Municipal
Flnance Plans. Implementation of the MDPP can be divided in two phases
in which different circumstances prevailed and defined the course, pace and
eventually the outcome of the project: the first phase, from project
effectiveness roughly to December 1987, at the onset of the Honduran debt
crisis, and the subsequent one during which project implementation in fact
halted, resuming only briefly until the project was closed in 1990. During
the first phase of implementation, mostly supervised either by the same Bank
team who prepared the project or under their close orientation, the MDPP
moved along reasonably well. On the one hand, substantial progress was
made in the implementation of the institutional strengthening component.
BANMA's technical assistance program quickly got underway; studies to
address BANMA's organizational and staff requirements, a plan of action to
strengthen its financial policies, and a taining program in maintenance of
municipal infrastructure were submitted to the Bank. Municipalities, in turn,
made serious efforts to develop their financial plans with guidance from Bank
staff who went through several rounds of review before acceptable financial
plans for all municipalities were in place (See Part m, Table 5, for the status
of major covenants). On the other hand, disbursements for the capital
investment program, which were expected to begin by early 1986, had to
wait until October 1986-nearly a year after the project became effective, and
thereafter progress on physical works proceeded slowly throughout 1987. A
series of factors contributed to delaying the capital investment program: (a)
dependency on the local approval of the municipal finance plans, which took
more time than anticipated during project preparation, since these plans were
developed in a period of changes in municipal administration, after the late
1985 elections. These plans were consequently subject to changes in
administration priorities, which in some cases conflicted with the previously
defined list of capital investment sub-projects; and (b) a laboriously slow
system of contracting and procurement which, despite that the loan agreement
only required spot checldng, led BANMA to seek Bank approval of nearly
every document.
5.2   As implementation progressed, the MDPP gradually fell behind
schedule, and its inherent weaknesses became more evident, since: (a) the
financial plans devised under the project did not achieve any substantial
improvement in the debt service performance of BANMA's borrowers. In
one case, the Distrito Central threatened to withhold payments on the Bank
funded loans for sub-projects during a negotiation with BANMA regarding
the rest of its debt; (b) continual review of progress on the municipal finance



- 10-
plans or in the financial performance of BANMA slowed project pace and the
rate of disbursements; (c) there was little flexibility in reallocating resources
among sub-projects; and (d) as the Honduran foreign exchange situation
worsened, local officials became more concerned with the lack of progress in
capital investments than with sector reforms. After the Bank's 1987 internal
reorganization, new project staff unfamiIiar with the project's history took
over, the leverage of the Bank declined, and the project tended to become
subject to the problems of the system rather than being able to influence the
system towards reform.
5.3   The Inpact of the Honduran Debt Crisis and of Competing Donor
Funds. Throughout the period from 1988 to 1990, the country moved in and
out of suspension on loan disbursements on several occasions. While some
work could be continued on the technical assistance component during this
period, physical works, including all contracting, were effectively halted. By
the time that a structural adjustment and debt workout program for Honduras
was in place, any realistic chance of resuming the priject and completing the
original investments program  had been effectively lost. First, because it was
no longer credible that the mechanisms set up by the project would have the
envisaged results. In particular, BANMA's financial condition had
deteriorated so precipitously that there was no hope of continuing the MDPP
without its being restructured together with BANMA, and that would have
meant a new or different project. Second, in March, 1988, IDB approved a
loan to BANMA on much more concessional terms than that of the Bank, a
problem which was aggravated in 1990 when USAID approved US$15
million in grant financing for technical assistance directly to the
municipalities, forcing Bank funds to compete with others which were much
less expensive and carried fwer conditions. As a result, the Bank loan lost
much of its appeal to both BANMA and the municipalities.
5.4   Of the original US$6.9 million loan, only US$2.5 million was actually
disbursed, and in December 1990, more than two years after the original
closing date, the Bank and the Government of Honduras agreed to cancel the
remaining loan balance for the MDPP.
6.    Major Results of the Project
6.1   Project results should be evaluated primarily against its institutional
strengthening objectives, also bearing in mind its pilot nature i.e., its guiding
role intent.
6.2   The technical assistance program (para. 3.3 (a)), which intended to
improve BANMA's management and its capacity to assist municipalities, was
completed. During project suspension, the reduction in lending activity and,
possibly, a governmental reaction against an attempt at personnel
unionization led to a reduction in staff and to budget cuts. By the time
implementation could have been resumed, 9 out of 10 of the staff trained
under the project had left the institution. A Bank report (pam 6.6) prepared



- 11 -
after project closing, states that based on 1990 data, BANMA had very
serious financial problems, showing a 19/1 debt-to-capital ratio. On^the-
ground benefits from this component may well be considered to be non
existent.
6.3   The financing of professional services for CONSUPLANE for
strengthening its capacity in urban and regional planning (par. 3.3 (c)) was
totally executed. CONSUPLANE, through Direccidn General de
PlanyflcaciOn Territorial, hired four individual consultants who prepared 15
documents focusing on territorial analysis and planning methodologies, the
latter with an emphasis on institutional coordination of government levels and
local projects evaluation. These documents served as basis for the
preparation of phase one of the Plan Maestro de Ordenamiento Terrtorial
which focused on systems of cities, rual development and environment.
These studies and diagnostic, however, had no discernible impact, no other
developments in the prepaation of this document of local development policy
could be observed, while the agency resposible for its preparation was later
reorganized and its objectives redefined.
6.4   Most of the technical assistance activities focused directly on
municipalities (para. 3.3 (b)) and were not completed, whereas resources
from the pre-investment fund were utilized in two engineering studies (Bus
trminal study for the Distrito Central and Sanitation study for El Progreso),
both of which, however, did not have corresponding resources for
investment.
6.5   The capital investments program was half completed. Solid waste
disposal equipment for the municipalities of El Progreso and San Pedro Sula
and office equipment in Tegucigalpa and El Progreso was purchased and put
to use as intended. Work on a major road in Tegucigalpa was begun but
only half of it was finished, while the other eight sub-projects identified at
appraisal, totaling US$3.9 million, were not begun (para. 5.1).
6.6   Hence, evaluated against project objectives, the MDPP was largely a
failure. Given its objectives, even if Bank funds had been disbursed and
activities completed, the results of the project would have to be evaluated
against the repayment records of the municipal borrowers, and further, in
relation to BANMA's long term financial prospects. However, after
cancellation of remaining loan proceeds, the MDPP, through the preparation
by the Bank of a study on municipal financing and on the role of BANMA
(pam. 7.2), may have contributed indirectly to initiating an important and
still on-going discussion on municipal sectoral reforms in Honduras.
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1   Given the MDPPs results, the project cannot be considered
sustainable. However, the Honduran Government has initiated a profound
process of reforms in the municipal sector which takes advantage of the



- 12 -
lessons of experience provided by the operation of various bi- and
multilateral organizations in the country. Two very important measures have
been taken by the Government. First, the publication on November 19, 1990
of a new law of municipalities2. The main features of the law are: (a)
municipalites are entirely responsible for the elabortion, approval and
administation of the budgets for their public expenditures; (b) it is no longer
necessary for municipalities to contract with national enterprises for public
services. This means that municipalities are no longer captive clients of
national enterprises, especially for those services which can be most easily
decentrlized or provided by the private sector; (c) an automatic tax revenue
sharing mechanism has been put in place that abolishes discretionary transfers
from central governments to municipalities; and (cd) municipalities are fiee to
set a wide array of local taxes and user charges. Second, the creation on June
22, 1992, of the Comite Interinstitucional de Descentralizacidn y
Fortalecimiento Municipal, a permanent body attached to the Presidency in
charge of defining municipal policies and conducting programs, with an
operational agenda to support the implementation of the law of
municipalities.
7.2 Tb assist the Government in its efforts to improve municipal finances,
after loan closing the Bank conducted a study,3 that provides a number of
recommendations both for BANMA as well as with respect to the
implementation of the new law. The report's recommendations, if followed,
could have a significant impact and provide delayed vindication for an
otherwise largely unsuccessful project. The recommendations of the Guissari
report are carefully documented and quantified. The findings confirn the
earlier statements made with respect to the discretionary financial relaion
between the central govemment and municipalities, and with respect to
BANMA's financial situation (paras. 2.3-2.5 and 4.4-4.7). Concerning the
Ley de Municipalidades, the report points out that, even though the new law
represents significant progress, problems still remain. First, the tax revenue-
sharing system: (a) attaches no weights to fiscal effort; and (b) makes no
allowance for adjustments due to regional inequalities in income distribution.
Second, the law maintains special tax benefits for port and coffee producing
municipalities. Third, and possibly most important, there is no
decentralization of expenditure, and so municipalities can obtain higher
revenues through the law-mandated decentralization of tax collection, without
takdng on additional responsibilities. The Guissari report analyzes possible
options for managing the municipal debt, and recommends that refinancing
may be used, as long as it is guaranteed by the central government transfers
which were created by the new law. Given the newly acquired budgetary,
taxing and expenditure responsibilities of the municipalities, the report
2. Ley de Mucipali ades. Decree 134.90 of October 29, 1990, of the Honduraa National
Assembly.
3. Guissai, Adrian C. -La Nueva LAy de Municipalidades y Las Implicancias de La Deuda
Municipal en Honduras.' World Bank. LA21E. Washington, D.C.: World Bank, April 1992.



- 13 -
recommends the provision of technical assistance by BANMA and that
BANMA should cease operating as a financial intermediary. Subsequently
the Bank prepared another report, "Honduras-Prospects for Public Sector
Reformn4, which provides a wider coverage, but with respect to municipal
finances basically endorses the Guissari report's recommendations.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1   The overall experience with the MDPP shows that projects designed
to address complex issues such as municipal and intergovernmental finances
require from the Bank and the central govemment a thorough understanding
of the nature of such issues, and that the approach to be taken would have to
be that of a pilot or experimental project, as was the case, or alternatively be
based on the preparation of extensive ESW. From identification to loan
effectiveness, the Bank closely assisted BANMA and the municipalities in the
preparation of the project (See Part Im, Tables 6.1-6.2, for use of Bank
resources).
8.2   At first, during project implementation, the project was mostly
supervised by the same staff that had prepared the project, but after the Bank
reorganization in 1987, staff rotated (See Part Im, Tables 6.1-6.2, for use of
Bank resources). After a period in which Bank staff had made strong
representations on policy issues, these efforts became weaker (para. 5.2),
since the Honduras debt crisis had interrupted supervision efforts and
procurement became a major concern of project staff (para. 12.1).
8.3   Bank management during project preparation, was preoccupied with
the numerous problems concerning both BANMA's portfolio and the finances
of the municipalities, and requested correctly that the Loan documents clearly
specify the actions already taken to clean up BANMA's portfolio and address
municipalities' deficiencies.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1   Project ownership was established at the outset, facilitated by the fact
that the idea of the project had originated in BANMA. Furthermore,
BANMA had a clear corporate interest in the approval and success of the
project, which was linked to the survival of its lending function. Lending, in
turn, was perceived as providing the necessary leverage to permit the proper
development of BANMA's technical assistance activities. Thus, BANMA
embarked very rapidly in that part of the project which provided them with
technical assistance, and for which there were clearly defined terms of
reference. However, these strengthening efforts were made ineffective by
the cessation of BANMA's lending due to lack of funds arising from the
4. World Bank. LAC Tecncal Department. Public Sector Management Division.
'Handurag- Prosnect for Public Sector Reform". Washington. D.C Sentember. 1992.



- 14-
Bank suspensions of disbursements, and from failure to collect from its
borrowers (paras. 4.54.8).
9.2   BANMA also attempted to elicit interest and commitment on the part
of municipalities, but it lacked sufficient leverage. Conditions with respect to
Bank funds, in comparison with those of other donors, and political and
administrative changes in the municipalities, restricted interest in the
investment program. With reference to the technical assistance component,
municipalities demonstrated willingness to engage in institutional
strengthening and policy reform efforts by going through several rounds of
revisions in the formulation of financial plans. However, without fiscal and
expenditure autonomy, municipalities had no incentives to either increase
their revenues or to be more cost-conscious, and they may have seen only
limited benefits for them to engage in improvement efforts.
10.  Project Relationship
10.1 The Bank's relationship with the Govemment of Honduras and with
BANMA was marked by the ups and downs of the Honduran debt crisis,
which frequently interrupted the implementation of the project and eventually
determined its outcome to a large extent. However, during project
preparation and supervision, relations with BANMA and the municipalities
were very cooperative, with BANMA making consistent efforts to comply
with conditions set by the Bank. CONSUPLANE, whose technical assistance
program was not supervised by BANMA, was provided by the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) with a consultant to draft terms of
reference for the formulation of an urban-municipal development policy,
which was one of the objectives of the Bank's institutional strengthening
support to CONSUPLANE. This led to some discrepancies in view between
UJNDP, CONSUPLANE and the Bank, since the consultant recommended an
approach emphasizing a territorial analysis and planning perspective which
differed from the agreed work program (paras. 6.3 and 11. 1).
11.   Consulting Services
11.1 Consultants were hired for technical assistance to BANMA,
CONSUPLANE and the municipalities. InterTnational consultants, mostly
well known, provided services according to the prescribed standards on
BANMA's organization, financial administration, urban planning capacity,
and staff training and development. Municipalities also used consultants
which prepared project studies of acceptable quality. In the case of
CONSUPLANE (para. 10.1), after negotiations with respect to different
perspectives on the nature of the studies to be pursued and Bank acceptance
of a program with a territorial planning approach, CONSUPLANE chose
four individual consultants from a list submitted to the Bank (pam. 6.3).



- 15 -
12.   Procurement Issues
12.1 Consulting services, goods and civil works were procured under
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank required that only bidding
packages over US$150,000 to be subject to the Bank's prior review of
procurement documentation. Nonetheless, BANMA required the Bank to
review most contracts, contributing to slow progress on physical works
through 1987, while also taking a considerable amount of supervision time.
13.   Project Documentation and Data
13.1 Given the nature of the project, a Staff Appraisal Report was not
required. The President's Report is concise, well argued and Lovers relevant
background material on the economy and the urban sector as well as a
detailed description of the project's objectives and of its implementation
procedures. The legal documents, a separate loan and a project agreement,
reflect the recommendations on the President's Report and were adequate.
Files for the project lack some supervision documents, such as BTO reports,
but overall provide sufficient information for the preparation of this report.
14.   Lessons Learned
14.1 The MDPP was based on the best practice then available through
Bank operations in the domain of municipal finance (paras. 4.1 and 4.2).
Bank staff worked closely with the counterpart institutions and there was
evidence of commitment and interest of the latter in the project (paras. 5.1
and 9.1). Within this framework, the preconditions for project success
seemed to be in place. Nevertheless, the project was largely a fhilure.
14.2  There are various levels of explanation and lessons from this failure:
(a)   The Honduran debt crisis, which led to frequent suspensions of
the operation, delayed and disrupted the implementation of its various
components, and interrupted the Bank's supervision and support link
with the project. However, the Honduran debt crisis could not have
been anticipated and counteracted within the project design and, as an
explanation of the project's failure, sheds little light on the evaluation
of the project itself (para 5.3);
(b)   The appearance of other donors with less demanding
requirements was the project's coup de grace; it completed that whic
the Honduran debt crisis had initiated, by turning Bank resources
unattractive to municipalities. This was a much more predictable and
controllable event and the lesson that ensues from it is the need for
continuing close coordination between donor agencies (para. 5.3);
(c)   However there were clear indications that independent of these
external determinants, the project was heading to failure; it was



- 16-
falling behind schedule, and covenants, although formally met, were
not leading to expected results. The project's shortcomings were
partly the consequence of the context in which Honduran
municipalities operated, which limited their potential for increasing
revenues and for providing public services, and also the consequence
of an optimistic expectation with respect to BANMA's ano to the
municipalities' response to the project's incentives. Projects which
aim at substantial transformation of the performance of cmplex
decentralized institutions; such as local governments, must address
the overall system of incentives within which they operate, first
and foremost of which is the legislative and regulatory framework
that provides for the organization of public services delivery and
which establishes the structure of municipal revenue. Although
local in its final effects, the conceptual foundations and operational
procedures of a project of a decentralized nature should be formulated
within the framework provided by the central government, which has
the power to initiate most changes related to a local governments'
incentives system (paras. 4.4-4.6);
(d)   Addressing the overall system of incentives that affects local
governments requires a lengthy process which ought to be
compatible with the time needed to achieve political consesu on
Issues and also with the long learning process typical of
decentralized institutions. The project was too optimistic in its
expectations of what could be achieved - the financial overhauling of
municipalities and of BANMA - in a relatively short period of time
and unrealistic in its reliance on covenants which tended to be looked
at by the implementing agencies, not as the indicators of
accomplishment, but simply as stumbling blocks which had to be
removed. This lengthy process may have to go beyond the
duration of one single operation (para. 4.6);
(e)   As an instrument to support the promotion of change,
technical assistance for institution strengthening must be provided
within au appropriate environment and have the duration of the
protracted learning process of institutions. There was no
sufficiente payoff to induce institutions to accept the institutional
strengthening reforms and, also, the project relied on short-term
technical assistance operations which provided but an initial stimulus
that faded away towards the closing of the operation (para. 4.6);
(f)   It would be desirable to develop systems that rely on
private capital markets to mobilize and allocate savings for
municipalities. BANMA's operations were fraught with difficult
problems which originated from its status as a state level institution
(para. 4.7);



- 17-
(g)   The definition, for an individual country, of a specific
project agenda to address complex decettraizationn Issues, such
as municipal finance, for which there are but some general
guiding principles, requires a thorough understanding of the
particularities of that country. This requires comprehensive ESW
(paras. 4.4 and 7.1-7.2);
(h)   Close Bank project supervision, through whkh iformaton
and support Is timely provided, is particularly important In the
case of promotion of institutional reform. The Honduras debt crisis
limited the access of Bank staff to the country, and the Honduran
requirement that most procurement documents be reviewed by the
Bank may have distracted Bank staff from policy issues (paras. 5.2
and 8.2).



- 18-
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    ProJect Origin and Background
The Pilot Municipal Development Project was identified in 1983, when the
first contacts were made with the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (World Bank). In 1984, the first Bank missions arrived to
carry out a study of the financial, institutional and operational situation of the
Banco Municipal Aut6nomo (BANMA), as well as to identify the possible
areas and eligible municipalities where the financial resources would be
assigned. In 1985 the Central Government/BANMA joint committees were
created to negotiate the financing; the Loan Agreement was signed on July 31
of that year by the authorized representatives of the World Bank and the
Government of Honduras.
1.1   Sector Development Objectives (During Project Identification).
The objective of the Pilot Municipal Development Project was to strengthen
planning, financial control, project evaluation and improve infrastructure
through the construction of civil works, equipment and preparation of
feasibility studies to identify and prepare development projects in the
different municipalities of the country.
1.2   Sector Development Macro-Policy. The sector's macro-policies
imply a broad system of goals and regulations to improve services, finances,
investment and employment generation. Among the general policies applied
by the Government of Honduras as the framework for the implementation of
development projects financed by international organizations are:
*    That sub-projects have a high social content;
*    That sub-projects comply with all technical specifications on
construction and quality;
*    That the cost of sub-projects be in accordance with the real
municipal financial possibilities.
1.3  Interrelation Between the Project and Sector Development. The
need of the municipalities at the national level with respect to physical
infrastructure, provision of services to the population, equipment and training
are some of the main reasons defining the need for specific projects such as
the World Bank's Loan 2583-HO.



- 19-
2.    Project Scope and Objectives
2.1   Project Objectives or Goals. The main objectives and goals pursued
by the Government of Honduras with the implementing of this pilot project
were:
(a)   Strengthening BANMA's organization, planning and operations
as an autonomous governmental agency;
(b)   Strengthening of competence among municipalities with respect
to income administration, budgetary and financial
administration and investment planning;
(c)   Strengthening the municipalities' physical infrastructure and
equipment.
(d)   Institutional strengthening of the Planning, Coordination and
Budget Secretariat (CONSUPLANE).
2.2   Project Components. In accordance with the terms of the Loan
Agreement, the project was conceived with three main components, subject
to amendments that the Government of Honduras and the World Bank could
eventually agree upon.
*    Part A:      BANMA Institutional Development.
*    Part B:      Municipal Development Program.
*    Part C:      CONSUPLANE Institutional Development
(presently known as CONSUPLANE).
3.    Lessons and Results of Project Implementation
During Project implementation, BANMA, as execution agency, performed an
important role in providing support and technical assistance to municipalities,
through its duly trained staff. This has allowed BANMA to obtain enough
experience to develop this type of projects. On the other hand, the Project
was not completed due to exogenous reasons beyond the control of the
executing agency.
It is important to note that in spite of this failure, some important
positive results were obtained since the agencies involved in the Project and
the municipalities achieved the programmed institutional development,
equipment, partial implementation of significant infrastructure works and the
development of pre-investment studies with the financial disbursements made.



- 20 -
3.1   Project Design and Organization. Under the original plan, the Pilot
Municipal Development Project was designed to be executed in 3 years.
However, the Project was not completed because of suspension of
disbursements due to the Government's failure to comply with payments to
international financial organizations which fnally ended with the cancellation
of the remaining resources assigned to the Project.
Tlere are certain associated elements which decreased expectations to
reactivate project implementation, among them, the cost of resources through
exchange rate fluctuations of European currencies against the US Dollar.
Thus, the municipalities' ability to pay decreased to confront the
commitments with the addition of those costs.
There is no doubt that the project's original plan was shared and
consistently supported by the participating institutions.
Nevertheless there are certain factors that affected project
implementation which are described in number 4 of this report.
The resources assigned to the project were L.18.4 million, of which
L.13.8 million represented the funds provided by the World Bank in
accordance with the Loan Agreement No. 2583-HO which represented 75
percent of the Project proceeds. The domestic counterpart was L.4.6 million
representing the remaining 25 percent.
Considering that this was a pilot project, BANMA assumes that the
amount of the assigned resources was adequate to its scope and size; these
two aspects were adequate for the needs of participating municipalities at that
time.
With respect to the contents of the Project, these were intimately
related in all their categories to the needs of the participating institutions at
that time as to institutional strengthening and that of the municipalities,
equipment and infrastructure works.
Likewise, the conditions for project selection, location of works,
blueprint development, supervision, equipment procurement, and all other
aspects were carefully analyzed in advance by qualified staff, and the awards
were made within the framework of legal competition.
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World
Bank), as the financial entity providing 75 percent of the resources, had a
very significant role in the course of the disbursements of the loan; however,
in December 1987 because of causes entirely attributable to the Government
of Honduras (ilure to meet its financial commitments), disbursements were
suspended, originating financial and implementation phase differences in the
projects. One aspect ta had a direct influence was the exchange rate
fluctuations between the European currencies and the US Dollar, creating the



- 21 -
additional difficulty that the municipalities did not accept additional costs to
those originally established to execute works and purchase goods and
services.
Finally, when the Govemment of Honduras brought the situation of
payments to the international organizations up-to-date in mid-1990, these
organization notfied their agreement to reactivate the project. This situation
never actually materalized because some of the beneficiary municipalities
had completed some works with their own funds and, on the other hand, they
are in arrears with BANMA, and therefore it was not advisable to assign
them the undisbursed resources (ble No. 2 of Part It).
Partial execution of the Project should not be technically considered as
a failure. The fact that some objectives initially planned (Part B) were not
achieved was due to project stoppage for over two years, causing the increase
of unforeseen costs in the original designs, thus causing an imbalance in
construction budgets and on purchase of equipment initially approved.
The organizational structure is part of the factors that had the least
incidence in the partial execution of the project; the role played by the
organization was effective until the termination of the project.
Resource assignment was clearly defined under the terms of the
agreement, however, with time some municipal authorites gave priority to
other projects that had not been originally included; such is the case of the
San Pedro Sula and Puerto Cort6s municipality, the restrictions to reassign
resources caused some municipalities to withdraw their participation and at
the same time BANMA could not place the resources pending allocation.
BANMA considers that it was a mistake not to include non-
reimbursable funds in the project design for implementation of institutional
strengthening and training aspects. There are other international
organizations that provide financial assistance in more favorable conditions
and that also include grants for technical training and institutional
strengthening.
3.2   Project Execution. The timetables for execution of Project
components A and C did not vary significantly and the activities were
executed as scheduled.
With respect to the execution timetables of the sub-projects
(component B), these were completely out of pace in all their stages upon the
suspension of disbursements due to the arrears situation of the country with
the international organizations at the beginning of 1988; consequently, several
sub-projects suffered and others had to be completed with outside financing
sources.



- 22 -
The unfavorable variations in the execution timetables of the sub-
projects were mainly caused by the above-referred disbursement suspension,
which in turn caused some participating municipalities to decide not to use
the project funds and others proposed the implementation of new projects that
they considered had greater priorty.
3.3   Project Results. The objectives linked to the strengthening of the
physical infrastructure of the municipalities and which were not possible to
achieve because of reasons beyond the control of the executing unit, forced
the latter to recommend to the Ministry of the Treasury and Public Credit
(Government Representative) to give up the remaning funds of Loan No.
2583-HO. Nevertheless, important objectives were achieved, since
components A and C of the Project were fully executed and their description
is as follows:
Part A: BANMA's Institutional Development.
(a)   Technical Assistance provided by COFINSA, CLAPP AND
MAYNE AND PRICE WATERHOUSE.
3    BANMA's organization
*    BANMA's financial administration
3    Municipal financial administration
e    Municipal urban services planning
*    Staff training and development
(b)   BANMA's Equipment
*    Purchase of computer equipment
*    Purchase of 4 motor vehicles
Part C:     Technical assistance to CONSUPLANE
As a result of the assistance received, the consultants carried out the
following studies.
(a)   Francisco Otava
*    Basis for the Development of the Territorial
Organization Plan.
*    Territorial Planning Information System.
*    Urban Development Policies within the Framework of
the Territorial Organization Plan.
*    Pre-investment Scheme and Urban Development Project
(prepared jointly with Sergio Galilea).
*    Historical Evaluation and Analysis of Territorial
Policies in Honduras.



- 23 -
*    Manual for the Development of Departmental
Diagnoses.
(b)   Ricardo Jordan
l    Methodology for the Analysis of Rural Human
Settlements in Regional Development.
*    Rural Development at the Territorial Level. Political
and Project Guidelines.
(c)   Fernando Saler
*    Detailed Methodology of Analysis and Urban
Diagnoses: Economic, Social and Special Aspects.
*    Preparation, Evaluation and Monitoring of Urban
Development Projects.
(d)   Sergio Galilea
*     Inter-institutional Coordination in Regional-Urban
Planning of Human Settlements.
--   .Strategic Guidelines and Social Development Policies at
the Local Level.
*    Preparation, Evaluation and Follow-up of Territorial
Development Plans and Projects.
The resulting product constitutes a source of elements that
have guided the development of CONSUPLANE studies such
as the "Master Plan of Territorial Organization". Likewise,
there was ample cooperation from the Consultants in the
preparation and execution of a series of training courses for
BANMA and Municipality human resources.
Part B:     Municipal Development Program
(a)   Central District Municipal County
N                       *    Technical assistance
*    Purchase of data processing equipment
*    Purchase of equipment for the cadastre office
*    Bus Terminal Study r Metropolitan Planning Study
*    Construction of the Hospital-Escuela/Boulevard Estadio
(partial)



- 24 -
(b)   San Pedro Sula Municipality
*     Equipment for solid waste collection
*     Equipment for sanitation sewerage
*     Equipment for cadastre office
(c)   Municipality of El Progreso
*     Sanitation Sewerage Study
*     Purchase of solid waste equipment
Despite the fact that the development of the pilot project became a
sort of experiment in our country, notable achievements were reached both at
the economic and at the social levels, since the financial assistance
contributed to some extent to balance our finances. We believe that the role
played by the World Bank in channeling long-term technical and financial
assistance for the development of projects that are generally well planned and
supervised is of great importance.
4.    Sustainability
There are no factors that may affect the sustainability of the project
results since, as mentioned before, the technical assistance is being
tansmitted to the municipalities, the purchases are being used and are under
the responsibility of the municipalities and the works completed are of
general welfare.
As to the risk factors which affected project continuation, we could
mention the following:
*     The rigidity in the use of resources and the total absence of
resource reallocation.
*     The high cost of the resources vis-a-vis the low ability to pay
of the municipalities.
*     The substantial increase in the execution costs of sub-projects
and the internal difficulty to comply with the national
counterpart.
*     The competition of outside financing on more favorable
conditions and geared toward the development of similar
projects.
*     The currency fluctuations in the interational market was a
factor that had a direct impact on the financial cost of the
_         &      -.1    +S aVVI    n^_s2V% -



- 25 -
0    The decreased ability to pay and the loss of priorities assigned
by the new municipal coxporations was another discouraging
factor for the development of the sub-projects originally
approved.
5.    Conclusions and lesons
5.1   Performance of the World Bank. The World Bank's technical and
financial assistance in the development of this project had an important role.
Unfortunately, the Project was only partally executed due to the
circumstances already mentioned.
5.2   Performace Gf the Borrower. The Government of Hondurs fell
into arrears with the international organizations and the efforts of the
involved institutions was not enough to comply with the objectives and goals
of -the Project.
5.3   Lessons Learned. In the initial stages, there were certain delays in
executing the sub-projects, caused by circumstances beyond our control.
However, during the execution of the Pilot Municipal Development Project,
both the Ministry of the Treasury, Banco Municipal Aut6nomo and other
institutions involved acquired enough experience to continue the development
of projects of this nature efficiently.
The need for financing of infrastructure projects in the different
municipalities increases rapidly each year, and this makes it absolutely
imperative to have the financial support available at a reasonable cost from
the international financing organizations.



-26-
Table 1: Financial Resources of Loan Agreement 2583-HO
Banco Municipal Aut6nomo
CATEGORIES                       APPROVED          USED FUNDS          CANCELLED
FUNDS                                 FUNDS
1. Municipal Development Program (Part B)
a) Consulting Services                         $ 1,592,000      $  341,710.18      $ 1,250,289.82
b) Construction and Civil Works                $ 1,263,000         334,544.88         928,455.12
c) Equipment Acquisition                       $ 2,808,000         935,578.94        1,872,421.06
2. BANMA's Institutional Development (Part A)    $  196,000          370,587.45         (174,587.45)
Consulting Services Part A (1)                 $  198,000          105,751.00          92,249.00
Acquisition of Equipment and Vehicles Part A (2)
3. CONSUPLANE's institutional Development        $  132,000           132,180.07           (180.07)
Consulting Services Part C
4. Unallocated Funds                             $  711,000             -0-              711,000.00
Sub-total                   $ 6,900,000      $ 2,220,352.52     $ 4,679,647.48
Less: advance                                                        292,381.46         (292,381.46)
TOTAL                            $ 6,900,000      $ 2,512,733.98     $ 4,387,266.02



Table 2: Fnancial Situation of Sub-loans
at February 21, 1991
(in US dollars)
MunildpalitylPrqject          AMOUNT                              BALANCES                                             ARREAS
Approved       Priodpal          Interest        Total              Prial            Iterest           Total
Central District Municipality
Boulevard Estadio Suyapa      $ 1,906,200       769,034.5        289,966.6      1,059,001.1         36,337.5         289,966.6        326,304.1
Equiprent Cadastre Office        50,000         50,000.0          18,223.9        68,223.9          23,259.4          18,223.9         41,483.3
UrbanPlanning Consultant         93,000         65,925.0         20,376.1         86,301.1           3,614.0         20,376.10         23,990.1
Bus Terminal Study               169,000        125,883.6         33,850.4        159,734.0         10,885.5          33,850.4         44,735.9
Purchase Data Processing
Equipment                        134,993        134,993.0         36,545.9        171,538.9         18.299.6          36,545.9         54,845.5
Study on Improvement of
Urban Roads                      40,000           -0-              772.0            772.0                              772.0             772.0
Solid WasteEquipment           1,398,600          -0-             27,014.7        27,014.7                           27.014.7          27,014.7                 t
Adm. Eng. Budget Plan.
Consultant                       169,000          40-             3,265.0          3,265.0                            3,265.0           3,265.0
SUB-TOTAL              3960.793       1,145.836.10      430014.         1.575.850.7        92,396.0         430.014.6         522,410.0                1
San Pedro Sula Municiwalitv
Solid Waste Equipment         $ 675,000         534,005.9          -0-           534,005.9           -0-              -0-                -0-
Worbshop Tools                   43,000           -0-             -0-                                -0-              -0-                -0-
Cadastre Equipment               143,000          -0-             -0-                                -0-              -0-                -0-
Infrastlrct. Maint. Equip.      860,000           -0-              -0-                               -0-              -0-                -0-
Nomenclature and
Signalization System            170,000           -0-              -0-                               -0-              -0-                -0-
Sur Erste Market                 118,800          -0-              -0-                                -0.             -0-                4
Chamelec6nMarkd                  118,800          -0-              -0-                               -0-              -0-                -0-
SUB-TOTAL             2,128.600        534005.                            34005.9
El Proureso Munidcialitv
Solid Waslt Equipment         $  93,000         78,441.3         32,062.0         110,503.3         39,058.2         32.062.0          71.120.2
Study Sanit. Sewage Systetn      42,000         42,000.0         18,016.7         60,026.7          21,289.0          18,026.7         39,315.7
CadastreEquipment                  700            700.0           -0-               700.00          6,752.5           -0-              6.752.5
Public Slaugterhouse             22,500           -0-             -0-                                -0-              -0-
SUB-TOTAL               A64.500          7.441.3                             30                              50.088..        11711188.4
TOTAL                $ 6,253,893      1,807,283.3      480,103.30      2,287,386.60       159.495.70        480,103.3        639.599.0



- 28 -
PART mI: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Banks Loans and/or Credits:
Loan 2421-HO, Water Supply and Drainage, for US$19.60 million was approved on
May 22, 1984. The revised closing date is June 30, 1993.
2.     Project Timetable.
Date Planned                  Date Actual
Ideadfication                  May 1984                       May 1984
Appaisal                       October 1984                   October 1984
Negotiations                   April 198S                     April 1985
Board Approval                 June 13, 1985                  June 13, 1985
Loan Signing                  July 31, 1985                   July 31, 1985
Effectiveness                  August 1985                    November 8, 1985
Completion Date                March 1988                     December 31, 1990
Closing Date                   September 30, 1988             December 31, 1990
Loan Balance Cancelled                                        May 29, 1991
3.     Loan Disbursements.
3.1    Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements.
(In millions of US dollars)
FY             1986      1987      1988      1989      1990
Appraisal             1.55      5.75      6.50      6.90         -
Actual                1.25      1.45      1.88      2.00      2.56



3.2    BANMA Disbursements for Sub Projects. *
(In thousands of US dollars)
National                      IBRD                           Total
Appraisal      Actual***     Appraisal      Actual***     Appraisal       Actual
DISTRITO CENTRAL
Solid Waste Disposal System       253.30          0            1,300.70         0           1,554.00        253.30
Boulevard Estadio Suyapa          885.00         40.6          1,233.00        728.46       2,118.00        885.00
Data Processing Equipment**        15.00          7.92          135.00         142.08        150.00          15.00
Equipment for Cadastre Office**     5.56          2.64          50.00           47.36         55.56           5.56
SAN PEDRO SULA
Solid Waste Management Equipment   75.00         40.3           675.00         723.38        750.00         763.68
Office Equipment                    5.00          -             43.00           -             48.00           0.00
Equipment for Cadastre Office**    16.00          -             143.00          -            159.00           0.00
Infrastructure Maintenance Equipment   140.00     -             860.00          -           1,000.00          0.00
Signal and Identification System   360.21         -             170.00          -            530.21           0.00
Sur-Este (Las Palmas) Market       97.20          -             118.80          -            216.00           0.00
Chamelecon Market                  97.2           -             118.80          -            216.00           0.00
EL PROGRESO
Solid Waste Disposal Equipment     10.00          4.14          93.00           74.30        103.00          78.44
Equipmentfor Cadastre Offlice**      1.03         0.42           7.00           7.61          8.03            8.03
Sanitation Project                  1.5           -             43.50           -             -               0.00
UNALLOCATED FUNDS                   68.73         -             618.59          -            687.32           -
TOTAL                             2,085.93       96.00        6,900.00        1,723.18      8,985.93       1,819.00
* Totals may differ slightly from BANMA esdmates due to revisions in project costs during implementation.
** Added after appraisal.
**' Actual local contribution for sub projects computed by pro rating total local contribution among actual disbursements for subprojects.



4.   Project Costs and Financing.
4.1   Project Costs on Appraisal.
(In millions of Lempiras)      (In millions of US dollars)
Project Components               Local   Foreign    Total          Local  Foreign  Total
BANMA
Professional Services           0.16      0.34     0.50           0.08     0.17  0.25
Data Processing Equipment       -         0.30     0.30           -        0.15  0.15
MUNICIPALITIES
Professional Services           0.36      0.98      1.34          0.18    0.49  0.67
Pre-Investment Fund             1.44      0.40      1.84          0.72     0.20  0.92
Pilot Investments               2.28      8.06     10.34          1.14    4.03  5.17
CONSUPLANE                                                                                                   o
Professional Services           -         0.26     0.26           -        0.13  0.13
BASE COST                        4.24     10.34     14.58          2.12    5.17  7.29
Physical Contingencies           0.14      0.34      0.48          0.07    0.17  0.24
Price Contingencies              0.40      1.02      1.42          0.20    0.51  0.71
TOTAL PROJECT COST               4 78     11.70     16.48          2.39    5.85  8.24
* Computed at 1986/1990 exchange rate of 2.00 Lempiras/US$.



4.2  Project Costs: Actual
(In millions of Lempiras)            (In millions of US dollars)
Project Components              Local   Foreign    Total              Local   Foreign   Total
BANMA
Professional Services             0      0.70     0.70                  0        .35    .35
Data Processing Equipment         0      0.22     0.22                  0        .11    .11
MUNICIPALITIES
Professional Services             0      0.12     0.12                  0        .06    .06
Pre-Investment Fund               0      0.34     0.34                  0        .17    .17
Pilot Investments               0.2      3.44     3.64                 0.1      1.72    1.82
CONSUPLANE
Professional Services            0       0.26     0.26                  0        .13    .13
TOTAL PROJECT                    0.2      5.12      5.30                0.1     2.56    2.65
* Computed at 1986/1990 exchange rate of 2.00 Lempiras/US$.
4.3 Project Financing.
(In millions of US dollars)
Appraisal                                     Actual
Local   Foreign      Total    Share         Local   Foreign      Total    Share
Government          1.10         0       1.10     16%          .096          -       0.96      3%
Bank Loan           1.05      5.85       6.90     84%              -      2.56       2.56     97%
Total               2.39      5.85       0.24    100%          .096       2.56       2.65    100%



- 32 -
S.     Status of Major Covenants.
Loan                                 Subject                          Status
Agreement
Section
2.02 (b)      Borrower to open and maintain in dollars a special accout   Complied
in the Central Bank of Honduras on the terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
3.06          Borrower to prepare and fiimish to the Bank a training  Complied
program in mantenance of municipal infrastructure no later
than Dec. 31, 1985 sad carry out the program on a
timetable acceptable to the Bank.
4.01          Borrower to have the records and accounts, including the  Complied
Special Account, of the operaions, resources and
expenditures of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower tesponsible for the Project maintined and
audited and to submit to the Bank audit reports not later
thn four months after the end of the year.
Schedule 1,    No withdawals for sub-projects without supplying Bank  Complied
3. (b)        with conformed copy of Sub-Loan Agreement and legal
opinion that agreement is binding upon municipality and
BANMA.
Schedule 1,    No withdrwals for sub-projects without a plan of action  Complied
3. (c)        for settement of previous debt satisfactory to the Bank.
Schedule 1,    No withdrwals for sub-projects in the Distrito Cental,  Complied
3. (d)        Municipality of San Pedro Sula, or the Municipality of El
Progreso without a financial plans for 1986, 1987 and 1988
for the respective municipalities satisfactory to the Bank.
Schedule 1,    No withdrawals for sub-projects in the Distrito Central  Complied
3. (e)        without a plan of action for restructuring debt service
satisfactory to the Bank.
Schedule 1,    No withdrawals for sub-project for acquisition of solid  Plan of
3. (f)        waste management vehicles, equipment for the maintenance  action
of micipal ifrastructure service, instalation of storm  prepared
drains and sanitary sewers, and construction of a 1.5 km
road without prepaton of plans of action for the
maintenwae of vebicles and equipment, and for traffic
management and the collecion of betterment charges in the
Distrito Central.
Schedule 1,    No withdrawals for construction of public retail in - zet  Study
3 (g)         without preparation of feasibility study.             prepared



- 33 -
Project                              Subject                          Status
Agreement
Section
3.02          Borrower to prepare and furnish to the Bank a study on  Complied
BANMA's organizational and staff requirements no later
than Dec. 31, 1985 carry out its recommendations
according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
3.03          BANMA shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan of  Complied
action to strengthen BANMA's policies on its operating
loss reserves, interest rates and collateral requirements no
later than Jan. 31, 1986 and carry out its recommendations.
3.05          BANMA shall take all action necessary to reduce arrears  Not
on its portfolio to not more than 10% and maintain at all    achieved
times cash collection on currently due loans at not less than
75% of such loans.
Schedule 2,    Sub-loan agreements shall include obligations of Distrito  Plans of
7             Central, San Pedro Sula and El Progreso to put into effect   action
a plan of action to maintain solid waste collection tariffs  prepared
adequate to produce revenues to cover both the sum of its
total operating expenses and the amount by which debt
service requirements exceed the provision for depreciation.
Schedule 2,    Sub-loan agreements shall include obligations of San Pedro   Plans of
8             Sula and El Progreso to carry out plans of action for the  action
maintenance of equipment of solid waste collection.  prepared
Schedule 2,    Sub-loan agreements shall include obligations of San Pedro   Plan of
9             Sula to carry out a plan of action for the maintenance of  action
infrastructure facilities.                           prepared
Schedule 2,    Sub-loan agreements shall include obligations of the  Plans of
10            Distrito Central to carry out both a plan of action for traffic  action
management and a plan of action for the collection of  prepared
betterment charges.



- 34 -
6.   Use of Bank Resources
6.1. Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle
(Staff Weeks in Field)
Project Cycle               Final
Through Appraisal                    35.1
Appraisal through
Board Approval                       1.4
Board Approval
Through
Effectiveness                        13.9
Supervision                         45.9
TOTAL                             96.3



- 35 -
6.2. Missions
stge of         Mo          Numbw of           SW           Sj3eazaoa          fetfoim e Raft           Tye of
Pojt Cyele         Yearw       roa             lneld         _RresedW  *             Statsbil            Prodns el
brou_ Appra
fication                093            1              1                 E                    d/
11183         2              1a                F, E                  1
05184         2               2               F, EC                  di
Psearatio               Om            3               S              F,EEC                   d/
Appraisal               10184         4               10            F, F, . E                d
Poe Appraisa            02/8S         2               S             ECEDC,EC                 di
061i5t85      1              1W                 E                    dt
SUB-TOTAL:                                         24.2
3upenv loa1            09/85          1              6                 F                    dl
Supervisian2            03186         2              2.2               F, E                  2                   M
Supervlslon3            12/86         2               2                F,E                   2                   M
Superv sion4            05/7           1              1                 E                    di
SupervisionS            09187          1              2                ECIE
Supervislon6            11/88         2               2                E,                    2                   M
Suporvision7            05190          1              .4                E                    U 
Supervisen 8            10/90          1              .4                E                    3                   M
SuperlaP                029 112        1              A                 E                    4                  MY
Supervi    10           01193         2               2                EC/E
SUB-TOTAL,                                          1
TOTAla-                                          392
a/: F, Fhndal Anast; E, i e EC, Economit T, ThbaI  speialt
b/: 1, PrUn Free or minor probln 2, Modwate Prbems; 3, Major Probbm
c/: M Mana      F, F. rhadal, P, PO"
d.k Non Raed



