D _mnt iof
The World Bank
IFOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
St'. e?F-83- A/o
R_St No. P-4090-HO
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPXENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt6.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PILOT PROJECT
May 22, 1985
I b dwcarat ha a z3ucim dlrbugdei mad may be umad bY recPiphb sulY in tie Perfaiumm Of
tedal dusn Us aM    Ma me elherwhe be ib_sed wIbout Wod Bmk auftedds.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     -     Leipira (L)
US$1.0     =     L2.0
L1.O           US$0.5
-      WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAbMA           Autonomous Municipal Bank
CONSUPLANE      National Superior Council for Economic Planning
Drs             Directorate of Technical Services (BANMA)
DO              Directorate of Operations (BAINA)
ENEE            National Electric Company
SANAA           National Autonomous Water and Sewerage Service
SECOPT          Secretariat of Communications, Public Works, and
Transportation
SOF             Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
SOI             Secretariat of Interior
USAID           U.S. Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
HONDURAS
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PILOT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUM4ARY
Borrower:       Republic of Honduras.
Beneficiaries:  The Autonomous Municipal Bank (BANMA) and the Borrower's
Superior Council for Economic Planning (CONSUPLANE).
Amount:         US$6.9 mll:ion equivalent.
Terms:          20 years v:tth 5 years of grace at standard variable rate.
Relending       The Arro!wer would relend about US$6.1 million to BANMA
Terms:        on the same terms as the Bank loan.  The foreign exchange
risk would be borne by the Borrower. BANMA would onlend
part of the proceeds to selected municipalities for
professional services, pre-investment studies, and pilot
!nvestments, on terms that have been established according
to the purpose of each sub-loan. BANMA would bear the
credit risk an sub-loans.
Project         The primary objective of the project is to strengthen BANMA
Description:  as ;;to principal source of financial and technical
assistance for wnu=icipal development. To this end, the
project would finanre professional services to help BANMA
s.trengthen Lts institutional capacity. A secondary
av jective is to strengthen the financial management of
tbQee BANMA clients which account for the largest portion
of BRNMA's operational performance and require increasing
finaucial assistance from the Central Govern-npt.   For the
group of munie_palities selected for participating in the
pr-oje':t, financing rould be provided for (a) professional
aervic es to strengthen municipal financial management,
taclucllng revenue collection, budgeting, cost control,
accorinving, debt management, and planning and execution of
investuiint projects; (b) credit for pilot investments in
four municipalities; and (c) a pre-investment fund for
feasIbilfty srudies.  Finally, the project would finance
professional services for CONSUPLANE for strengthening its
capacity in urban and regional planning.
Risks:          The prin-zipal project risk is the possible failure of
participating municipalities to achieve financial balance.
Because the most crucial problem to be addressed in
improvirg the wunicipalities' financial situations is that
of poor management of both revenue collection and
expenditwure coatrol, the focus of the proposed project on
administrative measures that can be implemented quickly and
directl3r by municipalities would lessen this risk.
Tbis document has a restricted clisuribution and may be laced by recipients only in th performance|
|of their ofFcmI duties Its conterits may not otherwis be disclosed without World Bank authorwation.|



- ii -                                           i.
The three major municipalities will be required to
establish a revenue strategy and financial plan for
operations as a whole as a condition of effectiveness.
Performance would be weasured by an agreed set of
monitoring indicators, which would be inc.Luded in sub-loan
agreements.
Project Cost:                                     Local    Foreign    Total
- US$  illion  --
BANMA
Professional Services      Q..08      0.17      0.25
Data Processing Equip.    -           0.15      0.15
Mtunicipal Management
Professional Services      0.18       0.49      0.67
Pre-investment Fund        0.72       0.20      0.92
Pilot Investments           1.14      4.03      5.17
CONSUPLANE
Professional Services                 0.13      0.13
Base Cost                   2.12      5.17      7.29
Physical Contingencies         ').07     0.17      0.24
Price Contingencies           0.20       0.51      0.71
Total Project Cost          2.39      5.85      B.24
Total Fiancing Required         2.39      5.85      8.24
Financing Plan:                                    Local   Foreign    Total
- US$ mllion
Bank Loan                   1.05      5.85      6.90
BANMA                       1.10       -        1.10
-hmuicipalities             0.24       -        0.24
Total                  2.39       5.85      8.24
Disbursements 1/:
Bank           FY86       FY87        FY88       FY89
-(U - million)
Annual          1.55      4.20        0.75       0.40
Cumulative      1.55      5.7'        6.50       6.90
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Appraisal Report:  None. This is a combined Apprais.al/President's Report..
I/ Includes retroactive financing from April 1, 1985 for coutracts valued
at about US$500,000 equivalent.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A NUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PILOT PROJECT
1.        I -ubmit the following report and recomendation on a proposed
loan of US$6.9 million to the Republic of Honduras for a Municipal
Development Pilot Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
US$6.10 million of the proceeds of the loan would be relent, on the same
terms as the Bank loan, to the Autonomous Municipal Bank (BANMA), and
US$0.13 million would be retained by the Borrower for allocation to the
National Superior Council for Economic Planning (CONSUPLANE). US$0.67
would be allocated as necessary for contingencies. Of the amount lent to
BANMA, about US$0.40 million would be used for professional services and
for purchase of data processing equipment to strengthen its institutional
capacity. The remaining US$5.70 million would be onlent to selected
municipalities, to finance professional services for strengthening
municipal financial management (US$0.67), a pre-investment fund for
pre-feasibility and feasibility studies (US$0.92), and pilot investments
(US$4.11). The amount allocated to CONSUPLANE would cover professional
services for developing an urban-municipal development plan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled -Current Economic Memorandum on Honduras
(3312-HO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 29, 1981.
A Bank mission visited Honduras during March 1985 to review recent economic
performance. The main findings of the mission are summarized below.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Honduras' per capita GNP was about US$660 in 1982, making it one
of the poorest countries in the Western Hemisphere. Malnutrition is
severe, infant mortality is about 9 percent of live births, and the
literacy rate is only 60 percent. About half of the nopulation is without
safe water and three quarters of the households are without access to
sanitary waste disposal and electricity.
4.        The population of about 4 million is growing rapidly, at 3.4
percent a year, straining available resources. While two thirds of the
economically active population is employed in agriculture, the latter
accounts for only one fourth of GDP. Only one quarter of the land area is
arable. The Government is showing increased awareness of population
problems. Family planning information and services are provided at
Government health clinics and by the Honduran Family Planning Association
to anyone requesting them. The United Nations. USAID and private
organizations provide external assistance to the family planning programs.



- 2 -
5.       During 1950-1975, real GDP grew at 3.7 percent a year; per capita
income grew by less than one percent a year. Important factors that
contributed to this poor performance were the lack of export
diversification and deteriorating terms of trade. The risk of dependence
on banana exports was dramatically illustrated during 1974-1975 when the
destruction of the plantations by one of the worst hurricanes in Honduras'
history resulted in a sharp reduction in exports and GDP.
6.       Real GDP recovered notably during 1976-1979, growing by 7.7
percent a year. 'Exports and investment led growth, and inflation averaged
7 percent a year. This favorable growth performance of the economy was
partly a result of more aggressive Government development policies. A land
reform program distributed about 210,000 hectares to over 48,000 families,
of which 36,000 remain on the land. Serious infrastructure deficiencies in
transport and power were eased when a basic network of trunk highways and
ports was built while power generating capacity expanded significantly.
Real public fixed investment rose from 3.2 percent of GDP in 1972 to 5.7
percent in 1974 to over 8 percent in 1978-1979. Taking advantage of the
externalities created by the public sector, private sector activities
expanded rapidly. In real terms, private investment increased from 11.6
percent of GDP in 1974 to 14.5 percent in 1979.
Recent Developments
7.       During 1980-1983, the economy stagnated as exports and private
investment lost their dynamism; real GDP per capita declined by about 9
percent a year. Real GDP recovered slightly in 1984. Political events in
Central America undoubtedly deterred private investment, which, by 1984,
had fallen to half its 1979 level. Despite a rise in the share of public
investment from 9.5 percent of GDP in 1980 to 11.6 percent in 1984, total
investment fell from 26 percent to 18 percent of GDP over the same period.
8.       The country's external financial position has deteriorated. The
terms of trade have worsened recently, and by 1984, the index was 12
percent below the 1980 level. Export performance simultaneously weakened,
with volumes of main export products stagnating, and with the real value of
exports declining by 0.3 percent a year over the period. In 1983-1984, the
current account deficit of the balance of payments averaged about US$230
million (7.6 percent of GDP) a year as compared with US$300 million (12
percent of GDP) in 1980-1981. This improvement was due to increased levels
of bilateral grants and a decline in imports. The real value of imports
fell by an annual average of 5.7 percent during 1981-84 and the real value
of capital goods imports is one-third lower as compared with 1981. In
spite of significant foreign official capital inflows, net official foreign
exchange reserves have been negative since 1981. To ration foreign
exchange, the Central Bank introduced import permits in May 1982. A
non-official parallel market for foreign exchange has since developed.
9.       Central Government finances also deteriorited, and the large
increase in the use of domestic credit in 1982-83 added pressures on the
already weak balance of payments position. Central Government current
expenditures increased rapidly during 1980-81, reflecting salary



-3-
adjustments and large expenditure increases in the areas of education and
health. In 1981 public savings became negative and are projected to remain
so for the fifth consecutive year in 1985. The Government took significant
tax measures during 1982 as part of a stand-by agreement with the IMF
covering a 14 month period ending in December 1983. Nevertheless, actual
revenues were insufficient in 1982 and 1983 to cover rising current expen-
ditures. Higher operating surpluses for the Port Authority, the Power
Company, the Telecommunications Company and the Water Authority resulted
from tariff adjustments undertaken in 1982 under the stand-by arrangement.
However, the overall deficit of the Central Government remained high in
1983 (10.5 percent of GDP) because of lower than expected revenues, higher
expenditures, and the large additional burden created by refinancing the
National Investment Corporation (CONADI) obligations with foreign commer-
cial banks. Many of the private sector enterprises supported by CONADI are
now bankrupt or in arrears on their payments due, and the Government has
assumed the burden of honoring CONADI's debt obligations. As a result of
these developments, the Honduran Government was unable to meet the
performance criteria under the IMF stand-by arrangement, and was thus
unable to draw on the last tranche. Discussions with the IMF are expected
to resume once the new administration takes office in January 1986.
10.       In mid-1984 the Government undertook measures to improve its
financial position. Taxes were raised and current expenditures were more
tightly controlled. As a result, the Central Government current account
deficit went from 3.3 percent of GDP in 1983 to 1.5 percent in 1984 and the
overall deficit declined to 9.4 percent of GDP. Moreover, external funds
were disbursed at an accelerated pace; net foreign financing went up by
more than 40 percent in 1984 and covered around three fourths of the
Central Government deficit. Consequently, the significant decrease in the
use of domestic credit during 1984 reduced the pressures on the strained
balance of payments position. In 1984, reserve losses fell to about half
the 1983 level and represented only 10 percent of the drain experienced in
1982.
11.       In December 1984 the Government reached an agreement with the
foreign commercial banks to refinance the debts of ODNADI and a few other
public agencies. About 14 percent of the disbursed external public debt at
the end of 1983 (about US$220 million) will be refinanced. Under the terms
of the agreement, US$117 million of principal repayments due from 1981 to
1984 plus US$31 million due in 1985 will be rolled over until June 1986.
At that time, the situation will be reassessed in the light of the
country's dialogue with the IMF, and a nine-year refinancing will be
considered.
Short Term Prospects and Development Programs
12.        The modest recovery initiated in 1984 is expected to continue in
1985. Nevertheless, the country's economic outlook will be affected by the
political climate in Central America, which has a dampening effect on
private investment and may lead to increased capital flight.   This will
complicate the needed task of strengthening public finances. At the same
time, however, substantial inflows of bilateral assistance are likely to
continue through the late 1980s.



13.       Current expenditures are expected to grow faster than current
revenues, resulting in a Central Government current deficit of about 2.4
percent of GDP in 1985. Since capital expenditures and net lending
are projected to decline, the overall Central Government deficit will
remain at the 1984 level of 9.4 percent of GDP. Given the expected full
disbursement of committed bilateral assistance, externAl financing will
cover about 85 percent of the Central Government's deficit. This will
permit a reduction in recourse to net domestic credit by one fifth from
1984 level.
14.       The availability of foreign financing will help maintain the
country's external position in 1985. Other factors will also contribute to
stabilize the balance of payments situation: (i) the completion of the El
Cajon Hydroelectric Project will reduce fuel imports (currently one fifth
of total imports); (ii) commodity prices of the main Honduran exports are
projected to rise during 1985; and (iii) the agreement with the commercial
banks on the CONADI debt will reduce foreign exchange requirements for
1985. Consequently, the current account deficit is projected to remain
stable at 7.6 percent of GDP.
External Financing
15.       In 1984, Honduras' disbursed public external debt repayable in
foreign currency amounted to US$1.6 billion, or 200 percent of exports of
goods and non-factor services; US$2.3 billion if undisbursed commitments
are included. In the past, Honduras has managed to keep its external debt
service ratio fairly low, because foreign loans to the non-financial public
sector were almost all on concessionary terms. The debt service rztio in
1981 was 14 percent. It increased to 21.5 percent in 1984 and is projected
to drop to 17.3 percent in 1985, partly because of the rescheduling of
CDNADI's debt.
16.      At the end of 1983, the Bank Group held about 22.1 percent of the
disbursed public debt outstanding and repayable in foreign currency;
excluding IDA, the Bank's share is about 17 percent. These shares are not
expected to increase significantly in the next few years. One fifth
of the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) total loans disbursed and
outstanding are repayable in local currency, so that IDB's share of the
disbursed public debt repayable in foreign currency is only 14.3 percent.
The Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) accounts for 8.2
percent of the total, the US Government for 12.8 percent, Venezuela for 9.7
percent, privately held debt for 26.1 percent, and others for 6.8 percent.
In addition, since 1983, the U.S. Government has provided substantial grant
financing.
17.       During 1970-83 external sources committed some US$2.5 billion
of which the Bank Group provided 20 percent, IDB 16 percent, CABEI 10
percent, the US Agency for International Development (USAID) 11 percent,
private banks 17 percent and others 26 percent. IDB has concentrated on
industry, power, transport, water and sewerage; CABEI on transport and
power and USAID on agriculture and education.



- 5 -
18.       Honduras is expected to strengthen its balance of payments in the
near term as commodity prices improve and as El Cajon's operations reduce
fuel imports. Export promotion policies aiming at diversifying the export
base will contribute to continued improvement in the longer term.
Strengthening of the Central Government finances remains a high priority in
the adjustment program required to deal with the difficult environment
which the country will face in the next few years. Provided the Government
improves its fiscal position and maintains a prudent external borrowing
policy, the mDdest economic recovery experienced in 1984 is expected to
continue in 1985-86. Honduras' manageable external debt service and the
expected continuing large official flows on concessionary terms make it
creditworthy for modest amounts of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
19.       Beginning with a loan of US$4.2 million for roads in 1955,
Honduras has to date received 30 Bank loans totalling US$503.1 million and
12 IDA credits totalling US$85.1 million, both net of cancellations. Of
the Bank Group's total lending to Honduras, 20.3 percent has been for
highways, 5.2 percent for ports, 40.8 percent for the energy sector, 17.6
percent for agricultural credit and regional development, 11 percent for
industrial credit and tourism, 1.9 percent for education, and 3.2 percent
for water supply and drainage.
20.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits,
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1985. As of that date, a total of
USS93.8 million remained to be disbursed on 12 Bank Group-assisted
operations. An additional loan of US$19.6 million, signed on December 7,
1984, is not yet effective.
21.       Speed of disbursements in Honduras has varied considerably by
sector, with po-wer projects generaily the quickest disbursing, as well as
accounting for the largest share. 'n FY84, disbursements reached a record
high of USS65.4 million, of which over half was accounted for by El Cajon.
Agricultural and industrial credit projects have also been relatively fast
disbursing, accounting for about 18 percent of all disbursements in FY84.
22.       In the past, Bank Group lending was heavily concentrated in
transport and power, where inadequate facilities hampered the development
of the country. In the last decade, it has been increasingly diversified
to provide support for the exoansion of productive capacity in agriculture,
industry, and tourism and to address major needs in education and water
supply.
23.        In future lending to Honiduras, we plan to support the
Government's objectives to increase production, employment, anld expDrts,
and to raise living standards of the poor by emphasizing projects in the
productive and social sectors. In order to promote and diversify both
agricultural and industrial production, we would continue to provide credit
to those sectors. However, the level and focus of our financing will be



partly determined by the activities of other major lenders such as USAID
and the IDB, in view of the low level of absorptive capacity of the country
relative to the availability of financial assistance.
24.       New lending in industrial credit will focus on promoting policy
objectives in the sector, with a view to stimulating production of
non-traditional goods, especially for export, and to encouraging private
sector activity in several areas currently managed by Government agencies.
Sector policy issues would also be vigorously pursued in future lending for
agriculture, to assure adequate incentives to producers in the sector which
employs over half the population and produces one fourth of GDP. New
lending for infrastructure could be considered once the immediate obstacles
to development are overcome and the Government's absorptive capacity has
improved.
25.       The proposed pilot project would be the first to the urban
sector. It will directly assist in improving services to urban
populations, while reducing demands on the Central Government for
counterpart funding. The local counterpart would be provided by BANMA,
with some contributions by participating municipalities; the project would
assist BANMA to increase its capacity and that of the participating
municipalities to service their own debts and thus further alleviate the
financial burden on the Government.
26.       It is expected that the Bank's share of total external public
debt disbursed and outstanding will remain at its current level of
17 percent through the late-1980s. Annual interest and amortization on
Bank loans currently represents about 14 percent of total public external
debt service. This proportion is projected to increase to about 16 percent
by the late-1980s.
27.       IFC's activities in Honduras include a 1964 loan and equity
investment, of USS295,nOO and US$55,000, respectively, In a tannery,
Empresa de Curtidos Centroamericana, S.A. In 1966 an additional equity
investment of USS27,500 was made in this company. In 1968 and 1970 equit-
investments totalling US$75,000 were made in a pilot company, Compania rLno
Celulosa de Centro America, S.A. In 1978 IFC approved a loan of US$9.0
million and an equity investment of US$1.0 million in Textiles Rio Lindo,
S.A. de C.V., a locally owned textile company, to help finance an expansion
and diversification project. IFC continues to look for investment
opportunities in Honduras. A proposal for a shrimp farming project is
currently under consideration.



PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Recent Urbanization Trends
28.       From 1960-1980, the urban population of Honduras more than
tripled to reach about 1.4 million or about 32 percent of the total
population. If current urbanization trends continue, fully three quarters
of the total population growth in the next 20 years will take place in or
move to the nation's towns and cities, as the urban population triples
again to a projected 55 percent of total population by the year 2000.
Already, about 72 percent of the urban population is concentrated in the
Distrito Central, comprising Tegucigalpa and Comayaguela (with a combined
population of about 600,000), and in San Pedro Sula (population 370,000),
the focal point of the economically important northern region. Present
trends indicate that, by the end of the current decade, this concentration
will increase to about 83 percent of the urban population.
Sector Organization
29.       The Municipal Law of the late 1950s embodied the concept of an
autonomous municipal sector and delegated extensive service responsi-
bilities to municipalities. Typically these services include local roads
and drainage, water supply (in most cases), solid waste management and
sanitation, meat inspection and slaughtering, and municipal enterprises,
such as public markets and bus terminals. Though municipalities enjoy
considerable political and operational autonomy (even in the principal
cities, where mayors are appointed by the President), financial constraints
have inhibited their ability to discharge their service responsibilities
and impeded the emergence of effective autonomy.
30.       The Secretariat of the Interior (SOI) is responsible for
political representation of municipalities in the Central Government; it
also provides training for municipal staff (para. 32). The Secretariat of
Finance and Public Credit (SOF), which routinely guarantees loans
contracted by municipalities, has recently focussed on the financial
constraints facing local governments, because of an increasing incidence of
default on local debt obligations.
31.       The Government has relied for the most part on the Autonomous
Municipal Bank (BANMA) to support local development efforts. BANMA was
established in 1961 as a state autonomous financial institution to provide
financial and technical assistance to local governments, contribute to
their economic and social development, and promote their financial
autonomy. Although the scale of BANMA's operations remained relatively
modest until the early 1980s, it has established strong relationships with
its clients.  It is now the major intermediary for municipalities, whose
financial assistance from Central Government is limited to discretionary
grants, mainly from the Secretariat of the Presidency. BANMA's assistance
to municipal development programs in the recent past have concentrated on
investments in water supply, markets, and electrification, chiefly in
smaller urban centers.



Sector Issues
32.       National Support for Sector Development.  Until recently,
municipalities and their needs for infrastructure have been neglected as a
focus of national policy. The investment planning and review process under
CONSUPLANE covers urban areas only to the extent that they are affected by
the investment programs of Central Government agencies. In the past, the
Directorate of Urbanization in the Secretariat of Communications, Public
Works, and Transportation (SECOPT), has prepared outline city plans, but
theEe have rarely been used as a basis for implementing municipal
development programs. SECOPT also operates a facility for training in
infrastructure maintenance, but this has not hitherto been available to
municipal staff. At BANMA's request, detailed design work on water and
electricity distribution systems are now undertaken on behalf of
municipalities by the National Autonomous Water and Sewerage Service
(SANAA) and the National Electric Company (ENEE). BANMA now coordinates
closely with SOI, whose Directorate of Technical Assistance runs training
programs in municipal administration and operations. However, staffing
constraints in SOI have limited the impact of these programs.
33.       Provision of Urban Services.  Rapid urbanization has placed
increasing strains on urban infrastructure. In addition, scarcity of
managerial skills outside the Distrito Central and San Pedro Sula has
prevented the growth of an administrative and technical cadre in most
cities. As a result of these two factors, municipal governments have been
unable to keep pace with the expanding demand for social and economic
services.  Recent surveys by BANMA in 41 municipalities that, combined,
account for about 80 percent of the urban population, indicate severe
deficiencies in the provision of even basic municipal services. Access to
water supply and sewerage is low relative to other countries in the
region. A high proportion of urban roads are unpaved, and access to public
transport is thereby severely limited. Large proportions of urban areas
remain without adequate drainage, causing extensive health-related problems
and disruption to economic activity for long periods during and after
seasonal rains. Solid waste management is very poor or non-existent.
Because of low fee schedules and weak management procedures, markets and
slaughterhouses are badly maintained. Markets have frequently been
constructed to inappropriate and uneconomical design standards. As a
result, they stand unoccupied and represent financial liabilities rather
than productive municipal assets.
34.       The low-income populations of urban centers are growing about
twice as fast as urban populations as a whole (whose growth rates average 5
percent annually) and are most affected by these deficiencies. Excluded
from even the lowest-nriced housing units produced by the public sector, an
estimated 7,000 to 8,J00 families per year in the Distrito Central and San
Pedro Sula alone gravitate toward squatter communities that lack basic
sanitary services. To address the specific problem of these communities,
municipal programs have been initiated with USAID funding, to provide basic
infrastructure and services to marginal areas.



35.       BANMA.  To date, BANMA has financed 170 loans in about 60
municipalities, but its effectiveness as the principal intermediary in the
sector is severely constrained by its poor financial position. Loans
outstanding at year-end 1984 were estimated at about L64 million (US$32
million equivalent) compared to L41 million at year-end 1981. BANMA held
the credit risk on about 65 percent (US$21.0 million equivalent) of this
portfolio. Of this US$21.0 million, about 50 percent, was affected by
arrears amounting to some US$5.0 million equivalent (outstanding
obligations of the Distrito Central accounted for about 70 percent of these
arrears (para. 54)). On a cash basis, annual net profit in 1983
represented 2.5 percent of risk assets; estimates for 1984 are even lower.
*       As a result, BANKA has been unable to contribute to a significant extent to
the financing of its investment program from internally generated funds,
nor has it established reasonable reserves against contingent liabilities
(reserves are currently less than one percent of loans outstanding). Some
85 percent of BANMA's loans are fiduciary loans, i.e. secured on the
genaeral revenues of beneficiary municipalities.  Since these revenues are
inadequate to cover debt service obligations to BANHA, these obligations
have often been borne by the Government in order to keep BANMA solvent. In
order to relieve this financial burden on the Government, BANMA's finances
will have to be improved, which, in turn, depends on a stronger fiscal
effort by BANMA's client municipalities.
36.       Local Revenue Administration and Financial Management.  Municipal
revenue performance in the recent past has been poor, making it impossible
for them to adequately provide the comprehensive range of social and
economic infrastructure services expected of them (para. 29, above).
During the period 1980-83, for example, while inflation averaged over
9 percent per annum and the urban population increased at over 5 percent
per annum, revenues increased by only 7 percent annually, forcing a
significant real reduction in local expenditures. Worse yet, much of the
nominal increase in expenditures was absorbed by increases in staff costs.
Municipalities' contribution to their capital investments has been
negligible, and urgently needed infrastructure improvements have had to be
financed increasingly from borrowings. As a result, local debt servicing
costs have risen sharply as a component of municipal budgets, and in some
cases have been allowed to accumulate to unmanageable levels. While the
Central Government has assisted in covering debt service payments in the
past, owing to its own financial problems, together with this growth in
debt service costs, the Government has had to refuse to honor further
demands for assistance to municipalities. -This has left lenders with
little option but to renegotiate outstanding obligations--in some cases, on
a repeated basis.
37.       The Distrito Central illustrates this trend well.  With a
population of about 600,000 and annual revenues amounting to around US$13
million equivalent, the municipality has annual debt service obligations in
the immediate term of about US$18 million equivalent per year. In a group
of ten other economically important towns and cities identified by BANMA as



- 10 -
priority urban centers, eight have consistently run current account
deficits in recent years and four are in the process of renegotiating debt
service obligations. As a result, and since municipalities' borrowings are
often guaranteed by the Central Government, the Government has been called
upon to meet debt service obligations on behalf of delinquent
municipalities, particularly where foreign lenders are involved.
38.       Revenue improvements have been made by some municipalities
through adjustments in the level of service charges and tbrough
modifications in local taxes, but administration has remained weak.
Property tax records in most municipalities have not been systematically
updated. Maintenance of records, filing and other administrative tasks are
done manually; rapid growth of cities has made it impossible for limited
municipal clerical staffs to keep the necessary data up to date. Property
tax cadasters are incomplete and property values are substantially
understated. Tax enforcement procedures are weak and collection
performance is poor. These problems must be addressed as a first step if
attempts to reform the tax rate structure are to have any effect (such as
those approved for the Distrito Central and San Pedro Sula) are to have a
significant impact.
39.       In the Distrito Central, even though receipts have recently
increased as the impact of the reassessment undertaken in 1979-1980 makes
itself felt, collection performance is still below 65 percent. Arrears on
the property tax account amount to about L25 million (US$12.5 million
equivalent), or fully two years receivables. Collection performance is
considerably lower in most other municipalities.  Delinquencies on the
business tax account in many cities amount to several years' receipts.
Fees and rents on markets and slaughterhouses are well below the economic
rent. This situation is deteriorating progressively and threatens to place
increasing demands for financial assistance on the Central Government. In
order for municipalities to enhance, or even maintain their capacity to
provide essential services to a rapidly increasing population, and to
develop programs which would stimulate an improvement in their economic
base, they must mobilize local fiscal resources more efficiently and manage
them more responsibly.   -
Bank Strategy in the Sector
40.       It is the Bank's purpose to contribute to the development of the
sector by supporting the financial and technical strengthening of BANMA
as the key institution in the urban sector, so that it may provide urgently
needed assistance to municipalities for improvement of esseatial municipal
infrastructure and services. In view of the constraints outlined above,
primarily in terms of financial capacity, the pre-conditions for proceeding
directly with a broad-based urban investment program do not yet exist. As
a first step, the proposed project would help prepare such a program for
possible financing by the Bank, and establish in BANMi the institutional
basis for its implementation. If the proposed project achieves the key
targets established for the first year of implementation, the Bank would
proceed to prepare the first phase of support for the urban sector as a
whole, with BANMA to be designated as implementing agency. The Bank would



- 11 -
continue to support for the urban sector as a whole, with BANMA to be
designated as implementing agency. The Bank would continue to support
BANMA's efforts to strengthen its own institutional capacity and that of
its client municipalities through this future assistance.
41.       Participating Municipalities.  The improved efficiency of
BANMA's principal municipal clients is important to the solution of BANMA's
own financial probLems and the development of its ability to support the
sector.  In order to help BANMA develop its capacity for providing
technical assistance to its clients, the proposed project would channel
both professional services--for strengthening financial management and
pre-investment studies-and financing for specific investments to four
economically important municipalities: the Distrito Central, San Pedro
Sula, El Progreso and Puerto Cortes. These municipalities were chosen for
this pilot project not only because solution of their financial problems is
essential to solving BANMA's own problems, but also because they are the
largest and fastest-growing urban centers, both economically and
demographically, and are responsible for providing services to one fourth
of the country's population. In addition, technical assistance would be
provided to a second group of municipalities which are next in importance
according to the above criteria. Participation of any municipality in the
project would be contingent on their compliance with specific conditions
designed to ensure achievement of project objectives (paras. 49, 53, and
57).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The proposed project was developed as a result of two separate
but related analyses. The first was carried out in response to a request
by BANMA in 1983 for support in developing a broadly focussed urban
services project. The second, completed in the course of preparation and
appraisal of the Water Supply and Drainage Project, approved in May 1984,
identified a need to focus on management of overall municipal operations,
rather than on each service function in isolation.  Discussions with
officials of BANMA, the Municipality of San Pedro Sula, the Distrito
Central, and El Progreso revealed their strong interest in participating in
a pilot program to employ professional services to strengthen their ability
to achieve financial independence and to provide municipal services
efficiently. The project was appraised in November 1984. Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. from April 22 to April 25, 1985. The
Government delegation was led by Ms. Maria Antonieta Dominguez, Director
General of Public Credit, Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit.
Supplementary data are contained in Annex III.
Objectives and Description
43.       The primary objective of the proposed project is to strengthen
BANMA as the principal source of financial and technical assistance for
municipal development programs and to address the financial and managerial



- 12 -
weaknesses in selected municipalities. Under the project, these objectives
would be pursued through assistance to BANMA and to its major client
municipalities, on whose financial strength BANMA's own strength depends.
The project would also assist the Governmnt in formulating a strategy for
further development in the sector, through assistance to CONSUPLANE.
44.       To achieve the above objectives, the proposed project would
include three principal components:
I. BANMA.
A.  Approximately 39 man/months of professional services to assist
BANMA in the areas of:
(1)  organizational planning, to update its organizational manual
and personnel management policies to meet the scale and
complexity of its present and future operations;
(2)  financial planning and control, to define: financial
policies regarding interest rates (particularly with respect
to improving their economic efficiency) and collateral
support for BANMA's lending operations; procedures for
collection and enforcement; measures to strengthen the
financial accounting system through design of a financial
management information system and a system for monitoring
performance of the loan portfolio; and programs and
procedures for internal audit and control; and
(3)  project evaluation, to strengthen its appraisal capability,
especially in the context of urban investment planning and
municipal finance.
B.   The project would also provide financing for BANMA for the
purchase of data processing and records management equipment, to
support more effective portfolio management and improved
financial systems.
II. Participating Hunicipalities.
A.   Professional services totalling 90 man/months to assist
participating municipalities (para. 41, above) in improving their
performance in:
(1)  revenue administration, aimed at achieving greater
efficiency in billing and collection procedures (especially
for property and business taxes) and pricing policies for
major services such as solid waste and public markets;
(2)  budgetary management and financial planning, concentrating
on definition of expenditure policies appropriate to each
municipality's resources and on design of an information



- 13 -
system to enable municipalities to monitor their financial
operations effectively;
(3) urban planning: (a) for the Distrito Central to establish
its development planning capability and (b) for San Pedro
Sula to update its metropolitan economic structure plan,
prepared in the mid-1970s.
B.  A pre-investment fund of about US$1.0 million would be used to
finance pre-feasibility and feasibility studies and detailed
design work for high-priority investment projects. This
assistance would provide hands-on training for municipalities in
investment planning and advance the preparation of needed
investments. Proposals would be selected for pre-investment
studies for investments which: (a) fall within the area of
principal service responsibility of a Participating Municipality;
(b) would improve deficiencies of that service, particularly in
the water supply, drainage and sewerage, and solid waste
management sectors; and Cc) would assist either to increase the
level of economic activity in the municipality or to strengthen
its financial position.
C.  Pilot investments totalling about USS5.8 mlalion would be
financed under the project in the Distrito Central, San Pedro
Sula, El Progreso and Puerto Cortes (para. 41, above).
Investments in data processing equipment were chosen to support
the work to improve municipal financial management. The other
investments were chosen because: {i) they would help to correct
existing service deficiencies in these cities and have been
assigned high priority by municipal authorities, (ii) they can be
implemented quickly, {iii) they would provide a vehicle for
improved management and maintenance of municipal facilities and
for establishment of appropriate service pricing policies (para.
49, below), and (iv) they would provide the means for much-needed
revenues and -are economically justified. The following
investments would be financed:
(1) Distrito Central: (a) equipment for solid waste management,
to increase service coverage to 100 percent, (b) widening of
a critical road link of 1.5 km into the central business
district, to complete a major metropolitan road system, and
(c) computer and records management equipment, office
equipment and supplies to support the strengthening of
revenue administration and budgetary management.
(2) San Pedro Sula: (a) equipment for solid waste management to
provide 100 percent service coverage, (b) equipment for
infrastructure maintenance, (c) upgrading a maintenance
depot, (d) a public retail market, and (e) office equipment
and supplies.



- 14 -
(3) El Progreso: (a) dual-purpose equipment for solid waste
management to provide 100 percent service coverage and for
infrastructure maintenance, (b) extension of the drainage
system to include the entire business district, in order to
reduce disruption of economic activity caused by flooding,
and Cc) records management equipment, office equipment and
supplies to support the strengthening of revenue
administration and budgetary management.
(4)  Puerto Cortes:  a micro-computer, office equipment and
supplies to support the strengthening of revenue
administration and budgetary management.
III. CONSUPLANE.
About 12 man/months of professional services would be provided to help
CONSUPLANE formulate an urban-municipal development policy as a basis
for determining priorities to be included in the next five-year
national development plan.
Project Implementation
45.       BANMA would have lead responsibility for implementation of all
parts of the project except the assistance to CONSUPLANE. Consultants
providing services to CONSUPLANE under the project would work with its
Projects Division, which is responsible for reviewing all public sector
investment proposals. A steering committee, comprising representatives of
CONSUPLANE, SOF, and BANHA, provided support during project preparation and
would be maintained to provide policy guidance and liaison with Government
agencies, as necessary (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.04).
46.       BANMA's General Manager would oversee project implementation.
Consultant advisors to be retained to assist in BANMA's organizational
planning would report directly to the General Manager. BANMA's Directorate
of Technical Services (DTS), whose chief reports directly to the General
Manager, is responsible for assessing the feasibility of municipal
investment proposals. Under the project, DTS would, with assistance from
consultants, help municipalities develop their overall investment program,
implement financial management reforms, and prepare feasibility studies and
planning and engineering designs. During implementation, the DTS would
monitor progress and ensure adherence to agreed schedules. DTS would also
be responsible to submit to the Bank, not later than December 31, 1985, a
training program for municipal staff in maintenance of municipal
infrastructure facilities, and SECOPT would carry out the program according
to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.06). DTS is headed by a competent financial analyst and presently has 15
technical staff including financial analysts, economists, and engineers.
Under the project, technical assistance will be provided to strengthen
DTS's capability in urban planning and municipal financial analysis. To
provide additional technical support, representatives have been assigned to
this working group in BANMA by the Projects Division of CONSUPLANE and the
office of the Superintendent of Autonomous Decentralized Agencies in SOF.



- 15 -
47.       The Directorate of Operations (DO) of BANHA, whose chief also
reports directly to the General Manager, is responsible for BANMA's
financial operations, including budgeting and financial plannii'!%,
accounting and financial control, portfolio management, and treasury
functions. The DO would implement the recommendations of consultants
financed under the project for the strengthening of BANMA's financial
systems and operational performance. The chief of DO is well qualified to
oversee the implementation of financial system improvements. BANMA would
continue to employ individuals in the two key positions of chief of DTS and
DO, whose qualifications, experience and responsibilities shall be
satisfactory to the Bank (draft Project Agreement, Section 3.06).
48.       BANMA's organizational manual is to be updated with consultant
assistance under the project. In particular, this review would: (i) more
clearly define delegated responsibilities; (ii) formulate clear job
descriptions in organizational planning, personnel administration, and
financial operations; and (iii) identify the role of internal audit in
BANMA. BANMA would submit to the Bank by December 31, 1985, its proposed
organizational and staffing changes and the timetable for their
implementation (draft Project Agreement, Section 3.02).
49.       In each municipality, a Project Coordinator would be appointed to
monitor progress of expenditures, consulting work, and investments (where
applicable), and to report on such progress to BANKA on a quarterly basis
(draft Project Agreement, Schedule 2, para. 5(d)and (e)). Pilot
investments would be implemented by the Distrito Central, San Pedro Sula,
El Progreso, and Puerto Cortes. In order to assure the success of the
pilot investments and to ensure that maximum benefit is achieved from them,
special conditions of disbursement have been established for specific
sub-loans:
Ca) for sub-loans to San Pedro Sula and El Progreso for solid waste
collection equipment or infrastructure maintenance, the
respective municipalities must formulate their plan of action for
equipment and infrastructure maintenance;
(b) for a sub-loan to the Distrito Central for construction of the
1.5 km road, the municipality must formulate its plans of action
for (i) traffic management in the zone of the city where the road
is located, and (ii) collection of a betterment tax; and
(c) all sub-loan agreements for solid waste collection equipment will
include obligations of the respective municipalities to put into
effect a plan of action, within three months after the signing of
the agreement, which would establish, according to a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank tariffs for solid waste collection
adequate to cover total operating expenses for the service and
amortization of investment costs (draft Toan Agreement, Schedule
1, para. 3 (f)); and



- 16 -
(d) for a sub-loan to San Pedro Sula for a public retail market, a
feasibility study, satisfactory to the Bank, must have been
completed (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 3 (g)).
The above obligations would be carried out by the respective municipalities
under the respective sub-loan agreements (draft Project Agreement, Schedule
2, paras. 8-10).
Project Cost and Financing
50.       Total project cost is estimated at about US$8.24 million
(including contingencies) of which about US$5.8 million, or 71 percent,
represent foreign exchange cost. Baseline costs are updated to April 1985
price levels, from cost estimates prepared in November 1984. There are no
applicable taxes or duties. Physical contingencies represent 10 percent of
civil works costs only. Price contingencies were calculated on the basis
of forecast international inflation rates of 5 percent for 1985, 7.5
percent for 1986, and 8 percent for 1987 and 1988, for foreign costs, and
local inflation rates of 7 percent each year for local costs.
51.       The proposed Bank loan of US$6.9 million would cover about 84
percent of total project cost. It would finance the foreign cost
{77 percent) of the pilot investments, and the total cost of professional
services, including an estimated US$580,000 for domestic consultants.
BANMA would lend from its own resources about US$1.1 million for sub-loans
for pilot investments (14 percent of total project cost), and the
municipalities receiving those investments would contribute about
US$240,000 (2 percent of total project cost).
Relending Terms and Conditions
52.       About US$6.10 million (plus contingencies) of the proceeds of the
proposed loan would be relent to BANMA on the same terms as the Bank loan.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk. These terms would be
spelled out in a subsidiary loan agreement to be drawn up between the
Government and BANMA. This agreement would specify, inter alia, the
mechanisms for channeling the proceeds of the loan to BANMA and for
repayment of the Bank loan, and that BAIWA would bear the credit risk on
sub-loans. Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01 (a)).
53.       BANMA would relend about US$6.35 million to participating
municipalities (para. 41) to finance sub-projects for professional
services, pre-investment studies, and pilot investments. A sub-loan
agreement for each sub-project would be signed by BANMA and the
municipality receiving the sub-loan. Sub-loan agreements would detail,
inter alia, (a) the terms of the financing, and (b) the content, timing,
and conditions of the sub-project, including indicators appropriate for
monitoring the progress and performance of the work to be done. Execution
of sub-loan agreements for professional services for improvements of



- 17 -
financial management with-the Distrito Central, San Pedro Sula, and El
Progreso, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of
effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01 (c)).
BANMA's Financial Position and Prospects
54.       A detailed financial analysis of BANMA was carried out to
determine (a) the potential for developing its capacity to fulfill its
mandate as financial and technical intermediary in the sector, and (b) the
specific measures required by BANMA and its client municipalities to permit
it to develop this potential (para. 35, above).  The single most important
issue confronting BANMA is the level of arrears. Therefore, in preparation
for the proposed project, BANMA and the Distrito Central finalized an
agreement in early 1985 providing for settlement of these arrears according
to a timetable which is satisfactory to the Bank. Collection of payments
under the settlement agreement with the Distrito Central will improve
BANMA's profits in 1985 and beyond. Consultants' services to all
municipalities and establishment of targets for revenue-collection and
cost-control performance would help municipalities correct their own
deficit problems (para. 57, below).
55.       BANMA's Current Position.  With a debt/equity ratio of 1.1:1,
BANMA's capital structure is satisfactory. BANMA has sufficient liquidity
to provide the counterpart funds required under the proposed project.
56.       Stabilization and Prospects.  All participating municipalities
would formulate plans for liquidation and/or restructuring of outstanding
payments to BANMA similar to those prepared by the Distrito Central and San
Pedro Sula (paras. 54 and 57). BANMA would enforce collection under these
agreements, in order to reduce, by December 31, 1986, arrears in its loan
portfolio to not more than 10 percent of its total portfolio, and maintain
thereafter cash collection of at least 75 percent on all currently due
loans (draft Project Agreement, Section 3.05). In order to maintain its
present satisfactory capital structure, BANMA would obtain the Bank's
approval before incurring any debt over US$8.5 million equivalent (draft
Project Agreement, Section 3.04). Assistance would be provided to BANKA
under the project to formulate recommendations to strengthen BANNA's
policies regarding its reserve for bad debts, interest rates, and
collateral requirements. Based on such recommendations, BANMA would submit
to the Bank by January 31, 1986, a plan of action to strengthen its
policies in those key areas and would carry out the plan, taking into
, account the Bank's comments, according to a timetable satisfactory to the
Bank (draft Project Agreement, Section 3.03).
57.       Municipal Financial Covenants.  The Distrito Central, San Pedro
Sula, and El Progreso, which are most important to a solution of BANKA's
arrearage problem, have made progress in preparing their respective
financial plans. Completion of the financial plan, together with a plan of



- 18 -
action to achieve balance between total municipal revenues and
expenditures, would be a condition of disbursement for any sub-loan to
these tuncipalities (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1 para. 3 (d)). Each
action plan would establish annual targets for, inter alia, increasing
current revenues and controlling debt service and personnel costs. A plan
of action for settlement of outstanding debts is necessary to complement
the financial plans. The Distrito Central has already agreed on an action
plan for settlement of outstanding debt service obligations to BANMA
(para. 54, above). As an additional condition of disbursement for any of
its sub-loans, the Distrito Central must present a satisfactory plan of
action for settlement of outstanding debt service obligations to all
creditors other than BANMA (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 3 (c)
and (e)). San Pedro Sula is already implementing a plan for settlement of
its obligations to all creditors. As a condition of disbursement for
sub-loans to El Progreso and any other participating municipality, the
municipality must present its plan of action for settlement of debt service
obligations to BANMA. Formulation of the financial plans and plans of
action of participatingmunicipalities other than the Distrito Central, San
Pedro Sula, and El Progreso would be carried out with assistance under the
project (draft Project Agreement, Schedule 2, para. -12). BANMA (DTS) would
review progress in achieving the above targets at regular intervals (draft
Project Agreement, Schedule 2, para. 11).
Accounts and Auditing
58.       BANHA will maintain overall project accounts and loan fund
records for all pilot investments and technical assistance under the
project except for assistance to CONSUPLANE. Each participating
municipality will be responsible, under BANMA's guidance, for maintaining
detailed project accounts for pilot investments implemented under the
project. In the past, BANMA has contracted private commercial auditors to
undertake annual financial audits of its overall operations, and standard
audit reports have been completed on a timely basis. BANMA would contract
such firms, satisfactory to the Bank, to audit all project-specific
accounts relating to BANMA and to sub-loans to participating municipalities
and of all statements of expenditure (draft Project Agreement, Section
4.01). CONSUPLANE will account for technical assistance provided to it
under the project, and the Borrower will employ an independent auditor,
satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out an audit of the project accounts of
CONSUPLANE and of the Special Account (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.01).
Procurement
59.       Equipment totalling about US$2.5 million, would be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Packages of equipment costing less than $150,000 each and not
to exceed US$500,000 in aggregate, would be procured through local
shopping. Civil works contracts would be awarded through local competitive
bidding, open to foreign participants, according to procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank. Conwulting services totalling US$2.0 million would
be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines for consultant selection.



- 19 -
Consultant services in municipal revenue administration and financial
management would be procured in a single package. All bidding packages
over US$150,000 would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation. This would result in Bank review of about 85 percent of the
value of all contracts. The balance of contracts would be subject to
random post review by the Bank after contract award.
Disbursements
60.       The Bank loan is expected to be fully di.bursed in about
thirty-six months. The Bank would disburse for 100 percent of all
consulting services and for foreign expenditures on pilot investments.
Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure for contracts
valued at US$20,000 or less. Disbursements would include retroactive
financing for contracts valued at about US$500,000 to cover costs incurred
after April 1, 1985 for computer and records management equipment and for
consulting services which are required for an early start of the work of
institutional strengthening in BANNA and the three principal municipalities
(draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 3(a)).
61.       To speed disbursements, a Special Account would be established
for BANMA by the Borrower in the Central Bank. An initial deposit of
US$1.25 million, equivalent to 4 months projected expenditures (excluding
direct payments), would be made from loan proceeds. The Special Account
would be replenished through normal reimbursement of project expenditures.
In addition, as a condition of effectiveness, a Project Account would be
established in BANMA with an initial deposit of US$200,000 equivalent, to
ensure adequate and timely availability of counterpart funds from BANMA for
project components, excluding professional services for CONSUPLANE (draft
Loan Agreempnt, Section 6.01(b)).
Benefits
62.       The project would stabilize BANMA's financial position and
establish the financial and technical soundness necessary for BANMA to
serve as intermediary and lead executing agency for municipal development
on a larger scale. Stabilization of the participating mimicipalities'
delinquency problems would contribute to the achievement of BANMA' s
targets, as well as relieve the Central Government of the fiscal burden
imposed by such delinquencies. Pilot investments financed under the
project would provide direct benefits to the populations of the beneficiary
municipalities, while enabling the municipal governments to realize
much-needed increases in their revenues. Many measures to be carried out
under the project, such as updating the cadaster in the Distrito Central,
would produce large immediate financial benefits. In addition the impact
of efforts toward institution-building would continue in the medium term.
For example, improvement of municipal investment planning capacity would
guide investments toward economically justified projects which would both
provide needed services and infrastructure and contribute to municipal
revenues, in contrast to the pattern of the past. Projections indicate
that, even if only half of the expected improvements in the budgetary
position of the participating municipalities over the next five years



- 20 -
materializes, the cost of the consultants' services would be repaid many
times over.
Risks
63.       The principal project risk is that participating municipalities
may fail to achieve financial balance. Because the most crucial problem to
be addressed in impr3ving the municipalities' financial situations is that
of poor management of both revenue collection and expenditure controls, the
focus of the proposed project on administrative measures that can be
implemented quickly and directly by municipalities would lessen this risk.
The three major municipalities will be required to establish a revenue
strategy and financial plan for operations as a whole as a condition of
disbursement for sub-loans to them. Performance would be measured by an
agreed set of monitoring indicators, which would be included in sub-loan
agreements.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Honduras and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and BANMA and the Report
of the Committees provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The draft agreements conform to the normal pattern
of loans for urban projects, and their more important features and special
conditions have been included in Part IV and summarized in Section III of
Annex III to this report. There are three special conditions of
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement: (i) that the subsidiary loan
agreement between the Government and BANMA has been duly executed; (ii)
that BANMA has established the Project Account; and (iii) that sub-loan
agreements for professional services for improvement of financial
management have been executed between BANMA and the Distrito Central, San
Pedro Sula, and El Progreso, respectively, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
65.       The following are conditions of disbursement for specific
sub-loans: (i) for any sub-loan to a municipality other than the Distrito
Central or San Pedro Sula, that the respective municipality has presented a
satisfactory plan of action for settlement of its debt service obligations
to BANMA; (ii) for any sub-loan to the Distrito Central, that it has
formulated a plan to restructure its debt service obligations other than
those to BANMA; (iii) for any sub-loan to the Distrito Central, San Pedro
Sula, or El Progreso, that the respective municipality has submitted to the
Bank a satisfactory financial plan; (iv) for any solid waste collection
sub-project, that the respective municipality has formulated a plan of
action which would establish, according to a satisfactory timetable,
tariffs adequate to cover all costs related to the service; (v) for solid
waste equipment or infrastructure maintenance in San Pedro Sula and El
Progreso, that the respective municipality has formulated a satisfactory



- 21 -
maintenance plan; (vi) for road construction in the Distrito Central, that
the municipality has formulated its plans of action for traffic management
and collection of a betterment tax; and (vii) for a public retail market in
San Pedro Sula, that a satisfactory feasibility study had been completed.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 22, 1985
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-22-                                               Page 1 of 5
UlOllDUB              - MAL INDICATOR  STA 
axrznc  csun cvtu;Dm         X
HonT                (MCT R1N  TITXATI) 1
i,eo(k    19701k      macm=          Kim" iwu.u             KIDOLKTNCONZ
igGLl, isitb   znant3.iLb    LAT. Auatrca &en              msns
AULCMOM S- M)
TOTAL                              112.1       112.1      112.1
AGRICULTUIAL                        46.6       49.4        51.6
ow      CAI  cuss)                    i01a.o     290.0       660.0             210S.6                 2345.3
in cuxs
(KIL0OANS OF OIL IQUIVALENT)       102.0      190.0       206.0              995.5                 1122.8
PPATIW AM XTAL IIC
POPULATION.HlD-TRAR (THOUSANDS)    1943.0    2639.0      3957.0
U03  POPULATION CZ OF TOTAL)        22.8       26.9        37.3               66.5                   46.a
POPULAT'ON PROJECfTONS
POPUIATION Is YEAR 2000 (HILL)                            6.B
STATIONARY JPOPUATION CHILL)                             16.5
POPULATION                                                2.0
POPJLUAfION DENSITY
PER SQ. EN.                       17.3       23.5        34.1               35.7                   82.9
PER SQ. It. AGRI. LAND            39.8       53.4        74.0               92.4                  15e.9
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (I)
0-1L US                          45.6        47.4       47.2               39.9                    31.6
15-64 YRS                         52.3       50.1        50.0               56.0                   61.1
65 AND ABOVE                       2.1         2.5        2.7                6.1                    7.1
POPULArION GROWH RATE (C)
TOIAL                              3.3        3.1         3.4                2.4                    1.6
URBA                               5.8        5.5         5.5                3.6                    3.7
CRUDE 31RTH RATE (PER THOLS)        51.1       49.3        43.8               31.3                   23.4
CRLDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)        16.8       14.5        10.3                3.1                    5.8
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.5        3.6         3.1                2.0                    1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNAL (THOIUS)           .         12.7
USERS (I OF HARRIED IWOEN)          ..          .-       27.0               0.3
FOOD A- NUTRIION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       83.0      -97.0        79.0              114.3                  114.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIREENTS)       96.0       95.0        96.0              110.6                  12B.6
PROTEINS (CRANS PER OAY)          58.0       55.0        51.0               67.3                   89.7
OF OHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       22.0       20.0        18.0 IC            34.1                   34.5
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE         30.0       19-1         8.4                5.7                    5.2
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)       46.5       52.5        59.5               64.7                   67.4
INFAST MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)      144.7      118.0        B2-9               60.6                   54.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (troP)
TOTAL                             12.1        34.0       46.0 Id            65.4 
URBAN                             42.9         -.        82.0 7d            73.1
RURAL                              2.7          ..       27.0 7d            46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(1 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..       24.0        26.0 ie            52.9
URBAN.                                       6440        53-0 77            S7.0
RURAL                               ..        9.0        13.0 7             24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         12620.0     3790.0 th  3120.0 If           1917.7                 1065.a
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           3110.0      1130.0      700.0 If           815.8                  764.4
PoP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            620.0       580.0      7400 Ig            367.2                  326.3
URBMAN                                                                     411.5                  201.5
RURAL                               ..         ..          ..             2636.3
ADMISSONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        19.8       29.1 /c            27.3                   20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.7          ..         ..                 .           -           -
URBAN                              5.5         . _
RURAL                              5.7          ..
AVEkAGE SD. OF PERSONS/ROOn
TOTAL                              2.4         ..
UWRB                               l.5         .- 
RLtAL                              2.7          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. ( OF D.ELLINGS)
TO-TL                             14.6        25.0 It     -
URAN                              56.7       67.1 7f       ..
RURAL                              1-9.        S.-57       ..                  ..



ANNEX I
-23 -                                                 Page 2 of s
HDIIDII32              - SOCIAL InDoCATOU DATA 9T
HO2IDIIIAS                              h       RhMPS (MuMN72D A96AU) La.
MONT                (HOT RCINT 23TIMATS)  "
RECENT        KIDDLE ImCOm
i,*oLk     t7OA       nTDIA*_    IAT. ANMCU&  C ea                2UMOR
WUl=TD    N rCLMf RA=TIM
nIPAs,.  TOTAL                     67.0        67.0        95.0               105.4                  101.1
FALB                   6b.0         67.0        96.0               lOb.3                   103.5
rIULG                   67.0        6.0         95.0               104.5                   96.7
59CONDARYi TOTAL                    8.0        14.0        30.0               43.2                    59.1
MALl                     8.0        14.0        29.0                42.3                   66.9
FImLE                    7.0        13.0        30.0                44.5                   50.6
VOCATIONAL Cl oF   ONDIT)            23.6       1.0         22.3 /f             33.6                   21.6
PUPIL-TEA CHZ RATIO
PADiAlY                            32.0        35.0        37.0                30.1                   25.1
SECONDARY                          10.0          ..        19.0                16.6                   20.5
AD011T LXTUACT DATE (S)              45.0        57.0 /      60.0  .             79.5                   75.6
PA55630X1 CARS/TWOUSAID POP           2.8         4.6         6.4 I              46.0                   34.7
AIU10 RSCEIVENS/TIOUSAND POP         64.3        55.7        47.7               225.6                  164.9
TV Rnz3s/TnUM  POP                    0.7         8.3        13.3               107.2                  123.6
IEVPAPZtR DAILY GUIUAL
INTEREST") CZICUWATIOU
PER TDUSAND POPMATION              19.2        41.5        62.6 If             63.5                   96.3
CLSDIA AJUMAL ATTEDACE/CAPITA          ..          ..          ..                 2.8                    2.9
TOrAL L.30 FOlCZ (TRIUS)            617.0       793.0      1153.0
FnaLu  (PEN)                       12.3        12.7        14.1                23.2                   34.5
ASGRI LTUEZ (PERdINT)              70.2        66.5        62.5                31.5                   40.7
INDUSTRY (PERENT)                  10.6        12.5        19.6               23.9                    23.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              31.8        30.0        29.1                32.2                   42.9
I ALE                              55.3        52.3        49.9                49.3                   54.7
FENALE                              7.9         7.7        863                 15.2                   31.0
EdONHC DEPENDENCY IRATIO              1.5         1.7         1.7                 1.4                    0.9
PERCENT OF PlVATE IRCEIE
RECEIVED By
HIGWST 5SOF NUOSJUOLDS               ..
HIICHEST 20S  EOFUSEIlOLDS           ..        67.O /k
WIdEST 201 or HOUSOLDS               ..         2.3 W.
LITES  401 OF HOtJSEZOLDS            ..         7.3 7        .
STtL&IED A3S0U11TE PoTY iNCOE
LEVL (US$ I11 CAPITA)
aRIAS                                ..          ..       255.0Oj             266.2
RUAL                                 ..          ..       180.0               184.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INC ME
LEL (USS PER. CAITA)
UlmW                                 ..          ..       251.0 1             522.8
RUAL                                 ..     .     .         0.01              372.4
ESTIMD POP. BEW A3SOLUTE
POVERTY INcae LCL (2)
DURU                           .                            ..... 14.0/ ..
HoT AVAIABL
NOT APPLICABLE.
N O T E s
/a  The group averags for each tndicator are population-veighted arcltmtic nean. Corage of countrs. among the
ioditars depends on avilability of data and Is not uniform.
lb   Unlas otberwiee noted, -Mta for 1960' refer to  nr year b.tw_n 1959 and 1961; 'Mt& for 1970- betmen 1969 end
1971; and data for 'Rott ecene Eatlate' between 1960 and 1962.
Sc  1977; /d 1976; _a 1975; /f 1979; L 1978; /b Rmsistared. no all prscticing ia the country; /I 1974; ei 1962;
jrJk 1967.
JUNE5. 1984



-24 -                                                                Annex I
Pagerrof 5
lb mleema eme  -  () a mmmir  m..S ti  meimm  meeli med  llm"mm,   lamm     . mik mAdid Mete b.9mm"tr It e 1m" lb  totp 09ins 1m11Ike
eB"e. emm    .m n IM [it1l. ime   Utr lmmli~   lim ab olps 954   d. ims bil fMpT. Nald, Easesb1  I.-A    "Ohmmm bern mldo miemme m .-etmmimt ob
almIm.it lb ." p. emW    . i.e. lb as cm.  Imp ememm  lm.  ien Nded Oebedleftmum emidt lms* a.  anoll bmet Wm mjmtlp ml a  smite ta
gio S   s   imp155 islmms-. atmt. an  eeeg .1 mmadelwd mip leillmeemp. Semi. - at. memlbhllp  l i.e. ai isa  am en,fw   male mt h.
e .,am  Im minIim  minimu  or -o fmiwlaom   of   Ve . iem  scamp  -  map mid.VSm    mt'No lb. imie  smi m        dw& m IsUMe    ell no lb int    ad
lItm             I iem.b.                                                                                 vm-mtmo" di-some fV   ml por      ler
- mmirmil  m   emmt"tpold  mi pm.. md,  telmWoo meeim  cIne,            Zio5ltE- Ni  mqm. mm    mat v-I  a omememeo temp.
yUe ad a."s ai.                                                                                                                               t almielam   mdteemlpm  emamph!~lt~Pm e   tlo   ia   linae.
"PB               ola naliootwo04C'Wual     .1fll                                                              I  mmiam   -. aneitm  sMUM   a
W iMl.pmmim.  mlMi a blIS  asia. So em It. leths ilow.                           innIe menuco
III, old ifti 4".. ~ ~ ~ ~     ~         ~        ~        ~        ~       ~ ~ ~     bpe m
RS   9STgt,an) -m eV  m., lt. -1isaIm. ml imemee  mIteWIole,                         smeebIk           , elmma smamf sweed .emeisiag    hqpset mm
sees. soe.m     e is.                                                              ep  mMe -o"      phmemle. ft"Imdail-e  v-Mmt"e pmtmMpelly, et.
-W  mec SW lis1mmimi. m--, bepliek. kIatM. WINmb Mtoll d
pcleepmmiiiSims  i lj~e, umitees.mse B. peomd kgice-. smimm            dmlmlamtm  pm, sail., .me.) as14 oiled tmeelmmeial
mi    Notmes .mie mol . hm Notrdcm    f.41  mqemmm   i    epims totes.            P-aft m tetimw mew m1' mites pmlimu.
cmi empies ses,ieee.        seine ,o   b.a  ..  "M WWItim mmmmn 151 msmslu   mmv   wem.u
~IaUppfte2gflje                                                             &m-pmmma me   -.  me b-   Wtym41. pa.W -v miml memi  mist6 
7maliI.m2t~enW -   .i.a   mmolite njemsem       temia liO  SmmmppmisemaldemIm, -M-.mdemn   emo
11IstireiikisWiMm  m  mmdIti   mt a--MLro-  ImntIL-ap                            Smtitng. emmemnlmep. bmtisum  mamadd i...m.-ml mln-im    .5 
iee.  lj-4sm  mImtm 9.K nr mULaty, Sole mmmmsiml shi                        emmepeI   m.
-inm    Immiit. s   mqmflmmm  - kli-e Se-emmIn .10h mas. mePm.    me.men,c                             m  mlei-  ..            a amm 
mmmiii alma  e Emiltle  dimpLft. em   - mm   1 lad    pet flar
J-filsufIssl.m 4.1t -td E-iti ag-W .5  pie          KS-mmlm eminm-li                                   elm  m     m    m -U    ...emal
min -mkm  minuS J.ml   =mmeelt        ..iitl              _ilfkiftU.iiikii                  tem  .m  ......e m.  -mmmmLmm
ine  5m  melimmic emtm  m seelmcmm--    mme (a1                             piim e. m lemePmpett"dtle   mel leite-  dlUtimmin           mtI
coepsi-21:  met-t. I. mm..k  ememll.% th. tint cci I. -mett                       P-ca  W1 mijem-m  ffm ilwftse    smmeem, ml em p ma-1en im
ao  mail mm. td-a   cam. tim cW me-cmmi   t- l  mil-t-.  Wl itmaced  mitt dmiemmm  mi.Smts   memiume  mm W                            IC in  ooo
gcmmk 'a. Im me.         atd, o"clo.. tkimmt.pmpllmm.  mesem   mi.me  en pollk SW mi1e -  mta lb ePPidi ea.t "P.
tees.C ml   MIb mniem  chimm -msme  me lb pmplim   . 1     i.itmScnmlml-elkm   m    mt   Cmpmmei mm 0mmmg mmMmm,
55 Wm lb1m  ml Sitiem mulmteltst mm. mmememlaeS .                            mimele       64 -  tems cm  pen             - O P mei pepem  bl-mti
Pi,.ii  Smie -tis-   tflm impmimm  mm   em m'eimm l.Pmmii. uncle.3 emeel1l Sm imim leIl. emmmsE
is    a  lm   bm   eimiWo,o lm M ieeeW.I Sm iem W epIt   lbemite  meii
mai  endn.                                                                    ust'mee  mmm-.lm.m                    W-Itm1  emma.a,.te,  A  I" smt doe
ft. -        -A -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~piy -ele   Iee. dimeti h tame. ml  -ememsi
me. mpIme_ ieee  me0. a  mci da.                                               deli esrocz.  np(mpel- U.lmmm    mate., lt.1  -Wm  m  aII)
C-  pme.       mmcio at    e.. a mmit-     -        hnm .We m  ti- d-            Peme  Can Ifmp ileem  mmim--cl y-   bee. em  -nlm   em-.-
emmlnttm; sen.teem, ama in.                                               mmt mml.         Iemam-uR       e   km   l m,ke.m.m
imeeatla  temib mmi l.m.mei -mel  P.,e emmett p.tm    selel -                                                 IN smp  ineatem
ymmpemeleel p. tes-em  see-es  a eel-e.                    mdl.tatm.(. ft  stm   mclaa - Ott- mep3mistmm T                eV  il
Cmollm e   Icnesms  &-cimei   me.f .. - a  m i5,-     m enl ma                      himmm  m lmeem pMmm im   mt ~1WAa s   ?viis          l
mm.lflm  ..cci...te-em,  a  hIp.n                                          stPmd-.tem   i   ae        m ee   mpmimmle  lmmi
SWme mStmnmlenm..i     em  tm55    m  ti    le                                     el   -do Wm Itml dam mm" Wmm 1    en. mem           mmtmm         a
pm..ceptetel imm  mc.,      si-c..                                        .e.mn..a--ama t-emee
loem a mmitmtn     Pg   a    lilir                        iehni                      .maim  a"  "Mm pem  0mm2 ditmcaeSUa   m   a.
im  ame  mmmse   ns   cmmmmis                     "eieeeh-meI.c.              tae.am          i  In.U  lemmes minIise         ffa   -A  met
liii.                                                                      emklm.mleSmiled pitmmL e  5- . immtooe  fM     -,mle.  itb leelie
Sf- tMc-emmim eie IS          pe- e C alm-   emmum.y ilMle S                          amines W,mie      c Came... imip a-K9;o mmir -m ml. -a. 
-Wd.ie                                                                            damn, end issng- -n   C.S.U lbqWleldm  -      - imimi.- -ootlme  -d
i-cmf-mtm- mm  WwI.mne ml-mmlm mcmi -imp-a.m   cm"M.chsoflmt
rmn Ve  .pii "   meicii   .inI,_    Spm  seem.v imm cl. E                      ---:11   4   W  -.942                            1  P
iknli-tmail4. .00- dcm -m5p e      . mm s.ft-l. metSt. ic  e-IG  9.in tlliThbb                              11iW-- neeln    aiIm. eme   Iesle      im
2.11:7    0-11%  -Id.".&  -W-K-S. bodyle  .0 mtIpem..btmtt-     S ipd e                                     imonm
cw   -1   t --m Cinsm  tn.i-snm     .mmm  iim .,                                        - rmei nh. miim        emmet.. lP.i. sc.  na-9.
sm p.immtm m se    Wa emi   -dm.   aetct cee-mi  maapsimPi i  em.i   e., a
I..                                                                       immi emie asIn     mmm1m -"sImt.elm,a e-ji -peelamemle m
-m    - sp -m eecl ml .tmte   (mtec mc~ -U.eemml- ae S"lee ".                        lmlm  ieee e      -Mi e latme el,ac-Pie
minin mietetm e." Smer led"s mnlm   mimiet in.mmm  nmmi .                          msmmm  et -.i   me   meet   lm.s    meeei
dey    ~ aInmkt  .mtm  im.m  imi.pmae             .  ios". ma "                     0af,-mime  a  ten dam, lime  -L31 m- Semmmm-dea
me   mn   ilmm  ep cam   4- neimemSainm.   mini.614 Isp mni-C                                   S-"        t- 5me .  e 2i  em.  sn- a- a. aem .2
msmtmn  a leak    tamng memnmi memim   bip eSe..                 .4memeimceesle       I     MIan   si fl-Ma.    --co
cc hc.mtmei keel: 5145-B. flip a  as dete.                 mm e-sc1ielaqim      .3   Ab.- 9-K.  = 
P.mmiim mml m cms lce  mcdi)  imenenemamlsW  sI -mm.                E     -J94     sm mi  (e-S      Im  mml a tie    mteik   ms 
ee. mnmmm. mlflsfeee   kmi mmle  Sclm   1km.
nemi hi    Oms tpI. lee-an, -lii W4i iss.                                   leie-   imin r-e&-mmabte   s  mma    -4 ink. md emt
AW5  mi  .h -m1. -   c_-6imm  m  i  -14 mm..; Is. met im--Iefesmll  mmilm                                      a  m  .imim   m          mn   ee
e   Wciemda  immmu nin  alcimn;           . stePa.-- i.-.                     emme   es  P.meaty   mm  mne  miaE m   mm
tm 4wr.f-tda" 9-  -d_    ~            ~            ~           atitemiemei  m tse    a  l tmn  mm   mm
tee  cslm  mm..1 SW  . immdn - Mtmc imt-WKml iss  mini W
_0 mlme    bym Uss  tI  hI_t WIin ie             .  eeli
miscl mImi   miem    l.man)   mm,els        ii 



-25 -
AM 1
.~ 4 of 5
W0OURAS - 80110C DDICA700
PaPuItlan:      3.7 (1984 - Mdll.)
UP per Capdta: USS 660 (1982)
_ tt
Indcator                  (illin 1155              Share of CUP at Nrlret Priea (Z)                  Average hAml Incres (C)
at Currmet price)                (at erant pric)                                (atr cotant Priem )
1984       16    1970    16       1981   1962   1963  19684) 1960-70  1970-75   197540   1980-3
NACTieL ACCOUM
GCS  dorel  paet (a)              3,187       100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0         4.7       2.3       7.3      -0.4
AIcldture                        766        33.8   29.4   25.3   24.8   24.7   24.6   24.0          4.6      -0.9        6.7      1.6
Indstry                          736        17.1   ZD.2   23.4   22.4   23.0   22.8   23.1          5.n       3.9       8.2      -1.9
Service.                                        1.333       39.5   40.8   40.3   41.3   42.1   42.0   41.8           4.7      3.8        6.5     -0.7
Conn_mptin                        2,740        87.7   85.7   81.2   86.1   87.4   88.8   16.0          5.1       2.7       7.4      -1.8
Craw InvetG 60                                 13.9   20.9   26.2   19.8   17.3   16.0   19.0          8.5       0.8       12.5    -18.2
Export of                           1150       21.4   27.3   37.9   32.7   26.9   26.2   26.6          8.9      -0.3        9.2     -1.4
Imports aof WS                    1.014        23.0   33.9   45.3   40.3   29.1   30.R   31.6         11.0       1.2       11.7    -12.3
Grow Natlomi Savin                  304        14.8   11.5   13.5    9.8    6.2    8.6    9.5          0.4      -1.2       3.3
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984(P)
GOP Deflator                                  100.0  110.0  122.0  128.0  137.0  146.0  153.0
Exch1ge Rate                                    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0
Export Price Index                            100.0  105.0. 123.8  115.5  114.6  114.9  119.6
Import Price Tnd-x                            100.0  116.7  134.8  141.3  138.9  142.4  148.0
Terma of Trade Iodc                           100.0   89.0   91.1    11.7   82.5   80.7   110.
rCop.,itton of lhercbendise TEad  (Z)               Average Aiuml ,rsem (C)
Cat current Prices)                               (at constant prices)
1960  1970   .90  1981  1962  1963  198'. ()             1960-70  1970-75   1975-80  1961-t4tb)
exports                                100.0-  J00.0  IW.0  100.0  10.0  100.0  100.0              12.5     -0.5       11.6     -0.3
Pri_ry                                94.6  71.1   72.3  69.3  72.0  68.0  (4.3                   8.6      -1.1       11.3    -2.8
.eufacturs and Otber                   5.4  28.9   27.7  30.7  28.0  32.0  35.7                   31.2      1.9       12.4      4.<
Isparta                                100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0              16.2     -3.1        8.5     -5.7
food                                  21.9   6.4    8.2   R.8   8.8   9.4  10.1                  -9.0       8.5        6.9     -1.2
PetroleM                               8,2   6.6   16.5  18.2  24.6  21.3  21.7                   31.5    -11.4       -0.9      0
Capitsl Goods                         19.j 30,0      25.2  25.8  19.2  I.4  20.6                 19.2      0.6       10.5    -12.4
Others                                50.3  57.0   50.1  47.2  47.3  50.9  47.6                   11.5     -2.6       10.3     -5.4
As Z of GUP
1960  1970   1980  1981  1982  1983(P) 1984(P)
PUBLIJC !b)
aCrent IknH1515                                            109.0  13.1   15.2  14.0  13.8  13.2    14.8
Current Expenditurep                                        9.5  10.9   14.7  16.9  15.5  16.5    16.3
Sarplow (+) or Dmficit C-)                                  1.4   2.2    0.5  -0.9  -1.7  -3.3    -1.5
Capital Enditrs                                             2.5   4.5    5.7   4.0   4.6   4.7         5.1
Net landing                                                 n_a.  n.a.   2.7   2.7   5.3   2.4         2.8
Foreign FiaTn       MMec)                                   1.1   0.9    5.1   4.8   6.7   5.2         7.0
Doetic Fnancing (Net)                                       na.  fta.   2.8   2.8   4.9   5.2          2.4
1960-70      1970-75      1375-80       1980-83
QIP Ckasth bfte Cx)                                           4.7           3.1          5.9         -0.6
CIP Per Cita ormath lure (2)                                  1.5         -0.1           2.5
Elactricity Ca,_u,tinn Crouth Nate (2)                       14.9          13A          11.7         -
lOW                                                           3.6           9.9          3.8        -41.3
Impo  Elasticity                                              2.3           1.6          1.4         27.8
(a) At _rket prices. components are expres.W  at factor cast
and  lU nOt add de to the  clusion Ut ondirec  tm and gibMidie..
(b) Cetal G_erom  aily.
Cp) Prelminary.
Kay 1985



- 26 -
MI    I
Pag 5 oE 5
HICURAS - BAANM OF PAMDfS. EaERNAL CAPITAL AND DEMT
(minions of U1S$ at current prcim)
Population:      3.7 (1984 -      onB)
GNP per Capita: IIS$ 660 (1982)
Indicator                             1970      1975    1980      1981     1982     1983     1984
BALANCE OF PAlMSI
Erports of Coods and Services                 199      351      967      903      783      811      887
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.                178      310     850       784      676      694      766
Imports of Goods and Services                 269      481   1,306    1,233    1,038    1,080    1,210
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.                    203      372      954      898      680      761      844
Net Transfers                                     6       17       21       27       30       45        80
Current Account Balance                         -63     -113    -317      -303     -224     -225     -243
Private Direct Investment                       a        7       6        -4       14       18         8
MLT ITn  (net)                                 26       93     246       217      155      185       210
Official                                     27       88     132       174      152      193      319
Private                                     -1         5     114        93        3       -8    -109
Other Capital                                  21       67       11       16      -37        5        16
Cbange in Reserves (-increase)                  9      -54      54        74       92       17         9
EENAL CAITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disburseients                            29      112     276       276      223      315       -
Off icikl Grants                             -        13       14       19       22       80       -
Concessional Loans                           17       17      62        73      101       68       -
DA-                                        7       12      1R        3^       58       62       -
OPEC Special Fund                        -         -       -        -         -         4       -
MA                                         2        2      18        13        3        2       -
Other                                      8        3      26        29       40       -        -
Now-concessional Lans                        12       82     200       184      100      167       -
Official Export Credits                  -         22      12       40        13        6       -
*  TUW                                    10       13      24       30        47       58       -
- Other Multilateral                          2       39      53       27        20       70       -
Private                                    -        8     111        87       30       33       -
Externl Debt
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed               90      264     991    1,234    1,385    1,570        -
Official                                   86      244     713      863    1,003    1,160        -
Private                                     4       20     278       371      382      410       -
Undisbhrsed Debt                             54      185     725       722      660      743       -
Debt Service
Total Service Payments                        6       17      98       121      140      121       -
Interest                                   3       10      50        77       97       83       -
Payments as Z exports                         2.8      4.7    10.8      13.8     18.2     15.0     -
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (:)          4.1      5.9      7.0     10.4      6.9       5.9   --
Average Maturity of New Lons. (yrs)            29.6    19.4    23.8       19.7     19.7    24.8       -
Nay 1985



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page I of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN )ONDURAS
A. STAlTMfM! OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS 8/ (Net of cancellations)
(As of Mrcb 31, 1985)
Loan or
Credit   Year        Borrower              Purpose            Bank    TDA    Undisbursed
No.                                                                  (USS millions)
Sixteen loans and eleven credits fully disbursed.         160.5   80.0
(1341    1976   Government            ) Seventh               28.0     -            0.6
(1342    1976   Government            )   Highway              7.0     -            0.1
(1395    1977   Government            ) Third Port (Puerto    5.0      -            0.02
(1396    1977   Empresa Nac.Port.    )    Castilla)            7.0     -            0.03
C 696*   1977   Governent             )                        -       5.0*         -
777    1978   Government               Second Education       -       5.0         0.5
1576    1978   Government              Regional
Development        10.5-    -            0.6
1659    1979   Government               Industrial Credit    15.0      -           1.4
1673    1979   Government              Tourism               19.5      -          11.4
(1805    1980   Emp.Nacional de      )  Eighth Power
(                 Energia Electrica)       (El Cajon)        105.0     -           13.0
( 989*   1980   Governent            )                         -      20.0*         -
(1833    1980   Government           )  Second Agricul-       20.0     -            2.4
(1005*   1980   Government           )     tural Credit        -       5.0*         -
1861    1980   Govern ent              Petroleum
Exploration
Promotion           3.0     -            1.4
1901    1980   Governa nt              Eighth Highway        28.0     -            8.3
2075    1981   Govern ent               Second Industrial
Credit             30.0     -           17.0
2284    1983   Government               Third Agricultural
Credit             45.0     -           36.4
Total                                               483.5    85.0
of which has been repaid                           61.9     2.9
Amount sold                     4.5
of which has been repaid     4.5                    _        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA a/                   421.6    82.2
Total undisbursed                                    93.2     0.6        93.8
Total now outstanding                               328.4   81.6
a/     Including exchange adjustment.
*      Pully disbursed credits which mere part of loan packages still under execution are
itemized for clarity. However, they are included in the eleven fully disbursed
credits totalling USS80.0 million.
Note: A loan of $19.6 minlion to the Government was signed subsequent to the above date
of Statement A; it is not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STAIMEENT OF IFC INVESINENTS
(As of March 31, 1985)
Year                 Obligor                 Type of Business    Loan  Equity   Total
(US$ millions)
1964/66    Emp. de Curtidos Centro-           Tannery               0.30    0.08    0.38
americana S.A. (ECCASA)
1969/70    Cla. Pino Celulosa de              Pulp and Paper         -      0.08    0.08
Centroamerica (COPINO)
1978       Textiles Rio Lindo, b.A.           Textiles & Fibers    9.00    1.00   10.00
de C.V.
Total gross commiLments                                  9.30    1.16   10.46
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                                              6.90    0.16    7.06
Total nov held by InC                                    2.40    1.00    3.40
Total undisbursed



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PILOT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:        6 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                             BANHA in
consultation with
the Bank
(c)  Identification of the project:                   May 1984
gd)  Departure of appraisal mission:                  October 29, 1984
(e)  Completion of negotiations:                      April 25, 1985
(f)  Date planned for loan effectiveness:             August 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) As a condition of effectiveness, sub-loan agreements for
professional services for improvement of financial management
between BANIA and the Distrito Central, San Pedro Sula, and El
Progreso, would be executed (para. 53);
(b) As a condition of effectiveness, BANKA would establish the Project
Account (para. 61);
(c) As a condition of disbursement for any sub-loan to the Distrito
Central, San Pedro Sula, or El Progreso, the municipality would
formulate its respective financial plan (para. 57);
(d) As a condition of disbursement for any sub-loan to a municipality
other than the Distrito Central or San Pedro Sula, the municipality
would present a satisfactory plan of action for the settlement of
its respective debt service obligations to BANMA. As a condition
of disbursement for any sub-loan to the Distrito Central, it would
present a satisfactory plan of action for the settlement of its
debt service obligations to creditors other than BANMA (para. 57);



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) As a condition of disbursement for sub-loans (1) for solid waste
equipment or infrastructure maintenance in San Pedro Sula and El
Progreso, the respective municipality would formulate a
satisfactory maintenance plan; Cii) for road construction, the
Distrito Central would formulate its plans of action for traffic
management and collection of a betterment tax; (iii) for any solid
waste collection sub-project, the respective municipality would
formulate a plan of action Which would establish, according to a
satisfactory timetable, tariffs adequate to cover all costs related
to the service; and (iv) for a sub-loan to San Pedro Sula for a
public retail market, that a satisfactory feasibility study had
been completed (para. 49);
(f) A steering committee would be maintained to provide policy guidance
for the project (para. 45);
(g)  BANMA would submit to the Bank, not IRter than December 31, 1985, a
training program on maintenance of municipal infrastructure
facilities for municipal staff, and SECOPT would carry out the
program (para. 46);
(h) BANMA would carry out measures for its institutional and financial
strengthening (paras. 48 and 56);
(i)  BANMA would assure that all participating municipalities comply
with all criteria, terms, and conditions of sub-loans and carry out
measures for institutional and financial strengthening (paras. 49,
53, 57).



c~~~~~~~~~~~a.                                                                 MEZICO
.,.                                                      -..                                                   -  0 
'" W.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~   -~~~ea
B E L I Z E                                                         A;A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                        ,
p.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~,aau 
ig~~                            *          
t-N 41 004-yr, lwb~~~~~~~~ ~~;,l  sq~~~~,&~~v li"MY 86






