Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19430
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
INNOVATIONS IN BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 3375-BR)
June 28, 1999
Brazil Country Management Unit
Human and Social Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Local Currency Unit:   Real (R$)1
Rate at Appraisal:       US$1.00=  Cz$230.34
(March 1991)             Cz$1.00=  US$0.004
Cz$l million= US$4,000
Rate at Completion:      US$1.00=  R$1.18
(December 1998)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CENPEC         Center for Research on Education, Culture and Community Action
Centro de Estudos e Pesquisas em Educa,cio, Cultura e A ,do Comunitdria
DRE            Regional Education Divisions
(Divisoes Regionais de Ensino)
DSE            School Food Provisions Department
(Departamento de Suprimento Escolar)
FDE            Foundation for Educational Development
(Fundaqdo de Desenvolvimento de Educa,do)
FIPE           Economic Research Institute
Funda,co Instituto de Pesquisas Econ6micas
F UNCRAF       Foundation for the Study and Treatment of Craniofacial Disorders
(Fundaadopara o Estudo e Tratamento das Deformidades Crdnio-Faciais)
FUTNDAP        Foundation for Development of Public Administration
(Funda,ao de Desenvolvimento da Administra,cdo Publica)
FUNDEF        National Basic Education Fund
(Fundo para Ensino Fundamental)
GSP            Greater Sao Paulo
IEB            Innovations in Basic Education Project
(Inova,ces de Ensino Basico)
IT            Information Technology
NGO            Nongovernmnental Organization
PEC            Continuing Education Program
(Programa de Educa,do Continuada)
SAE            Sistema de Administracao Escolar
SAEB           Educational Evaluation System of Brazil
(Sistema de Avalia,do do Ensino do Brasil)
SARESP        Educational Evaluation System of Sao Paulo
(Sistema de Avaliaccio do Rendimento Escolar de Sdo Paulo)
SEADE         Foundation for Data Analysis
(Funda,cao Sistema e Analise de Dados)
SEE            Secretariat of Education of the State of Sao Paulo
(Secretaria de Estado de Educa,do)
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Sector Director: Xavier E. Coll
Country Director: Gobind T. Nankani
Task Manager: Robin S. Horn
The Cruzado (Cz$) was in use at the time of Project appraisal. The Real (R$) was introduced in 1994.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
INNOVATIONS IN BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 3375-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page no.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                               i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                        1
A. Background                                                             1
B. Project Objectives, Components and Design                             3
C. The Implementation Record                                             6
D. Achievement of Project Objectives                                      8
E. Use of Consultants                                                    22
F. Project Sustainability and Future Operations                          22
G. Bank Performance                                                      23
H. Borrower Perfonnance                                                  24
I. Assessment of Outcome                                                 25
J. Findings, Lessons and Future Actions                                  26
PART I: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessments                                          35
Table 2: Related Bank Loans                                              37
Table 3: Project Timetable                                               38
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual             39
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation                       41
Table 6: Studies Included in Project                                     42
Table 7: Project Costs and Financing                                     44
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants                                       45
Table 9: Project Costs and Benefits                                      50
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                   50
Table 1 1: Bank Resources: Missions                                      51
PART III: SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
ICR Mission Aide Memoire                                                 52
Borrower Completion Report, 3375-BR (Executive Summary)                  53
MAP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authonzation.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
INNOVATIONS IN BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 3375-BR)
PREFACE
1.   This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Innovations in Basic
Education Project, for which Loan 3375-BR in the amount of US$245.0 million was
approved by the Board on June 26, 1991, and became effective on January 7, 1992.
2.   The Loan Closing Date was extended by ten months and the Loan closed on April 30,
1999. Total disbursements were US$243.1 million and final disbursement (on funds
committed at Project Closing) took place on May 14, 1999.
3.   The ICR was prepared by a team composed of Kate Hovde (Consultant), Edward
Bresnyan (LCSES), Adriana Weisman (LCSPR), Alberto Rodriguez (LCSHD), Robin Horn
(LCSHD), Wilsa Maria Ramos, Claudio Rosemberg and Helena Jubany (Consultants). The
ICR was reviewed by Anna Roumani (LCSES).
4.   The ICR is based on material in the Project file, discussions with Bank staff and
consultants who worked on the Project, a Borrower Completion Report prepared by the
Secretariat of Education of the State of Sao Paulo (SEE) and an ICR mission to Sao Paulo
which took place during March and April 1999. The Borrower Completion Report and a
series of consultants' reports detailing implementation experience on specific project
components are available in the project files.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
INNOVATIONS IN BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 3375-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.  Despite an initial period of poor performance, the Innovations in Basic Education
project (IEB) experienced a dramatic turnaround in its final three years of implementation,
primarily due to strengthened commitment by State government and tighter, proactive Bank
supervision. The Project was approved in 1991 and was initially developed to support the
implementation of two educational reforms in Greater Sao Paulo (GSP). The first, ciclo
bcisico, was initiated in 1984 and entailed a curricular reform of primary grades 1 and 2. The
second -jornada i2nica - began implementation in 1988 and extended the school day to five
instructional hours for ciclo bcasico students. In 1995, a new administration was appointed to
the State Secretariat of Education (SEE) and ushered in a series of policy reforms to improve
the quality of basic education in Sao Paulo. The IEB was reformulated at that time in support
of these reformns. The Loan closed on December 31, 1998.
Project Objectives
2.   The objective of the IEB was to improve primary school learning and retention among
children of poor and migrant families in Greater Sao Paulo in a manner that could eventually
be adapted to other Brazilian states. This objective was to be achieved through support for:
(a) a new curricular approach (the ciclo basico) and extended school day (jornada uinica) for
the first two years of primary school; (b) expanded provision of preschool to poor children;
(c) strengthened school health programs based on the new decentralized health system; and
(d) the strengthening of institutions which manage primary education at the state and
municipal levels. The project also provided for the extensive evaluation of these approaches
and dissemination of the research results and implementation experience to the rest of Brazil.
3.   The IEB had six components. In School Quality Improvement (80.0 percent of Base
Cost) supported school construction and expansion; teacher training; purchase of classroom
materials; and improvements to the school lunch program. Preschool Education (11.9
percent of Base Cost) aimed to increase preschool enrollment of poor children and broaden
Nongovernmental organization (NGO) participation. School Health (5.7 percent of Base
Cost) programmed nine health-related interventions, inter alia, annual vision testing and
preventive oral health. Project Evaluation (0.6 percent of Base Cost) assessed
implementation monitoring and process, analyzed project and education sector costs and
conducted a longitudinal impact evaluation of the Project. Institutional Development (1.4
percent of Base Costs) supported technical assistance in planning and student assessment, as
well as studies on the municipalization of primary education and strengthening public/private
partnerships in education - particularly for preschool. Finally, Project Administration (0.3
percent of Base Cost) supported project management through the Project Coordination Unit.



ii
Total Project Cost (with contingencies) was estimated at appraisal to be US$600.0 million,
including a Bank loan of US$245.0 million.
4.   The Project's holistic approach and involvement of multiple agencies demanded strong
administrative capacity from the SEE, while capacity was recognized as a risk. Subsequent
implementation problems indicate that this risk was underrated. Compliance with guidelines
for the preschool component - especially in regard to NGO participation and annual
municipal preschool plans - was seen as risky and, in the final analysis, proved to be a
significant weakness in project implementation.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.   The Project suffered from a disjointed preparation history and severe implementation
problems for the first four years of its execution (1991-95). During this period, there were
significant procurement bottlenecks. Later, a shortage of counterpart funds signaled weak
political commitment of State government for the Project during a period of financial
hardship.
6.   At the time of the Mid Term Review, the Project had disbursed only 16 percent of the
US$245 million loan. Primary school construction and rehabilitation - the largest project
component - was substantially behind appraisal targets, due to the earlier (and now largely
resolved) procurement bottlenecks and the frequent turnover within the SEE department
responsible for the implementation of this component. In January 1995 and under new
leadership, the SEE sought to restructure the IEB to bring it in line with new policy priorities,
including (a) a school reorganization into buildings serving grades 1-4 and those serving
grades 5-8, (b) an administrative reorganization decentralizing responsibility to local offices
and increasingly devolving the responsibility for grades 1-4 to the municipal level, (c) a
large-scale teacher development initiative; (d) special classes and efforts to meet the needs of
children falling behind in school; (e) a second curricular reform, creating two "cycles" of
material for classes 1-4 and 5-8; and (f) the development of a system to track children's
learning achievement. However, implementation continued to languish until December 1995
when the Bank, with less than 20 percent of the loan disbursed, communicated its desire to
cancel the undisbursed balance.
7.   Subsequently, the Bank and the SEE negotiated and signed a revised project
implementation agreement, based on time-bound quarterly benchmarks consisting of four
types of indicators: (a) the bidding documents to be published each quarter, (b) the contracts
to be signed each quarter, (c) the amount of financial resources committed each quarter, and
(d) the amount of the financial resources spent each quarter. It was furthermore agreed that
partial cancellation of the loan would be requested at the end of any quarter in which these
benchmarks were not achieved.
8.   Project execution and loan disbursement improved dramatically after January 1996.
This resumption of the project was due to several factors. First, and most importantly, the
new SEE administration was convinced of the relevance and importance of core IEB
objectives, had successfully negotiated a number of project alterations with the Bank and was



iii
deter-mined to integrate project funds into ongoing educational reforms. Second, many
procurement problems were resolved by this time, and the hiring of United Nations
Development Program (for procurement of educational materials and teacher training) helped
avoid others. Third, the Bank impressed upon the Government the need to improve
significantly the project performance profile. This benchmark system clearly helped to drive
implementation. The Loan closed on April 30, 1999 having disbursed 99 percent of the
original US$245 million.
Achievement of Project Objectives and Project Outcome
9.   Dropout and repetition rates in GSP decreased dramatically over the decade of Project
implementation, although direct attribution to IEB investments is not possible. Evidence on
learning achievement is mixed; however, the State's development and implementation of an
ongoing student assessment system is one of the main achievements of the Project. The
Project surpassed its original targets with regard to investments in teacher training and
educational materials, which helped to consolidate the ongoing policy reforms. The model
for supporting students with a history of repetition is correctly being promoted nationwide.
Project investments in information technology contributed to improved efficiency in
education management. School construction and rehabilitation financed under the Project
exceeded original poverty targeting objectives. The School Health and Preschool
components fell substantially short of their implementation plans.
10. The project StaffAppraisal Report did not include an Economic Internal Rate of
Return (EIRR). The Project is assessed as having reached its development objective and is
rated Satisfactory.
Sustainability and Future Operations
11.  Sustainability of the investments in school construction, educational materials and
computerization of the education system is dependent on adequate funding from SEE for (a)
maintenance and replacement, (b) teacher and staff training for effective use of new materials
and computers. There is also a strong role for Parent-Teacher Associations, regional SEE
offices and the SEE's civil works department in ensuring the full useful life of these
investments. Programs such as Accelerated Classes (Classes de Acelerafdo) are targeted,
low cost, and have clear positive outcomes; they also work to reduce future expenditure on
repetition. In a period of increasingly scarce resources, the educational testing program
(SARESP) could be scaled back to every two years, without jeopardizing its objectives.
School and parental involvement in the testing program remains the best assurance that the
program with continue into future administrations. The Continuing Education Program
(PEC) is being reviewed by the SEE for possible continuation; some follow-up in this area
will be important in order to consolidate the gains made from its initial offering.
Project Costs, Financing and Timetables
12. At Loan Closing, total project cost was US$601.3 million, compared with US$600.0
million estimated at appraisal. Bank loan funds (US$243.1 million) represented 40 percent
of total project cost. The State Government contributed counterpart funds totaling US$349.1



iv
million (58 percent) and municipalities providing financing of US$9.1 million (2 percent).
The Loan Closing Date was extended by ten months to April 30, 1999.
Loan Covenants
13. In general, covenant compliance was satisfactory. Municipal obligations in the
preschool component as well as expectations regarding NGO participation were made
explicit in the covenants (3.01(e),(f)). Of 39 municipalities eligible under the preschool
component, only 26 ultimately entered into subproject agreements with the Project
Coordination Unit and none of these 26 included NGOs in their municipal preschool plans.
The Midterm Review was postponed by one year from its original date, due to slower than
expected implementation of the project. The contracting and execution of project impact
evaluation was completed on time as set out in the covenants, but was completed prior to
substantial Project implementation, thereby weakening its ability to gauge Project impact.
Performance of the Bank and the Borrower
14. Bank Performance. The Bank's preparation and appraisal, though lengthy, were
satisfactory, with the exception of inadequate attention to procurement-related issues. This
proved to be a major stumbling block during the early years of project implementation.
During the implementation phase of the Project, Bank supervision was overly optimistic in
its assessment of the State's ownership of the Project, later reflected in the difficulty in
securing required counterpart funds. Only after four years of implementation and less than
20 percent of the loan disbursed did the Bank recommend partial cancellation. Earlier and
stronger Bank action was warranted. Bank actions which contributed to improved project
performance were: (a) the posting of Bank task management to Brasilia in 1995; and (b) the
establishment with the SEE of time-bound, quarterly implementation benchmarks in 1996.
15. Borrower Performance. Frequent State-level staff turnover during preparation and
appraisal led to a protracted project preparation process. Borrower commitment to the
Project was weak up to 1995. The advent of a new State administration in 1995, which
brought changes in education policy and significantly raised the level of interest and
commitment to the Project, was chiefly responsible for the IEB's eventual satisfactory
performance.
Summary of Findings, Lessons and Future Actions
16. From the IEB experience, a number of generalizable lessons can be gleaned:
(a) Early attention to procurement is vital. The IEB experience confirmed the
importance of early and up-front training on procurement issues for borrower agencies,
as well as the requirement that model bidding documents be approved prior to Board
presentation.



v
(b) A flexible project design can speed implementation and avoid delays. The rigid
design of the IEB (particularly Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement) made it difficult to
adapt its various components to the policy shifts in successive SEE administrations.
Future projects should adopt a design that provides consistency in its objectives, yet can
adapt rapidly to changing circumstances.
(c) There is no substitute for strong monitoring and evaluation. The setting and
attainment of quarterly benchmarks for IEB implementation after the Mid Term Review
helped to jump-start the project and provided a transparent monitoring mechanism for
both the SEE and the Bank. Earlier establishment of perforrnance indicators could have
facilitated tighter supervision, ultimately improving the project's disbursement profile. _
Poor coordination between evaluation and other project components resulted in a
"completed" Project impact evaluation prior to its substantive implementation.
(d) Strong client ownership makes a difference. The drarnatic turnaround in
implementation from January 1996 to December 1998 demonstrates how strong client
ownership (in this case by the SEE) can catalyze overall project performance. The lack
of such ownership was itself a major factor in the previous four years (1991-1995) of
unsatisfactory performance. Proactive client consultation implies that the final project
design is fully agreed and "bought into" by both the Borrower and the Bank. Any
components for which such mutual agreements cannot be reached (e.g., preschool and
school health) should be seriously reconsidered before their inclusion.
(e) Decreasing project complexity can increase its chances for success. The holistic
approach of the IEB and its diverse components demanded a sophisticated level of
institutional articulation, not only within the SEE but also with other State ministries,
NGOs and the private sector. Rather than a multiplicity of components, it may make
sense to channel diverse yet worthwhile investments into separate loans.
(f) Projects should more effectively assess local political cycles. Municipal and state
elections and shifts in policy agendas must be more adequately incorporated in project
designs and implementation schedules. Again, sufficient flexibility must be present in
project design to allow for potential adjustmnents during administrative transitions.
There are also lessons to be learned from several innovative activities undertaken by the State
of Sao Paulo and supported under the IEB Project. In the following pages, case studies of the
following innovations are offered: (a) Accelerated Classes, (b) Teacher Training, (c) Student
Assessment, (d) School Reorganization, (e) Information Technology and (f) School Lunch
Program.



vi
Correci   Studet Flws  CsesdAcelerafedo Acceeratd Clsses
The issue. High repetition ratesin 3Brazil have resulted in significant age-grade distortions. According
to a   7 MCreport; 63% of all stidents li grades 1-8 are older than they shouldbe for their
corresponding grade. Multiple repetitions often jead to drout, as older students increasingly
comparethe benefits of employmnt to participation in a poor quality system with little relevance tO
twir nees. Repetition and dropout rates result in only two out of three children who enter first grade
being expected to complete en grade, spending on average 10 vears to do so.
'Response. S4o Paulo took on its challenge i n 196 with heCsses de Acleroe progran. The
program is an innovative example ofaddriss   retiona  dropout rtesby focussingon children
Wi a history of repetition. Devel                     theSo PulobsCenter fResearch
in Education, Culture, And Cmn     Ai(        P     the Classes dis   ull-out"
program: children who have beehldback ianrare  rt            thepeers are -streamed into special
00classes with different materials an:dsp iatrin  te s and thenmaIinstreamed$bak into the
system  after having "caugtup" to m                       Course materls follow a  odlar
f0om t, allowing students to progress at theirko wn- pce.aMatrialstarealso designed  toflect the
intrest and general knowlgebaseoan older-th        goup of childre.  Ovr   first three
years of its itplementain  in0$ o Paulo, some 1,   schools    significant age-grade distortion
paticiipated in the program, reachin atota of 01   chidre in grades  1 -4,,and a r 53,000 in
Results. Existing statistics indicate          if  i                   hostated in
"Acelraqa&r Pfrom 1996199S (chideingas1ad2  thcdobsk) 3RB percent were
tracked back into 4" giade 19.6 pent were tracked  it g       and . percet  were tracked into
3rd gre. t About one: -fih of chiidren (213 percent)xmved on to "eri  1I  and the overall
drtopout rate was 8.4 e rent - highe ant tatwi  average, n o            when cosidering
that this is a population at particularly higrisk for doout. Of    nin 0Acelrd1, 2.5
percent went on to 4k grade 76.3 percent wenton-to,5i grade, 2.8 perce   in th"sA celeraèiio
I1I or hadc some other e edal w ,d63*cendropped tout.
Lessons learned. Lessons learned include the importance of: (a) school-wide familiarity and
aceptance ofthep;gram,to smooth thewayfoir stjdents stransition back into "normal" classes; (c)
good materials - the :CENCj materialsare wildlyypopular with.teachers and studentss alike-;(c,)
seleting experienced and motivated teahers and givin-g themincentives (such as splecialized training)
toparticipate; and0(d)buikldingstudent self-esteemalongwith content knwledge and skills (aided by
small classes (25students), th emodular curricuum, fand continuous assessment rather than high-stakes
tests).
Ftutre Actions. The Classes de Ace`lerqj;  model and CENPEC materials ae currently in use in
several .other frazilian states besides S  Paulo (including Para And Goias- Bahia an'd Ceara also
have 0similar programs). The program i's sbei ngpromt  inationally by the federal Ministry of
Education, and was waarded a UCtEF national prize. There is as yet lle informaxtion available
Xregardingthe educational outcomes of Classes d  4ra    students,   they are tracked back into
the "regular" system. Evaluationof these longer term joutcomesf thEe program will be important in
Sgaugingits overall effectiveness; however, inif}tal indications are pfromfAffising.



vii
Teacher Training: The Programa de EducaVo Continuada (PEC)
The issue. The administration entering the SEE in 1995 had serious doubts about the effectiveness of
ongoing teacher training efforts. Courses were generally centrally defined,, and were not necessarily
responsive to school or regional needs. Most were "one-off' courses - classes of 20-30 hours
duration, with little opportunity for.follow-up.
Response. The PEC was an unusual example of trying to radically change the character of teacher
training by working with traditional training providers but shifting the locus of power and the
traditional "rules of the game," Most PEC courses met regularly over one year (96 hours), allowing
course participants to model new content and practices in their schools. Previously, course content
and modules were centrally planned by the Secretariat and negotiated with universities and other
training providers; the PEC decentralized these activities to the local-level SEE offices (delegacias de
ensino). SEE training organizers divided the state's 143 delegaias into 19 geographic areas (polos)
each of which was matched with a training provider. The delegacias within eachpolo then negotiated
with their designated training provider for training activities to meet their identified needs. All
training activities were expected to incorporate certain cross-cutting themes and desired training
results.
Results. Results from the PEC varied enormously among the differentpolos. In areas where the
local university or training provider had a history of working closely with the public school system,
the negotiation and subsequent courses generally went smoothly. In others, the negotiation and
implementation of courses proved difficult, either because the delegacia was unclear about its needs,
or the designated training provider lacked the expertise desired. In a few cases, delegacias failed to
reach agreement with the designated provider, and either implemented training activities from their
own budgets or obtained SEE permission to negotiate with the provider assigned -to a neighboring
polo. Despite these problems, the PEC achieved substantial coverage. Twelve training institutions
were involved state-wide, covering l9polos, 143 delegacias, and 425 municipalities. These
institutions developed&245 distinct training activities, involving 104,215 participants, in 2,761 groups
for a total of 252,000 class hours of training between 1996 and 1998. While flaws in evaluation make
it impossible to know the degree to which desired attitudes, behaviors, and content were actually
adopted in the classroom, a majority of participants reported that PEC courses had helped theni better
integrate new theories and practices into their ongoing work. The detegacias gained experience in
identifying local training needs, and in negotiating with providers to make sure that courses actually
met the needs identified. Although not originally an objective of the PEC, a very important ancillary
benefit was the realization by many universities and training institutions of how little they knew of the
realities and needs of public school teachers and administrators. As a result, several universities are
currently re-thinking their pre-service teacher training and licensing programs.
Lessons Learned. These include the realization that: (a) local empowerment (in this case of the
delegacias) takes time; (b) there must be flexibility in matching training supply and demand; (c)
planning needs to be as inclusive as possible from the outset; and (d) the decentralized provision of
training requires particular attention to issues of monitoring and evaluation.
Future Actions. As a model, the PEC is most directly relevant for areas which have a well
developed system of universities and/or other training institutions which can reach the level of the
school. Certain aspects of the program, however, such as its decentralized implementation, the
identification of training demand closer to the school, a concem with reaching all members of the
school team, and a concern for evaluation, are relevant to a much wider array of training designs.



viii
S: udn Assessment -the Sistema de Avi*           do Rendimentto Escolar (SARSP)
The issue. Thet: development af a stae student assessment system had been a goal of the I EB project
from the outset. Education leaders increasingly felt that improving quality in education depended
upon relable and constant information on studenit learning across the systiem. Yet until the early
1990s not testin system for gathering such infrmation existed, in Sao Paulo or in Brazil.
jesponse. The SEE had experimented with standardized testing of selected schools in 1993 and
10994 butin 1t995 ittset about developing astate-wide system with the technical assistance of the
Funda0 do W ( Cctrlos Chag. The first SARESP test was done in 1996, with a second round in 1997 and
fa third in 1998. I0 SA S was designed as a census test (meaning all students in all schools in a
particlar grade weretested) and asX a iongitudinal one (meaning the same cohort has been tested three
yeSars running,to evaluategrtinelearning achievement). Th e SARSP test was applied thlrough a
stroiollabration t tits regional offices, an&dschools. Students answer
qest      e wshch incld th aicifevement test and background informaation. The process is
clevoylydeig&ed to: (I) guarantee reliabiity of the information, (2) have schools heavily involved in
te prowess, aid (3 provide: Instant fe k: to schts and teachers regardi   e perfrmance of
their studets(stuetsltransfer answers foro  booklets to an answer sheet which is sent to and
corrected by the SEE, whe the bowokets sy with and are also corrected by the school). The first two
rounds oftest applications were supported by a mass-media campaign, explaining the objectives of the
test and encouragi  student participation. Parenta] involvement was also encouraged through the
form n of school-basedtlesting oversight committees.
Resul t.ThSAkESPis technically sound, with a number of innovative fatures. Unlike the
raziliannational assessment test (SAEB) whicl is conducted on a sample basis, SARESP's census
design allows    student-evel, classroom-level, and school-level analysis for all schools. SARESP's
l dinal design also provides a strong measurement of school effectiveness, although it does raise
questions in schoos(y always the sa   kds) andissuesoftesting bias. Most importantly,
SARESP is both 'a sunmaive and a formativet evaluation. Like most large assessment tests,
tSARES isssummative in that provides information on the accumulated learning of students at a given
powint.tthas playd a formatTive role within the education system, however, because through it
teahers,parents and school leaders have learned to apply, utilize, and value assessment tests and the
statisticaio nthat     teiranMayses can provide.
Lessons Learned; (a) There are strong benefits to parental and school involvement in the testing
prcess; (b) :outside expertise is critical, but there are advantages to technology transfer over time; (c)
thedevelopment ofCan asseassment systemn involves political will and leadership; (d) longituditnal
desin has; both benefts andweak nesses; and (e) non-linkage to national testing efforts risk making
SA    Pa parallel effrt, and pehaps more politically vulnerable in a change of administration ;
Future Actins. Saveil Brazilian states currently desiging assessment systems would do well to
consimerincootg elements of A ESP'   strategy  for school and community-level participation.
Overall,the downsides of the longitudinal strategy seme to outweigh its advantages  an alternative
would be to fbcus on testing only one or two grades on a consistent basis (for example, 4t and 8th
grades).0 Cos$t, administrative burden, and the danger of information overload would also suggest that
testi  everytwo years, rather hifn every year, might be a better strategy. This spacing would also
allowfor abetter pacing of national (&SA;EB) and state-level testing efforts. Finally, linking of state-
level testing efforts with national ones is hiohly recommended.



ix
School Reorganization
The issues. There were three main issues behind Sao Paulo's school reorganization. First, there was the
issue of space. Overcrowding had long been a problem in Sao Paulo schools: in 1995, 19% of schools
were still operating with more than two day-time shifts of students. Studies revealed that with a better
distribution of enrollments between schools serving ensinofundamental (grades I -8) and secondary
schools, a good deal of the pressure for space could be eliminated. Second, the administration entering
in 1995 believed that separating younger and older children would permit a better pedagogical focus for
each group, including the installation of age-appropriate pedagogic spaces, or sa/as ambientes. In
contrast to most Brazilian states, the majority of schools in S3o Paulo housed grades 1-8 under one roof.
Finally, greater municipal responsibility for ensinofundamental, as mandated by the 1988 Constitution,
was complicated by the prospect of divided responsibility for the same physical buildings and school
staff,
Response. In response to these issues, Sao Paulo initiated in 1995 a massive reorganization of the
school system into schools serving grades 1-4 and 5-8. Plans for the reorganization began with a state-
wide student census. This infornation was supplemented by an assessment of community attitudes
toward education, and focus-group opinion polling on the proposed reforn. The, SEE thus had an
accurate basis for planning both the logistical and political aspects ofthe reorganization. In preparation
for the reform, the SEE used mass-media (radio, television) and other means (booklets distributed to
schools) to communicate the goals of the reform to schools, parents, and ,the public. The planning unit
developed manuals illustrating how to conduct the reorganization of schools and students within
municipalities of different size, while the actual planning of the reorganization in each municipality was
left to the SEE local offices (delegacias do entsino) in conjunction with municipal authorities. While this
strategy risked some delegacias doing a poorer job than desired, it avoided the much greater risk of
mass-rebellion against decisions made from above, and saved an enormous amount of time.
Results. Given the level of complexity (the Sao Paulo state system in 1995 had over 6,000 schools), the
school reorganization went remarkably smoothly. Space gains were immediate: from 1995 to 1996, the
number of schools with more than two daytime shifts dropped by 10 percent. Teachers and school
officials confirm that, while the reorganization has been difficult, the narrower age-range of students
facilitated their work, particularly in schools serving grades 14. In a public opinion survey conducted in
1998, nearly 80 percent of parents, 85 percent of students, and 71 percent of teachers. thought learming
conditions had improved. The transfer of responsibilities for schools now serving grades 1-4 has also
taken off. as of 1998, 283 municipalities had signed "partnership" agreements with the State, and the
percentage of students in grades 1-4 in municipal schools had increased from 16% in 1990 to 31% in
1997.
Lessons Learned. While the actual division of SAo Paulo schools into (1-4) and (5-8) is irrelevant for
most Brazilian states, the reorganization is an excellent example of the planning and execution of a
major systemic reform. Lessons learned include the importance of: (a) starting from a good information
base; (b) communicating goals; (c) involving the system in making the change; and (d) maximizing the
use of existing resources.
Future Actions. Beyond learning from the reorganization as a planning example, the other potential
relevance it may have for other states and countries is in the notion of creating specialized pedagogic
spaces for different age groups (the salas ambientesj. Though potentially worthwhile, there is as yet
little information about the actual use and educational contribution of these spaces. The cost of creating
such spaces may also be prohibitively high for many states.



x
Thisue  The admioiion ee in  95 ha a strna tiulated pos  for
improving9 th  fetvns  n   iinc  feuainlmngmn.  taei  betvsicue
shikn  h  ieo h stae' edcational manageettu tur throug cosldto and00
decnrlizton-o funtion:s to oa  fie  dig4cas doensino), an  strngteing planning,i0000;
managemet, ndevlatinfn ction aX hecetrl,lcal ad  schol eves. norer#00 fo ths eae
depart e t  n   ev l; a ()ready   access    to   re leva t  n   u -o -d t  n formation for0 planning   and 0
deiso maig.Inestents in informationtcnlg ee   seen s as  arttial answer to these neefds. 
Repue The SE  bgnIts lnforaionrlutio~a h n           d of 199  whn i odutda  taewide
stue:   ces s inf antcpioof th reorganiatio of th  :olsse.Studnsadschools were            0
assgnd uniqu idenifcationnumbrs anadatabsewas devielopd by the state dtaroessingf 00
coman, PRODEP. I 199, te SE  deveope a; copehniv  ehnlgyPa, pciyn
$ystem St, uctu                                                     th         the SEE w
forced to. make so a         g  t         this pa fome  h bs for ie          o o
system.  etaie    cae  fcmuesadrltdeupetwr made f                        rorutheSE  ad4
USSOits LeAi*oU                                                ofwd   Mis:   0 cruia;
dee,t                                                               d-t 0     ,.,  0" d:
scolsfr h deceAntralie purchas, of coples pnters adeltedo equipmnt The3 SEas
re    thes$    wtA                            e l;ElXqieait
the aditr tio        sl coinractThe.uSEE liaiieoatedthcnt                      y   aft
abut t285,000 nonexiteirost"stdns, tu s              a s f     a nfsc
Intriews withi school adinistaosparticiatn in heS    ilt also indicat that     6 both.0 th ne
sytmadte ato  ces to coputershas r sutditmesavngwth egardt routine reporting
dele acsanthSE  via thie Intere, n lsoalemaueo intrEn3  ae-govermna ollaboration.0
fLessons Leane. Tes iclud  hesson tht:() sopisticatod manageen of ITis crucial, (b).:0t
you i muthv    opeesv  lnbfr lanhngitoI * finvestet;()whre the markeXt: is wel
FutireSS Acio . TheSEEis movngaha;d withte0 ful impentation of AE-EC priobably wthin
the nxtt year. Scol  ilb connected1 to jcxortesstmsva  telntere   ndth EE has X alread
devlopdawebste (w.ducco.o.r wihifomto onitvaious pogas  ad  pbicit   :
access to oseveralg dataases(oabythtuet cesus dataan SAEP evauaion dat).  ltoughin 0
ftheBailia cntxtS  Palisntnecesaiy in th frfrn ofusof I n  euctin,giend~  .the
logtr trendtwrd inceae us  f?wrdie        aloseprec   a  rvd soe usefult
ideasand eS ssons     foro. t h;0;::0;aers..   0t   j;0t0q0-;:0.;0;^00tf.00ff;  }t0-.0X   00;;f  :0y ; f 



xi
Enhancing Student Nutrition: The School Lunch Program (Merenda Escolar)
The issue. In the early 1990's, the system for school lunch provision was based in large part on
centrally procured, industrially formulated foods that were expensive and not well-accepted by
students. Menus were outdated and, in general, procurement of foodstuffs was highly political and
lacking in transparency.
Response. The DSE has been proactive in constructing a transparent, analytical foundation for
improving nutritional content and student acceptance of the merenda, Nearly three-fourths of the
students are now served primarily through a decentralized approach, passing financial resources to the
local level, empowering municipalities .and schools to take charge of implementation. A centralized
program continues to serve most schools within the city of Sao Paulo. DSE also instituted a
computerized management informi-ation system to track costs and control inventory, providing
essential feedback on school lunch performance. The program took a critical look at menus, revising
and enhancing offerings in ord,er to expand student acceptance and reduce wastage. A program of
field supervision - in partnership with university-level nutrition intems - took stock ofexisting
facilities, assessed nutritional content and provided on-site training for food preparation personnel. In
order to improve nutrition and acceptability of the school lunch program, DSE also instituted a
program for the purchase of fresh produce to supplement the processed foods in the menu. Technical
specifications for foodstuff procurement were updated and made widely.available (e.g., listing on
various websites). A study was commissioned to assess the poverty and nutritional profile of students
statewide.
Results. Greater efficiency in school lunch provision was achieved through less wastage and better
cost control. In an 1998 evaluation, 97 percent of schools surveyed showed high student acceptance
ofthe merenda, in part duetothereformstothe program. Some 11,300 merendeiros received a20-
hour training module in food content, human nutrition and food storage and accident prevention.
School kitchens were refurbished in 100 percent of centralized schools and in about 20 percent of
decentralized schools. Results from the nutritional profile are contributing to ongoing menu analysis
and enhancement.
Lessons Learned. These include: (l) Decentralization is only as effective as the information which
drives it, (b) a strong'sense of accountability raises the probability of success, and (c) partnerships can
be cost-saving and mutually beneficial.
Future Atons. The revised technical specifications for centrally purchased foodstuffs have already
had an impact in the school lunch programs of other Brazilian states. In loco supervision of the
centralized program contributed to quality enhancement; it remains to be seen how the decentralized
program can benefit from similar supRision efforts.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
INNOVATIONS IN BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 3375-BR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.   From its conception in 1988 to its closure in 1998, the Innovations in Basic Education
(IEB) project spanned a remarkable decade in Brazilian education. Although access to basic
education grew steadily through the period of the military dictatorship (1964-1986), the
resumption of civilian rule focussed new attention on the social sectors, particularly on issues of
equity, financing, and management. The 1988 Constitution mandated increased decentralization
of social services, for the first time giving guidance regarding the role of each level of
government in the finance and provision of education. The new Constitution also paved the way
for a new Federal Education Law, promulgated in 1996, and a bold attempt to equalize per-
student spending on basic education within each state by radically revising federal and state
education financing. Education, particularly basic education, also became increasingly
important for democratically-elected state governors and mayors, spawning numerous localized
efforts at reform.2
2.   This wave of policy reforms was prompted by Brazil's very low education levels. In 1990,
formal schooling for the adult population averaged only 3.9 years, approximately the same as El
Salvador, Guatemala, and Nicaragua, countries with less than half the income level of Brazil. In
part, this statistic reflects past problems of access to basic education which have been largely
superceded today.3 Of increasing concern, however, were very high rates of grade repetition and
dropout in ensino fundamental (I" to 8h grades). By the late 1980s, about 90 percent of all
Brazilian children were entering primary school, but only 38 percent of them advanced to the
eighth grade. This epidemic of school failure was a result of inter alia (a) wide disparities in
per-pupil spending, (b) poor educational management, (c) poor coordination between state and
municipal education systems (both of which are involved in the financing and provision of
primary education), (d) poor teacher salaries and preparation, (e) inadequate educational
materials and (f) poverty-related factors.
3. Bank Involvement and Sector Strategy. Bank involvement in Brazilian education began
in the early 1970s with projects supporting general secondary, technical, and agricultural
education. The Bank's involvement in primary education began in 1980 with its support for
rural basic education in the Northeast (Ln 1867-BR) and for urban basic education in the North
and Center-West (Ln 2412-BR). At IEB project preparation, the Bank's education strategy was
as follows: to help improve the efficiency and effectiveness of government and private
2Basic education in Brazil includes preschool, ensino fundamental (Istto 8th grades), and secondary education.
Primary education in this report refers to the first four grades of ensino fundamental.
Access to grades 5-8 remains a problem in some parts of the North, Northeast and Center-West regions.



2
resources, so as to expand the supply of educated manpower that Brazil requires for competition
in a world market characterized by increasingly sophisticated production. Within basic
education, the Bank aimed to help end the long history of dropout, repetition, politicization,
inefficiency and misdirection of funds (IEB SAR, para. 3.2). Specifically, the Bank's education
strategy sought to (a) increase efficient use of federal government funds; (b) assist states and
municipalities in strengthening the management and organization of their educational system;
and (c) support innovative education programs - which could be adapted elsewhere in Brazil - to
reduce dropout and repetition. The IEB project fit into the Bank's overall strategy at the time
through: (a) its poverty orientation (targeting the children of poor families in Greater Sao Paulo);
(b) its focus on basic education, with high social returns; (c) its focus on efficient use of public
and private resources for the provision of social services; and (d) its ability to model reforms that
could be replicated elsewhere.
4.   Primary Education in Greater Sao Paulo. The State of Sao Paulo has long been Brazil's
industrial center. While the region generates a great deal of wealth, there are wide disparities in
income among its residents, particularly within the Greater Sao Paulo (GSP) Metropolitan area.4
Within the GSP region alone, the state education system in 1990 served approximately 1.8
million primary students, while the Municipality of Sao Paulo served another 400,000.
Statewide, the Secretariat of Education (SEE) in 1990 directly employed more than 160,000
primary school teachers for almost 4.2 million students throughout the state, and had an annual
budget of more than US$3 billion. The state and municipal shares of primary enrollment have
been gradually shifting over the last few years as a result of an ongoing decentralization of
responsibility for grades 1-4 to the municipal level. Whereas the state was responsible for 90
percent of primary enrollment in 1990, by 1997 this share had declined to 82 percent.
5.  In the early 1980s, massive student failure, repetition and dropout characterized primary
education in GSP. To address the problems of early grade failure, the state initiated in 1984 the
ciclo basico - a major curricular reform of grades one and two in all State primary schools. The
ciclo basico involved a new pedagogical approach to teaching reading and writing, automatic
promotion from grade one to grade two, and continuous student evaluation during these first two
grades in order to target special assistance to slow learners. In 1988, the State sought to further
improve the quality of primary education by lengthening the school day to five hours of in-
school instruction (jornada unica) for students in the ciclo basico. Due to severe overcrowding,
however, in March 1991, only 62 percent of the State schools in GSP were able to implement the
jornada uinica. The IEB was initially developed to support the full and integrated
implementation of these two reforms.
6.   By the time the IEB was signed in 1991, a new State administration had assumed power.
While adhering to many of the policy goals and strategies the IEB supported, the new
Administration proposed and implemented a third education initiative: the Escolas Padroes or
Standard Schools. These schools were given more autonomy over their own budgets, a six hour
school day, more time for teacher preparation, and additional educational materials. Schools
constructed or repaired under the IEB were typically designated as Standard Schools. Again in
1995, another state administration entered with its own policy agenda, designed to tackle the
persistent problems of repetition and dropout. The new administration universalized many of
the Standard School features, such as increased budgetary autonomy, more teacher preparation
time, and a longer school day for all students (five hours). The new administration undertook
4 Composed of the municipality of Sao Paulo and 37 surrounding municipalities.



3
other initiatives, including: (a) a school reorganization into buildings serving grades 1-4 and
those serving grades 5-8, (b) an administrative reorganization decentralizing responsibility to
local offices and increasingly devolving the responsibility for grades 1-4 to the municipal level,
(c) a large-scale teacher development initiative; (d) special classes and efforts to meet the needs
of children falling behind in school; (e) a second curricular reform, creating two "cycles" of
material for classes 1-4 and 5-8; and (f) the development of a system to track children's learning
achievement. The implementation and evaluation of the IEB should be understood within this
overall political and policy context.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES, COMPONENTS AND DESIGN
7.   As defined in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the objective of the IEB was as follows: to
improve primary school learning and retention among children of poor and migrant families in
Greater Sao Paulo in a manner that could eventually be adapted to other Brazilian states. This
objective was to be achieved through support for: (a) a new curricular approach (the ciclo
basico) and extended school day (iornada zunica) for the first two years of primary school; (b)
expanded provision of preschool experiences to poor children; (c) strengthened school health
programs based on the new decentralized health system; and (d) the strengthening of institutions
which manage primary education at the state and municipal levels. The project also provided for
the extensive evaluation of the effects of these approaches and dissemination of the research
results and implementation experience to the rest of Brazil.
8.   Total Project Cost was estimated at appraisal to be US$600.0 million. The IEB had six
components.
*  In School Quality Improvement (80.0 percent of Base Cost) supported the
implementation of the ciclo basico and jornada zunica through school construction and
expansion (for a total of approximately 4,150 new classrooms), giving priority to low-
income areas; training of ciclo bdsico teachers and school principals in GSP; purchase
of educational materials for ciclo basico classrooms; and improving the school lunch
program in terms of nutrition, acceptability to children, and cost efficiency.
*  Preschool Education (11.9 percent of Base Cost) aimed to increase preschool
enrollment of poor children (from families earning less than two minimum salaries) by
120,000, improve its pedagogical quality and broaden participation of NGOs (not less
than 15 percent of new spaces). Support to municipalities included funds for preschool
construction, adaptation or expansion, teacher training, and technical assistance.
*  School Health (5.7 percent of Base Cost) looked to improve the health of
approximately 1 million preschoolers and first and second graders in GSP municipal
and state schools. Nine basic interventions were defined: (a) the integration of health
and nutrition themes into the regular curriculum; (b) a physical exam for pre and
primary school entrance; (c) annual vision testing; (d) completion of childhood
immunizations; (e) preventive oral health practices; (f) a pilot study to measure the
prevalence of vitamin A and iron deficiency, as well as a supplementation program; (g)
physical and mental health referrals to the local health center; (h) school environmental
assessments; and (i) training of health center personnel in pre and primary health and of
teachers in health education.



4
*  Project Evaluation (0.6 percent of Base Cost) was covered by four types of program
evaluations: (a) implementation monitoring; (b) implementation process; (c) cost
analysis; and (d) a longitudinal impact evaluation.
*  Institutional Development (1.4 percent of Base Cost) supported technical assistance
in planning and student assessment, as well as financing studies on the
municipalization of basic education and strengthening public/private partnerships in
education - particularly for preschool.
*  Project Administration (0.3 percent of Base Cost) supported project management
through the creation of the Project Coordination Unit.
9.   Risk Assessment. One of the hallmarks of the IEB design was its holistic approach to
addressing childrens' learning difficulties. Although the involvement of multiple agencies (e.g.,
SEE, Secretariat of Health, municipalities) was acknowledged as a risk, Sao Paulo's
administrative capacity was thought good enough to make the risk a small one. Subsequent
implementation problems - as detailed later in this report - indicate that this risk was underrated.
Furthermore, the original proposal by the State of Sao Paulo focussed on support for
improvements at the primary level alone; the preschool and school health components were
included in the project at the Bank's suggestion. The implementation history of these two
components indicate they lacked sufficient institutional ownership within the SEE and the
Secretariat of Health. The SAR identified several risks associated with the preschool
component, particularly that the participating municipalities would not be able or willing to
comply with component guidelines, including the participation of Nongovernmental
organizations (NGOs). Unfortunately, the project's mechanism for dealing with this risk - a
year-to-year approval of municipal plans - was never fully used.
10. Project Design Alterations. The core IEB objective - improving learning and retention
in primary school, particularly for poor children - held its relevance throughout the sequential
waves of educational policy reforms in Sao Paulo. It is a testimony to the basic soundness of the
project that it neither became irrelevant over the course of a decade nor required radical redesign.
Nonetheless, a number of alterations were made within the framework of the original project
design throughout its implementation, although not all of them were formally codified in the
Loan Agreement. The original nine actions for the School Health component were reduced to
four areas (i.e., dental health, vision and auditory screening and treatment, and a study of
morbidity among school-age children) in 1993. At this time, the decentralization of the health
system meant that the school health activities were being implemented by municipalities rather
than by the State, and these areas were ones in which municipalities (as well as a new
management team in the Secretariat of Health) registered the most interest.5
1 1. Additional changes were made by the new State administration in 1995. By this time, the
ciclo basico had been implemented in Sao Paulo for a decade. Studies done both within the SEE
and by an expert hired with IEB funds showed that demand for school placements was shifting to
-th      6h
5 through 8th grades (as opposed to ls'to 4th grades).6 To maximize the efficiency of existing
5These were also the areas with financing through the Loan - the rest of the activities being financed with 100%
counterpart funds.
6 See Klein, Ruben. 0 sistema de ensino regular no Estado de Sdo Paulo, 1983-94 (1995) and SEE/CIE. Exercicio
analitico de politica educacional: 0 caso de Sao Paulo (1991).



5
schools (as well as for pedagogical reasons), the new administration proposed a reorganization
into schools serving grades 1-4 and those serving grades 5-8.7
12. With this new configuration of the school system, the number of schools with more than
two daily sessions fell from 19 percent in 1995 to 10 percent in 1996, allowing 90 percent of
schools to fully implement the jornada unica of five hours for all students, not just those in the
ciclo bdsico. Given the adjustment in demand for new classroom space, IEB funds for civil
works were reallocated. Some funds for new school construction were reallocated for repairs
and alterations to existing classrooms. The new SEE administration also introduced programs to
improve teaching and learning, among these: (a) accelerated classes (Classes de Aceleraqdo) for
children who through repetition have fallen behind their age-appropriate levels; (b) additional
materials such as computers for new pedagogic spaces (salas ambientes); and (c) the Continuing-
Education Program (PEC), which aimed to improve teacher training statewide through extended
course hours with course content identified by local-level SEE offices.8
13.  Simultaneously in 1995, an administrative decentralization of the State school system
delegated more administrative authority to local SEE offices (delegacia) and encouraged greater
municipal financial and management responsibility for schools serving grades 1 to 4. The IEB's
institutional development component contained some financing for technical assistance on
planning and studies on municipalization and changes were made to permit the financing of
investments in information technology in support of these reforms.
14. The original project design was further altered in the dissemination of project activities and
procurement. Originally, dissemination activities sought to share project study results with other
states; alterations included activities to generate public support and understanding for ongoing
educational reforms in GSP. Procurement shifted toward greater decentralization. The new
administration sought to increase school autonomy by transferring funds directly to schools
through parent-teacher organizations for the purchase of educational materials. From 1995
through project closing, educational materials under the Project were purchased under a
combination of centralized and decentralized procurement procedures. Though it proved a
difficult negotiation, in the end the Bank was convinced that decentralized procurement of a
majority of items by the schools themselves would in fact result in greater expediency and less
waste.
15.  Alterations to the Project target area in 1996 extended coverage to two additional regions
adjacent to GSP (Sorocaba and Vale do Ribeira), both with particularly low socio-economic
indices. Although the IEB focus moved beyond the ciclo basico from 1995 onward, the focus
on improving learning and retention in the early years of ensino fundamental was retained.
16.  Finally, the implementation arrangements under the original design included the use of the
SEE's implementation arm (FDE) across a number of components, including civil works, the
contracting of consultants and teacher training. At Project reformulation, it was agreed that the
United Nations Development Program (UNDP) would undertake the procurement of educational
materials, teacher training and consultants, with FDE remaining responsible for civil works.
In contrast to most states in Brazil, where primary education for the most part was divided into schools serving
grades 1-4 and those serving 5-8, in Sao Paulo a majority of schools housed grades 1-8 in the same building.
Development of the PEC, in 1996, was initiated slightly later than the other programs.



6
C. THE IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
17. Despite an initial period of poor performance, the IEB experienced a dramatic turnaround
in its final three years of implementation, primarily due to strengthened commitment by State
government and tighter, proactive Bank supervision. The Project suffered from a disjointed
preparation history and severe implementation problems for the first four years of its execution
(1991-95). By its midterm review in 1994, the Project had disbursed only 16 percent of the $245
million loan. From 1996 onwards, with a new State administration and the Bank's move to
cancel a large part of the Loan, the Project made a dramatic recovery. The Loan Closing Date
was extended by ten months to April 30, 1999 and all remaining funds were committed by that
time.9
18. Certain implementation deficiencies can be traced to the original project design. The IEB
was a traditional investment project - a "blueprint" approach - with the allocation of funds
detailed by individual component and expenditure category, making flexibility in
implementation difficult. At the time, both economic tunnoil and constant changes in the
education and health sectors warranted a more flexible approach (perhaps with annual reviews
and yearly allocations for project financing). The Project was also, in some instances, under-
designed and not ready for immediate implementation. There was no operational manual, though
few social sector projects had them at the time. At Board presentation, the school health
component still lacked an implementation plan (which was included as a condition of
disbursement for the component). Similarly, the financial flows of project money to
municipalities under the preschool component were not clearly detailed. Monitoring and
evaluation indicators were not explicitly defined, but were left to be specified during evaluation
studies to be contracted under the Project.'0
19. Other implementation problems can be traced to the project's preparation history. The
project was identified in December 1987 and appraised in February 1989. A dispute between the
State and Federal governments over Sao Paulo's debt levels delayed negotiations until May
1991. After Board approval of the Loan, a new State administration took power and brought in
new technical staff that had not assisted in the IEB preparation. There was also a switch in Bank
supervision staff early into project implementation. With no institutional memory and very little
in the way of detailed project implementation plans beyond what was contained in the SAR, the
new project coordination team was in many ways "starting from scratch". Though the Bank did
provide procurement training to the new SEE staff during a project launch in November 1991,
the lack of early attention to procurement and failure to agree on bidding documents prior to
Board approval also led to significant implementation bottlenecks.
20. From 1991 to 1995, the Project experienced significant procurement problems; from 1992
to 1994, there was an increasing shortage of counterpart funds. In hindsight, the project
appeared to lack the requisite political commitment in a time of financial hardship. Within the
SEE, the introduction of the escola padrdo in early 1992 took some of the focus away from IEB
9 The last disbursement of Loan funds was made on May 14, 1999, after which US$ 1.9 million were canceled from
the original balance. For more extensive documentation of the implementation history of each project component,
please refer to the unabridged version of the Borrower's Completion Report.
10 No overall project monitoring plan with agreed tracking indicators was developed.



7
implementation, and as procurement problems persisted, the Project may have been viewed as
more of a problem than a solution to education needs. The housing of the Project Coordination
Unit apart from the regular line units of the SEE may have also exacerbated the IEB's relative
isolation.
21. Mid Term Review. In June 1994, following 30 months of project implementation, a mid
term review of the project was conducted. At this time, the long-standing procurement
bottlenecks had largely been resolved, while counterpart funding availability remained a
potential problem. School construction was by now substantially behind expectations
established at appraisal, due to several factors inter alia (a) the earlier effects of procurement
delays, (b) the currency conversion from cruzeiro to reais, (c) personnel changes within the FDE
and (d) the lengthy review of school construction subprojects by other government agencies
(e.g., environmental reviews). It was discussed at the time - and later agreed with the Borrower
as a formal amendment to the Loan Agreement - that the effective contribution by the Bank
toward civil works would move from 31 percent to 40 percent.11 Overall, despite the extremely
low disbursements at mid term, the administrative capacity of the Project Coordination Unit and
the implementation capacity of the SEE was deemed sound, echoing earlier supervision
assessments.
22. State elections for Governor were held shortly after the Mid Term Review. In January,
1995, a new Government was sworn in. A new Secretary of Education, who was both a national
leader in education policy reform and politically astute, requested of the Bank the formal
restructuring of the IEB in order to align it with the Government's new policy priorities. A
delegation from the SEE met with the Bank in Washington in April 1995, the outcome of which
was an agreement (in principle) to undertake substantial project design alterations. Despite the
Administration's interest, project implementation continued to languish during the restructuring
of the project design. From April to December 1995, loan performance actually deteriorated,
with no disbursements processed over this time period. Furthermore, most of the time-bound
actions agreed with the Bank during the April 1995 mission were not met.
23. Proposed Cancellation. In December 1995, with less than 20 percent of the Loan
disbursed after four years of implementation, the Bank communicated to the Government of Sao
Paulo its desire to cancel the undisbursed loan balance. At the same time, the Bank was
reviewing other problem projects in the Sao Paulo portfolio: the IEB was not the only one facing
implementation problems. In January 1996, the Bank, the Government of Sao Paulo, and the
Federal Government undertook a unique, comprehensive review of all of the Bank-financed
projects under implementation in Sao Paulo with the objective of cleaning and improving the
entire portfolio.
24.  Agreement on High-Stakes Project Implementation Benchmarks. During the
comprehensive portfolio review, the Bank and Borrower agreed to give the IEB project one last
chance. During this review, the Borrower inforned the Bank that it would request cancellation
of the loan if the SEE failed to meet detailed and mutually acceptable implementation targets.
I IThe currency conversion, combined with delays in payments to contractors, effectively lowered the Bank's
planned participation in civil works. The increased percentage was therefore designed to compensate for greater
than anticipated participation on the part of the State of Sao Paulo.



8
During the subsequent month, the SEE and the Bank task management team negotiated a new
agreement on project implementation. Working backwards from the expected project
completion date (September 1997) with 100% of the project implemented, the SEE and the Bank
agreed on a project implementation timeline with detailed, quarterly implementation
benchmarks. This final benchmark agreement, signed at the end of February 1996, included
four types of indicators established across each of the components of the IEB: (a) the bidding
documents to be published each quarter, (b) the contracts to be signed each quarter, (c) the
amount of financial resources committed each quarter, and (d) the amount of the financial
resources spent each quarter. The Borrower also stated that a partial cancellation of the Loan
would be requested at the end of any quarter in which these benchmarks were not achieved.
25. Project execution improved dramatically after January 1996. This resumption of the
Project was due to several factors. First, and most importantly, the new SEE administration was
convinced of the relevance and importance of core IEB objectives, had successfully negotiated a
number of project alterations with the Bank and was determined to integrate project funds into
ongoing educational reforms. Second, many procurement problems were resolved by this time,
and the hiring of United Nations Development Program to coordinate procurement of
educational materials and teacher training helped avoid others. Third, the Bank impressed upon
the Government the need to significantly improve the project performance profile. The loan
closed on April 30, 1999 having disbursed 99 percent of the original US$245 million.
D. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
26. Learning and Retention. It is notoriously difficult to attribute changes in learning levels
to any one intervention, or even a series of interventions such as those supported under the IEB
project. The project impact evaluation sought to demonstrate such linkages through a quasi-
experimental, multivariate design which isolated project effects by holding other factors constant
(e.g., the socio-economic status). Unfortunately, the impact evaluation was completed in 1995,
prior to most of the IEB implementation; as such, it sheds little light on how project-financed
inputs affected learning levels. While the impact evaluation did compare learning achievement of
children in schools with different levels of inputs (schools implementing ciclo bdsico but without
the jornada unica, schools with both ciclo basico and jornada zunica, and schools chosen to be
"escolas padrao"), these inputs were for the most part not financed through the Project. The
study was therefore far more useful as an evaluation of policy directions and effectiveness than
as a project evaluation per se. 12
27. It is possible to describe trends in learning levels without direct attribution to the project.
There are two main sources of information on learning levels in Sao Paulo: the Educational
Evaluation System of Brazil (SAEB), a national test developed in the early 1 990s and given
every two years, and the Education Evaluation System of Sao Paulo (SARESP), the State's own
student assessment test, given every year since 1996. Comparing SARESP results from 1996
and 1997 (1998 results are not yet available), it is clear that, within the cohort of children being
tested, these same children's learning levels are increasing annually. There was also a larger
12 The Bank placed such importance on the impact evaluation that its design was a condition of project effectiveness
and the contracting was included in the Loan Agreement as a dated covenant. In fact, this strategy ended up
backfiring, as the impact evaluation got off to a much earlier start than the rest of the project. Whereas the impact
evaluation concluded in 1995, actual project implementation only began to gain momentum in 1996.



9
jump in mastery of new content and skills in the transition from 3rd to 4h grade than from 7h to
8th grade, and among children moving from 3rd to 4th grade in GSP as compared to the rest of the
state. 13,14 Overall scores for the project region were slightly lower than those for the rest of the
state, which is not surprising given the higher concentration of poor children in GSP. 15
28. The SAEB test, which is a national cross-sectional (as opposed to longitudinal) test, was
given in 1995 and 1997. Results of testing 4th graders in Sao Paulo in both Math and Portuguese
have been basically stable over this time period, with no statistically significant increases or
declines. At the 8th grade level, however, results declined in both Math and Portuguese.
29. While these results may be an anomaly of the cohorts tested, they may also be in part
attributed to the state's success in improving student repetition and dropout rates. Statewide,
both failure and dropout rates for I stt 8h grades (ensino fundamental) have decreased steadily.
over the last decade, with marked reductions beginning in 1995. Student flow analysis for Sao
Paulo confirms a decline in repetition and dropout rates from 1987 to 1996, while revealing that
most of the improvements in dropout have been in the early grades.'6 Within GSP, promotion
rates for ensino fundamental increased from 68.5 percent of students in 1987 to 90.2 percent of
students in 1997, while failure rates fell from 20.3 percent to 4.3 percent, and dropout fell from
10.2 percent to 5.5 percent during the same time period (see figure 1 below).17 With fewer
failures and dropouts, the universe of students being tested has expanded, particularly to include
many slower learners who might have been retained or opted out of the system in past years.
Figure 1: Trends in Promotion, Retention and Dropout in
GSP (1987-1997)
E 100
E  80
40
0 60 .....   ..m
fg  40                   0                    - - C*~~~~~~~~~~~rpouts
20
a.   0
87      89       91      93       95       97
Years
Source: SEE - Centro de Informacoes Educacionais (CIE)
3 However, this relationship was reversed in the higher grades (7 " to 8t)
14 Children moving from 3rd to 0 grade improved mastery of Portuguese competency by 24% and Math
competencies by 22%. Those moving from 7th to 8* grade improved Portuguese competency by 14% and Math by
9%.
15 To give an idea of skill levels, the mean score in Math for 4h'- grades in the project region tested in 1997 was
56.29. A score of 60 indicates that students possess (among others) the following competencies: (a) division of a
number of three digits by a number of one digit, (b) completion of a numeric sequence made up of odd numbers; (c)
resolution of simple word problems involving addition, subtraction, and multiplication; and (d) preliminary notions
of geometry, including the measurement of sides and angles.
16 See Klien, Ruben, " Uma Analise do Sistema Educacional do Estado de Sao Paulo." 1999. Unpublished.
17 With regard to promotion, retention and dropout rates, rates for GSP are very close to those of the entire state.



10
30. Poverty Focus. Of all IEB activities, only school construction had explicit poverty
targeting goals. The initial poverty targeting was based on 1988 data which facilitated the
disaggregation of the local SEE offices (delegacias) in GSP into three distinct, homogeneous
groupings.18 Over the course of the subsequent ten years, changes in parameters outside the
control of the Project (e.g., increased urbanization, population shifts within GSP, demographic
shifts in primary education, municipalization, school reorganization) as well as project-specific
issues (e.g., slow implementation, revised numbers and locations of new school construction)
called into question the continued validity of these earlier targeting efforts. At project closure, a
follow-up study was commnissioned to assess the success of poverty targeting ex post in regard to
school construction using recent (1998) employment data and specifying per capita household
income as the principal variable of analysis.19
31.  Under the poverty targeting at appraisal, 75.3 percent of new classrooms were to be
constructed in Region III, the poorest of the three, 22.4 percent in Region II, and the remaining
2.3 percent in Region I, the wealthiest among the three (see Table 1). In 1995, following
reformulation of the Project, new classroom construction for Region III was increased to 82.0
percent, Region II decreased to 17.7 percent, with Region I accounting for less than one percent.
At Loan Closing, a total of 3,387 new classrooms had been constructed, 75.8 percent of which
were located in Region III.
Table 1: New IEB Classrooms Constructed, expected and actual (percentages in parenthesis)
Project Appraisal     Reformulation         Loan Closing
(1989)               (1995)               (1998)
Region I                   98      (2.3)        12      (0.3)        10       (0.3)
Region II                 929     (22.4)       619     (17.7)       455     (13.0)
Region III              3,129     (75.3)     2,861     (82.0)     2,567     (75.8)
Vale do Ribeira                   -              -                   55       (1.6)
Sorocaba                          -              -                  300      (8 9)
TOTAL                   4,156    (100.0)     3,492    (100.0)     3,387    (100.0)
32.  The analysis of per capita household income confirmed the original 1988 poverty targeting
under the Project and, in fact, showed that the IEB actually exceeded these targets. GSP per
capita household incomes declined from R$420 in 1988 to R$402 in 1998.20 Region III per
capita household income in 1998 was 7 percent below the 1988 level. Income disparities also
grew among the three regions over the project period. In 1998 Region III per capita income was
slightly more than one-quarter of that for Region I and about 60 percent of that for Region II.
33. Of the non-construction activities funded under the IEB, the Classes de Aceleraqao
showed the strongest implicit poverty link. Education research in Brazil has long established
that poor children are disproportionately at risk of school failure, repetition, and dropout. Given
that the Classes de Aceleraqdo focus on schools with a large percentage of age-grade distortion
and are concentrated on children who have fallen behind their peers through repetition, it can be
assumed that the program disproportionately benefits poor children. Other project resources
18 SEADE. 1989. Analise comparative das caracteristicas do atendimento educacional na Grande Sdo Paulo
segundo regioes homogeneas. Sao Paulo.
19 SEADE. 1998. Pesquisa de Emprego e Desemprego - PED.
20 Per capita household incomes expressed in December 1998 Reais.



11
were distributed primarily on an "equal footing basis" although under the teacher training (i.e.,
PEC) guidelines, poorer areas were guaranteed training for 1 00 percent of their teachers. The
school lunch program has also begun to integrate geographic nutritional profiles and poverty
information into its food selection and distribution criteria.
34.  School Construction. School overcrowding significantly decreased over the project
period, due to both the construction funded under the Project and the school system
reorganization. Overall, the IEB did well in meeting its construction targets. A total of 3,387
additional primary classrooms were built under the project, 97 percent of the 1995 revised
estimate, and 81 percent of those expected at appraisal. In addition, 695 schools were remodeled
or completely renovated. By 1998, schools with more than two daily sessions had decreased to
5.8 percent (343 schools), allowing the implementation of jornada unica of five hours in 94
percent of all schools for all students (not just those in the ciclo basico).
35. The school system reorganization also had pedagogic goals. By separating children
according to age group, the SEE hoped to focus on age-specific learning needs, achieve greater
school team integration, and introduce age-appropriate specialized pedagogic spaces (salas
ambientes).21 Anecdotal evidence suggests that this strategy is working. Teachers and school
officials confirm that, while the reorganization has been difficult, the narrower age-range of
students facilitates their work, particularly in schools serving grades 1-4. In a public opinion
survey conducted in 1995, just before the school system reorganization, 62 percent of parents
and 35 percent of teachers thought the change would improve learning. In another public
opinion survey conducted in 1998, nearly 80 percent of parents, 85 percent of students, and 71
percent of teachers thought learning conditions had improved.22
36. Evidence on the use of salas ambientes is mixed. In the same 1998 survey, 70 percent of
school principals thought that salas ambientes had improved teaching. However, in a sample of
teachers participating in the PEC program, 28 percent did not have or did not use the salas
ambientes. It would be useful for the SEE and the FDE to more closely examine actual and
desired use of space, as it has significant cost and pedagogic implications. In part because of
construction quality improvements and architectural alterations to accommodate these new
pedagogic spaces, construction costs under the IEB project nearly doubled.23 If these spaces are
not being fully used, either their use should be encouraged or they should be eliminated in the
future.
37. Teacher Training. Quality improvement in teaching was a priority of the SEE
administration from 1995 onwards.24 Efforts in this regard included: (a) extra time for lesson
preparation and collective discussion of teaching issues;25 (b) reform of teachers' career and
21 These included video rooms, laboratory space, an arts room, more exterior play space, and other alterations.
22 The 1995 survey was conducted with 6 focus groups in GSP and 8 in the interior of the State; the 1998 survey
was conducted with a sampling of parents and school staff in municipalities served by the delegacia of
Araraquaquara.
23 These alterations were first made in 1992 to accommodate the escolas padrdo. The architectural model for the
escolas padrdo, however, is close to that currently in use and includes the salas ambientes.
24 Some training, mostly of ciclo basico teachers, was completed prior to 1995. In all 20,671 teachers and other
school professionals were trained through workshops, seminars and courses, and about 20,000 participants through
distance training from 1993-95.
25 Horario de Trabalho Pedag6gico Colectivo



12
payment structure; (c) teacher training for Accelerated Classes (Classes de Aceleraqao); and (d)
the PEC. IEB funds were used in the implementation of the Classes de Aceleraqdo and in the
design, implementation, and evaluation of the PEC, both of which are detailed below.26
38. The Classes de Aceleraqdo program was developed by SEE in collaboration with a Sao
Paulo-based NGO (CENPEC). The program focuses on students who have fallen behind in
school through repetition, accelerating them to their age-cohort and reintegrating them into
mainstream classes at a higher grade level. Course materials follow a modular format and cover
skills and subjects that would normally be addressed in ensino fundamental. Materials are also
designed to reflect the interests and general knowledge base of an older-than-average group of
children.
39. The SEE began the Classes de Aceleraqdo in 1996 with a sample of 160 schools that
showed significant age-grade distortion in the primary grades. CENPEC was contracted to train
the 160 pedagogic coordinators and 417 teachers in the selected schools in the program's
objectives, approach, and materials. The program was expanded in 1997 to an additional 640
schools, and in 1998 to another 940 schools. In 1998, the SEE began experimenting with a
similar methodology for grades 5-8, and training oriented to teachers of the Classes de
AceleraVao was integrated into the PEC. To date, 133,000 students in grades 1-4 and another
53,000 in grades 5-8 have participated in the Classes de Aceleragdo.
40.  Statistics indicate that the Classes de Aceleraqdo are working. Of children who started in
Aceleraqdo I (children in grades 1 and 2 - the ciclo bdsico), 37.8 percent were tracked back into
4th grade, 19.6 percent were tracked into 5t grade, and 1.4 percent were tracked into 3rd grade.
About one-fifth of children (21.3 percent) moved on to Acelerafao II and the overall dropout
rate was 8.4 percent - higher than the statewide average, but not so high when considering that
this is a population at particularly high risk for dropout. Of children in Aceleraqdo II, 2.5 percent
went on to 4th grade, 76.3 percent went on to 5h grade, 2.8 percent stayed in the Aceleraqdo 11 or
had some other remedial work, and 6.3 percent dropped out.
41.  In its design, the Continuing Education Program (PEC) represented an important departure
from previous training initiatives. Rather than a series of short (20 - 30 hour) courses, most PEC
courses were intended to meet regularly over one year (most were 96 hours), allowing course
participants to model new content and practices in their schools and return to class with
questions. Previously, course content and modules were centrally planned by the SEE and
negotiated with universities and other training providers; the PEC decentralized these activities
to the local-level SEE offices (delegacias). SEE training organizers divided the state's 143
delegacias into 19 geographic areas (polos) each of which was matched with a training
provider.27 The delegacias within each polo then negotiated with their designated training
provider for training activities to meet their identified needs. All training activities were
expected to incorporate certain cross-cutting themes and desired training results (e.g.,
participatory school management; school and classroom organization; creative use of curriculum;
use of library and laboratory; continuous evaluation of students; use of educational statistics and
information in work plan preparation).
26 Training for the Classes de Aceleracao came under project financing in 1998 as part of the PEC.
27 Some universities and training institutions were contracted directly (sole-source) by the State, while others were
subject to a selection process.



13
42. Results from the PEC varied enormously among the different polos. In areas where the
local university or training provider had a history of working closely with the public school
system, the negotiation and subsequent courses generally went smoothly. In others, the
negotiation and implementation of courses proved difficult, either because the delegacia was
unclear about its needs, or the designated training provider lacked the expertise desired, or
simply resisted the new arrangements.28 In a few cases, delegacias failed to reach agreement
with the designated training provider, and either implemented training activities from their own
budgets or obtained SEE permission to negotiate with the training provider assigned to a
neighboring polo. Others delegacias (estimated at 20 or 30) dropped out of the program after
only one course module. Despite these problems, the PEC achieved substantial coverage.
Twelve training institutions were involved state-wide, covering 19 polos, 143 delegacias, and
425 municipalities.29 These institutions developed 245 distinct training activities, involving
104,215 participants, in 2,761 groups for a total of 252,000 class hours of training between 1996
and 1998. 30
43. Unfortunately, evaluation of the PEC started after courses were initiated. As a result, there
was no ex ante, ex post classroom observation of teacher behavior which would indicate whether
the teacher training had the desired effects. The lack of uniform monitoring instruments further
complicated evaluation efforts.31 The evaluation did apply questionnaires to a sample of training
participants. A majority reported having benefited from the PEC courses, and indicated that they
were attempting to integrate course content and methodologies into their ongoing work.
44. Educational Materials. Nearly 28 percent of IEB loan proceeds went toward the
purchase of educational materials - the second largest area of expenditure after construction. In
general, the SEE did well in meeting implementation targets. Under centralized procurement,
between 1993 and 1995, virtually all schools in the Project area received packages of
supplemental reading books and other materials appropriate for use with grades 1-4. In 1996, all
schools received a package of didactic books and videos, and schools serving grades 5-8 began
receiving magazine subscriptions. In 1997, schools serving grades 5-8 received materials for the
salas ambientes, including musical instruments, laboratory equipment, models and supplies, and
computers, software and accessories for classroom use.32
45. The SEE's experience with decentralized procurement of educational materials was also
positive. The first transfers of funds to Parent-Teacher Associations for the purchase of
educational materials and furniture took place in 1996. In preparation for the transfer of funds,
instructional booklets were produced and distributed to schools, and a mass media campaign
launched to inform Parent-Teacher Associations of their responsibilities. These booklets
outlined what kinds of materials could be purchased and their technical specifications, gave
28 Those institutions subject to a competitive selection process proved on the whole to be more flexible than those
selected through sole-source procedures. Interestingly, some of the "premier" institutions also were among the most
resistant to the change in training modalities. An administrator of the University of Sao Paulo, for example,
complained that under this new system, he was expected to "send his Phd.s to the slums....."
29 Training was restricted to staff of state schools and "municipalized" schools.
30 Due to flaws in program monitoring, it is not possible to say exactly how many individual teachers were trained.
31 Evaluating institutions were the Universidade Federal de Rio Grande do Sul, Cesgran Rio, the FundaqJo Jodo
Pinheiros in Minas Gerais, and the Fundagdo Carlos Chagas.
32 Each school serving grades 5-8 initially received 5 computers, to be complemented with another 5 through a
different financing source.



14
guidelines on prices and local shopping procedures, and explained record-keeping and
accounting procedures for purchases. Funds were transferred to 2,346 schools serving grades 1-
4 and 1,717 schools serving grades 5-8 for the purchase of a pedagogic kits, and to 2,187 schools
serving grades 1-4 and 806 schools serving grades 5-8 for furniture purchases. Schools serving
as teacher training centers also received an additional transfer for the purchase of didactic books
and videos in 1996, for equipment purchases in 1997, and for professional development activities
in 1998.
46.  Both the quality and cost of procured educational materials under the Project were
reasonable. Information on the use of these materials at the central level is mostly anecdotal.
The SEE has been regularly publishing a school bulletin on computer use in the classroom, and it
appears that at least some schools have been successful in incorporating the use of computers
into lesson objectives. Teacher training in classroom computer use was also included under the
PEC in 1998. Currently, SEE is implementing a methodology and an information system at the
central level to monitor the regular use of computers. Given its innovative nature, relatively high
upkeep and replacement cost, an evaluation of computer usage will help in charting the future
direction of the program.
47. School lunch. While project disbursements for school lunch were miniscule (less than 1
percent of total project disbursements as opposed to an expected 2.7 percent of total loan at
appraisal), the School Food Provision Department (DSE) within the SEE nonetheless made
major advancements in the school lunch program in GSP during project implementation. When
the IEB was developed, the school lunch program was a centralized program run by the State,
financed with both Federal and State funds. By the early 1990's, school food procurement had
been largely decentralized to the municipal level, with the exception of part of GSP (which
nonetheless still contained a significant number of schools and students).33 Initially, both the
scope and content of municipal participation in the school lunch component posed a stumbling
block to program development, as did the reluctance of the DSE to permit outside scrutiny of its
centralized program.
48. In 1996 a new DSE coordinator was appointed, a diagnostic study of the school lunch
program was completed, and a number of important changes were introduced over the 1996-98
time period. Most of the changes occurred in the centralized program and included: (a) revised
technical specifications for food procurement; (b) official menus on a trimestral basis; (c) a
program for enhancing the school lunch; (d) field supervision of the school lunch program; and
(e) purchases of kitchen equipment. Within this overall programmatic reform, IEB funded the
training of food preparation personnel (merendeiros) and the computerization of DSE operations.
To improve monitoring of both centralized and decentralized programs, the DSE computerized
its information base and installed a cost monitoring system. Also, studies of the poverty and
nutritional profile of students in the State helped to orient DSE's nutritional and distribution
policies.
49.  Today, some 626 decentralized municipalities receive Federal funds (R$0.13 per student
per class day) combined with R$0.06 from DSE/SEE from which to provide school lunches for
approximately 3.8 million students in nearly 3,200 primary schools. The DSE procures
nonperishable foodstuffs for the remaining 19 centralized municipalities (approximately 1,400
primary schools with some 1.3 million students) - roughly following R$0.19 per capita limit.
33 Financing remains a joint responsibility of the federal and state governments.



15
With the aim of fortifying and increasing the acceptability of student lunches, 86 percent of
centralized schools also participate in the School Lunch Enrichment Project (PEME), using
earmarked funds for the purchase of fresh fruits and vegetables, meat and eggs.34 Preschools -
under the budgetary responsibility of the municipality - receive a per capita supplement from the
Federal government of R$0.06 for their school lunch programs.
50. Bank funds financed a complete inventory of existing cooking facilities in some 6,000
primary schools during 1997/98 and developed a standard kit of fifty kitchen items to be
provided to each school kitchen. Using State fumds of approximately R$4.0 million, the DSE
refurbished 100 percent of the centralized schools with these standard kits as well as some 20
percent of the decentralized schools. Additionally, DSE conducted intensive field supervision
visits to all schools in the centralized school lunch program from 1996 to 1998. Student interns
from university nutrition programs in Sao Paulo conducted these supervisions and evaluated the
schools on food preparation, menu construction, nutritional content and student acceptability.
Comprehensive training of school lunch personnel followed these supervision visits. Beginning
in 1997 and continuing through mid-1998, some 11,300 merendeiros received a 20-hour training
module in food hygiene, food content, human nutrition, food storage, accident prevention and
interpersonal relations.35
5 1. Preschool. The cost (without contingencies) of the preschool component at appraisal was
US$62.5 million, of which US$41.5 million was Bank financing (17 percent of total loan
amount). At project closure, only US$4.9 million (2 percent of total loan amount) was disbursed
toward this component. While it was expected at appraisal that 120,000 preschool vacancies
would be created via construction financed under the project, this goal was dramatically scaled
back to only 32,000 new vacancies (in 99 preschools with a total of 429 classrooms) at project
reformulation.36 At project closure, only 53 preschools had been constructed with Project funds,
yielding 241 new classrooms which created nearly 16,000 new preschool vacancies, well below
the revised goals. Of the 39 municipalities eligible to take part in the preschool program, 32
signed Cooperative Agreements for the development of municipal plans, and 26 municipalities
completed plans and signed subproject agreements (convenios) with the State for the receipt of
funds. By 1997, only 11 of the original municipalities chose to continue in the program.
52. Implementation by the municipalities was delayed due to a relatively long planning period,
a six month delay in anticipation of municipal elections in 1993 and counterpart funding
difficulties. In accordance with the Loan Agreement, the rules for municipal participation were
published, a seminar was held with interested municipalities, and a model developed to help
municipalities complete the required preschool plan. To aid municipalities in plan development
and the project management unit in its analysis, a database was created to analyze municipal
demand for preschool and assess poverty and other socio-economic indicators. A group of
34 The funds earmarked for PEME are not additional, but rather specifically allocated within the existing budget
envelope of R$0. 19 per capita. The National Program for School Lunch (PNAE) has established a minimum content
of 350 Kcal with at least 9 g of protein for the school lunch.
35 Of these, some 3,500 merendeiros within the centralized schools were trained directly, with the remaining 7,800
merendeiros in the decentralized schools reached through 113 change agents (multiplicadores) in a training-of-
trainers approach.
36 The original estimates of demand for preschool (based on 1988 data) were revised downward during the planning
process with muncipalities and based on current data from 1990 and 1992 for census and the education sector,
respectively. Independently, several municipalities had also dropped out of the program by 1995.



16
consultants - contracted through the project coordination unit - worked with municipalities to
prepare their plans. The first transfer of funds, however, occurred only in 1994.
53. Participating municipalities initially had difficulties with disbursement and accounting
procedures; those municipalities that could not accurately report project expenditures incurred
delays in receiving additional funds. Training provided by project consultants largely solved
these problems. Despite the project's provision of a simple architectural model for preschool
construction, many municipalities opted for their own architectural plan, resulting in a
significantly higher cost of construction. Two cost parameters for preschool construction were
established at appraisal: aggregate construction cost (construction, furniture and equipment) - set
at US$369 per square meter -- and cost per student - US$518. Evaluation of ex post
construction costs reveals that aggregate cost increased by more than one-third (US$490 per
square meter) while per student cost rose by 80 percent (US$934). The State counterpart
financing was restricted to 70% of the estimated cost of construction at appraisal, regardless of
the design ultimately chosen by the municipalities. Given the restricted financial participation of
the State, combined with the onerous reporting requirements for reimbursement, many
municipalities decided to drop out of the program.
54. No municipal plan included NGO participation -- a major departure from the original
project design -- despite the rule that NGOs provide 15 percent of new preschool spaces. Plans
were approved on an exceptional basis for the first year, with the issue of NGO participation to
be revisited when renewal of the plans took place in year two. A study on NGOs was
commissioned and a workshop held in 1994 with local NGOs to try to solicit their participation.
The issue was not pursued further, however, and ultimately none of the preschool spaces under
the project were provided through NGOs.
55. The original project design envisioned a state role in assisting municipalities to improve
preschool education quality and content through curriculum development and training. A
consultant team - hired by the SEE and financed under the Project - developed a new curricular
proposal in 1994, leading to a training seminar with municipalities in early 1995. During 1995,
however, the SEE gradually withdrew from this role, terminating its preschool coordinator,
disbanding the group of consultants working with the municipalities, and dismantling the
permanent SEE preschool pedagogical staff. From this point on, no training was conducted
under the preschool component.
56.  School Health. The school health component fell short of its intended objectives. Its
implementation also suffered from delays, due in part to the ongoing process of decentralization
of the health system. Health activities agreed under the Project with the State Secretariat of
Health had to be renegotiated with all 38 municipalities in the GSP region. Lack of agreement
between the State and the municipality of Sao Paulo over the terms of decentralization proved to
be an initial stumbling block, as did delays in producing a coherent implementation plan.37 An
implementation plan was finally approved in 1993, after a change in administration and project
coordination within the Secretariat of Health. At this time, Bank-financed school health
activities were scaled back to four main areas: oral health, visual screening and treatment,
auditory screening and treatment, and a study on morbidity.
37 Submission of an implementation plan acceptable to the Bank was a condition of disbursement for the
component.



17
57.  Of these four areas, only oral health (school-based training of teachers and children in
tooth brushing, flossing, and application of topical fluoride, as well as a system for monitoring
activities) and auditory screening made significant progress. Visual and auditory screening plans
were halted when it became clear that there were insufficient specialized personnel at the
municipal level to adequately treat (or in some cases accurately diagnose) problems
encountered.38 With regard to auditory screening and treatment, this difficulty was overcome
with the signing of a contract with a private specialized institution (FUNCRAF) to conduct
screening and treatment. An attempt to follow a similar strategy for visual screening met with
Bank objection due to sole-sourcing. The design for the morbidity study was contracted out in
1994, but the actual proposal was not presented until 1996, and then at such an exorbitant cost
that it was not considered viable. Later, negotiations during 1997 brought down the cost of the
study, but by that time there was insufficient time for its completion.39 In all, about 1.7 million
children in the project area benefited from project-funded activities in oral health, and 19,637
children received auditory screening.
58. Evaluation and Assessment. With regard to evaluation and assessment, the IEB failed to
meet some of its goals and surpassed others. As mentioned earlier, the fact that the timing of the
project impact evaluation and overall project implementation were not synchronized meant that
the impact evaluation was more useful as an examination of policy directions than as a project
evaluation per se. The process study suffered from similar limitations in that it concluded in
1996 - two years before Loan Closing. Monitoring was strong in some areas (e.g., civil works)
and weak in others (e.g. teacher training).40 The original idea behind the project evaluation
studies was to have them proceed in tandem, allowing for a constant flow of monitoring and
process information to implementing agencies and providing the basis for conducting a cost-
benefit analysis of project inputs. In fact, the studies were contracted and implemented over
different time periods and the possibility of a cost-benefit analysis was discarded.41 And while
the post -1995 inclusion of an external evaluation of the PEC program was commendable, the
actual design and execution of the studies was in places flawed.
59.  On the other hand, the evaluation studies that were done were used as a basis for policy
decisions and actions - more than can be said for many a flawless study. The findings of the
impact evaluation helped ground the policy proposals of the new SEE administration in 1995 .42
38 The Bank's goal in the school health component had been the promotion of simple, low-cost preventive screening
measures to be undertaken largely by school personnel. The SES (perhaps rightly) declined to promote screening
when they were not sure of the ability of the larger health system to respond with treatment.
The SES attributes some of the difficulties it experienced with project implementation to the fact that
communication with the Bank was routed via the Project Coordination Unit in the SEE. It was not informed, for
example, of the possibility of the extension of the project closing date in time to permit the contracting of the
morbidity study, and on at least one occasion a Bank no-objection to a major procurement process was delayed for
months because the Project Coordination Unit failed to send on the request in a timely fashion. In short, the
working relationship between the two agencies at the project level was not an easy one.
40 With regard to project monitoring, the Project Coordination Unit opted to rely on implementing line departments
for information on physical and financial execution of the project, summarizing financial information in a
computerized tracking system, and contracting specialized monitoring as needed. The benchmarks system in use
from 1996-98 (though crucial) was limited to procurement and financial monitoring.
41 The impact study was contracted with the Fundaf do Carlos Chagas (FCC) in 1992, the cost study with FIPE in
1993, and the process study with NEPP in 1994.4' Contracting delays were for the most part due to negotiations
with selected institutions over proposed designs and associated costs.
42 In part, this was serendipity - the team leader for the impact evaluation, Rose Neubauer, was appointed as
Secretary of Education in 1995.



18
While diverging from its original intent (providing the basis for the cost-benefit analysis in
conjunction with the results of the impact evaluation), the cost study evolved into the
development by the Fundaqdo Instituto de Pesquisas Econ6micas (FIPE) of a computerized
model for monitoring educational costs.43 SEE planning staff were trained in the operation and
upkeep of the system, which is currently in use for planning purposes. The experience that the
Funda,do Carlos Chagas obtained while implementing the impact evaluation also helped lay the
foundation for the subsequent design and implementation of the Educational Evaluation System
of Sao Paulo (SARESP), the State's own ongoing student evaluation system.
60. The development of a state assessment system had been a goal of the IEB project from the
outset. The SEE had experimented with selected testing of the escolas padrao in 1993 and 1994,
but in 1995 it set about developing a state-wide system with the technical assistance of the
Fundaqdo Carlos Chagas. Education leaders felt that effective interventions for quality
enhancement could only take place once reliable and constant information on the status of
educational performance across the system was available. The first SARESP test was done in
1996, with a second round in 1997 and a third in 1998. SARESP was designed as a census test
(i.e., all students in all schools in a particular grade were tested) and as a longitudinal one (i.e.,
the same cohort has been tested three years running, to evaluate growth in learning achievement).
IEB funds were used both in the development and implementation of the SARESP.
61. The SARESP was applied through a strong collaboration between the SEE, its regional
offices, and schools. Students answer questionnaires, which include the achievement test and
background information. The process is cleverly designed to (a) guarantee reliability of the
information, (b) have schools heavily involved in the process, and (c) provide instant feedback to
schools and teachers regarding the performance of their students. The first two rounds of test
applications were supported by a mass-media campaign, explaining the objectives of the test and
encouraging student participation. Beyond the infornation provided to central policy makers,
awareness and use of SARESP results appear to be growing at the level of schools and the
immediate supervisory institution, the delegacias. References to SARESP results were made
during several school interviews, and several delegacias made sophisticated use of results in
identifying their training needs under the PEC. Through SARESP, PEC and other initiatives, the
SEE appears to be gradually inculcating the use of information for planning and evaluation, an
objective that extends well beyond the project's goals.
62. Institutional Development and System-wide Reform. The new SEE administration in
1995 had a strong and articulated proposal for improving the effectiveness and efficiency of
educational management. Strategic objectives included: (a) shrinking the size of the State's
educational management structure, through consolidation and decentralization of functions to
local SEE offices (delegacias) and gradual transfer of financial and managerial responsibility for
grades 1-4 to municipalities; (b) computerizing administrative functions and providing easier
access to information at the school, delegacia, and central levels and (c) strengthening planning
and evaluation functions at both the central and local level. IEB funds were used to support
these objectives through the contracting of studies, software design, training, and the purchase of
computer hardware and software.
43 According to Project staff, the FIPE study ended up as an input into the discussions of a base-line per-student cost
under the FUNDEF, as few actual cost (as opposed to expenditure) analyses were available at the time.



19
63. Decentralization. Prior to 1995, education management in Sao Paulo had four tiers: (a)
the SEE itself, which housed central budgetary, administrative, planning, policy, and regulatory
functions; (b) 18 Divisoes Regionais de Ensino (DRE), which had some education supervision
functions, but for the most part were administrative units handling personnel and financial issues;
(c) 143 delegacias, which had administrative functions and were responsible for direct school
supervision; and (d) the schools themselves.
64. In 1995, the state Government issued a decree eliminating the DREs, and reassigning
administrative responsibilities and financial powers to the delegacias.4  Though the elimination
of the DREs generated some cost savings, the larger implications of the move were political and
managerial.4 The DREs had long served more of a political than educational function, and in
eliminating them the administration removed a site of potential opposition to its pedagogic and
other reforms.46 From a managerial standpoint, the move brought financial and administrative
decision-making power closer to the schools, allowing for faster resolution of problems.
65.  The decentralization of functions to the delegacias also created needs: (a) delegacia staff
needed to be trained regarding their new responsibilities and functions; (b) to the extent that
more planning, as well as administrative functions were being decentralized to the delegacias,
local staff needed access to educational planning information and the tools to manipulate it; and
(c) the SEE needed greater facility in communication with its local offices. To help meet these
needs, the SEE used IEB funds to: (a) hire the FundaVdo de Desenvolvimento Administrativo
(FUNDAP) to develop and conduct a training program for delegacia staff; (b) hire the Fundaado
Sistema e Analise de Dados (SEADE) to develop a user-friendly research data base containing
educational statistics and information (completed in 1998); and (c) launch a program to
computerize the entire state educational system, including the school, delegacia, and central
levels of administration.
66. On a parallel track, the SEE also pursued decentralization to the municipal level. Sao
Paulo had begun a municipalization program in 1989, with the initial emphasis on transferring
the responsibility for all state-run preschools to the municipal level. Whereas several Brazilian
states (e.g., Parana) had begun experimenting in the early 1990s with the transfer of financial and
managerial responsibility for grades 1-4 to municipalities, Sao Paulo lagged in part because the
majority of its schools housed grades 1-8 under a single roof. The school system reorganization
removed this particular barrier, and the passage of the 1996 Education Finance law
(FUNDEF)gave an enormous financial incentive to municipalities to accept responsibility for
more students.47
67. The result has been a surge in municipal enrollments. As of 1998, 283 municipalities had
signed "partnership" agreements with the State, and the percentage of students in grades 1-4 in
44 Decree # 39,902, 1995. As of April 1999, the SEE announced a second wave of reform, consolidating the 143
delegacias into 89.
45 Largely through the elimination of office expenses, since personnel were for the most part transferred to the
delegacia level.
46 Certainly the move could not have been made without strong support from a popular govemor. The timing of the
change (early in the administration) was also probably crucial.
The federal Fundo para Ensino Fundamental (FUNDEF), seeks to redistribute per-student funding for primary
education within each state. Under FUNDEF, municipalities with large tax receipts but few students find
themselves surrendering a portion of their required educational spending to the State. Similarly, poor municipalities
with many students will receive additional funds through the State.



20
municipal or "municipalized" schools had increased from 16% in 1990 to 31% in 1997. To help
municipalities better understand the consequences of the new education finance law and prepare
for assuming more responsibility in the area of primary education, the SEE contracted (with IEB
funds) FUNDAP to develop a series of training and management tools and materials for the SEE
and municipalities. The long-term trend (as mandated by the Constitution and the new Federal
Education law) is to have municipalities increasingly responsible for the provision and financing
of primary education whereas the State retains responsibility for the supervision of primary
education and the direct financing and management of secondary and the upper grades of ensino
fundamental. It is still unclear to what extent the State will continue active oversight of
municipalized primary education or adopt an increasingly perfunctory stance (as in the case of
preschool) as time evolves.
68. Information Technology. The SEE began its information revolution at the end of 1995,
when it conducted a state-wide student census in anticipation of the school system
reorganization. Students and schools were assigned unique identification numbers, and a data
base was developed by the State data-processing company, PRODESP.48 In 1996, the SEE
developed a comprehensive Technology Plan, specifying system structure, applications,
technological specifications, and organization. Although the SEE was forced to make some
alterations along the way,49this plan formed the basis for implementation of the system.
Centralized purchases of computer and related equipment were made for the SEE and 143
delegacias, networks linking the SEE and delegacias were established, and funds were sent to all
state schools for the decentralized purchase of computers, printers and related equipment.50 A
private software development company was initially contracted to develop a school-based
information management system, and to train school, delegacia, and SEE personnel in the use of
computers and basic software packages (e.g., Windows, Word, PowerPoint).
69. Although the development of a comprehensive Technology Plan was clearly a crucial first
step to such a massive undertaking as the SEE proposed, the lack of internal Information
Technology (IT) personnel proved a weak point. Ideally, the SEE should have hired more
specialized IT personnel during the development and implementation of such a plan,
complementing the consultant team formed by a few professionals. This was only partially done
in 1998 when a specialized IT department was formed. This gap contributed to problems in the
administration of the software development contract. Although the basic computer and
commercial software training under the contract was done, the SEE was extremely dissatisfied
with the development of the school-based information management system. The SEE abrogated
the contract a year after it had begun, and chose instead to adopt the Ministry of Education-
developed school-based management system (i.e., SAE).51 There are currently 200 schools in
Sao Paulo participating in a pilot for the implementation of the SAE.
48 The census work by PRODESP (as a state entity) was not funded under the IEB.
49 In terms of structure, the original plan was to equip the delegacias to give technical support to schools. This
structure was superceded by state-wide governmental mandates on the implementation of information technology,
and the SEE is now relying on the superior technical expertise of the Fazenda and State Public Security Secretariat
local offices in giving technical assistance to schools and delegacias. This intra-govermnental collaboration is
unusual, and commendable.
50 All purchases were made with IEB funds.
51 The development and implementation of the SAE is being supported by the World Bank through the Northeast
Basic Education II and III projects and the Fundescola projects.



21
70. The process of computerization of the education system in Sao Paulo is still far from
complete, but there is both concrete and anecdotal evidence that it is making a difference. For
example, the 1995 school census resulted in the elimination of about 285,000 non-existent or
"ghost" students, producing significant cost savings on books, materials, and food through the
school lunch program. Interviews with school administrators participating in the SAE pilot
indicate that the new system and access to computers have resulted in time savings with regard to
routine reporting functions. According to one school administrator interviewed, the fact that the
school bulletin can be generated by computer "makes the students feel good - they want to take
it home to show their parents because they think it's cool."52 Once schools are linked via the
Internet to SEE databases, the potential for two-way flows of information for planning and
communication purposes will also vastly increase. 5
71. Strengthening Planning. The SEE has made great strides over the last few years in
making sure that relevant planning information is available, encouraging people to use it, and
giving them at least some tools (such as computers) and skills with which to do so. Stylistically,
this has been very much a "learning-by-doing" process. One example of this approach is the
implementation of the PEC, in which the delegacias do ensino were thrust into the position of
detennining their own training needs and negotiating them with local training providers. Some
did well, others not so well, but all learned something.
72. Another interesting example of the comprehensive planning of a major reform is the school
system reorganization into schools serving grades 1-4 and 5-8. The idea for the reorganization
was rooted in: (a) the conviction that the separation of younger and older children would result
in pedagogic benefits; (b) statistical information and analysis indicating that such a
reorganization would substantially reduce school overcrowding; and (c) the political reality that
it would be far easier to proceed with the municipalization of entire schools than "split" ones.
Preparations began in 1995 with a statewide student census. A study of student flow in the Sao
Paulo school system, and a beneficiary assessment study examining community attitudes toward
education, were contracted and incorporated into the planning process.54 A mass-media
campaign, involving television, radio, and the distribution of pamphlets, was developed to
inforn parents and schools of the goals behind the impending change - a particularly crucial
step, considering the potential of a political backlash.
73. The planning process also involved all parts of the system. SEE planning staff prepared a
training manual and began the training of staff in the 143 delegacias do ensino on how to
conduct the school reorganization within each municipality under their area of responsibility.
The actual responsibility for analysis of local conditions, designation of schools and
reassignment of students and teachers was given to the delegacias, acting in conjunction with
local municipal authorities. The reorganization itself took place at the end of 1995, and the 1996
school year began with the new configuration of schools. As with the implementation of the
PEC, the reorganization went more smoothly in some municipalities than in others. Overall,
52 Interview with administrator - 1ttp:v/'www.saeniec.iov.br - casos de sucesso - SP.
53 The SEE is exploring with the private institutions the possibility of their providing internet access for schools - an
interesting example of public-private partnership. The SEE has also established its own website
(http:"'www.educaca.sp.gov.br), though direct access to data bases is not yet available.
54 Klien, Ruben. "O Sistema de Ensino Regular no Estado de Sdo Paulo, 1983-1994". August, 1995. Funda,cdo
Carlos Chagas. "A Importancia da Participa,co ComunitMria na Questdo da Educa,cao e da Pobreza. " Sao Paulo,
1995. Both studies were financed through the IEB.



22
however, there were far fewer problems than anticipated, considering the dimensions of the
change.
E. USE OF CONSULTANTS
74. Consultant services were used for all components of the Project. UNDP and FDE were
used as implementing agencies for various sub-components such as the construction of schools;
teacher training; acquisition of educational materials, including computers and software; parts of
the school lunch sub-component; and evaluation and dissemination. Consulting services were
essential to the preschool, teacher training and evaluation and dissemination sub-components. -
Consultants were used to provide on-going project evaluation to monitor execution, analyze
costs and processes, and assess the project's impact through the evaluation of children's learning
and retention in school over time. Dissemination services included several public information
campaigns, inter alia SARESP, decentralized purchase of education materials and training of
school lunch personnel.
F. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
75. As with any project, the sustainability of IEB project investments and reforms is in part
contingent on the political and economic environment. On the political front, the reelection of
the Covas government in 1998 and the continuation of the same administration in the SEE
should go a long way toward ensuring the consolidation of reforms and the incorporation of new
activities and practices into the life of the institution. On the economic side, however, Sao Paulo
like the rest of Brazil is facing yet another period of economic turbulence and tightening budgets.
Given this context, it is possible that some project-supported activities will have to be scaled
back.
76.  With regard to school construction, educational materials, and the computerization of the
education system, the main sustainability concerns are regarding maintenance and (in the case of
materials and computers) training, technical assistance and replacement. Although the quality of
construction under the Project has been satisfactory, regular maintenance needs to be assured
(both financially and institutionally), either through the training and transfer of maintenance
funds to Parent-Teacher Associations, delegacias, an FDE post-construction inspection program,
or contracting with third party providers.55 Regarding educational materials, although schools
are undoubtedly better equipped than they have been in earlier years, funds will still need to be
budgeted and transferred for replacement of items. Given the rapidity with which both hardware
and software grow obsolete, the SEE will also need to make regular planned purchases or leasing
arrangements to replace equipment and software bought through the IEB.56 Training and
technical assistance for the school-based information system is guaranteed through the link with
55 At least one project school seen by a consultant two years after construction was in poor shape. Although the
FDE does have a program to promote community involvement in school maintenance, this is currently only done
after the construction is completed. Experience elsewhere has shown that community involvement in planning of
schools leads to a greater sense of ownership and lower maintenance costs.
56 The SEE's current estimate is that they delay on a general re-equipping of the system until 2001 at the latest -
resources are being budgeted for replacement.



23
SAE and the Ministry of Education, and information technology support from other government
institutions is likely to continue at least through the current administration. Meantime, the SEE
is changing its internal structure and defining its own information technology team, as per the
Technology Plan.
77.  With regard to other programs, including the Classes de Aceleraqdo, the testing program
(SARESP) and the continuing education program (PEC), the most likely candidates for a scale
back are SARESP and the PEC. Programs such as Accelerated Classes (Classes de Aceleraqdo)
are targeted, low cost, and have clear positive outcomes; they also work to reduce future
expenditure on repetition. Though the SARESP program is (rightly) one of the flagship programs
of the current administration, it would be possible to make some changes to the design and test
every-other year (as opposed to every year) without seriously compromising the program's
objectives. This move would save money and allow more time for the SEE and schools to
process information resulting from the test. Continued school and parental involvement in the
testing program, however, remains the best assurance that the program will continue into future
administrations. The SEE appears to have decided to pause and evaluate the PEC before
deciding whether to continue training initiatives along these or other lines. Some follow-up to
the PEC will be important, however, both for the credibility of the current administration and
consolidation of some of the gains made.57
G. BANK PERFORMANCE
78.  Successive identification and preparation missions in the late 1980's led to the formulation
of the project consistent with the educational policy at the time. However, SEE staff turnover
during the period was frequent. This impeded Project development since Bank staff frequently
met with new SEE project staff at each successive phase of preparation and appraisal. Despite
three appraisal missions completed in 1991, agreement on project components was at best tacit
with regard to Preschool, School Health and School Lunch. The main project implementing
agencies (the SEE and the FDE) had no prior experience with procurement under Bank
guidelines, and the Bank did an inadequate job of covering procurement during project
preparation. The adequacy of FDE procurement procedures for local competitive bidding of
civil works was examined only in the final stages of project preparation. The Bank initially
concluded that the procedures and bidding documents were adequate, but reversed its position
once project implementation had begun and it became clear that the procedures were not
generating sufficient competition. The failure to require a project operation manual also
contributed to the early lags in implementation; such a manual should have included the bidding
documents to be approved by the Bank and used by the project. Until 1997 significant delays in
the provision of "no objection letters" occurred; however, with the decentralization of the CMU
to Brasilia these delays were reduced.
79.  The Bank was overly optimistic in the early years of project implementation regarding the
State's ownership of the project and its desire to overcome bottlenecks in implementation,
particularly counterpart contributions. It was not until 1995 - after four years of implementation
resulting in less than 20 percent disbursement of Loan funds -- that the Bank recommended
57 Among school personnel, there are already some complaints that if the PEC does not continue it will be "just like
every other training - there is no point in calling it 'continuing education' if it does not continue."



24
partial cancellation of the Loan. Earlier and stronger Bank action was warranted. Nonetheless,
the Bank did demonstrate appropriate flexibility both in the redesign of the project in 1995 and
the closer supervision afforded the project by placing an education staff member in the Brasilia
office.
R. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
80. Procurement. Procurement proved a major stumbling block in the early years of the
project (1991-94) and was responsible for a significant portion of project implementation delays.
The FDE in particular proved extremely reluctant to change its procedures to meet Bank
guidelines, causing months of delay on the civil works component. To make matters still more
complicated, Brazil's own procurement laws were under revision at the time, leading to multiple
revisions of bidding documents in the attempt to meet both Bank guidelines and local law. By
1994, final agreement on local and international bidding documents and procedures had been
reached. The first International Competitive Bidding processes were published, and the
advertisement and bidding of civil works resumed. UNDP was contracted in 1995 to carry out
the procurement of educational materials and teacher training (in both cases, centrally
procured).58
81.  Single source contracting of consultants was common throughout the Project, yielding
mixed results. With the heavy emphasis in the IEB on human resource requirements, single
source selection of consultants was often used, primarily because there were few specialized
institutions that were capable of providing training for teachers or evaluating the training being
provided. In some cases (e.g., the evaluation studies) prolonged negotiations over design and
cost might have been avoided under a more competitive format for contracting these consultants.
In other cases (e.g., contracting of teacher training providers), single sourcing permitted a quick
start to project implementation. It should be noted, however, that single sourced providers also
proved less flexible in adjusting training content to expressed demand.
82. Audit. In compliance with Bank requirements, audits were performed annually during
1992-98 and the auditors considered the accounts to be adequate and reasonable in all significant
aspects. Although usually completed without significant delay, the audit reports for 1994 and
1995 were late due to project reformulation. All of the audit reports were issued without
qualification. The Project staff responded promptly to the Bank Auditors' recommendations in
the audit report covering 1997. Specifically, the Project Coordination Unit incorporated in its
1998 statement of funds the mechanism used by the Bank to disburse funds to the Project as
recommended in the 1997 audit report. In reviewing the 1997 report, the Bank's Auditors also
recommended tighter internal controls, especially treatment of gains and losses in currency
exchange caused by the use of currency pool loans, delays in submission of some accounts, and
cases of non-compliance with procedures regarding the submission of accounts by contractors.
In all cases the Project Coordination Unit demonstrated compliance with the recommendations.
58 According to Project staff, the hiring of UJNDP was a "necessary evil" given the FDE's intransegence in
procurement on the one hand, and the need for swift action (made possible with UNDP) in order to meet project
benchmarks.



25
83. Covenant Compliance. In general, covenant compliance was satisfactory. Municipal
obligations in the preschool component as well as expectations regarding NGO participation
were made explicit in the covenants (3.01(e),(f)). Of 39 municipalities eligible, only 26
ultimately entered into convenios with the State for preschool in some form or another and none
of these 26 included NGOs in their municipal preschool plans. The Midterm Review was
postponed by one year from its original date, due to slower than expected implementation of the
project. The contracting and execution of project impact evaluation was completed on time as
set out in the covenants. Yet ironically (as stated earlier) the impact evaluation was completed
prior to substantial project implementation.
I. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
84. The IEB did not calculate an Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) during appraisal
nor was one estimated at Project Closure.59 Nonetheless, the Project contributed in a positive
way to improved learning conditions for poor children in Sao Paulo, which was a principal
project objective. Given the project's early poor implementation, the fact that it fully disbursed
the remaining 84 percent of loan funds in its final three years is remarkable.
85. Nearly one-half (47 percent) of disbursements supported school construction, remodeling
and renovation, primarily in those areas were poverty is concentrated in GSP (i.e., Region III).
Additionally and importantly, effective targeting of school construction implemented under the
Project was confirmed. Another 28 percent of disbursements supported the purchase of
educational materials for schools with grades 1-4, as well as selected books and videos for all
schools (1-4 and 5-8) and magazine subscriptions for grades 5-8. Evidence is scant, however, on
the use of these purchases and how they have actually impacted learning. The salas ambientes
proved a more costly investment than initially envisioned and again, their subsequent utility is
uncertain. Computer equipment for classroom instruction was widely procured and installed;
evidence (though minimal) is positive in regard to its effectiveness in student learning.
86.  Teacher training (PEC) was successful in its outreach and it its effort to more closely link
teacher training demands with available training providers. While the matching of training
demand and supply was not always precise (due to scarcity, poor articulation of demands,
incompatible training providers, etc.), this attempt to decentralize teacher training was indeed a
step in the right direction. By removing constraints on negotiations in future training events,
better training fit can be achieved between desired content and timely provision of services.
Greater attention to evaluation of teacher training in the future will also aid in confirming the
anecdotal evidence to date of its effectiveness.
87. The Classes de Aceleraq ao also reached a broad spectrum of at-risk children in over 1,800
schools with targeted interventions to raise them to the level of their age-grade group. Statistics
from the program indicate that more than 90 percent of these children are successfully
mainstreamed into their appropriate age-grade groups after completing the accelerated program.
However, as in the case of educational materials, we know little to date as to how these children
have faired subsequent to their return to mainstream classrooms.
59 This is customary in social sector projects



26
88. Neither Preschool nor School Health achieved a sufficient degree of ownership within the
SEE, eventually contributing to their poor implementation record. Performance for the
Preschool component was significantly less than expected. Ambiguity concerning municipal
participation, the absence of long term, six year municipal preschool plans (as agreed at
negotiations) and SEE's abdication of teacher training for the preschool component hindered
successful implementation of this component, even after the project reformulation. Conversely,
while School lunch performed below expectations in terms of disbursements, SEE nonetheless
made great strides in improving the quality of the school lunches through menu enhancement,
improved technical specifications for food procurement, training of personnel, kitchen
refurbishment and extensive field supervision.
J. FINDINGS, LESSONS AND FUTURE ACTIONS
89. From the IEB experience, a number of generalizable lessons can be gleaned:
(a) Early attention to procurement is vital. One lesson that was quickly internalized into the
subsequent Brazil education lending portfolio was the need for early and up-front training
on procurement issues for borrower agencies. On a larger scale, procurement related
problems in a range of sectors finally prompted the Bank and the Federative Republic of
Brazil to work together to develop a set of model bidding documents in Portuguese for local
competitive bidding of goods and works within Bank-financed projects.
(b) A flexible project design can speed implementation and avoid delays. In retrospect, the
rigid design of the IEB (particularly Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement) made it difficult to
adapt its various components to the policy shifts that occurred with each successive SEE
administration. Future projects would do well to adopt a design that provides consistency
in its objectives while simultaneously adapting rapidly to changing circumstances.
(c) There is no substitute for strong monitoring and evaluation. The setting and
attainment of quarterly benchmarks for IEB implementation helped to jump-start the project
and provided a transparent monitoring mechanism. It also provided both the SEE and the
Bank with common ground for discussing bottlenecks as they occurred. Earlier attention to
establishing performance indicators could have facilitated tighter supervision, ultimately
improving the project's disbursement profile. While the IEB sought to evaluate project
impact on learning achievement, poor synchronization between evaluation and other project
components resulted in a "completed" impact evaluation prior to substantive
implementation.
(d) Strong client ownership makes a difference. Many of the early implementation
difficulties with the IEB can be traced to a lack of SEE ownership. In fact, the dramatic
turnaround in implementation from January 1996 to December 1998 demonstrates how
strong client ownership can catalyze overall project performance. The lack of such
ownership was itself a major factor in the previous four years (1991-1995) of unsatisfactory
performance. Proactive client consultation implies that the final project design is fully
agreed and "bought into" by both the Borrower and the Bank. Any components for which
such mutual agreements cannot be reached (e.g., preschool and school health) should be
seriously reconsidered before their inclusion.



27
(e) Decreasing project complexity can increase its chances for success. The holistic
approach pursued under the IEB would present an implementation challenge even in an
ideal situation. The diversity proposed in the project's components requires a fairly
sophisticated level of effective institutional articulation, not only within the SEE but also
arnong it and other State ministries, NGOs and the private sector. Rather than a multiplicity
of components, it may make sense to channel diverse yet worthwhile investments into
separate loans.
(f) Projects should more effectively assess local political cycles. Municipal and state
elections and shifts in policy agendas must be more adequately incorporated in project
designs and implementation schedules. Again, sufficient flexibility must be present in
project design to allow for potential adjustments during administrative transitions.
90. The IEB also fostered specific innovations which can serve to increase the effectiveness of
other Bank-financed projects. These innovations are (a) The Continuing Education Program
(PEC), (b) The Sao Paulo School Learning Evaluation (SARESP), (c) Classes de Aceleracdo, (d)
School Lunch Program (merenda escolar), (e) information technology and (f) school
reorganization. An overview of each of these innovations, followed by respective lessons
learned and future actions, is provided below.
91. The Programa de Educacao Continuada (PEC). The PEC is an unusual example of
trying to radically change the character of teacher training by choosing to work with traditional
training providers (local universities and training institutions) but shifting the locus of power and
the traditional "rules of the game." The program was ambitious, in that it was developed in less
than a year, implemented state-wide, and involved a large number of institutions, participants,
training modalities and content areas. While flaws in evaluation make it impossible to know the
degree to which desired attitudes, behaviors, and content were actually adopted in the classroom,
a majority of participants reported that PEC courses had helped them better integrate new
theories and practices into their ongoing work. The delegacias gained experience in identifying
local training needs, and in negotiating with training providers to make sure that courses actually
met the needs identified. Although not originally an objective of the PEC, a very important
ancillary benefit was the realization by many universities and training institutions of just how
little they actually knew of the realities and needs of public school teachers and administrators.
As a result, several universities are currently re-thinking their pre-service teacher training and
licensing programs.
92. Lessons learned from the PEC are as follows:
(a) Local empowerment takes time. Delegacias were not equal in their ability to identify
local training needs and negotiate with training institutions. There is general agreement,
however, that the 1997-98 round of courses were better than those given in the first year. It
is possible that more preparation of the delegacias regarding their new role might have
helped avoid some problems, but as with any substantial change in policy or practice, there
is likely to be a period of "working out the kinks" during which people learn from their
mistakes.
(b) There must be flexibility in matching training supply and demand. The programn
design limited competition in the supply of training services. Delegacias and training
suppliers were pre-matched, and if a particular delegacia 's determination of training needs



28
did not correspond with what the provider was able to offer, the delegacia was left to either
accept the offer or opt out of the program. While the SEE did allow greater flexibility in
the second year of the program (authorizing some delegacias to negotiate with providers
serving neighboring regions), some intra-regional competition among providers from the
outset might have led to a better selection of courses. It should be noted that the training
providers contracted through competition (as opposed to sole-source) generally exhibited
more flexibility in trying to meet delegacia needs.
(c) Planning needs to be inclusive. PEC planners could have included interested universities
and delegacias in compiling the list of cross-cutting themes and desired outcomes of
courses, thus ensuring a better understanding and ownership of the SEE's overall training
goals.60 At the university level, the very fast turnaround time for submitting course
proposals meant that the proposals were not in some cases integrated within the university,
and different groups ended up putting together and implementing the proposal. At the
delegacia level, an equally short time for putting together training needs meant that those
delegacias with strong connections to local schools assembled strong proposals, while
others did not have time to undertake a more in-depth consultation. Particularly worth
noting is that the role of the school principal in the development of the training request and
accompaniment of the training was left loosely defined, and many principals had no more
involvement in the PEC than as participants in management-directed courses.
(d) Decentralized training requires particular attention to issues of monitoring and
evaluation. The designers of the PEC had the commendable foresight of including an
outside evaluation of the program. Less attention, unfortunately, was given to monitoring.
While the heterogeneity of training experiences under the PEC is to be expected with the
decentralization of demand and supply, the lack of a uniform monitoring system seriously
impeded evaluation efforts. Nor was the very heterogeneity of experience always used to
best advantage: it would be very interesting, for example, to do a focussed comparison of
successful and unsuccessful experiences to try to draw some more generalized conclusions
about what works and why. Despite drawbacks, however, the evaluation of PEC offers
important information for the future development of the program.
93. Future Actions for PEC. The SEE is currently conducting its own internal evaluation of
the PEC to determine whether the program will continue along similar or different lines. As a
model for other countries or other Brazilian states, the PEC is most directly relevant for those
which have a well developed system of universities and/or other training institutions which can
reach the level of the school. Certain aspects of the program, however, such as its decentralized
implementation, the identification of training demand closer to the school, a concern with
reaching all members of the school team, and a concern for evaluation, are relevant to a much
wider array of training designs.
94. Sistema deAvaliaicoo do Rendimento Escolar - Sat Paulo (SARESP). Sao Paulo was
among the first states to develop its own student assessment system. The SARESP is technically
60 These were themes and goals that ran across course offerings, and included: (a) Participatory school
management; (b) school and classroom organization; (c) creative use of curriculum; (d) use of library and
laboratory; (e) continuous evaluation of students; and (f) use of educational statistics and information in the
preparation of work plans.



29
sound, with a number of innovative features. Unlike the Brazilian national assessment test
(SAEB) which is conducted on a sample basis, SARESP is a census-based test; all students in
state-managed schools in designated grades are expected to take it.61 This allows for student-
level, classroom-level, and school-level analysis for all schools. SARESP has also followed a
longitudinal design, testing the same cohort of students from year to year, which provides a
strong measurement of school effectiveness. Most importantly, SARESP is both a summative
and a formative evaluation. Like most large assessment tests, SARESP is summative in that
provides information on the accumulated learning of students at a given point. It has played a
formative role within the education system, however, because through it teachers, parents and
school leaders have learned to apply, utilize, and value assessment tests and the statistical
information that their analyses can provide.
95. Lessons Learned from SARESP are as follows:
(a) There are strong benefits to parental and school involvement in the testing process.
Parental involvement was encouraged both through a mass-media camnpaign and the
forrnation of testing oversight committees in each participating school. These committees
helped ensure the integrity of the testing process and encouraged broad participation in and
acceptance of the testing program. Schools were involved in both the application and
immediate correction of the test, giving immediate feedback on performance and
pinpointing areas for improvement.62 These measures have fostered a growing culture of
evaluation, results, and accountability which is rare in many educational systems.
(b) Outside expertise is critical, but there are advantages to technology transfer over time.
At the outset of the SARESP program, technical expertise in assessment was sought from
the Fundagao Carlos Chagas. Over the years, however, the FCC has transferred capacity to
the SEE's implementation arm, the FDE. The FDE is now capable of undertaking
increasing numbers of tasks related to SARESP implementation - an exemplary example of
institution building. The transfer of knowledge to the FDE, moreover, makes it less likely
that a change of administration would jeopardize the prograrn as a whole by, for example,
letting a contract with an outside testing agency lapse.
(c) Development of an assessment system involves political will and leadership. Given the
technical and logistical complexity of assessment testing, to say nothing of cost, the
development of an assessment system is unlikely to succeed without clear conviction
among top education policy makers that such a system is imperative. They in turn must
find creative ways to convince parents, teachers, and the community at large of the value of
testing.63
(d) Longitudinal design has both benefits and weaknesses. As mentioned above, the
longitudinal design allows for a stronger and more equitable measurement of school
61 Municipal and private schools have also participated on a voluntary basis.
62 Students answer questions on the test itself, then transfer their answers to an answer sheet. The answer sheet is
sent to the SEE for optical scanning, while the tests are corrected by the schools and results forwarded to the SEE.
Results based on school reports have not differed significantly from "official" results obtained from optical scanning
of answer sheets, and the schools have not had to wait for "official" results to come in.
63 In addition to promoting the involvement of school and parents, in Sao Paulo, the names of the top 100 schools in
the SARESP test are published in the media.



30
effectiveness than year-by-year testing of a single grade. On the other hand, it creates
reactions in schools (why always the same kids?) and raises questions about test-taking
ability development biases (students learn how to take these kinds of tests) and the need for
evaluating how other students are doing. Yearly application of tests also takes a heavy
financial and administrative toll on the system.
(e) Non-linkage to national testing efforts risks making SARESP a parallel effort, and
perhaps more politically vulnerable in a change of administration. SAEB and SARESP
are in fact complementary tests, designed to do different things. Linkage of the two,
however, is technically possible, and would bring important benefits to both. SAEB would
benefit from SARESP's strong school-level experience and implementation strategy, while
SARESP would benefit from continuous exposure to state-of-the art testing development
and a connection to a wider framework for national accountability.
96. Future Actions/ SARESP. Several Brazilian states currently designing assessment
systems would do well to consider incorporating elements of SARESP's strategy for school and
community-level participation. Overall, the downsides of the longitudinal strategy seem to
outweigh its advantages - an alternative would be to focus on testing only one or two grades on a
consistent basis (for example, 4th and 8th grades). Cost, administrative burden, and the danger of
information overload would also suggest that testing every two years, rather than every year,
might be a better strategy. This spacing would also allow for better pacing of national (SAEB)
and state-level testing efforts. Finally, linking of state-level testing efforts with national ones is
highly recommended.
97.  Classes de Aceleracdo (Accelerated Classes). The Classes de Aceleraqdo program is an
innovative example of addressing repetition and dropout rates by focussing on children with a
history of repetition. Over the three years of its implementation, some 1,840 schools with
significant age-grade distortion participated in the program, reaching a total of 133,000 children
in grades 1-4, and another 53,000 in grades 5-8. The Classes de Acelera'ao is a "pull-out"
program: children who have been held back and are older than their peers are streamed into
special classes with different materials and specially trained teachers, and then mainstreamed
back into the system after having "caught up" with their peers. Existing program statistics
indicate that the program is working. Of children who started in AceleraVdo I over the last three
years (children in grades 1 and 2 - the ciclo bdsico), 37.8 percent were tracked back into 4th
grade, 19.6 percent were tracked into 5th grade, and 1.4 percent were tracked into 3rd grade.
About one-fifth of children (21.3 percent) moved on to Aceleraqdo II and the overall dropout
rate was 8.4 percent - higher than the statewide average, but not so high when considering that
this is a population at particularly high risk for dropout. Of children in Aceleraqdo II, 2.5 percent
went on to 4th grade, 76.3 percent went on to 5th grade, 2.8 percent stayed in the Acelera do II or
had some other remedial work, and 6.3 percent dropped out.
98.  Lessons Learned from the Accelerated Classes are as follows: 64
(a) School-wide familiarity and acceptance of the program is crucial. There have been
some early problems with student adjustment when tracked back into "regular" classes.
64 Several of these "lessons learned" are gleaned from a joint evaluation done by the Ministry of Education, the
Secretariat of Education for the State of Sao Paulo, and UNICEF. See MEC/SEE, "Ensinando e Aprendendo pra
Valer!" Brasilia, 1998.



31
School-wide familiarity with program goals, teaching methods and materials employed in
the Classes de Acelera,co helps to diminish the "shock" of re-entry for students and
possible discrimination by teachers and students.
(b) Good materials make a difference. The materials developed for the program have been
wildly popular among teachers and students alike. In many schools, teachers of "regular"
classes have opted to use materials from the Classes de Aceleraqdo because they consider
them better than others available. Teacher training for the Classes de Acelera,cao is
focussed on the use of materials. Given the low socioeconomic profile of students in these
classes, the provision of free books has also been an important element in program success.
(c) Teacher choice and incentives are key. All too often, more difficult, "problem classes"
are assigned to less experienced teachers. The Classes de Aceleraqao program emphasizes
the importance of assigning experienced, motivated teachers to teach children having
difficulties. Moreover, the inclusion of specialized training and materials in the program
has proven an incentive for more experienced teachers to become involved.
(d) Students need to build self-esteem along with content knowledge and skills. Children
with multiple repetitions tend to have very low self-esteem, which in turn negatively affects
their willingness and ability to learn. While teacher attitudes are critical in addressing this
issue, the program has a number of built-in factors conducive to improving self-esteem.
These include: (a) lower student-teacher ratios (a maximum of 25 students to a class)
allowing for more individualized teacher support, (b) the modular curriculum, which allows
students to progress at their own pace; and (c) a process of continuous evaluation, rather
than high-stakes tests.
(e) A focus on absenteeism can reduce it. Many students in the Classes de Acelera,cao also
work. Competing responsibilities or simply lack of interest in school can lead to
absenteeism, which in turn is strongly linked to lower learning achievement and repetition.
Strategies found to work in reducing absenteeism among Classes de Aceleraf do students
have included: (a) more communication with parents (including home visits); (b) getting
students to keep track of their own absences and think about the reasons for them; and (c)
making going to class more enticing through game playing, tying lessons to student
interests, and the use of "cliff-hanger" questions, problems, or stories at the end of each
class, with the answer deferred to the next one.
99. Future Actions/ Accelerated Classes. The Classes de Acelerafao model and CENPEC
materials are currently in use in several other Brazilian states besides SRo Paulo (including
Parand and Goias). The program is also being promoted nationally by the federal Ministry of
Education, and was awarded a UNICEF national prize for innovation. As the program is still
quite new, there is as yet little information available regarding the educational outcomes of
Classes de Acelera,cao students once they are tracked back into the "regular" system. Evaluation
of these longer term outcomes of the program will be important in gauging its overall
effectiveness; initial indications, however, are promising.
100. School lunch Program. The volatile dynamics of school lunch - and the potential
consequences for perceived and actual failures in adequately addressing school lunch - are well
known in Brazil and particularly in Sao Paulo. DSE has been proactive over the past three years



32
in constructing a transparent and analytical foundation for improving the nutritional content and
customer acceptance of the merenda. Nearly three-fourths of the students participating in the
program are today served through a decentralized approach, passing financial resources to the
local level, empowering municipalities and schools to take charge of implementation. However,
this delegation of implementation to the local level is made stronger by information systems that
track financial flows and outputs, providing essential feedback to the central and local levels on
school lunch performance, thereby significantly improving efficiency. The program took a
critical look at menus, revising and enhancing offerings in order to expand student acceptance
and reduce wastage. Extensive field visits orchestrated in partnership with university-level
nutrition interns demonstrated effective and symbiotic linkages between academic institutions
and local needs. Attention given to the training of school lunch personnel addressed service
provision "at the front line" and operationalized the findings and recommendation of the field
visits.
101. Lessons learned from the School Lunch Program are as follows:
(a) Decentralization is only as effective as the information which drives it. The DSE
rightly identified the comparative advantage of shifting implementation of the program to
the local level. Funds transferred to municipalities (R$0.13 per capita) were based on cost
analyses and are updated regularly. Annual inventories of kitchen equipment and continual
updates on municipal level performance (e.g., students served, inputs procured, cost
parameters) aid the DSE in future budgeting and allocation decisions. A nutritional
assessment further augmented this information base.65
(b) A strong sense of accountability raises the probability of success. DSE has taken a fully
transparent approach to disseminating the ongoing activities of the school lunch program.
Menus are now widely publicized and even made available on the SEE's website, which
also posts technical specifications related to procurement. Such transparency is rooted in an
explicit desire to sustain the gains achieved to date in enhancing nutritional content and
student acceptance.
(c) Partnerships can be cost-saving and mutually beneficial. Nutritionist interns gained
valuable experience in the field while the DSE obtained timely and critical assessments of
the school lunch experience and how to improve it. Other Bank projects would do well to
imitate these types of "symbiotic relationships", especially as public budgets grow more
restricted.
102. Future Actions for the School Lunch Program. The revised technical specifications for
centrally purchased foodstuffs have already had an impact in the school lunch programs of other
Brazilian states. In loco supervision of the centralized program contributed to quality
enhancement; it remains to be seen how the decentralized program can benefit from similar
supervision efforts.
103. Information Technology. Sao Paulo is one among a number of states in Brazil
introducing information technology (IT) into education administration and management.
Investments in IT have facilitated several objectives, including: (a) improved access to and use
of accurate, up-to-date planning informnation (including data from the school census and student
65 Nutritional Study, Antonio Campos Campino



33
assessment results); (b) more agile communication between the SEE and its local offices
(delegacias); and (c) reduction in time spent on administrative tasks at the level of the school and
delegacia. Although the attempt to create an independent school-based management system
under the project was not successful, Sao Paulo is currently piloting a federally developed
system in 200 schools (SAE-Ministry of Education).66 Innovative features of Sao Paulo's IT
experience include plans to connect schools to delegacias and the SEE via the Internet, and also
a large measure of intra-governmental collaboration. As part of a state goverm-nental initiative in
information technology, government agencies with strong IT infrastructures (notably Fazenda
and the Secretary of Public Security) are currently providing technical support to schools and
local education offices, relieving the SEE of the immediate need to provide such support itself.
104. Lessons learned from Information Technology are as follows:
(a) Sophisticated management of IT is fundamental. Problems in government contracting of
IT are myriad, and usually result from lack of sufficient technical knowledge within
government agencies to: (i) adequately specify their needs in technical terms; and (ii)
adequately manage the work of contractors. Identifying an IT team and recruiting a core of
skilled technical personnel is a crucial first step to any IT investment. This was not done
sufficiently early in Sao Paulo, and contributed to delay in the development of the school-
based management system.
(b) You must have a plan. Prior to making any purchases, the SEE produced a
comprehensive IT plan. Although the plan suffered some modifications along the way, it
served as a crucial roadmap for implementation. A major area of weakness, as indicated
earlier, was the lack of sufficient IT personnel to manage the implementation plan. Given
the rapid pace of changes in hardware and software, the plan should cover issues of
replacement, as well as maintenance, technical assistance, and training.
(c) Where the market is well developed, there are advantages to the decentralization of
equipment purchases. As part of the implementation plan, all state schools bought
computers, printers, and accessories locally with funds transferred by the SEE. Although a
centralized purchase would have undoubtedly resulted in some cost savings, these were
outweighed by the logistical advantages of having each school able to depend on a local
provider for installation, replacement of faulty equipment, etc.
(d) IT is an area of potential public-private partnership. Sao Paulo is currently exploring
the possibility of having private institutions assume the costs of connecting schools to the
Internet, and recruiting other private entities to help with training of personnel and
maintenance of equipment at the school level. This is a strategy that could be used in other
states, though with more difficulty where the business community is less developed.
105. Future Actions/ Information Technology. The SEE is moving ahead with the full
implementation of SAE-MEC, probably within the next year. Schools will be connected to
corporate systems via the Internet, and the SEE has already developed a website
(www.educacao.sp.gov.br) with information on its various programs and public access to several
databases (notably the student census data and SARESP evaluation data). Although in the
66 SAE-MEC is partly financed by the Bank through the Northeast Basic Education II and III projects and the
Fundescola projects



34
Brazilian context Sao Paulo is not necessarily in the forefront of use of IT in education, given the
long-term trend toward increased use of IT worldwide, Sao Paulo's experience may provide
some useful ideas and lessons for others.67
67 All nine Northeast states invested heavily in IT under the Bank-financed Northeast Basic Education II and II
projects, and many of their systems are currently more developed than Sao Paulo's. Sao Paulo is more advanced,
however, than many states in the North and Center-West of the country.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
INNOVATIONS IN BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 3375-BR)
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Pre-Reformulation                               Post-Reformulation and Summary Assessment
A.  Achievement of Obiectives                                                           Not                                                           Not
Substantial    Partial     Negligible   applicable           Substantial    Partial      Negligible   applicable
Macro Policies                                         El[                                              El            [Z E0]
Sector Policies                              l]            ]            I                               E] 0                       E]           [ 1
Financial Obiectives2                       07[                                                         [  0                       El           El
Institutional Development3                  0          E              W           E                      E]            a           E            [
Physical Obiectives4                                   EJ [51        El                                 EZl  [           ]         E
Poverty Reduction4 4                                   [k             Z           E                     [                ]            ]             ]
Gender Issues                             E1 E                          ]          W                    E             Z               ]             ]
Environmental Objectives                  [m                          Z           [1                    E             E            L            []
Public Sector Management5                     I         El]          E                                                             E] a 
Private Sector Development6                                          [71                                 F F-1 Fm1                 [71          F1
Post-reformulation ratings equate to summary assessments. While the IEB was not formally reformulated, this ICR considers the actions taken during the post Midterm
Review period (e.g, establishment of quarterly benchmarks) to constitute, in practical terms, a reformulation of the Project.
2 Quarterly Benchmarks established in the Post-Reformulation period.
3 Institutional Development and Assessment Component
4 In School Quality Improvement and Preschool Components as related to the poverty focus of the IEB.
5 Information Technology as financed under the Institutional Development Component.
6 NGO participation under the Preschool Component.



36
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS (CONTINUED)
Pre-Reformulation                             Post-Reformulation and Summary Assessments
B.  Proaect Sustainability                  Likely         Uncertain        Unlikely                     Likely         Uncertain        Unlikely
(/)       )      (VI             (0)(                                        (V)              (VI)
-1                   1          X-1                         [::]             r---1            E    l
C.  Bank Performance                        Highly                                                      Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient                 Satisfactory     Satisfactory      Deficient
(/)             (/               (V/)  (/)                                   (/)VI)
Identification                         [                                                                             EO [1  hI       [
Preparation assistance                     ]              1]            [                               ]            [ ]                0
Appraisal2                             [                 Cl             [l]                           0              [               L
Supervision3                           L                  O               O                             ]            [               [
D.  Borrower Performance                   Highly                                                       Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient                 Satisfactory     Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                            [                [               [                           [                [z              [
Implementation                           1                  ]               ]                       [S                7                  ]
Covenant Compliance                        ]            EC              [                           L                [7              L
E.  Assessment of Outcome       Highly                                        Highly             Highly                                        Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory    Satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
()            V)             V)              V)                 (")            V)             V)              (V)
Post-reformulation ratings equate to summary assessments of the entire project.
2 Namely in regard to assessment of SEE procurement capacity under the Project.
3 Based on the Bank's failure to move earlier toward Loan cancellation.



37
TABLE 2. RELATED BANK LOANS
LoAN TITLE          Purpose            Year of Approval        Status
Preceding operations
Urban Basic Education  Improve educational         1984              Repaid
(Ln 2412-BR)        opportunities for children
in the urban North and
Center West of Brazil
Northeast Basic     Improve educational            1980              Repaid
Education           opportunities for children
(EDURURAL)          in rural Northeast Brazil
(Ln 1867-BR)
Following operations
Second Northeast    Increase learning; reduce      1993              Closed
Basic Education     repetition and dropouts;                       (12/31/98)
(NEBE II)           and increase graduation
(Ln 3604-BR)        rates
Third Northeast Basic  Increase learning; reduce   1994              Active
Education (NEBE III)  repetition and dropouts;
(Ln 3663-BR)        and increase graduation
rates
Parand Basic        Improve learning               1994              Active
Education           achievement and
(Ln 3766-BR)        educational attainment
among basic education
school students
Minas Gerais Basic   Improve educational           1995              Active
Education           achievement in
(Ln 3733-BR)        elementary grades of
state schools
School Improvement  Strengthen primary             1998              Active
Project (Fundescola I)  schools and related
(Ln 4311-BR)        public institutions



38
TABLE 3. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned        Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                      02/95/88
Preparation                                   -                 11/24/88
Appraisal                                  02/08/89             02/08/89
Negotiations                               03/01/90             05/01/91
Letter of development policy (if applicable)  -                    -
Board Presentation                         06/16/89             06/26/91
Loan Signing                               10/04/91             10/04/91
Loan Effectiveness                         01/07/92             01/07/92
Midterm review                             06/01/93             06/13/94
Project Reformulation                         -                 08/01/95
Loan Closing                               06/30/98             04/30/99
Project Completion                         09/30/97             12/31/98
I



39
TABLE 4. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ Million)
Fiscal Year 1"        Appraisal Estimate Z'          Actual            Actual as % of
Estimate
1992                    56.8                       -
September 30, 1991               0                        -
December 31, 1991               20.3
March 31, 1992               36.8
June 30, 1992              56.8                     20.0                   35.2
1993                   127.8                     31.5                   24.6
September 30, 1992              77.8                    23.9                   30.7
December 31, 1992               96.8                    23.9                   24.7
March 31, 1993              110.8                     23.9                   21.6
June 30, 1993              127.8                    31.5                   24.6
1994                   180.4                     38.0                   21.1
September 30, 1993             144.4                    31.5                   21.8
December 31, 1993              159.4                    34.9                   21.9
March 31, 1994              169.4                     38.0                   22.4
June 30, 1994             180.4                     38.0                   21.1
1995                   214.1                     48.4                   22.6
September 30, 1994             190.4                    38.0                   20.0
December 31, 1994              199.4                    41.9                    21.0
March 31, 1995              207.4                     48.4                   23.3
June 30, 1995             214.1                     48.4                   22.6
1996                   230.1                     62.3                   27.1
September 30, 1995             220.1                    48.4                    22.0
December 31, 1995              223.6                    48.4                    21.6
March31, 1996               226.6                     52.4                   23.1
June 30, 1996             230.1                     62.3                   27.1
1997                   244.0                    141.3                   57.9
September 30, 1996             234.1                     91.4                   39.0
December 31, 1996              237.6                    104.1                   43.8
March 31, 1997              240.8                    123.1                   51.1
June 30, 1997             244.0                    141.3                   57.9



40
1998                   245.0                  220.8                   90.1
September30, 1997             245.0                  182.9                   74.6
December31, 1997                -                    200.8                   82.0
March 31, 1998                -                    212.9                  86.9
June 30, 1998               -                    220.8                   90.1
1999
September30, 1998               -                    234.9                   95.9
December 31, 1998               -                    234.9                   95.9
March 30, 1999                -                    242.4                  98.9
June30, 19993                                    243.1                   99.2
Final Disbursement: May 14, 1999
' July 1 - June 30
2 including US$ 20.25 million deposited in the Special Accounts
3 US$1.9 million of the original Loan balance was cancelled at the request of the Borrower.



41
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
No performance indicators were established at appraisal. Project monitoring was deficient due to the
implementation conditions, aggravated by economic turmoil, changing priorities in education and health
sectors, wholesale changes in project-related staff, and procurement problems and bottlenecks.
At reformulation (1996) a set of financial benchmarks was established and monitored as shown below,
based exclusively on negotiated implementation goals and expenditures to assist line agencies adhere to
a schedule specifying timing and amounts. The loan closed on December 31, 1998, after a six-montL
extension, having disbursed 99 percent of the original $245 million.
Benchmarks                         Achievement through July 1996
1  Decentralized transfer of funds                                  103%
2   Publication of bidding documents                                153%
3   Signing of contracts                                            102%
4   Total expenditures of project                                   123%
5   Disbursement request from Bank                                  133%



42
TABLE 6. STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                Purpose as Defined at           Status              Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Project Implementation   12 studies were conducted on   Completed       Limited, given early conclusion.
Process study:     different components and/or aspects   1996       Nonetheless, UGP and SEE staff
NEPP               of the implementation process                     found studies helpful in project
restructuring.
Impact Evaluation     Study designed to measure impact of  Completed    Due to the timing of this study
Study: Fundacao       project innovations and inputs on  1995           (before much of project
Carlos Chagas         learning achievement                              implementation got underway) it was
used primarily to evaluate the
effectiveness of then current
governmental programs and policy
directions.
Cost Study - FIPE     Originally designed as basis for cost-  Completed  Study contributed to per-student cost
benefit analysis of project in    Phas I  1996   discussions in the establishment of
conjunction with impact evaluation.  e -          the new federal financing law
Evolved into development of      Phase II - 1997  (FUTNDEF); SEE staff trained in
computerized model for ongoing                    operation and up-keep of
monitoring of educational costs.                  computerized tracking system, used
for planning purposes.
Nutrition Study -     Diagnostic study of school feeding    Completed   - revised technical specifications;
ANtrition Study Campos  progragnostic study ofschoolfeeding Compl- official menus introduced quarterly;
Antonio Campos        program                            1997            - direct transfer of funds to schools;
Campino                                                                 - field supervision;
- purchase of kitchen equipment;
- computerized cost monitoring
- poverty/nutritional profile of
students
"A Importdncia da     Assess beneficiary perspectives on    Completed   Helped to inform ongoing
Participa9do          education, and evaluate the       1995            educational reforms in Sao Paulo, as
Comunitaria na        importance of community                           well as wider beneficiary assessment
Questdo da Educaqao e  participation in school quality                  on education which included the
da Pobreza" -         improvement                                       Northeast states.
Fundaqdo Carlos
Chagas                ___ _
Study on Public-Private  To identify NGOs within project area  Completed  Limited or negative - informal nature
Partnerships.      and clarify possibilities and barriers   1996     of many NGOs depicted convinced
Converted to Study  for NGO participation in pre-school              state and municipalities already fairly
on NGOs -         program                                            uninterested in working with NGOs
CEBRAP                                                               that it would be difficult to work with
them except on a grant basis. No
new pre-school places were provided
by NGOs through the project.
Poverty Targeting -   Post project poverty targeting    Completed       Only construction has an explicit
Luiz Paulino       evaluation                        1999            poverty targeting goal and was
shown to disproportionately benefit
the poor.



43
"Avaliacao do         Evaluation of the continuing     Completed      Helped guide implementation
Programa de Educa,ao   education program.              1998           process, particularly for second year;
Continuada" -                                                         currently an instrument in the SEE's
Fundacao Carlos                                                       own internal evaluation of the
Chagas, Fundacao Joao                                                 program.
Pinheiros, Cesgranrio,
and Universidade
Federal do Rio Grande
do Sul
Oral Health and                                        Completed
Hygiene
Study on Vitamin A and  Identify principal causes of morbidity  Not done  Study was planned to be sole
Iron Deficiencies -   among school-age children, and                  sourced, but proposal was
Changed to study on   propose strategy for improving                  prohibitively expensive. Price was
school-age child      prevention and treatment.                       negotiated down, but not before
morbidity in 1994                                                     project closing date made study
nonviable.
Municipalization Study   Training of SEE and municipal  Comprehensive  Helped prepare the way for a jump in
- Changed to a series of  personnel on the implications of the   study of policy   municipalization of basic education
didactic manuals      new federal financing law for basic   options for  in Sao Paulo.
produced by FUNDAP   education (FUNDAP), organization   municipaliza-
of state and municipal systems in    tion never done.
assuming responsibility for basic  Manuals
education, and transfer of state goods  completed in
and personnel to municipalities.  1997
"0 Sistema de Ensino    Statistical re-examination of past,  Completed  Contributed to reorganization of
Regular no Estado de    current and project student flows in   1995   school system, increased
Sao Paulo" - Ruben    Sao Paulo.                                      prioritization of the higher levels of
Klein                                                                 basic education (grades 5-8), and the
development of programs (Classes de
Aceleracao) specifically aimed at
correcting student flows.



44
TABLE 7. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
(US$ million)
Item                      Appraisal Estimate                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Local        Foreign        Total         Local        Foreign        Total
Costs         Costs                       Costs         Costs
A. In-school Quality      365.3           54.6        419.9          507.0          18.3        525.9
Improvement
B. Pre-school              53.7            8.8         62.5           14.6           -            14.6
C. School Health           27.0            2.7         29.7          11.3           0.6           11.9
D. Institutional            7.2            0.4          7.6           19.6          0.7          20.3
Development
E. Evaluation and           3.2            0.2          3.4          21.3            -            21.3
Dissemination
F. Administration           1.7            0.1          1.8           7.9            -             7.9
Total Baseline Cost       458.0           66.8        524.8          581.6          19.6        601.3
Physical Contingencies    34.5            5.7         40.2           -              -
Price Contingencies       31.2            3.8         35.0           -              -
Total Project Cost        523.7           76.3        600.0          581.6          19.6        601.3
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source               Appraisal Estimate                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Local      Foreign Costs        Local       Foreign Costs      Total
Costs                           Costs
IBRD                         -           245.0             223.6           19.5           243.1
Cofinancing Institutions  324.1             -                -               -               -
Domestic Contribution      30.9             -              358.1                          358.1
Total                     355.0          245.0             581.7           19.6           601.3



45
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original        Revised
Covenant   Present   Fulfillment    Fulfillment                      Description Of Covenant
Agreement  Section            Type        Status         Date            Date                                                                         Comments
Loan           3.01a            10          CP                          4/24/96      The Borrower declares its commitment to the            Weak commitment in period
objectives of the Project. .and to this end shall      from Effectiveness until
carry out the Project with due diligence...            1995; 84 percent of Loan
disbursed in the final three
years of the Project.
Loan           3.Olb            10           C                          4/24/96      Establish and maintain a Project unit and staff the    Complied with
Unit with a Director, two Coordinators and a
financial administrator, whose qualifications and
experience are satisfactory to the Bank and the
Borrower
Loan           3.01c            10          CP                          4/24/96      Ensure that Borrower's agencies assist SEE with        Principal compliance from
respect to the following activities: FDE, for          1995 through Project
physical facilities under Part A(l) and B(l); CENP   Closure.
for training under Parts A and B; DSE for feeding
under Part A and B; SES for activities under Part
C.
Loan           3.01d            10           C         3/20/92                       Through SEE, enter into an agreement with FDE          Complied with
on terms satisfactory to the Bank...
Loan           3.0ld            10           C          3/30/92                      For purposes of Part B of the Project, enter, with     Complied with
each Municipality that has or is ready to have an
approved Municipal plan, into an agreement.
Covenant Tvve:  I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial performance/gencratc revenue from beneficiaries: 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds: 4 Counterpart funding; 5 Management aspects of the
Project or of its executing agency; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement: 8 Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review anid reporting; 10 Implementation: I1
Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Status:          C         = covenant complied with                             NC       = not complied with
CD        = complied with after delay                         NYD    = not yet due
CP        = complied with partially                           SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time



46
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original        Revised
Covenant   Present   Fulfillment    Fulfillment                      Description Of Covenant
Agreement   Section           Type        Status         Date            Date                                                                        Comments
Loan          3.01f             10          NC         3/30/92          4/24/96      Cause each municipality, under the agreement           Complied with
referred to in para (f) of this section, to enter into
an agreement with PNPOs included in the
Municipal Plan
Loan          3.02a             10           C                          4/24/96      Procurement of goods, works and consultants'           Complied with
services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the loan shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 4
Loan          3.02b             10           C                          4/24/96      Establish single registries of contractors and         Complied with
suppliers for purposes of the Project
Loan          3.02c             10           C          1/3/93                       Not later than 01/31 of each year, starting 0 1/92     Complied with
publish ads in two newspapers of wide national
circulation in Brazil, in the Borrower's Diario
Official and in Development Business.
Loan          3.03                           C           N/A             N/A         Ensure that Basic Cycle and Extended School Day   Complied with
are fully implemented on a timely basis in the
schools which have appropriate facilities for the
implementation thereof.
Covenant Type:  I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries: 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds: 4 Counterpart funding; 5 Management aspects of the
Project or of its exectiting agency; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement: 8 Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 Implementation: 11
Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatorv/institutional action; 13 Other
Status:          C         = covenant complied with                            NC       = not complied with
CD        = complied with after delay                         NYD      = not yet due
CP        = complied with partially                            SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time



47
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original        Revised
Covenant   Present   Fulfillment    Fulfillment                      Description Of Covenant
Agreement   Section           Type        Status         Date            Date                                                                        Comments
Loan          3 .04a                        CD         5/31/93          6/13/94      WB and Borrower shall at the request of either of    Midterm Review was
them meeting sometime between May and August   delayed by one year to due
1993 or when an amount of the Loan equivalent to   slow project implementation.
US$70.0 million shall have been committed by the
Borrower... .to review aspects of the project's
execution
Loan           3.04b            10           C           N/A             N/A         For the purposes of the review, furmish to the         Complied with
Bank: (1) updated plans on execution of remaining
civil works and (2) a report on the implementation
of the Basic Cycle.
Loan          3.04c             10          CP           N/A             N/A         The Borrower shall make such modifications in          Complied with
the plans... put into effect such plans... requested
as a result of the review.
Loan           3.05a            10          CD           N/A             N/A         Through the SEE, issue the Rules for Municipal         Complied with
participation in a timely manner but not later than
three months after the Effective date
Loan           3.05b            10          CP           N/A             N/A         Through the Project Unit, review before the end of   Municipal Plans were
each year the performance of each Municipality        initially reviewed but not
during the year.                                       annually after their approval
Covenant Tvoe:  I Acotmnts/audit; 2 Financial perforinance/generale revenue irom beneficiaries: 3 Flow and utilization olProjeet fiunds: 4 Counterpart lunding; 5 Managemiient aspects of' thc
Project or of its executing ageicy; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement: 8 Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 Implemenitation: 11
Sectoral oi cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatorv/institutional action; 13 Other
Status:          C         = covenant complied with                             NC       = not complied with
CD        = complied with after delay                         NYD    = not yet due
CP        = complied with partially                            SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time



48
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original         Revised
Covenant   Present   Fulfillment    Fulfillment                         Description Of Covenant
Agreement   Section            Type         Status         Date            Date                                                                           Comments
Loan           3.05c             10          NC                                         Borrower shall not present Bank withdrawal
applications under Category 4 in respect to
expenditures by a given Municipality in question
unless Borrower has undertaken corresponding
review.
Loan           3.06              5            C            N/A              N/A         Through the SEE, shall not later than September 1   Complied with
of each year during the execution of the project,
starting 9/1/92, prepare and send to the Bank a
report on the sources and uses of funds
Loan           3.07              10           C            N/A              N/A         Not later than December 31, 1993 employ                  Complied with
consultants that shall assist in carrying out Part
D(2) of the Project.
Loan           4.01a             10          N/A           N/A              N/A         Through Project Unit, maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices
Loan           4.0lb             10           C          6/30/92                        Through Project Unit, shall have records and             Complied with
accounts audited .., furnish to WB not later than six
months after end of Fiscal Year.
Loan           4.01c             10          N/A           N/A             N/A          For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from loan account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure. . . maintain
records reflecting such expenditure.
Covenant Tvle:  I Accounts/audit; 2 fiancial per lbrmance/genite revenoc from beneficiaries: 3 Flow and utilizationl ot T'roject hlinds: 4 Counterpart tiinding; 5 Managemienit aspects ol the
Projector otitsCexCeCtingagenicy: 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntaryresettlement: 8 Iidigenouspeople; 9 Monitoring, review andireporting; 10 Implementatiotn: 11
Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Scetoral or cross-sectoral regipatorv/institutional action. 13 Other
Status:          C          = covenant complied with                              NC       = not complied with
CD        = complied with after delay                           NYD      = not yet due
CP        = complied with partially                             SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time



49
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original        Revised
Covenant   Present   Fulfillment    Fulfillment                      Description Of Covenant
Agreement  Section            Type        Status         Date            Date                                                                        Comments
Loan          4.02              10         N/A           N/A             N/A         (a) Cause all primary education facilities ... to be
efficiently operated and maintained ... (b) provide
funds, facilities, services and other resources .. . (c)
make adequate provision for maintenance in
annual recurrent budgets.
Loan          3b                3           CP           N/A             N/A         No payments for expenditures under Part B(l) of    Complied with partially
the project unless: (1) approved Municipal plan,
Sched. 1                                                              (2) legal opinion on agreement between state and
municipality, (3) evidence that the Municipality
has included as many PNPOs as possible.
Loan          3c                3           CP           N/A             N/A         No payments under Part C of Project unless (1)         Complied with
SEE appoints coordinator satisfactory to the Bank,
Sched. 1                                                              (2) submits implementation plan, (3) for
expenditures within Sao Paulo, evidence that all
steps necessary shall have been taken to ensure
Borrower, Municipality and PNPOs can perform
duties.
Loan          3d                3            C           N/A             N/A         No payments for expenditures under Part A(2)(b)    Complied with
of Project unless Borrower has submitted to Bank
Sched. 1                                                              a plan of specific activities.
Loan          3e                3           CD           N/A             N/A         No payments for expenditures under Part E(2) of    Complied with
the Project unless the Borrower has presented to
Sched. 1                                                              the Bank the study referred to in Part E(1) of the
Project and a plan for activities under Part E(2) of
the Project.
Covenant Troe:  I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial performance/gcnerate revenue from beneficiaries: 3 Flow and utilizationi of Project funds, 4 Counterpart funding; 5 NManagement aspects of the
Project or olfits executing agency; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntan' resettlement: 8 Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 Implemenitation: 11
Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral reguwatory'institutional action; 13 Other
Status:          C         = covenant complied with                            NC       = not complied with
CD        = complied with after delay                         NYD      = not yet due
CP        = complied with partially                           SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time



50
TABLE 9. PROJECT COSTS AND BENEFITS
No Internal Economic Rate of Return calculated at Project appraisal, nor recalculated at Project
Closing.
TABLE 10. BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned          Revised          Actual
Stage of
Project Cycle                 Staff     US$    Staff   US$   Staff    US$
Weeks            Weeks           Weeks
Through Appraisal              0.0                             197.5    n/a
Appraisal-Board                0.0                              63.2     n/a
Board - Effectiveness          0.0                              71.2     n/a
Supervision                   309.8                            587.6    n/a
Completion                     15.0                             19.8     n/a
TOTAL                        324.8      =               =     939.3    n/a



51
TABLE 11. BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Days    Specialized       Perfornance Rating
Stage of        Month/   No. of    in         staff skills     Impl.      Develop.       Types of
Project Cycle     Year   persons   field   Represented         Status    Objectives      Problems
Through         12/1987      4        11      Op,Ec,Ph          n/a         n/a
Appraisal
03/1988      4       15         Ec,Ph          n/a          n/a
07/1988      6       16     Ed,Ec,Ph,Op        n/a          n/a
08/1988      2       n/a                       n/a          n/a
w S........ ..... ...... ........ ....... .... .. _.._...... ... .  ---   -    -- -   _--.---_---._--..... . .....____  
Appraisal       02/1989      8        14    Ed,Ph,Ec,Op,        n/a          n/a
through                                           A,
Effectiveness
10/1989     2         1        Op,Ed           n/a          n/a
02/1990      2        5         Op,A           n/a          n/a
05/1990      2        7          Ed            n/a          n/a
02/1991      2        1         Op,A           n/a          n/a
05/1991      5       4       Op,Ec,Ed,A        n/a          n/a
05/1991           Initial Summary              NR           NR
05/1991        Portfolio Status Update          1            I
11/1991     4        3       Op,Ph,Ec          n/a          n/a  ___
Supervision     12/1991      7        4      Ed,Op,Ds,A,         1            1
Au,Lg,Pr
04/1992      2       10         Op,A            1            1
07/1992      2       4         Op,Ev            2            1
08/1992      3       5           Ed.           n/a          n/a
10/1992     2        4          Op,A            2            1
02/1993      1        3          Op             2            2
06/1993        Portfolio Status Update          2            2
10/1993     6        8    Pr,Tm,A,Tt,Ph         2            2
02/1994      6        8    Pr,Tm,Ec,A,Tt        2            2
05/1994      2        1         Ed,Ec          n/a          n/a
06/1994      7       12    Pr,Op/Tm,Ec,         S            S
A,Ph,Tt,Nu
09/1994        Portfolio Status Update          U            S
05/1995        Portfolio Status Update          U            S
06/1995        Portfolio Status Update          U            U
01/1996        Portfolio Status Update          U            U
03/1996      1       n/a         Ed             U            U
12/1996        Portfolio Status Update          U           U
06/1997        Portfolio Status Update          S            S
01/1998      3              Ed/Tm,Pr,Ed         S            S
11 Specialization: A: Architect, Au: Audits, Ds: Disbursements, Ec: Economist, Ed: Education, Ev: Evaluation, Lg: Legal, Nu: Nutrition,
Op: Operations, Ph: Public Health, Pr: Procurement, Tm: Task Manager, Tt: Teacher Training



52
Projeto Inova$oes no Ensino Bisico   I
Missio de Relat6rio Final (ICR)  
Ajuda Men6i6a                         13
29 de Marpo, 1999             -
Uma missao do Banco Mundial veio a Sao Paulo para levantar inforrna,o para o
relat6rio final de avalia,co do projeto entre o dia 15 de Margo e o dia 10 de Abril. A
missao foi feita em etapas, e era composta pelos seguintes integrantes: Helena Jubany
15-19 de Marco - rede fisica),Wilsa Ramos (15-25 de Margo - PEC e clases de
acelera,co), Edward Bresnyan (22 a 26 de Margo - relat6rio geral), Kate Hovde (22-29
de Mar,o- relatorio geral), Robin Horn (dia 26 de Margo - task manager), Alberto
Rodrigues (dia 24 de Marco - SARESP), e Claudio Rosemberg (dia 5-10 de Abril -
Informatica). Os membros da missao fizeram varias visitas de camnpo para ver escolas,
delegacias e prefeituras, e conversaram com tecnicos da Secretaria do Estado da
Educaao nas areas de planejamento (ATPCE), estatisticas (CIE), merenda (DSE),
educacao continuada (PEC), pedagogia (CENP), avaliaco de rendimento escolar
(SARESP), comunicacao social, rede fisica (FDE) e materiais pedag6gicos. A missao
teve tamb6m a oportunidade de conversar com a Sra. Secretaria da Educa,co, Profa. Rose
Neubauer, e entrevistar membros da equipe da UGP e integrantes do projeto na area de
saude escolar. A mnissao deseja agradecer todas as pessoas envolvidas nos contatos por
ela realizados pela sua hospitalidade e colaboraao.
0 relat6rio final de avaliacao e um requisito do Banco Mundial para qualquer
projeto. E composto por duas partes: (a) uma avalia,ao feito pelo pr6prio Banco; e (b)
uma avaliac,o feito pela agencia executando o projeto. 0 relatorio feito pela SEE ja se
encontra em estado avancado, com a espectativa de finalizac,o antes do dia 31 Maio. E
expectativa da missao ter uma primeira versao do relat6rio final do Banco ate o dia 20 de
Abril. Uma vez terminada, a primeira versao do relat6rio do Banco sera mandada a SEE
(atraves da UGP) para comentaios e correg6es. A SEE tera trinta (30) dias para mandar
comentarios, mas a missio notou que seria uma grande ajuda se os comentarios fossem
mandados tao pronto quanto possivel. Foi acordado que a UGP tentari mandar os
comentarios antes do dia 20 de Maio (sempre se nao houver atrasos da parte do Banco em
mandar o seu relat6rio), e que em seguida o Sr. Robin Horn faria uma breve missao para
conversar sobre os relat6rios e acertar mudangas para a versao final. Essa missao seri a
i!ltima missao para o projeto, e com o entrega da versio final do relat6rio de avalia9io, o
projeto sera considerado como oficialmente fechado.
Kate Hovde                         Dr. Lauro de Almeida Carneiro Fil
Consultora, Banco Mundial                    Coordenador do Projeto LEB



o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
-~~~~~~~~~~~~
Oa  ¢      0       t       %2~~~~~~~
.2iy    tO    F    a   a   =   '   's~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
g R tZ W  r S   w   tS                       t1~~~~~~~~~~~~
'B^'.--.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C   z   ^  i  '.      x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
0~~~~~ 5O  Ntv       t  
Me9-e:&$~- II 
O .¢ X                       i,O                   0
..0                              0,q, .ti 
E   t'C:ts)



54
-
SECRETARIA DE ESTADO
DA EDUCAQAO
'01,1111 17 
OBJETIVOS
O objetivo do Projeto e melhorar a aprendizagem no ensino fundamental e como
consequencia diminuir os indices de reten,cao e evasao escolar, das crian9as de familias
de baixa renda, inicialmente da regiao Metropolitana de Sao Paulo, e posteriormente
expandindo-se pelas areas carentes do Vale do Ribeira e da regiao de Sorocaba. Para
atingir esses objetivos foi necessaria a elabora,ao de uma nova abordagem curricular no
ensino de 10 grau, que inclui o aumento da j omada dos alunos e dos professores; a
disponibiliza,cao de materiais e equipamentos pedag6gicos; a melhoria da qualifica,cao
profissional de professores e de educadores; a amplia,co de oferta da pre-escola as
crian,as de baixa renda; preve-se tambem, como metas essenciais para se atingir os
objetivos, o refor,o dos programas de sauide escolar baseado no novo sistema
descentralizado de sauide puiblica; o refor,o institucional dos 6rgaos responsaveis pela
administra,ao do ensino de 1∞ grau a nivel estadual e municipal; assim como o
desenvolvimento de um meio de colaboracao entre o setor puiblico e as ONGs na
presta,cao de servi,os educacionais. Finalmente, e ainda objetivo, a avalia,ao, no
desempenho escolar, dos efeitos da abordagem proposta, e a dissemina,ao dos resultados
das pesquisas e experiencias decorrentes da implementa,co do Projeto. Eventualmente a
experiencia podera ser disseminada para outros Estados da Uniao.



55
AVALIACAO DO PROJETO
INTRODUCAO
O Projeto apresentou um baixo desempenho na sua implementa,co do periodo inicial ate
o final do ano de 1995, ano em que foi empreendida a retomada das a,ces visando o
cumprimento das diretrizes emanadas da nova gestdo que se iniciara em janeiro de 1995.
A partir do ano de 1996, evidenciou-se um elevado desempenho no cumprimento das
metas entao acordadas com o Banco Mundial quando foram estabelecidos Bench Marks
fisicos e financeiros a serem atingidos ate o final do Projeto. Tais metas foram
integralmente cumpridas pelo Projeto.
Na retomada das a,ces, ficou acordado com o Banco Mundial que as metas iniciais de
alguns componentes e subcomponentes seriam reorientadas e, em alguns casos, a sua
execuqao seria descentralizada.
As novas diretrizes da politica educacional , resultantes ate mesmo da avalia,ao do
impacto, realizada no arnbito do componente D do Projeto, estabeleciam que para se
atingir ao objetivo maximo da proposta, isto e melhorar a aprendizagem no ensino
fundamental, as inova,ces deveriam abranger a escola de primeiro grau como um todo e
nao apenas o Ciclo Basico. Para tanto era necessario:
- oferecer aos alunos das la a 4a series: (i) maior carga horAria de aulas (5 horas); (ii) salas
de aula com arranjo pedag6gico orientado exclusivamente para essa faixa etaria aliada a
um mobiliario dimensionado adequadarnente para a estatura media das crian,as dessa
faixa etaria e (iii) a separa,ao de alunos menores dos maiores para evitar a
inconveniencia da convivencia num mesmo espa,o;
- que o treinamento deixasse de ser somente orientado para professores do Ciclo Basico passando
a contemplar professores de todo o ensino de 10 grau (Pa a 8a s6rie) e gestores de todo o Estado;
- ampliar a rela,ao de materiais educacionais que constavam do Projeto inicial com a inclusao
de outro materiais pedag6gicos e equipamento de informatica educacional;
- instalar um Sistema de Informa,ces Gerenciais para a SEE;
- ampliar a abrangencia das a,6es de Divulga,ao do Projeto redirecionando-as nao s6 para o
puiblico especifico como inicialmente proposto, mas tambem para comunica,co de massa;
- ampliar a area de abrangencia do Projeto incluindo-se outras areas de pobreza do Estado como
as Regioes de Sorocaba e Vale do Ribeira;
- ampliar a tipologia de interven,ces em constru,oes com a inclusao das obras de reformas gerais,
pequenos reparos e adequa,ces de constru,oes existentes;



56
- descentralizar as avoes de contrata9do e obras de pequeno vulto e de aquisig6es de bens atrav6s
das Associag6es de Pais e Mestres das escolas da area programAtica.
Com a redistribui9ao dos alunos do ensino fundamental em escolas destinadas somente a
alunos de lI a 4a series e outras para alunos da 5a a 8a series, houve um saldo excedente
de aproximadamente 100 edificios escolares o que determinou uma revisao na previsao
de novas salas de aula a construir, assim como altera96es nas metas iniciais, como ja foi
dito.
A seguir acham-se elencados os resultados alcan9ados na implementa9ao de cada
Componente do Projeto relativos ao periodo compreendido desde a data de efetividade
do Contrato de Empr6stimo em 7 de janeiro de 1992 a 30 de abril de 1999, data de
t6rnino do Periodo de Graga do Projeto.
RESUMO DO SUCESSO DO PROJETO
Melhoria da qualidade na escola
Construcao de escolas - No total o Projeto IEB executou 1.119 obras civis dentre as
quais 424 obras de novas escolas e ampliaq6es que resultaram em 3.387 novas salas de
aula com a criagdo de 355.635 novas vagas. As demais 695 obras concluidas com
recursos do Projeto se referem a adequaqoes e reformas gerais e de pequeno porte que
beneficiaram adicionalmente 565.985 alunos.
uadro 1- Consolidado das Obras Civis executada's
Obras       350     155    216    61,7   139,4   3.000   1.840   2.447   81,6   133,0
Novas
Ampliades   340     171     208    61,2   121,6   1.150    753       940    81,7   124,8
Adequagbes  N.A.    12       1 2    N.A.   100,0   N.A.   N.A.   N.A    N.A.   N.A.
Reformas    N.A.    319     319    N.A.   100,0   N.A.   N.A.   N.A    N.A.   N.A.
Gerais
Pequenas    N.A.    364    364    N.A.   100,0   N.A.   N.A.   N.A    N.A.   N.A.
Reformas
Fonte: Fundacdo para o Desenvolvimento da EducaCJo - FDE



57
Os indicadores de custo resultantes da implementa,ao das obras civis acham-se
comparados no Quadro 2 com os previstos no SAR.
Quadro 2 - Comparativo de Custo das Obras Civis e Mobiliario de Escolas de 1∞ Grau
Custo de construao de USD 44.939 N.A. USD  80.323 N.A. USD  86.776 N.A.  93,10    8,03|
uma nova sala de aula
Custo de construgAo de USD 49.748 N.A. USD  65.745 N.A. USD  70.746 N.A.  42,21    7,61
uma sala ampliada                      __                            _1______
Custo do mobiliario de USD  3.916  8,71 USD  N.D  N.D. USD  5.050  5,82  11,24    N.D
uma nova sala de aula
Custo do mobiliario de USD  3.357  6,75|USD  N.D. N.D. USD  2.5113,55   5,05     N.D
uma  sala  ampliada   _   _             _  _             _   _  _ _  ________    _______
Fonte: Funda(Wo para o Desenvolvimento da Educa,do - FDE  N.D = Ndo Definido  N.A.= Ndo se Aplica
Com exceqao do mobiliario escolar adquirido em 1994, relativo as salas de aula
construidas ate entao, o qual foi adquirido com recursos do Projeto, o mobiliario para as
demais salas de aula construidas, reformadas, adequadas ou recuperadas posteriormente a
esta data foi totalmente adquirido com recursos pr6prios da SEE.
Treinamento de professores - 0 treinamento de professoresfoi previsto para ser
realizado em 02fases: Fase I - 1992-1994 com cursos de iniciafao para toda a rede de
Ensino na Regido Metropolitana de Sdo Paulo e Fase II - 1995-1998 com cursos
avanqados apenaspara escolas que ainda nao tivessem implantado a Jornada Unica
(JU) para o Ciclo Bdsico (CB).
Embora a fase I tenha ocorrido na forma prevista, porem com baixo indice de execu,cao, a
fase II foi totalmente reformulada em 1996. Neste ano, o treinamento passou a ter novo
enfoque e abrangencia. A demanda de treinamento parte dos professores e atinge
professores de todo o Estado. Instituiu-se o Projeto de Educaqao Continuada que foi
executado em dois niveis:
(i) Nivel Central - sao priorizadas as atividades voltadas para as liderancas educacionais
ou seja Delegados de ensino, Supervisores de ensino, Assistentes Tecnicos Pedag6gicos,
Diretores de escola e Professores Coordenadores e (ii) Nivel Descentralizado - sao
priorizadas as atividades voltadas para o conjunto de professores.
As agces, nos dois niveis, foram executadas em todo o Estado de Sao Paulo, abrangendo
todas as Delegacias de Ensino que foram agrupadas em 19 p6los de capacita,co. Estas
agoes foram avaliadas por Instituic6es especializadas, que concluiram que o Programa de



58
Educa9Ao Continuada, em que pesem sugestoes de algumas alteracoes no escopo geral,
foi um sucesso, tendo atingido maior nuimero de professores que o previsto.
Neste ano tambem foi criado o Projeto Classes de Acelerasao, implantado inicialmente
em 160 escolas que teve como objetivo reverter o quadro de repetencia e evasao das
escolas. Sua meta para 3 anos (1996-1998) foi o treinamnento de professores para
trabalhar na reorganizacao da trajet6ria escolar de 3.500 escolas do ensino fundamental.
Com o objetivo de fortalecer o PEC e apoiar as lideran,as educacionais da SEE na
correcao dos rumnos da educa9do promovendo, planejando, apoiando e avaliando
mudan9as educacionais nas escolas e em especial nas salas de aula foi realizado o
Seminario Oficina "Facilitando Mudancas Educacionais", para 800 educadores.
0 Quadro 3 mostra o niimero de profissionais treinados atraves dos distintos projetos e
seminarios de capacitacao mencionados:
Quadro 3 - Nuimero de Profissionais treinados
Workshops e Seminarios       Professores                              11.974
Face a Face                 Profissionais em educa,cao                8.728
Profissionais p/ cursos de   Profissionais em educagdo                20.000
Formacao A Distancia
Projeto de Educaao          Profissionais em educaao                102.528
Continuada
Classes de Aceleracao        Professores                              4.347
Coordenadores                            1.093
Supervisores                              890
Assistentes Tecnicos                      190
Diretores                                 100
Seminario Facilitando as     Delegados e Supervisores de ensino,
Mudancas Educacionais        Assistentes Tecnicos Pedag6gicos,         800
Dirigentes da SEE, Diretores de
escolas e representantes das
I Universidades e outros arceiros
Fonte: UGP/SEE
Materiais pedag6gicos e informdtica educacional - Para melhorar a capacidade das
escolas na oferta de material diddtico-pedag6gico, o Projeto previa a aquisi,do, no
inicio, de materiais pedag6gicos visando o CB e 3aS e 4as series. Ate' 1995 estes materiais
foram adquiridos somentepor meio de compras centralizadas. A partir de 1995 as
compras passaram a ser tambem descentralizadas, atraves de recursos repassados cis
Associa,ces de Pais e Mestres - APMs - entidadesjuridicas das escolas.



59
Entre 1993 e 1995, foi prevista a distribuicao de livros, alfabeto plastico, material
dourado, escala Cuisinaire para 2.268 escolas com CB a 4a serie. Este material foi
distribuido na seguinte propor,ao:
-  2.800 escolas receberam livros -     100% do previsto
-  1.698 escolas receberam alfabeto plastico - 75% do previsto
-  500 escolas receberam material dourado - 22% do previsto
- 500 escolas receberam escala Cuisinaire - 22% do previsto
Esta distribuicao indica desempenho pouco satisfat6rio, a nao ser na area de lingua
portuguesa.
A partir de 1995 Projeto ampliou a oferta para todo o Ensino Fundamental, as compras
passaram a ser centralizadas e descentralizadas conforme segue:
Compra Centralizada - Entre 1995 e 1998 foi previsto e adquirido livros paradidaticos
e fitas de video para aproximadamente 3.000 escolas de CB a 4a serie e 5a a 8a s6rie do
ensino fundamental. Foram adquiridos 1.695.170 livros paradidaticos ( para escolas de
CB a 4' serie) e 466.830 ( para escolas de 5' a 8a serie); distribuidas 77.580 fitas de video
para escolas de CB a 4a serie e 16.400 para escolas de 5a a 8a s6rie;
Foram feitas tarnbem assinaturas anuais de jornais e revistas para 886 escolas. Alem disso
foram adquiridos, atraves de licitacao internacional materiais para 3.000 escolas do
Projeto.
Para as escolas com CB a 4a serie:
- 3.267 conjuntos de Instrumentos Musicais
- 3.267 m6dulos rurais e urbanos
- 3.267 conjuntos de instrumentos de laborat6rio
Para escolas de CB a 4a e de 5a a 8a series;
- 5.720 reproducoes de obras de arte
- 4.026 conjuntos de modelos anat6micos de torso e arcada dentaria
para escolas de 5a a ga serie:
- 2.300 conjuntos de paineis cientificos
- 6.710 estereo microsc6pios;
- 994 conjuntos de 05 computadores para uso pedag6gico, acompanhados de 01
camera de video; 01 scanner; 01 fax modem; 02 impressoras coloridas; 02 No
Breaks; 05 monitores.
- 42 titulos de softwares educacionais totalizando 4.972 exemplares.
Compra Descentralizada -Para a aquisic,ao de material e mobiliario pedag6gico foram
feitos repasses as APMs de 3.000 escolas, segundo o seguinte criterio: escolas com
menos de 08 salas receberam R$6.400,00 (seis mil e quatrocentos reais), e acima de 08



60
salas receberam R$9.000,00 (nove mil reais), para material pedag6gico. Para aquisicao
do kit mobiliario para cada escola a proposta foi de R$390,00 (trezentos e noventa reais).
O repasse foi realizado entre 1995 e 1996 quando foram repassados recursos para 2.346
escolas de CB a 4' serie e 1.717 escolas de 5a a 8' serie para aquisi,ao do kit pedag6gico.
Para aquisi,co do kit mobiliario foram repassados recursos para 2.187 escolas de CB a 4a
serie e 806 escolas de 5a a 8' serie. Adicionalmente, foi feito um refor,o para a aquisi,ao
de material pedag6gico variando de R$1.000,00 (hum mil reais) a R$4.000,00 (quatro mil
reais), de acordo com o nurmero de salas com base em R$610,00 (seiscentos e dez reais)
para cada sala dedicada ao ensino de CB a 4a serie. Escolas com menos de 04 salas nao
receberam este recurso.
Visando transformar algumas escolas em escolas-p6los de capacita,ao e dissemina,co de
experiencias pedag6gicas inovadoras foram repassados recursos para 235 escolas e 147
Oficinas Pedag6gicas, que receberam R$25.000 (vinte e cinco mil reais) cada uma para a
aquisi,ao de equipamentos e materiais pedag6gicos. Do mesmo modo as escolas de
formacao de professores que atuam como Centros de Forma,co e Aperfei,oamento do
Magisterio - CEFAM, tarnbem receberam recursos, no valor de R$ 11.500,00.
Merenda escolar
Enriquecimento da merenda escolar - A implementa,ao do componente se efetivou
atrav6s dos seguintes projetos: (i) Mudan9a do CardApio; (ii) Supervisao de Campo e (iii)
Treinamento de Preparadores de Merenda.
0 projeto de MudanVa de Cardapio e Implantavao do PEME resultou em: (i)
revisao das especificac,9oes t6cnicas dos alimentos; (ii) implantado o sistema de controle
de qualidade de alimentos nas escolas; (iii) fixacao de cardapios trimestrais atendendo as
exigencias minimas do PNAE - Programa Nacional de Alimentacao Escolar; (iv)
implanta,co gradativa do PEME Projeto de Enriquecimento da Merenda Escolar pelo
qual as escolas recebem mensalmente recursos para aquisi,co de alimentos pereciveis e
(v) acompanharnento direto na prepara,co das merendas nas escolas orientando-as na
organizac,o dos estoques, preparagco de receitas e atendimento aos cardapios e aos."per
capitas" fixados pela OMS para esse fim.
O Projeto de Supervisao de Campo visou visitas as Unidades Escolares por de um grupo
de estagiarios do 40 ano de Nutricao das Universidades/Faculdades do Estado de Sao
Paulo.
Em 1997 foran estabelecidos nessas escolas cardapios trimestrais, adequados as
caracteristicas e necessidades dos alunos,
Entre setembro de 1996 a outubro de 1998 foram efetuadas as seguintes visitas de
supervisao de campo a escolas da rede publica estadual de ensino de 10 grau.



61
Quadro 4. Visitas de Supervisao de Campo Realizadas
1996            286              673              983             983
1997           1.817            1.179           2.996            2.936
1998            698              50               74890
Fonte: DSE/SEE
Aquisicao e utilizacao de equipamentos adicionais de cozinha - Ap6s a elabora9ao de
um Inventario Geral de Necessidades de Equipamentos e Utensilios de Cozinhas das
Escolas da Rede Estadual de Ensino de 10 Grau foram contratados consultores
especializados para a elaboracao de um conjunto de especificacoes tecnicas para os 50
itens de reposicao das cozinhas das escolas, tais como geladeiras, freezers, fogoes,
liquidificadores e utensilios diversos a serem adquiridos pelo Projeto.
DSE realizou, com recursos pr6prios, diversas licitacoes para aquisicao de utensilios
e equiparnentos nos exercicios de 97 e 98, tendo obtido bons resultados conseguindo
renovar i 00% dos utensilios e 100% dos equipamentos das escolas centralizadas bem
como 20% das escolas descentralizadas dentre as 6.000 escolas de 10 grau do Estado de
Sao Paulo.
A partir de 1998 o Inventario Geral de Necessidades de Equipamentos e Utensilios de
Cozinhas das Escolas da Rede Estadual de Ensino de 10 Grau foi informatizado e passou
a ser atualizado anualmente permitindo a proposicao de Planos de Reposicao
Equiparnentos e Utensilios de Cozinhas mais realistas.
Treinamento de pessoal de alimentacao nas escolas - Entre outubro de 1997 e maio de
1998 foram treinadas 1380 merendeiras pertencentes as escolas da Capital do Estado e
1834 merendeiras de escolas do interior do Estado na area de abrangencia do Projeto. Em
1998 para que todos os municipios do Estado pudessem ser beneficiados com a
Capacitacao assegurando assim a continuidade do Projeto em regioes (DEs) nao
abrangidas pelo Projeto IEB, foram treinados 113 multiplicadores dentre os quais
Supervisores de Ensino, Professores, Nutricionistas, Encarregados da Merenda Escolar e
Visitadores Sanitarios e, posteriormente 8.000 merendeiras.
lntroducao no DSE de um sistema de informacoes e acompanhamento de custos - foi
implantado um Sistema de Gerenciamento Informatizado da Merenda Escolar, que
proporciona: planejamento de todas as compras; registro de compras e plano de
distribui9ao; controle de estoque central (on line) e dos estoques remotos das escolas;
analise dos custos "per capita" de alimentos, de cardapios, etc e reformulacao de compras
em razao das informnaces apuradas em relat6rios gerenciais de consurno, estoque,
aceitabilidade de cada produto, entre outros.



62
A introdu,co desse sistema gerou um enorme impacto em toda a estrutura e
funcionamento do DSE, impondo a necessidade de revisao de competencias e atribui,ces
das equipes tecnicas, treinamento e acompanhamento em servi,o, reorganiza,co e
moderniza,co dos Armazens, introdu,co de novos sofiwares e controles informatizados
em outros setores, tais como as areas de financas e compras, economia nas compras
(melhor qualidade na quantidade necessaria com melhor pre9o); redu,co de perdas por
desperdicio, em nivel central e local; redu,ao/ elimina,cao de alimentos com prazo de
validade vencido nas escolas e racionaliza,ao dos criterios de distribui,co de alimentos,
com controles mais efetivos que garantem a eficiencia da transportadora e da escota.
Ensino na Pre-escola
Expansdo dapre-escola - Dos 39 municfpios da GSP, 26 assinaram em 1994 Convenio
com o Projeto. Destes, apenas 21 renovaram o convenio em 1996, e 11 ofizeram em
1997 tendo os outros 10 desistido porfalta de recursos para a contrapartida conforme
mostra o Quadro 5 abaixo.
Quadro 5 - SituaVio dos Conv8nios com as Prefeituras
Previsao inicial (1992)   3      9            ---0                      120.00
Protocolo de inten,co (1993)   32                          1.227        92.000
272
Assinatura de Convenio         26                          1.062        79.650
(1994)                                       234
Renova,co de Convenio          21             99           429
(1996)                                                                 32.175
Renova,cao de Convenio         I11            3 4                        9.152    I
(1997)                                                     143
Do quadro depreende-se que, em fun,ao das desistencias, houve uma revisao da previsao
de obras ate o final do Projeto, caindo a previsao inicial de 120 mil vagas adicionais para
aproximadamente 32 mil vagas, ou seja, a construgao de 99 escolas totalizando 429 novas
salas de aula.



63
At6 a conclusao do Projeto forarn construidas 53 pre-escolas em financiadas em parte
com recursos do Projeto resultando em 241 novas salas de aula o que possibilitou a
cria,ao de 15.779 novas vagas de ensino pre- escolar nos municipios conveniados. 0
nu6mero m6dio de alunos por sala de aula nova 6 de 32,7 alunos por tumo e por nova pr6-
escola construida 6 de 297 crian,as. 0 numero de m2 por aluno por sala 6 de 1,45 m2 e
por escola 6 de 1,9 m2. 0 custo do m2 construido, incluindo-se obra civil, mobiliario e
material pedag6gico foi de USD 468,77 e o custo por aluno, incluindo-se obra civil,
mobiliario e material pedag6gico foi de USD 934,10.
Treinamento de professores de ensino pri-escolar - Contratados consultores
especialistas em educa,cao para procederem a revisao e atualiza,do da Proposta
Pedag6gicapara a Pre-escola elaborada em 1987, resultando o livro "Proposta
Pedag6gica para a Pri-escola para distribui,do aos professores das pre-escolas dos
Municipios conveniados eposteriormentepara servir de referenciapara todo o Estado.
Realizados os seguintes seminarios: (i) Seminario de Lan,camento do Modelo de Plano
Municipal de Expansao e Melhoria da Educacao Pre-escolar; (ii) Seminario sobre o tema
"Livro - Proposta Pedag6gica para a Pr6-escola"; (iii)Seminario na PUC-SP, orientado
para as 439 ONG's que atuam na RMSP com crian,as na faixa de o a 6 anos,
identificadas atrav6s de urn levantamento cadastral promovido pela Secretaria de Estado
da Promo,ao Social e FDE, destinado a divulgar o Projeto IEB e o Programa Pre-escolar,
do qual participaram de 200 pessoas. Neste seminario foi apresentado um questionario
que preparou as ONG's no campo da pesquisa que a CEBRAP executou para a
qualificacao das mesmas; (iv) Seminario de Capacitagco para Presta,ao de Contas; e (v) I
Encontro das Pre-escolas do Projeto IEB.
a)   Consultorias - Contratados consultores para: (i) preparar os Termos de
Referenciapara orientar os municipios conveniados ao Projeto na elabora,do dos seus
Planos Municipais de Ensino; (ii) assessorar os municipios na elabora,do e
implementa,do dos seus Planos Municipais de Expansao e Melhoria da Educa,do Pri-
escolar, bem como na criaJcdo de modelos de planta,do e implementa,cdo desses Planos
Municipais aprovados e na elabora,do dos instrumentos para Avalia,do e Aprova,do
final desses planos em seus aspectosfinanceiros, fisicos e educacionais; (iii) elaborar
Forarn criados os: (i) o Manual de "Qualidades do Espa,o e dos Equipamentos na Pre-
escola - Recomenda,ces" destinado a orientar os projetos dos edificios de pr6-escolas em
termos da qualidade esperada dos espa,os a serem construidos e dos equipamentos a
adquirir; (ii) modelos de: Plano Municipal de Expansao e Melhoria da Educa,co Pre-
escolar; (iii) Parametros de Custos de Constru,co, equipamentos e mobiliario; Programa
Arquitet6nico e Projeto Padrao de Arquitetura; (iv) livro contendo a Proposta Pedag6gica
e de Capacita,co; (v) Manual de Presta,ao de Contas; (vi) Programa de Capacita,ao do
Quadro de Magist6rio; (vii) Metodologia de Analise Demografica; (viii) Metodologia de
Avalia,ao dos Planos Municipais de Expansao e Melhoria da Educa,co Pr6-escolar; (ix)
Cartilha com os passos do Pre-escolar, do Convenio a Inaugura,ao das Escolas e (x)



64
minuta da documenta,ao de licita,ao de obras e aquisi,co de bens, bem como de selecao
de servicos de consultoria.
2.  Saude na escola
Com base no PGI cada um dos municipios definiu o que seria realizado a partir das suas
propostas de aten9ao integral A sauide da crianca e do adolescente, destacando as acoes
financiadas pelo BIRD e a respectiva popula,ao alvo, a serem implementadas e
monitoradas separadamente, elaborando assim Pianos Municipais de Implanta,co do
Projeto IEB , para o periodo de 1993-1997. Inicialmente, os recursos do Projeto foram
destinados a RMGSP e posteriormente, com a reformula,a9o do projeto, ao final de 1995,
foram expandidos para os 96 municipios das Regioes de Sorocaba e Registro.
IntegraVdo sauide nutriV4o - Nado executado pelo Projeto uma vez que, a Secretaria de
Saukde concluiu ser mais l6gico uma iniciativa da propria Secretaria da Educa do,
definindo temas, carga horaria e recursos humanos necessarios para, entdo, ser
contratada uma consultoriapara adequaqdo de conteuido
programdtico apropriado.
a)  Examesfisicos - Ndo executado pelo Projeto.
b)   Testes de Visdo e Audip7o e encaminhamento ds UBSs para tratamento
Sauide ocular - Foram realizados treinamentos envolvendo 540 profissionais da sauide -
divididos 27 turmas; foram adquiridas 8.000 Tabelas de Snellen (instrumento para a
triagem), porem a implementacao dos testes de acuidade visual nAio ocorreu, em virtude
da nao disponibilidade de t6cnicos especializados - no caso o oftalmologista - em todos
os municipios participantes, para proceder As consultas, e tambem A inexistencia de urn
sistema de referencia institucional. Alguns municipios contudo manifestaram interesse e
condicoes de proceder ao teste de acuidade visual, porem como um edital para o
fornecimento de servicos 6pticos (para aviar receita de 6culos) nao havia sido definido
pelo BIRD e SES, estes municipios realizaram a atividade autonomamente, sem respaldo
do IEB. Em setembro de 1998 o edital e a Short List de institui,ces especializadas em
Sauide Ocular foi aprovado pelo Banco, com previsao de reembolso exclusivamente para
os servi,os a serem executados ate dezembro de 98. Contudo, em virtude da
complexidade das atividades e das varias institui,ces a serem convidadas, tornou-se
inviavel a implementa,ao dos servi,os previstos at6 o final do Projeto IEB.



65
Saude auditiva - Elaborado o " Estudo de Viabilidade de Assistencia Integral em Sauide
Auditiva na Rede Puiblica", que constatou a ausencia de recursos humanos suficientes
para a implementagao das metas do sub-componente, ausencia de um sistema de
referencia regionalizado e especializado de servi9os que desse conta da integralidade da
agao, e falta de experiencia acumulada na rede de sauide puiblica. Como resultado, optou-
se pela contratagao do Contrata9ao Direta da Funda9ao para o Estudo e Tratamento das
Defornidades Cranio - Faciais (FUNCRAF) para desenvolver essas atividades dado
tratar-se de um Institui9ao de not6ria especializagao, com os requisitos apropriados e
necessanos para testar a implementa9ao, criando, a partir de resultados, um modelo
exequivel e que garantisse a institucionalizagao e a continuidade das a9oes.
Foram triadas 19.637 crian9as; realizados treinamentos, envolvendo 6.991 pessoas (196
turmas) entre profissionais da educagao, pais e comunidades em geral.
c)   Conclus4o do programa de imuniza(ao - Nado executada pelo Projeto.
Realiza,co de prdticas preventivas de Satide Bucal - Executados procedimentos
coletivos de saude bucal em 1. 692.626 crian,as. Adquiridas 6.456.844 escovas dentais e
5.463.027 tubos de pasta dental entre outros materiais de consumo, equipamentos para
104 consult6rios dentdrios e 26 clinicas modulares, 1.000.000 de exemplares da revista
"Turma da M6nica e a Sazude Bucal" e um video com 165 c6pias para treinamento.
Treinados 6.589 profissionais.
d)  Estudo piloto para medir a deflciMncia de vitamina A eferro - FUNCAMP
desenhou apesquisa e sobre as condi,ces de vida e saude das crian,as de 5 a 9 anos na
RMGSP. 0 trabalho ndo foi realizado dado o elevado custo da pesquisa e o prazo para
sua execuVdo.
e)   Observa,ico da sauide dos estudantes de 1∞grau - Ndo executado pelo Projeto.
f)  Inspe(Wo ambiental das escolas - Ndo executado pelo Projeto.
i)   Registro de a,ces coletivas desenvolvidas nas escolas e nas UBSs - Criado os
procedimentos para o registro, adquiridos 101 equipamentos, software e mobilidrio de
informatica e adquiridas 1. 400.600 fichas de encaminhamento entre outros materiais de
consumo para apoio as a,ces de registro de a,ces de sazude.



66
j) Treinamento de pessoal das UBSs - Foram adquiridos e repassados aos
municipios materiais de consumo para realizaqdo de seminarios locais entre os
profissionais da saude e da educaqdo, para 11.489 pessoas.
g)  Recrutamento de pessoal - Contratados os servi os de consultoria da FUNDAP
para prestar o apoio tcnico e administrativo i Coordenaqdo e executar serviqos
de treinamento.
3.  Avaliag&o e divulgaVAo
0 componente implementou tres tipos de estudos: analise de custos, processo de
implementa,co e impacto e a avalia,ao do Programa de Educa,ao Continuada.
A analise de custo mediu os reais custos das medidas introduzidas pelo projeto, o custo -
aluno e o custo-eficacia das medidas; a pesquisa sobre o processo de implementa,co
examinou as condicoes e determinantes institucionais da implementa,ao dos varios
elementos dos programas. A avalia,ao do impacto analisou os resultados do rendimento
dos alunos em escolas que receberam os insumos do projeto. Quanto a avalia,cao do
PEC, esta procurou avaliar a eficiencia e a eficacia do programa.
Para desenvolver estes estudos previa-se a contrata,co de institui,ces especializadas o
que foi feito tendo sido contratadas institui,oes externas, por not6ria especializa,ao .
Desenho e execuVdo de estudos de avaliapdo
Anilise de custos - A Funda,ao Instituto de Pesquisas Economicas-FIPE e FUNDAP
apresentaram propostas de projeto, que foram analisadas por consultores contratados pela
UGP. Aprovada a proposta da FIPE , esta executou o estudo com o objetivo de se
estimar os custos anuais por alunos, em uma amostra, e produzir uma analise empirica
dos custos dos recursos educacionais fornecendo instrumnentos de apoio ao planejamento,
a avalia,ao e a decisao da politica educacional da SEE. A metodologia utilizada para a
pesquisa custo - aluno foi a de Numero - Indices e para o custo eficacia a dos ingredientes
de Levin. Esta pesquisa desenvolveu uma metodologia para a apura,ao do custo - aluno,
um indicador necessario na avaliac,ao das diversas intervenc,es adotadas na rede puiblica
de ensino e para garantir a qualidade da gestao dos recursos educacionais.
Como extensao de seu trabalho, a FIPE desenvolveu um software e respectivo manual
de utiliza,ao para um sistema informatizado que visou instrumentalizar a SEE para
acompanhar e atualizar os calculos de custo - aluno.
Durante todo o ano de 97 a FIPE juntamente com a ATPCE, efetuou adapta,ces e
altera,ces, sempre que necessario. A FIPE se encarregou tambem do treinamento de



67
pessoal para a operavAo do sistema. Em 1998 o sistema em sua nova versao, passou a ser
utilizado pelos tecnicos da ATPCE, encarregados dos planejamentos na SEE.
Anailise do processo - 0 Nuicleo de Estudos de Politicas Puiblicas-NEPP da UNICAMP,
elaborou e executou o projeto para a avalia,ao do processo de implementac,o das
inova,ces do Projeto IEB, com o objetivo de acompanhar apenas as medidas realmente
implantadas, contemplando as seguintes interven,ces: Macro politicas da SEE,
Capacita,ao, Material Pedag6gico, Plano Diretor e Contrato de Gestao, Horas de
Trabalho Pedag6gico (HTP) e Coordenagao Pedag6gica, e Saiude Escolar. 0 NEPP
organizou e realizou tambem um workshop para os tecnicos da SEE, destinado a discutir
os resultados alcan,ados e receber sugestoes no sentido de aperfei,oar os trabalho.
Algumas sugestoes foram apresentadas sem contudo alterar a linha de trabalho proposta
no projeto executivo. Os resultados finais do trabalho foram apresentados em reuniao
final, com a participa,co de especialistas em avaliasAo da SEE e de outras institui,ces.
Foram produzidos 12 relat6rios desta pesquisa que vem sendo bastante utilizados por
varios 6rgaos da SEE.
Anilise do impacto - Em 1990 a Funda,cao Carlos Chagas-FCC foi contratada para
desenvolver o desenho da avalia,ao do impacto. 0 objetivo da pesquisa foi o de se
verificar o impacto nao s6 das inova,oes como tambem das macro politicas
educacionais sobre os niveis de aprendizagem dos alunos, matriculados nos diferentes
tipos de escolas, nao apenas nas escolas com Jornada Unica mas tambem nos demais
tipos de escolas: escolas com Jomada llnica; escolas sem Jornada UJnica e Escolas
Padrao. A seguir a mesma instituicao foi contratada para iniciar a pesquisa avaliativa
Avaliacao do processo de Inova,ces no Ciclo Basico e seu impacto sobre o ensino-
aprendizagem na Regiao Metropolitana de Sao Paulo", durante 3 anos. A pesquisa
envolveu dois estudos: (i) de natureza longitudinal e abordagem quantitativa, abrangendo
cerca de 3.600 alunos matriculados no CBI em 92, e (ii) de natureza antropol6gica, em
urm nuimero reduzido de alunos, 140, com abordagem mais qualitativa. Foi definida a
amostra e aplicados questionarios em professores e dirigentes, bem como aplicadas as
provas nos alunos e a seguir analisadas. Para a apresenta,ao do relat6rio final da
avalia,co foi organizado um workshop para se discutir os resultados alcan,ados, do qual
participaram especialistas nacionais e pesquisadores da FCC encarregados da pesquisa.
A UGP e a FCC realizaram tambem um Seminanrio Intemacional para a disseminacao
dos resultados, que recebeu o nome de "Modelos Avaliativos" com o duplo objetivo: de
disseminar as conclusoes da pesquisa de impacto e discutir um modelo para a
implanta,co de um sistema de avalia,co permanente para o Estado de Sao Paulo.
Em 1997 a conclusao do trabalho foi sintetizada em uma publica,Ao - " A escola que faz
diferen,a", para divulgar os resultados aos profissionais da area da educa,ao. Esta
publica,ao foi amplamente utilizada nas Horas de Trabalho Pedag6gico das escolas.
AvaliaVio de Treinamento - A UGP juntamente com o auxilio de consultoria externa e
ajuda de especialistas do Banco Mundial, delineou a pesquisa avaliativa do programa
Educa,co Continuada. Considerando a grande extensao do programa, quer em



68
abrangencia geografica, quer em niimero de participantes, optou-se por dividir o estado
em 4 regioes (abrangendo cada uma varios dos p6los organizados pelo PEC) e contratar 4
institui,ces extemas para desenvolverem a pesquisa e uma 5a instituicao para coordenar
os trabalhos afim de que houvesse compatibilidade nos procedimentos de pesquisa e de
que se pudesse estender as conclusoes para o Estado como um todo.
Visando a avaliagao administrativa do PEC foi contratado um consultor para a montagem
de um Sistema Gerencial que abrangeu todas as informag6es sobre as va6rias a,ces
desenvolvidas no ambito do PEC e devera servir de catalogo de oferta das a,ces para o
Estado de Sao Paulo.
Para a dissemina,co dos resultados foi organizado um workshop. As conclusaes finais
serao enviadas As DEs como subsIdios para a continuidade do programa.
Disseminapio - A partir de 1995foi iniciada a divulgacdo das experiencias e resultados
do projeto nao so no dmbito da educa,do mas tamberm a nivel estadual visando informar,
mobilizar e obter o apoio da popula,do e, em particular dos alunos, para as diretrizes
educacionais implantadas pela SEE no dmbito do projeto IEB. Assim, foram
implementadas as seguintes a,oes: (i) elabora,cao e distribui,do do jornal "Escola
Agora, aprendendo sempre ", com uma tiragem de 300.000 exemplares por nulmero,
visando manter um canal de comunicaqao entre a SEE, as DEs e as UEs; (ii) produ,co e
distribuiq ao do Boletim "Fazendo Escola " com a tiragem de 20.000 exemplares por
nuimero; (iii) producdo e emissdo, atraves da TV Cultura, de programa em canal aberto
com video sobre a Reorganiza,co Escolar e (iv) elabora,co e divulga,cao de uma
cartilha, entilulada " 0 que mudou na escola piiblica paulista?" que traz respostas ias
perguntas sobre a atual gestdo do sistema educacional e informa, a comunidade escolar,
as diretrizes educacionais implantadaspela SEE e (v) publica,ao do boletim da
Secretaria de Estado da Educacao "Fazendo Escola" com uma tiragem de 20.000
exemplares cada uma.
0 cons6rcio RINO/DPZ foi contratado para desenvolver eventos previstos e
implementar o Programa de Comunica,co Social. Para tanto, foram desenvolvidas as
seguintes atividades: Planejamento Geral do Programa; Cria,ao do Material a ser
divulgado; Produ,ao deste material. Contratou- se tamb6m consultores especializados em
Comunica,ao. Varias campanhas educacionais sobre os projetos da SEE foram realizadas
no armbito desse subcomponente a saber: (i) "Escola nas Ferias" que proporciona uma
nova oportunidade de recupera,co e promo,co para aqueles alunos que nao tiveram
aproveitamento escolar durante o ano escolar a qual obteve, em 1996, a participa,ao de
225.545 alunos, dos quais 74.832 eram alunos de CB a 4a e os demais de 50 a 80 serie do
ensino fundamental e resultou na aprova,ao de 53,3% do total de inscritos; (ii)
"Campanha Recursos repassados As APMs" que informou sobre os recursos repassados
diretamente as Associa,ces de Pais e Mestres, no sentido de mobilizar seus membros a
participarem das a,oes; (iii) " Campanha SARESP 97" com anuincios em jornais, revistas,
comerciais em TV, chamadas em radio, que visavam obter alto indice de adesao e
participa,ao dos alunos nas avalia,oes que seriam aplicadas nos alunos de 4a e 8a series;



69
(iv) "Campanha Municipaliza,co" que visou obter o apoio dos Govemos Municipais e
da comunidade para a municipaliza,co do ensino de 1a a 4a serie, veiculando amplo
material informativo nos principais jornais; (v) " Campanha Carreira do Professor" que
procurou motivar, mobilizar e estimular a adesao e participa,cao do corpo docente
estadual ao plano de reforma e melhoria do ensino basico, por meio da produ,cao e
veicula,cao de comerciais para TV, chamadas de radio, anuncios de joomal, videos
informativos; (vi) " Campanha Dia do Professor", " Campanha Treinamento de
Merendeiras".
Desenvolvimento institucional e avaliacao
Estudos independentes e MunicipalizaC4o - Em 1989 o Estado de Sao Paulo havia dado
inicio a um esforf o de municipalizaVdo do ensino fundamental, especialmente a pre-
escola, como meio de dar resposta ai maior preocupavao da SEE, no que diz respeito ai
questdo organizacional e gerencial, representada na necessidade do envolvimento das
autoridades mais proximas do processo ensino-aprendizagem, afim de garantir
respostas mais rapidas e efetivas as necessidades das crianqas.
A meta do Projeto era municipalizar todas as escolas dos 38 municipios da regiao de
abrangencia do projeto exceto o municipio de Sao Paulo.
Para tanto foram realizados: (i) o levantamento de experiencias anteriores, visando a
realiza,ao de estudos para a municipalizac,ao de todas as escolas; (ii) o modelo do Plano
de Municipaliza9cao; (iii) levantamentos da capacidade financeira dos municipios para a
absor,ao do ensino de 10 grau; (iv) um Seminanrio, onde os secretarios municipais de
educa,ao discutiram o modelo do Plano de Municipalizacao apresentado.
Foi tambem elaborada a proposta pedag6gica para a pre-escola, constituindo uma
publica,ao. Para discutir o conteuido da proposta, foi realizado um Seminario.
Em 1995 a participa,cao municipal na pre-escola atingiu 100% da meta e passa a ser
incentivada a promo,co da participa,ao dos municipios na solu,cao dos problemas da
Educa,ao Fundamental. A meta passa a ser a municipaliza,ao das escolas que oferecem
o Ensino Fundamental.
Em 1996 foi assinado o Decreto n∞ 40.673, instituindo o Programa da Municipaliza,co.
Para auxiliar esse processo a Secretaria da Educac,o contratou os servi,os da FUNDAP,
como assistencia tecnica especializada para o Programa de Municipaliza,ao e do
SEADE, que realizou estudos analiticos identificando desigualdades entre os municipios.
Ate dezembro de 1998, atraves do Programa de Municipaliza,ao, 283 municipios
firmaram convenio com a SEE. Com isto, a porcentagem de atendimento do Ensino
Fundamental pelo municipio que em 1990 era de 10% subiu para 18%, representando
praticamente o dobro do atendimento, entretanto, considerando apenas o ensino de CB a



70
4a o percentual passou de 16% para 31%. Em marco de 1999 novos convenios foram
assinados, elevando para 366 o nuimero de municipios conveniados . Asimm, o Estado de
Sao Paulo conta hoje com 471 prefeituras assumindo o Ensino Fundanental por
convenio ou por iniciativa pr6pria.
A SEE manteve assistencia tecnica aos municipios tendo realizado transferencias de
recursos financeiros SEE/FUNDEP, cessoes de uso de bens patrimoniais do Estado para
municipios e permissao de uso de predios estaduais pela Rede Municipal.
Em 1997 a FUNDAP apresentou produtos que servirarn de subsidios para o
desenvolvimento dos trabalhos da Politica de Descentralizacao do Ensino Fundamental,
entre eles 3 publica,oes " Aspectos Financeiros", "Instrumentos Juridicos e
Administrativos" e "Instrumentos de Gestao Municipal".
Para divulgacao, analise e discussao das publicacoes, a FUJNDAP, o SEADE, e a SEE
realizararn urn Seminario e organizaram um curso para orienta,co aos tecnicos da SE. A
SEE reputa imprescindivel, num pr6ximo momento, a necessidade de monitoramento e
avaliacao dessas mudancas no interior do sistema puiblico do estado para possiveis
correcoes e ou continuidade do processo
Refor,o institucional - Este sub-componente objetivou o "Refor,o das Institui,ces
responsaveis pela gerencia de educa,do: melhoria da capacidade de planejamento e
avalia,do da SEE e dos munic'pios para a administra,cao de um sistema escolar de
ensino fundamental. Outro objetivo visava o refor,o da capacidade das ONGs em
oferecer serviqos educacionais de qualidade ".
Para atingir os primeiros objetivos foram realizados estudos sobre os seguintes temas:
(i) "Financiamento da Educacao no Estado de Sao Paulo", que permitiu elaborar
posteriormente, documentos sobre financiamento na area de educacao; (ii) a Assessoria
Tecnica de Planejamento e Controle Educacional - ATPCE - da SEE elaborou uma base
primaria de dados da Educacao que foram coletados e processados por ela e pelo CIE -
Centro de Informacoes Educacionais; iii) implantacao de ums sistema desenvolvido pela
PRODESP visando a reorganizacao de rede; iv) analise do fluxo escolar do ensino
regular; v) estudos visando identificar as fontes e usos dos recursos destinados a
educacao com a apresentacao de relat6rios sobre o financiarnento da educacao no Estado
de Sao Paulo.
Para agilizar a execucao das metas deste sub-componente foram contratados: (i) a
Fundacao de Desenvolvimento Administrativo - FUNDAP - com o objetivo de
assessorar na area administrativo-econ6mica e financeira a SEE na implantacao da
politica de descentralizacao do ensino basico; (ii) a Fundacao Sistema e Analise de Dados
- SEADE - para realizacao de estudos, pesquisas, analises, sistematizacao, geo-referencial
e disseminacao de indicadores s6cio-educacionais para o estado de Sao Paulo.



71
Visando aumentar a capacidade institucional da SEE quanto ao seu nivel de automa,ao e
gerenciamento de sistemas de informa,ao foram adquiridos da Unisys do Brasil,
centralizadamente, equipamentos para um sistema de informatiza,ao da rede da SEE e
de 143 Delegacias de Ensino e 6 6rgaos centrais e descentralizados recursos para 6.000
escolas para compra de equipamentos de informdtica. Adicionalmente, foi contratada a
Unisys do Brasil para desenvolver um software aplicativo para a administra,co escolar.
Afim de fortalecer a competencia tecnica dos profissionais da educa,co nas areas
administrativas e pedag6gicas foram produzidos e distribuidos as escolas: (i) 23 videos .
abordando temas como: APM; Conselho de Escola; Informatica na gestao escolar etc. e
(ii) Jornal:Escola-Agora
Sistema de Avaliafdo de Rendimento do Estado de Silo Paulo - SARESP - Em 1992, a
CENP executou uma Avaliaqdo Diagn6stica das escolas integrantes do Projeto de
Reforma de Ensino no Estado de Sdo Paulo que permitiu estabelecer um perfil inicial do
rendimento escolar dos alunos das 306 escolas-padrao. Foram avaliadas 306 escolas,
envolvendo 27.609 alunos de todas as 8as series, em conteudos de Portugues,
Matematica, Hist6ria, Geografia, Ciencias, referentes as vdrias series de 1∞grau.
Posteriormente, segundo nova diretriz, o programa de avalia,a-o passou a considerar o
rendimento das escolas de toda a rede e nao s6 das escolas padrao. Foi efetuada uma
revisao do universo das escolas, determinando-se nova amostragem para a avalia,ao de
818 escolas representativas das caracteristicas gerais do sistema de ensino e instituindo-se
o Programa de Avalia,cao Educacional da Rede Estadual de Ensino. Foi constituido um
grupo de trabalho com assessoria extema indicada pelo Banco Mundial que procurou
aperfei9oar o delineamento da avalia,cao, que passou a ser: "Sistema de Avalia,ao de
Rendimento Escolar do Estado de Sao Paulo" - SARESP- cujo projeto foi elaborado pela
Coordenadoria de Ensino e Normas Pedag6gica - CENP e pela FDE, com consultoria do
grupo de trabalho. Em 1994 a avalia,co abrangeu 152.279 alunos de toda a Rede Publica
Estadual das 4as e 8as series, que realizaram provas de Portugues, Matematica e Reda,ao.
Os alunos das 8a series tambem foram avaliados em Ciencias, Hist6ria e Geografia que
resultou na constata,ao de que os dados gerados mais serviam para orientar os 6rgao
gestores das politicas educacionais do que o conjunto das escolas da rede. Ap6s as
discussoes do projeto e dos objetivos de Medi,ao do Rendimento concluiu-se o projeto a
ser implementado.
Na seque8ncia, a Funda,ao Carlos Chagas capacitou te6rica e administrativamente o grupo
de tecnicos da SEE /FDE encarregados da execuyao do programa.
Iniciou-se a implantagco do Sistema ap6s o referendo do projeto logrado por ocasiao do
Seminario Intemacional de Modelos Avaliativos no qual, especialistas de renome
internacional, apreciaram o projeto e expuseram teorias relativas a Sistemas de avalia,ao,
concluindo pela boa delinea,ao do projeto elaborado, embora reputado como bastante
arrojado. A SELECT treinou as DEs e UEs para-a aplica,ao e corre,ao das provas.



72
Em 1996 iniciou-se a Ia aplica,ao de provas na universalidade dos alunos das 3a e 7a
series do ensino fundamental de Sao Paulo bem como em alguns alunos das escolas
municipais e particulares, embora estas nao fossem incluidas na analise dos resultados
realizada pela Funda,ao Carlos Chagas. Em abril de 97 foi realizada a 2a aplicac, o porem
em alunos das 4a e 8a sries do ensino Fundamental. Em 1998 foram avaliados alunos das
5 series do ensino Fundamental e lI serie do ensino Medio. Com esta terceira aplica,co a
SEE ja tem elementos para iniciar, paralelamente a avalia,co de desempenho, a avalia,ao
com cunho longitudinal, onde se pretende analisar o ganho real no aproveitamento dos
alunos. Para esta analise, a FCC, contratada para a analise, juntamente com os tecnicos da
SEE estarao utilizando a Teoria de Resposta ao Item -TRI.
d)   UtilizaVAo de parcerias publico/privadas: ONGs
Com o objetivo de refor,ar a capacidade das ONGs em oferecer servi,os educacionais de
qualidade foram realizados estudos de avaliacao do funcionamento das ONGs na Regiao
Metropolitana de Sao Paulo, quanto a educa,ao pre-escolar. Estes estudos foram
realizados pelo Centro Brasileiro de Analise e Planejamento - CEBRAP que apresentou
relat6rio sobre a distribui,ao espacial da atendimento as ONGs e avaliacao dos aspectos
formais de funcionamento das ONGs e sua capacidade financeira;
Para agilizar a execu,ao das metas deste sub-componente foram contratados alem do
CEBRAP: a Cooperativa T&enica Educacional - CTE - para estudar as formas legais e
institucionais de parceria, como efetiva-las e apresentar propostas sobre politica de
atua9ao da SEE com empresas e entidades e a Funda,ao Carlos Chagas - FCC para
realizar pesquisa sobre a importancia da participacao comunitaria na questao da
educa,cao e da probreza.
iiA DI 9!  &                      I.;&
APLICACAO DOS RECURSOS
Os Quadros 6 a 8 mostram a Aplica9ao Consolidada Total dos Recursos do Projeto por
Componente comparando-as com as previsoes do SAR no periodo 1991 a 1996 e com as
metas dos Bench Marks de 1996 ate o encerramento do periodo de Gra,a do Projeto em
30/04/99. Deste se depreende que o valor total do Projeto estimado em US$ 600,0
milh6es foi superado atingindo US$ 601,8 milh6es, apesar da reduzida adesao dos
municipios na implementa9ao do sub-componente BI no qual foram repassados somente
38,5 % dos recursos para eles previstos .



73
Quadro 6 - Contribuigies por Quantidade e InstituiVcao
Valores em
USD Milhoes
BIRD                                  24  0                          40,8                      243,0                          99, 1                          40,4 
Estado                                331,                           55,2                     349,5                         105,4                            58,1
Municipios                              24,0                           4,0                         9,3                        3 8,51,
Fonte: UGP/SEE
Quadro 7 - Aplica,cao total dos recursos por componente e categoria de despesas
Valores em USD
|Componente A -Mehoria da gauaLidade na escola 
Construcio - Obras                                           I                                                           3428 532,59
Equipamentos c materiais 
Mobilias e Equipamentos                                 2a                                                             7 366.03829
Equipamentos e Utensilios                               2b                                                               170 210,40
Bens                                                     3                                                           120 500.003,31
Treinamento
Primeiraa fae - parte A(2)                              Sa                                                             3 043.717,04
Segunda fase - Parse A(2)                               5b                                                            30 561.914,22
Cnmpnnenze B - Ensso na pre-escola
Construcio/Equipamentos e mater6sis                          4                                                            14 083.824,81
Treinamento                                                  6                                                                13.804,96
Servigos de especialistas                                    9                                                               430 465,0i
Cemponenwe C - Saude no eacioa
Equipamentos e materiais/gastos                              10                                                            11 918.622,27
Servios de especialistas                                     11                                                                12.115,01
Comnonente D - Avaliacao e divusleaco
Servisos de especialistas                                   7c                                                           20.341.105,69
Ccn,ssenme E - DesemonlJmens o Inshfyc,nnal e s,alsac
Servisos de especialistas
Servigos de consultoa                                   7a                                                            21.062.794,88
Servios de consuatona                                   7b                                                               158.918,34||
A dministracdo do p-ie t.
Servigos de espeeiaiistasIgastos operacionais de acrescimo         8                                                              7 881,003,03
Fontesi  UGPISEE recorenie
Fonte: UGI>/SEE



74
No Quadro 8 a seguir se observa tambem que ate 1995 somente 18,9% do valor do
acumulado previsto no SAR ate aquele ano havia sido executado e que a partir de 1996,
com a retomada do andamento do Projeto, ocorreu um desenvolvimento linear e
crescente na aplicacao dos recursos superando as metas previstas nos Bench Marks.
Quadro 8 - Aplicafao dos Recursos
CComparaSao Anual
630-
68616.7-
600 _
s 570-;5r 601.6
540-
510 
stc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 .32e6  
X 450
40
~o 420-               oc      -/ 406.2
E 360
6330
E 300 1
2702
E  240 1
1210
1- 160 
100
120                                    106.4
60
60
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
Ano Civil jan a dez)
4-PREVISTO SAR  -PREVISTO BENCHMARK -AREALIZDO
A sustentabilidade do processo depende basicamente do Estado e Municipios envolvidos,
quando for o caso, assegurarem os recursos financeiros para o prosseguimento dos
seguintes linhas de acao, uma vez que ja existe capacidade instalada nesses orgaos para
seu planejamento, implementacao, monitoramento e avaliacao, adquiridas com a
experiencia vivenciada no Projeto IEB: (i) programnas de construcao de novas escolas e de
ampliacao, adequa,cao e recupera,co das escolas existentes bem como de sua manutencao
preventiva e corretiva pela FDE; (ii) programa de complementa,ao e substitui,cao de
mobiliario e equipamento escolar pela FDE; (iii) programas de capacita,co de
profissionais de ensino; (iv) programa de dota,co de material pedag6gico; (v) programa
da Merenda Escolar (vi) municipalizacao do ensino Fundamental e da Pre-scola; (vii)



75
aplica,co do Sistema de Avaliac,o do Rendimento Escolar; (viii) programas de Sauide na
Escola pela SES e (ix) Estudos sistematicos de avalia,ao de custos, processo, impacto e
Educa,ao Continuada aliados ao continuo esforco voltado ao desenvolvimento
institucional.
A recente reelei,ao da atual gestao do Governo Estadual constitui uma garantia da
continuidade, aprimoramento e financiamento da atual politica educacional amplamente
apoiada, desde a fase inicial de sua implanta,co, nas linhas de a,co preconizadas pelo
Projeto. A nivel municipal, o prosseguimento das a,ces de municipaliza,ao do ensino
pre-escolar e fundamental tem obtido a sucessiva adesao das municipalidades ainda nao
conveniadas o que demonstra o acerto da politica adotada e assegura condi,6es para o seu
progresso .



76
O Projeto de Inovac,es no Ensino Basico de Sao Paulo executado pela Governo do
Estado de Sao Paulo atraves da Secretaria de Estado da Educa,ao no periodo de 7 de
janeiro de 1992 a 31 de abril de 1999, com recursos advindos em parte do financiamento
do Banco Intemacional de Reconstrugao e Desenvolvimento - BIRD, parte do Tesouro
do Estado de Sao Paulo e parte da Prefeituras Municipais conveniadas ao Projeto,
apresentou resultados expressivos para a melhoria do ensino puiblico estadual de 10 grau
na Regiao Metropolitana de Sao Paulo e Regioes de Sorocaba e Vale do Ribeira e para o
ensino pAblico municipal pre-escolar na Regiao Metropolitana de Sao Paulo diminuindo
a reten,co escolar das crian,as das familias pobres e migrantes das areas programaticas,
descongestionando as escolas existentes.
Os resultados alcan,ados pelo Projeto no cumprimento dos objetivos de diminuigao
dos indices de retengao e evasao das escolas bem como das demais metas
compromissadas no Acordo de Emprestimo acham-se espelhados de forma sintetica nos
Quadros 9 e 10 a seguir.
Quadro 9 - Rede Estadual - Indice de Retensao do CB a 4a serie do Ensino Fundamental
RMGSP                  14,6   13,6   14,8   13,1    9,2    3,5    1,07
Area de abrangencia do Projeto  14,11   11,23   12,33   10,82   7,55    2,95      ()
Fonte: Centro de Infarmacdes Educacionais  (I) dado preliminar; 2) inclue as Regioes: GSP, Sorocaba e Registro e (3) dada nado disponivel
Ouadro  O - Rede Estad al - Indice de Evasao do CB a 4a serie do Ensino Fundamental
RMGSP                 6,24    5,63    5,16   5,03    4,12    2,69   2,24
Area de abrangEncia do Projeto   6,77    6,24    5,6    5,4    4,29    2,73    (3)
Fonte: Centro de Informacoes Educacionais  (1) dado preliminar; 2) inclue as Regioes: GSP, Sorocaba e Registro e (3) dado nbo disponivei



IBRD 21533
i _ 5 _ ~~~~ a, 47                                       00B R A  Z  I L >-6t,+  
SOUTH AMERICA                                             INNOVATIONS IN BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                              >- -                                MINAS
-.      ItA>ll      ,                                         SCHOOL DISTRICTS AND MUNICIPALITIES                                                                                     .x-,s-tGRl
RRAIAZ, AV- INGESOAPUL
\_   BrARA5i, A$   '                 5':\                           IN  GREATER SAFO  PAULO                                                                                                s  O''wPAUL 0
S y R A.C                                                                                                                                   .,                                                                                  S   A ANAi,  
.1                                                                                                              AL. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2IGARATA  An~                           s
FRANCISCQ   ;S;'~~~~~t -~~,                                                              PARAN                  CFA     S
7%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
A    \       r-RANCISo 0 /
{< ] , t~~~~~~~~~~~~FACO DA                                              SA                    N        TA ISABEL *_tu0
'I            ~~~~~ROrHA,  i      MAIRIPORA                                       AE
CAJAM4R    r--CAIEcRA$
RAM  ,R54F                                          r                       7Al 9                                                                         .                  SANTA BRANCA
u.  SANTANA  DE PARNAIBA           D     C P
-23930 5\9 /--JOW                                                                   9                       D<n5N -  A >    -  .n-2                                                   vQ;t ;    (_ rGLARA REMA R/                            23' 30
E j7  ROsQU                                                                                                                                        i Fv         v        !jfaS-  'S ,'!! MO J I DAS r;   _, 
:  -  jr1 n  };Ej,j,r  N  e S IZ W SARe z g tm- f CRUZES1 > \sA SALESCGPOLIS ,$CRUZES
SAc RCA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_                                                                                                              A  I
ITAPEV   }> / - .                                                                                                                             . ]' ' CununlOM  irAI 55 RIa z 8F1;\  t   |  t>E>ASIb! P 21  _ |1l / ; \ /  1   BRITlbA MIRIM  ,QA'R .AO!,
VRPAU   
(C       A    TIi-   COTIA         - E                                                           MA                 5UZANO   * |                                            N ;
OK: r  CTV ITAPECERICA          - 5
GUACU                                              SAO B
1Re,, 'na-- -- eianol School Division Boundories
V-x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                      -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~School Distict Boundaries
.1 ,/                a                                                                                                                                                               - t   ,, /: ,. ),' .1' ' t 'I . -  School District Offices outside the
QJUUITSBA                                                                                                            '                                                      Municipoli7y of Sao Paulo
A                          AAA%NYOA    1 _   5,S  18 /] - r  A i   N /  <   5  !'12    School Districts insid  the Municipsality
V                                                  SAC VlC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTB  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~of SBo Paulo'
Built-up Areas
_  ......... _ ... . " r.s-/e % { GRPAANIDAE =' I' irf - -= Resorvoirs                                                                                                                     24-0 0
V                        9 -                                                         -            :                / Su                 ~                   - ~~ ~ -  Rivers
..... ... Municipolity of Sao Paulo
Limits of Greater Sao Paulo Area
Municipal Boundaries
State Bounduries (inset)
0        5       10       I5       20
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                   ---  Internationol Boundaries (inset)
See Name List.
A47O00                                                                      46-30A 43300
APRIL 1980



