* 'A'&' 37S 57S
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Reort No. 7686-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
INNOVATIONS IN BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
JUNE 4, 1991
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America ane the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniv in the performance of
their nffieial dAmtimc  It- r*bnt*nt-  av  kt nbt r, i i Ai-r  it  t



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
March 15, 1991
Currency Unit = Cruzeiro (CrS)
USS 1           -  Cr$ 230.34
CrS 1          -  USS 0.004
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYM
CENP      Coordenadoria de Estudos e Normas Pedagogicas
Coordinating Unit for Studiss and Pedagogical Standards (State
Secretariat of Education)
DSE       Departamento ds Suprimento Escolar
Department for School Feeding (State Secretariat of Education)
FDE       Fundacao de Desenvolvimento da Educacao
Foundation for Educational Develonment
FIPE      Fundacao Instituto de Pesquisas Economicas
Institute for Economics Research (University of Sao Paulo)
FOS       Federacao de Obras Sociais
Federation of Social Works
GSP       Grande Sao Paulo
Greater Sao Paulo
INAMPS    Instituto Nacional de Assistencia Medica da Previdencia Social
National Social Security Institute for Medical Assistance
MEC       Ministerio de Educacao
Ministry of Education (federal government)
PNPO      Private Non-Profit Organization
PICU      Project Implementation Coordinating Unit
SEE       Secretaria do Estado da Educacao -- Sao Paulo
Secretariat of Education of the State of Sao Paulo
SES       Secretaria do Estado da Saude -- Sao Paulo
Secretariat of Health of the State of Sao Paulo
SUDS      Sistema Unificada de Saude
Unified Health System
UBS       Unidade Basica e Decentralizado de Saude
Basic Health Unit (Health Center)



fRA21L                    FOFasL UW  ONLY
INNOVATIONS IN BASIC EDUCATION
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summarv
Borrow-rs                  State of Sao Paulo
Guarantor:                 Federative Republic of Brazil
Amounts                    USS 245 million *quivalent
T-rmrs                     Repayment in 15 years, including five yeare of
grace, with interest at the Bank's standard variable
rate
Proiect
Doesript ion               The objective of the project is to improve primary
school learning and retention among children of poor
and migrant families in Greater Sao Paulo in a
manner that could eventually be adapted to other
sta':es. The project will support: (i! a new
curricular approach and extended school day for the
first two years of primary school, through in-
service teacher training, provision of new
educational materials, more efficient school feeding
programs, and school construction tu allow primary
schools in poor neighborhoods to operate two daytime
five-hour shifts (80% of project costs); (ii)
expansion of low cost pre-primary education provided
by PNPOs and wnunicipalities (12%) in poor
neighborhoods; (iii) reform of the school henlth
program to emphasize cost-effective screening,
referral, and health education (5.5%); (iv) the
strengthening of state and municipal education
authorities (1.4%); and (v) evaluation studies and
dissemination activities (0.6%).
Proigct
Risks:                     Implementation risks are moderate because of
reasonably good management capacity of the
participating institutions. There are numerous
innovative approaches being financed and a number of
participating institutions, including municipalities
in Greater Sao Paulo. The State Secretariat of
Education (SEE) will need to play a strong
leadership role, and the project will require close
supervision by the Bank in the first two years. ln
order to minimize the risks, there will be a mid-
term review to assess project execution and make
adjustments as necessary. In addition, the SEE will
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



release funds for the pro-school support program on
the basis of annual reviews of municipal proqrams.
Pro-ect Costs:
Local       Forei             .vota
---------- (Us$ million)    --
(a)  In-school quality improvement   365.3             54.6           419.9
(b)  Pro-school                          53.7           8.8            62.5
(c)  School health                       27.0           2.7            29.7
(d)  Institutional development            7.2           0.4             7.6
(a)  Evaluation, dissemination            3.2           0.2             3.4
(f)  Administration                       1.7           O.i             1.8
Base cost estimates (a-f)               458.0          66.8           524 8
(g)  Contingencies                       65.7           9i5 75 2
i.   Physical                      34.5            5.7            40.2
ii.  Price                         31.2            3.8            35.0
PROJECT COSTS                           5237           763            600.
(of which taxes)                                                (103.0)
Financing Plan:
USS million         3
IBRD                                            245.0          40.8
State of Sao Paulo                              324.1          54.0
Municipalities (GSP)                             30.9           5.2
Estimated Disburseements:
FY         1992     1993      1994      1i9      1996      1297      1298
Annual          56.8      71.0     52.6      33.7      16.0     13.9       1.0
Cumulative      56.8    127.8    180.4    214.1    230.1    244.0    245.0
Including US$ 20.25 million deposited in the Special Accounts
ii



STAFF APPRAISAL RFPORT
INNOVATIONS IN BASIC LDUCATION
TBEOF CONTENTS
SOCIO-RIONOKIC CONTEXT 
General Setting..1
Population .1......................... . .
OVZRVIE1IOF =HEDUCATIONSEC=OR ................. .    2
Structure and Administration   .*...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    .  2
Zducation Finance ..                                                2
Major Problems in Brazilian Education    ..                         3
Primary and Pro-primary Education  ... .  .   .   .                 3
Primary Education   ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  3
Pre-Primary Education.                                         4
Primary Education in Greater Sao Paulo.                        4
Management of Primary Education.                               6
Pre-School Education in Greater Sao Paulo.                     6
BANK STRATEGY IN HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT .                           8
History of Bank Involvement .8
Bank Assistance strategy .                                         8
THLPR9JECT .9
Objectives   .                                                      9
Description  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  10
In-FPchool Quality Improvement .10
School construction  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 10
Teacher training   ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 10
EducationAl materials . .                                11
School feeding .                                         11
Pre-School Education .12
School Health   . .    ... .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  14
Evaluation .15
Institutional Development and Assessment .16
Municipalization   ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 16
Strengthening Planning   ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 17
Strengthening Assessment Capacity .17
Strengthening the Public/Private Partnership in
Providing Social Services .1?
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  18
Cost of the Preject  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 18
Base  costs    ...  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .    18
Contingency allowances  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  19
Foreign exchange component .                                  19
Duties and taxeb  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 19
Financing Plan .19
iii



Recurrent osts c                                                        20
.IMPLEMENTATION, PROCURENENT. DISBURSEI'MENT AND REPORTIN  .                 23
lplemntation schedule.. . . . .    23
Administration .23
Project Management Unit (UGP).                                    23
Administration of the Pre-school Support Program .       .24
Administration of the School Health Program        ..             25
Procurement                 ............ . 26
Civil Works ..                   ...................... .   26
Goods .............. . . . . ......... .   27
Consultants                 ........ . 27
Disburcement   .... ...... . . . . .                    . . . . . . . 27
Accounts and Audits ...................... . 28
Retroactive financing .29
3ENzFITSAND RISKS . .                                                        29
Benefits .29
Risks .30
AGRgEHzNTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .31
Table 1 -- Enrcllment in Primary School in GSP
Table 2 -- Promotion, Repetition and Drop-out in GSP
Table 3 -- Pro-school Attendance in GSP
Table 4 -- Socio-sconomic Profile of Pro-school Students in GSP
Table 5 -- Age Profile of Studerstu i, State Primary System GSP
Table 6 -- Poverty Orientation of School Construction in GSP
Annex II
t:hle 1 -- Project Coa.s by Expenditure Category
Table 2 -- Project Financing by Component
Table 3 -- Project Disbursement Schedule
Annex III       Guidelines for Operation of the Pre-School Support Program
Annex IV        School Health Program
Annex V         Central Evaluation Questions
Annex VI        ;erms of Reference for Studies
Annex VII       Cor;tents of the Project File
Annex VILI      Map of Greater Sao Paulo (IBRD 21533)
This report is based upon the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Sao Paulo from February 9-23, 1989 and post-appraisal missions that visited
Sao Paulo in February 1990 and ?ebruary and May, 1991. Appraisal mission
members were Laurence Wolff (Senior Operations Officer, mission leader),
Barbara Bruns (Senior Economist), Helen Saxenian (Health Economist),
Marlaine Lockh-ed (Educator/Sociologist), and Sergio Dompieri, Robert
Kaplan, Jean-Jacques Paul, and Hendrick van der Heijden (Consultants).
iv



BRA21L
INNOVATIONS IN BASIC EDUCATION
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1.   SOCIO-ECONONC CONTEXT
General Bettina
1.1       With a land mass of over 8.5 million km2 and a population of
147.4 milllon (1989 estimate), Brazil is the largest and most populous
country in Latin America, and has the region's largest economy. While
Brazil experienced rapid growth in real per capita income in the 1960s and
1970., the growth rate has faltered since then. The 1980. have been
characterized by high inflation and worsening economic performance. In
1990, real output growth declined by 4.3 percent and the annual inflation
rate exceeded 1,700 percent. Furthermore, the gains from the earlier
period of rapid growth were unevenly shared among the population; almost
one-third of the Brazilian population lives in poverty. While poverty is
the most widespread in the Northeast region, in recent years significant
numbers of poor migrants have abandoned the Northeast in search of better
opportunities, principally in cities of the Southeast. As a result, many
cities in this region have grown very quickly, and are now ringed by large
slum areas which strain their physical and social ser-tces infrastructure.
During the 1970s alone, 1 million Northeasterners immigrated to Greater Sao
Paulo (GSP), joininq another 1.4 million people who immigrated to GSP from
around the zountry. During the 19809, the population of Greater Sao Paulo
has continued to grow at the rate of 3.3 percent each year.
Po2ulation
1.2       Almost 40 percent of Brazil's population is less than 15 years
old. Three-fourths of all Brazilians live in urban areas, and half of
these are living in citi3n of over a half million people. The population
is unevenly dispersed throughout the country -- vast tracts of the
Northwest support no major cities and less than one inhabitant per km2,
while the state of Rio de Janeiro in the Southeast has a population density
of over 260 inhabitants per km2. Although the overall population growth
rate is expected to fall to 1.8 percent per annum within the next few
years, major cities will continue to expand more rapidly due to continued
rtral-urban and inter-regional migration.  High urban growth rates place a
heavy burden on local economies for employment, a problem which is
compounded by the very low edi.cational attainment of the labor force. In
1986, 20 percent of the population over 10 years of age had less than one
year of formal schooling and the average years of schooling of the adult
population was less than 5. In addition to undermining the establishment
of a stable social and political system, this situation threatens the long-
term productivity growth of the economy. To a great extent, future
economic progress in Brazil must be achieved through the creativity and
innovativeness of an educated labor force, and their ability to function in
an increasingly technological work environment.
1



2.   OVERVIEW O  TH  EDUCATION SECTOR
Structure and Administration
2.1       Brazil supports an extensive and decentralized education syetm
at all levels, beginning with pro-school, continuing (at age 7) through
eight grador of primary school, 3-4 years of secondary school or technical
school, and finally to higher education at tho undergraduate, Master's, and
Ph.D levels. All three levels of government (federal, state and
municipal), as well as privato entities, are involved in providing
education services. The quality of schooling varies considerably by region
and by type of provider. Generally, children from the upper and middle
clasesn attend private pro-, primary, and secondary schools, while poor and
lower middle class children attend public institutions. Low-income
children from public primary and secondary school systems are almost always
inadequately prepared to compete with students who have studied in private
schools for spaces in the heavily subsidized, elite public university
system. As a result, government expendit-ires on higher education
disproportionately benefit the rich and middle class.
2.2       Over 25 million Brazilian children attend primary school, with
5? percent of them enrolled in state schools, 30 percent in municipal
schools, 12 percent in private schools, and 1 percent in federal schools.
of the 3 million students attending secondary school, 59 percent are
enrolled in state systems, 33 percent in private schools, 5 percent in
municipal schools, and 3 percent in federal schools. Each state has a
secretariat of education to administer state prLmary and secondary schools.
Over the last quarter century, the quality of the physical and human
resource infrastructure of public school systems has declined and middle-
income familieu have increasingly abandoned the public school system and
enrolled their children in private schools. State education authorities
are now taking measures to reverse these trends, but they are encountering
difficulties in overcoming the accumulated effect of two decades of
decline.
Education Finance
2.3       Total public spending on education at all levels of government
amounted to about US$ 11 billion in 1986, and accounted for approximately
23 percent of total social spending and 4 percent of GDP. At the primary
level, states account for about 65 percent of public expenditure, while
municipalities contribute 25 percent, and the federal government the
remaining 10 percent. The bulk of federal education expenditure on primary
education is channeled to state aad municipal schools for special programs,
such as the school feeding and textbook programs. In 1985, although 66
percent of total publie education expenditures went to primary education,
public spending per student in the federal universities was 26 times higher
than spending per student at the primary level, and 18 times higher than
spending per secondary student.
2.4       Under the 1988 federal constitution, the federal government must
apply at least 18 percent of its total annual tax receipt6 to education.
State and municipal governments, in turn, must devote 25 percent of their
total revenues from taxes and transfers to education. State government
2



resources com mainly from the value-added tax (25 percent of which is
passed on to municipal governments), a 5 percent surcharge on the federal
iacom  tax, and a tax on property transfors.  Municipal govornments receive
revenue from urban real estate taxes and a tax on servLces. In addLtLon,
both state and municipal governments benefit from feosral transfers,
primarily ln the form of partLcipatlon funds. Under the new constLtutlon,
21.5 percent and 22.5 percent of federal recelpts from taxes levlid on
lncome and Lndustrialized products go lnto state and munlclpal
partlclpatlon funds, respectlvely. Firally, states collect the education
salary tax of 2.5 percent of companies' payroll, whlch li earmarked for
*xpenditures on primary education.
Maior Problems in B-azilian Zducation
2.5       While almost all Brazillan chlldren enter primary school at some
time, only 38 percent of them make it to the eighth grade. In LatLn
America, orly El Salvador and Nicaragua have worse survival rates to eighth
grade. Th:.r in turn, translates into low secondary school participation
rates. only 37 percent of Brazilian children of secondary school age
attend secondary school, far behind the 66 percent enrollment rate in
Chile, 49 percent in Colombia and 91 percent in Korea. Due to high primary
and secondary school drop-out rates among low-income students, along with
the inferior college preparation in the public primary and secondary
systems, almost 95 percent of the spaces in elite public universities go to
students from upper and middle class families. A major reason for Brazil's
high dropout rates are high failure rates, especially in the early grades.
Only 14 percent of students complete all eight grades of primary school
without repeating at least once. High failure and repetition rates
represent a heavy drain on scarc;e public resources, and improving the
qua.ity of education would result in a significant increase in efficiency
of the system, as well as in greater equality of opportunity for education
and jobs.
Primary and Pre-Primary EducatiLn
2.6       Primary Education.  Primary education throughout Brazil is
failing to prepare children to function productively in an industrialized,
internationally competitive economy. In a 1982 study, 53 percent of the
children in first grade nationwide were repeating that grade. By the time
a cohort reaches the fifth grade, approximately 30 percent of students have
already dropped out. The problems of failure and dropout are most severe
in the rural Northeast, where only 3% of children reach the eighth grade.
However, it is very clearly a nation-wide phenomenon. Even in the South
and Southeast, 35-40 percent of students repeat fifth grade, and 40 percent
of students drop-out before eighth grade.
2.7       The causes of the high failure rates in primary school .re
multiple. In the Northeast, parental illiteracy and poverty, children's
lack of exposure to pre-school experiences, low paid and ill-educated
teachers, and often-inadequate school facilities all contribute to th high
rates of dropout and repetition. Particularly in the Northeast, but also
in other areas of the country, poor management and politicization of the
education system exacerbate the serious resource constraints. In the urban
slum areas of Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, and other rapid'y growing
3



mtropolitan areas, repetition rates are high as a result of a lack of pre-
school experiences; overcrowding in schools leading to an excessively short
school day; teachers and directors who, while formally qualified, lack
appropriate training and approaches to reach poor children effectively; and
work pressures on parents (many of whom are recent immigrants from the
Northeast and both of whom usually work) and on children. Throughout
Brazil, children from low-income families have limited access to preventive
health care and an undetermined number suffer from nutritional, hearing,
and visual problems which adversely affect learning.
2.8       Traditionally, in education as well as in other sectors, the
states of the South and Southeast have developed innovative approaches to
addreassing problems in primary and secondary education. These states
typically have more highly trained administrators and teachers than other
Brazilian states, and their education secretariata are better managod.
Once the Southern states have successfully implemonted the new approaches,
other states adapt the programs to their own specific circumstances and
needa. This process is occurring now with regard to current problems in
primary education and the innovative approaches being developed in the
state of Sao Paulo.
2.9       Pro-Primary Education.  Only one-fourth of Brazil's
approximately 10 million children between the ages of four and six are
enrolled in pro-school, and almost 70 percent of those enrolled are from
middle and upper class families. In poor neighborhoods pro-school services
are scarce or non-existent. Expanding the provision of pro-school services
in poor neighborhoods would generate significant benefits for the children
served, for their families, and for society. As the lack of stimulating
pro-school experiences contributes to poor performance in primary school,
extending pre-school access for poor children would improve the
effectiveness of teaching in the early grades, and improve the efficLietcy
of the primary school system. These benefits, which have been demonstrated
by research in other countries, have been recognized oy Brazilian educators
and political leaders, and the new national constitution establishes the
"right; of children under age seven to publicly-provided pre-school and day
care services. Nevertheless, the traditional approach, in which the publiz
sector finances pre-school services using the same construction and teacher
qualification standards as for primary schools, is too costly to permit a
major expansion of public pre-school programs.
2.10      Primary Education in Greater Sao Paulo.  The primary school
system in GSP is largely a state-run syste.t: 69 percent of primary school
classes are in state schools, while 16 percent are in municipal schools --
with virtually no municipal activity in primary education outside of the
city of Sao Paulo. The state system serves over 1.8 million students in
the metropolitan area in grades one through eight, and the municipal system
of the city of Sao Paulo serves an additional 400,000 students. Through
the early 1980a Greater Sao Paulo suffered similar problems of massive
failurw and drop-out as the rest of the country; only one-fourth of the
students who begin state-run primary school complete it in eight years, and
only half ever finish primary school. In order to address the problem of
early grade failure, in 1984 the state of Sao Paulo initiated a major
curriculum reform of grades 1 and 2 of in all state primary schools, the
eiclo      Tas  The c clo basico involves a new pedagogical approach tc
4



teaching reading and writing, automatic promotion from grade one to two,
and continual student evaluation during the first two grades in order to
target special assistance to slow learnets. In order to succeed, the new
approach requires a major program of teacher training and provision of
essential educational materials, which were not forthcoming in the initial
years of tha program. Furthermore, as a result of the rapid influx 3f new
migrants into the poor communities surrounding Sao Paulo without a
corresponding expansion in the state school system, GEP schools in poor
neighborhoods are severely overcrowded, and children in the first four
grades attend school for only three and a half hours or lass each day.
2.11      In 1988 the state aought to improve further the quality of
primary education by lengthening the school day to five hours of in-school
instruction (iornada unica) for students in the ciclo basico Due to
severe overcrowding, however, in March 1991, only 62 percent of the state
schools in Greater Sao Paulo were functioning with only two daytime shifts
(with three or more daytime shifts, instruction time for each shift must be
compressed to less than five hours). Thirty-six percent of state primary
schools in GSP were functioning with three daytime shifts and 2 percent
with four daytime shifts. The state's school construction program is
designed to enable all schools with ciclo basico clacses in Greater Sao
Paulo to operate two daytime shifts, in order to fully implement the
extended school day. Furthermore, teachers will receive training in tne
goals, pedagogy, and teaching techniques of the ciclo basico, and in how to
utilize the additional classroomn hours effectively   The state will also
supply educational materials, such as books, educational toys, and art
supplies to enhance the value of the new approach.
2.12      Approximately 20 perzent of children between the ages of four
and five in the municipality of Sao Paulo are anemic, and 10 percent of
primary school children need eyeglasses to correct vision problems. Only
50 percent of the children have completed their diptheria/tetanun
immunizations. The precent school health program, which was transferred in
1987 from the State Secretariat of Educaticn (SEE) to the State Secretariat
of Health (SES), is structurally and prcgrammatically isolated from the
rest of the state health services. The current program reaches only a
small proportion of the schoolchildren with sporadic interventions. The
program needs to be completely revamped in order to address the priority
heaith needs of schoolchildren.
2.13      Under the iornada unica program, children spend almost twice as
much time at school as before. In order to minimize learning problems due
to children's lack of energy and poor nutrition, the SEE expanded the
school feeding program for c'ildren in the iornada unica program from 300
calories per day per student to 720 calories. By the end of 1992 all
municipalities in Greater Sao Paulo, except the city of Sao Paulo, will
have direct responsibility for administering feeding programs in state
schools. Under this decentralized system, the state passes funds directly
to each participating municipality, which then supplements these resources
and administers the program directly.  The Department of School Feeding
(DSE) in the SEE will continue to have the responsibility of ensuring that
meals meet caloric and protein standards, and that schools schedule meals
at appropriate times. Also, over the medium term, the DSF will continue to
5



administer directly school feeding programs in state schools in the city of
Sao Paulo.
2.14      Manaoement of Primary Education.  The s*ate of Sao Paulo,
through the SEE, directly employs more than 160,000 primary sch>ol teachers
for almost 4.2 million students throughout tho state, and has an annual
budget of more than USS 3 billion. Recognizing the difficulties in
managing such a large enterprise in a way that is responsive to local needs
and problem&, the State has set an a long term goal the municipalization of
prtmary education. Prior to 1989, the extent of decentralization in th.
SEE was to provide some budgetary flexibility to the 127 school districts.
In 1989, the State took a first step in municipalizing primary education.
Some 150 municipalities around the state agreed to take on limited
responsibility for primary education. Under the plan, the State continues
to play a major role; all teachers remai% state employees, all schools use
a common core pedagogy developed by tlhe State, and the State conducts
teacher training. Participating municipalities are responsible for
contracting school construction, operating the school lunch program,
ensuring adequate school transportaticn where necessary, supporting
teachers that are participating in in-service training, and making minor
adjustments in subject matter of courses to reflect local conditions.
2.15      In order to support effectively a municipalized primary
education system, the SEE must improve its assessment, analytical, and
planning capacity. As a first step, the SEE is seeking to upgrade staff,
and develop a capacity to undertake systematic educational assessments.
Educational assessments are widely used by school systems in other
countries but Brazil has only recently begun to introduce them on limited
scale. They can provide local, state, and federal education authorities
with an index over time of how well individual schools in different parts
of the state system are doing in educating children in the early grades.
In many countries, education authorities provide test results to the
schools as a feedback mechanism (and to parents) to give them information
on how students in the school performed relative to children in other
schools throughout the state. Whether or not assessment results are widely
distributed, however, does not change the nature of the test, which is
designed to evaluate the school system and not the performance of
individual children.
2.16      Pre-School Education in Greater Sao Paulo.  In 1987, there were
some 1,600 registered pre-scnools employing 15,000 teachers for as many
pre-school classes in Greater Sao Paulo. Municipal governmento administer
half of these classes, private entities 43 percent, and the state the
remainder. Of the 1.1 million children between the ages of four and six in
Greater Sao Paulo, about 390,000 (35 percent) currently attend pre-school
classes (see Annex I, Table 3). Outside of the city of Sao Paulo,
municipal pre-school enrollments have increased by 12 percent per year over
the past five years, while enrollments within the city have expanded at
just under 6 percent per year. As a result of recent Constitutionally-
mandated tax reforms, a significant sb'are of federal tax revenues is
gradually being devolved to states and, especially, to municipalities. At
the same time, the new Constitution has mandated broader public
responsibilities for pre-school provision. The aim of the state secretariat
of education is to catalyze the development and expansion of an improved
6



and more coat-effective model for better-targoted delivery of pro-school
services at the local lovel, during a period when municipalities are
expanding those services.
2.17      In order to meet the demand for pre-school education ard to
protect the state's investment in improvements in early primary school, the
state of Sao Paulo must rapidly expand pre-school access, particularly in
poor neighborhoods. The state's policy in the area of pro-school education
is to play an advisory role rather than a direct financial or
administrative role, both of which are now reserved for the municipalities.
The state will retain the authority to set pedagogical standards and will
offer assistance in curriculum development and teacher training;
municipalities will have the primary responsibility for administering pre-
school education. Over the next few years, the state plans to turn over
administrative responsibility for the more than 2,600 classes that it now
administers to municipalities throughout the state. In 1990, the state
reduced its pre-school classes by more than 15%.
2.18      Some of the necessary pre-school spaces could be provided by
private not-for-profit organizations (PNPOs). PNPO pre-schools are active
in the poorer neighborhoods of the metropolitan area, reaching an estimated
20,000 4-6 year-old children; moreover, these schools typically have long
waiting lists of applicants. PNPOs in Greater Sao Paulo have demonstrated
an ability to design programs with low capital and recurrent costs and they
are successfully tapping a variety of funding souzces in their local
communities.  PNPOs rent unoccupied rooms in community buildings to use as
pre-school classrooms or they purchase and adapt small buildings, with unit
constr'action costs an estimated one-third of those of government pre-
schools. Some PNPOs spend only half of what the public system spends on
personnel by employing lower-paid teachers' aides to supplement fully
trained teachers. These schools are effectively serving poor children but,
due to precarious financial arrangements, they face ditficulties in
expanding, both in terms of securing investment funding and long-term
support for their operating costs. Recent studies cf PNPO pre-schools have
found that these schools typically covered about 30-40 percent of their
operating costs through user charges (administered on a sliding scale) and
community contributions. For the remaining 60-70 percent of their funding,
the schools rely on support from various municipal, state, and federal
assistance programs. PNPO pre-schools could benefit from technical
assistance to strengthen both internal financial management and
administration, as well as their capacity to raise funds from private and
public sector sources. To date, state and municipal governments'
strategies for expanding pre-school service coverage in the neediest
communities has included support for PNPO schools. Providing such
financial support in a more stable and coordinated manner &nd providing
training for teachers and school administrators would both improve the
quality and stability of PNPO-run pre-schools, and reduce the fiscal costs
of achieving the constitutionally mandated goal of greater pre-school
coverage.
7



3.   BANK STRATEGY IN HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
3.1       History of Bank Involvement.  Bank involvement in education in
Brazil began in the early 1970m with projects supporting general secondary,
technical, and agricultural education. Subsequent support has focussed on
vocational training programs (1977), basic education in the Northeast
(1980), technical education (1983), urban basic education in the North and
Center-West (1984), scientific and technological research (lz.85 and 1990),
and vocational training (1987). Institutional weaknesses have hampered
implementation of the two projects approved in the last decade focussing on
ba3iC education in poor North and Northeast regions, but the projects as a
whole have been successful. The 1980 project supporting rural basic
education brought books and other inputs to rural schools in the Ncrtheast,
and tio 1984 project improved the planning capacity of state education
secretariats in the North and Center-West and expanded primary education
access in urban areas in the two regions.
3.2       Bank Assistance Strategy.  The Bank's assistance strategy to
Brazil is to support policies and investments that will encourage growth
and social development in a context of macro-economic stability, with an
emphasis on efficient resource allocation, increased efficiency in the
public sector, and the appropriate targeting and delivery of support
systems to the poor. In the education sector, the strategy is to help
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of government and private
resources, so as to expand the supply of educated manpower that Brazil
requires for competition in a world market characterized by increasingly
sophisticated production. Consistent with these country and sector
strategies, the Bank's involvement in education investments requires, inter
AiIa, targeting public resources to the neediest population groups,
ensuring that programs are effectively managed with a minimum of
interference for patronage purposes, mobilizing the resources of parents
and private groups to complement public efforts, and increasing direct cost
recovery from beneficiaries of those types of ecucation programs which are
to a great extent private goods. The Bank's emphasis on primary education,
which is the weakest level at precent, as well as the most important one
for long term social and economic development, is to help end the long
history of dropout, repetition, politicization, and inefficieten.y and
misdirection of funds. Achieving these goals will require major changes in
attitudes and actions of civil servants, politicians, teachers, and
parents. To this end, over the next few years the Bank's sectoral atrategy
is to: (i) seek to improve the efficiency of utilization of federal
government funds, (ii) assist states and municipalities in strengthening
the management and organization of their educational system, especially in
the Northeast where the problems of educational development are the most
serious; and (iii) support innovative education programs designed to reduce
dropout and repetition which, if proven successful, can be adapted
elsewhere in Brazil. The Northeast Education II project (FY93) would
address the first two points of the Bank's sectoral strategy, and this
proposed ("Innovations in Basic Education") project addresses points two
and three of the sectoral strategy.
3.3       The proposed "Innovations in Basic Education" project fits into
the Bank's overall strategy through: (i) its poverty orientation (targeted
to children of poor families in Greater Sao Paulo); (ii) its focus on basic
a



education, with high economic rates of return; and (iii) its focus on more
efficient us- of public and private resources for the provision of social
services. The project seek. to test innovative education programs in poor
areas of Greater Sao Paulo, where administrative systems exhibit fewer
problems than in other states, so that education planners from around the
country can take advantage of the experience to develop their owa programs
more efficiently and effectively. To a great extent this approach follows
a historical pattern, both in the education and other sectors. Innovations
in Brazilian education have traditionally originated in the south and
southeast to be later adopted by education systems in the rest of Brazil.
The ciclo basico in an example. The Sao Paulo state school system was the
fi=st in Brazil to introduce the ciclo basico in 1984. Parana introduced
the ciclo basicg in 1988 in one-third of its state primary schools, and
Nato Grosso do Sul as well as other states in the Northeast and elsewhere
have also expressed interest in the program.
3.4       Education secretariats throughout Brazil will follow closely the
Sao Paulo programs -- the lengthened school day, the school health program,
and actions to extend pre-schooling to poor children through a
decentralized and cooperative effort of public and private agencies -- with
the intention of adapting the programs to their own states. The Bank's
role in assisting the state of Sao Paulo will be to insure the
implementation of well conceptualized, financially and physically feasible
programs; to insure adequate program evaluation; and to facilitate
adaptation to other states through dissemination activities and institution
building. ,essons learned in Sao Paulo could be directly applied in other
large, rapidly growing urban areas in Brazil, where children of poor
families are not able to take advantage of the existing primary school
system. Bank investment in the Sao Paulo programs will consequently have
an effect beyond the metropolitan area which is immediately affected, since
it will provide educators throughout Brazil with detailed, operational
information on the effects and implementation of sustainable and rep!icable
programs.
4.   THE  ROJECT
Obiectives
4.1       The objective of the "Innovations in Basic Education" project is
to improve primary school learning and retention among children of poor and
migrant families in Greater Sao Paulo in a manner that could eventually be
adapted to other Brazilian states. The meana of achieving these objectives
include: a new curricular approach and an extended school day for the
first two years of primary school; expanded provision of pre-school
experiences to poor children; strengthened school health programs based on
the new decentralized public health system; and the strengthening of
institutions responsible for m,anaging primary education at the sCate and
municipal levels, as well as development of a means of collaboration
between the public sector and PNPOs in the provision of social services.
The project will provide for evaluation of the effects of these approaches
and dissemination of the research results and implementation experience to
the rest of Brazil.
9



4.2       The project will consist of programs in the 38 municipalitios of
Greator Sao Paulo involving throe major components-- (a) in-school quality
improvement; (b) pro-school education; and (c) school health; an well an
evaluation and inutitutJonal development, as described below.
In-School Oualitv Improvement (80% of proisct costas
4.3       The in-school quality improvement program aims to improve the
learning and performance of first and second grade students by enabling the
sn3 to implement the ciclo basico and extended school day in all state
primary schools in Greater Sao Paulo. The program will provide an enriched
classroom environment, more hours in the classroom, and a more flexible and
responsive pedagogical approach to teaching literacy and numeracy. The
program seeks to overcome several obstacles to the effective implementation
of the ciclo baico and extended school day, including physical space
limitations within overcrowded primary schools in poor neighborhoods,
school personnel who are inadequately trained to implement the new
curriculum, and lack of educational materials and books in the classroom.
The program also seeks to improve the efficiency of the school feeding
program, which is important for maintaining adequate energy levels of poor
children.
4.4       School construction (60% of total project costs).  In order to
enable the introduction of a six-hour school day for ciclo acico students,
the SEE has defined an investment program for school construction in
Greater Sao Paulo that will allow all state primary schools to operate on
the basis of two daytime shifts, and that will extend the state primary
school network into newly inhabited areas in peripheral neighborhoods of
GSP. Under the program the SEE will construct about 350 new schools
(providing approximately 3,000 classrooms) and refurbish and expand 340
existing schools (1,150 new classrooms), for a total of about 4,150 new
classrooms. The SEE plans to design .rd construct at least 10 of the new
schools using alternative constructi.an technologies and materials such as
pro-fabricated cement slabs. The Foundation for Educational Development
(FDZ), which is responsible for facilities planning for the SEE, will
monitor these works closely and incorporate appropriate innovative features
into future school construction. The construction program as a whole is
targeted to poor school districts in the metropolitan area, and will
largely benefit children from poor households. 49 percent of the proposed
classrooms are in school districts where more than half of the households
live in poverty (i.e. earn less than two minimum salaries), and 90 percent
of them are in school districts where more than 40 percent of the
households live in poverty (see Annex I, Table 6). Furthermore, the
implementation schedule for the construction program has been developed
according to the availability of land, with the poorest school districts
being served first in each stage. In order to insure adequate
implementation and recurrent cost financing of +he in-school quality
improvement program, the construction program will be reviewed and updated
at the time of the interim review of the project (see paragraph 6.2).
4.5       Teacher traininc (3%).  In order to reinforce the ciclo basico
philosophy and to assist teachers in using increased clasaroom time
10



effoctively, tho Coordinating Unit for Studies and Pedagogical Standards
(C3kP) of the SKI has deuigned a training program for ciclo basico
teachers, art and phyaLcal education teachers, ciclo basico coordinators,
and school directors in Greater Sao Paulo. The training program will
utilize both distance training (through local television posts and
discussion groups) and face-to-face classwork. The CENP will conduct
training in two phases, the first covering the first two years of the
project, and the socond covering the following four years. Phase I
distance training will emphasize broad principles of the ciclo basico
approach, including continuous student evaluation and individualized
student pacing, single student and small group activities, and class
flexibility in a classroom enriched with books and pedagogical materials.
Phase I face-to-face training (5 modules of 30 hours each) will reinforce
principal aspects of the ciclo basLco in five areas: (i) ciclo basico
pedagogy, for school district supervisors and monitors; (ii) literacy, for
ciclo basic teachers and coordinators; (iii) physical education, for
physical education teachers; (iv) art education, for art education
teachers; and (v) organization of the pedagogical work of the school, for
school directors and assistant directors. The CENP will initiate Phase I
with training seminars conducted by external primary education specialists
for school district supervisors, ciclo basico coordinators, and other
specialized teachers who will then serve as trainers at the local level.
By the end of Phase I aach school will develop a ciclo basico actizn plan.
Phase II will begin after the preparation of a Phase II implementation plan
acceptable to the Bank, building on the experience of Phase I and targeted
to school districts encountering difficulties in implementing the
pedagogical program as well as to school directors in poor neighborhoods.
Phase II training will build on intensive analysis of local problem
situations, and will involve training for school directors emphasizing
community mobilization ind school administration. The State will not
commit Loan funds for Phase II until after preparation of an specific
implementation plan acceptable to the Bank (paragraph 8.6)
4.6       Educational materials (14%).  In order to create an enriched
classroom environment for ciclo basicg students, the project will provide
all first and sectnd grade children with access to educational materials
such as books, educational toys, and art supplies. The project will
finance the purchase of a set of books (about 120 titlee) for each ciclo
basico classroom which will be available to students during periods of
self-directed classroom activity as well as for reading lessons. Over the
next six years the project will matntain the supply of books in the
classroom by purchasing 60-100 new books each year. The program will also
provide each ciclo basico classroom with art equipment and materials, and a
set of educational toys (such as alphabet dominos and other alphabet games,
counting games, and ordering toys). The CENP has selected educational toys
that are designed to reinforce concepts taught during teacher-centered
lessons. Similarly, art education stimulates children's creativity and
reinforces important literacy and numeracy skills. The project will insure
that all classrooms in state primary sclools in GSP are provided each year
with educational materials that are critical to the new curricular approach
adopted by the Sao Paulo government.
4.7       School feeding (3%).  The current school menu. especially under
the centralized system, is based in large part on industrially formulated
11



foods, such as noodles, soy milk, and dehydrated meals. These types of
foods are easy to prepare, but i.n general are expensi\e and not well-
accepted by school children. The project will support changes in the basic
menu to include more natural (rather than processed) foods, including fresh
fruit, fluid milk, and vegetables. This menu is expected to have a greater
nutriticnal impact (because of greater student acceptance) and will be less
costly. In ordor to achieve these efficiency gains, schools require
additional kitchen equipment (stoves and refrigerators, as well as cooking
utansils). The project will finanue the purchase of this equipment ae well
as the training of school feeding personnel. The program will also finance
technical assistance for introducing a management information and d.osts
monitoring system within the DSE. Finally, before the interim review of
the project, the DSE will commission a policy review on improving the
efficiency of the school feeding program, including an examination of ways
to direct a larger proportion of resources to the poorest students most in
need of the school meal. Under the evaluation component of the project,
researchers will analyze the cost and benefits of the school feeding
program as designed under the project. A study recently completed by FIPE,
as well as preliminary results from the monitoring and cost analyses of
this program will serve as inputs into these studies.
Pre-School Education (12.2zA
4.8       The project will support expanded pro-school services for poor
children in Greater Sao Paulo and provision of teacher training and
learning materials to improve the quality of existing municipal and PNPO
pre-schools in Greater Sao Paulo.
4.9       2t&ctives.  The objectives of the pre-school support program
are: (i) to increase pre-school enrollments of poor children between the
ages of four and six in Greater Sao Paulo by 120,000, from the
approximately 70,000 currently enrolled (current total enrollment,
including non-poor children, is 390,000 -- see paragraph 2.17); and (ii) to
improve pedagogical quality at the pre-school level -- specifically, to
cffer teacher training and an enriched learning environment involving more
intensive use of books, educational toys, and other learning materials.
The program will be targeted, through school location and means testing, to
the approximately 350,000 children from families earning less than three
minimum salaries in GSP. Two principles shape the design of the program:
(i) in accordance with the policy of the SEE, public responsibility for
pre-school should be concentrated at the municipal rather than the state
level; anci (ii) Ln order to achieve the maximum possible expansion of pre-
school coverage in an era of greatly limited budgetary resources,
municipalities must develop new ways of mobilizing support for these
schools from the communities in which they are located, including by using
PNPOs. The program emphasizes low-cost construction, higher pedagogical
quality, targeting to the poorest neighborhoods, and effective
collaboration between the public and private sectors. The State wil*l
continue its policy of devolving to the Municipalities pre-primary schools
presently operated by the State, and will establish no new State operated
pre-schocle, such that the number cf pre-schools operated by the State
shall have de^reased significantly by the time of the interim review
(paragraph 8.6).
1 Z



4.10      Expansion of Services.  To encourage municipalitioe  to carry out
future expansion of pre-school servicea in a more cost--ffective and
better-targeted manner, the SZE will provide invostment support for school
construction, adaptation or expansion, pedagogical materials and other
suppliea, teachor training, and technical assistance to municipalities in
Greater Sao Paulo whose pro-school oxpansion programs meet the critoria
described in Annex III. Under the Guidelines established for
implementation of tho program (see Annex III), each of the 38
municipalitios in Greater Sao Paulo wishing to participate will develop a
six-year plan for extonding pro-school services to poor children, which
will detail investments in physical facilitios to bo undortaken during the
first three years of the program, and will show how in-service teacher
training and recurrent cost requirements will be met over the entire six
yoars. The SEE will provide investment support to the municipalities on a
grant basis each year after reviewing municipal compliance with program
guidelines. Municipalities will be responsible for covering all subsequent
recurrent costs. To be eligible, municipal programs will have to show how
thoy will mobilize resources from beneficiary communities, for example by
involving PNPOs capable of providing acceptable quali1y pre-school
services, and by mobilizing parent groups to support municipal pre-schools.
Final agreement was reached at negotiation. on the operational guidelines
of the program; the SEE will formally issue theme guidelines no later than
three months after the date of loan effectiveness. A condition of
disbursoment for each municipality's pre-school program will be the signing
of agreements between the state and the municipality committing municipal
counterpart funds and obligating the municipality to follow procurement
practices and reporting procedures acceptable to the Bank, and between the
municipality and participating PNPOs (paragraph 8.5).
4.11      In-service teacher trainino.  The program will support in-
service training for pre-school teachers, the vast majority of whom have
been trained as primary school teachers, with little exposure to theory and
practice of early chil_ development.  About 4,000 pre-school teacher. and
teachers, aides from municipalities and PNPOs will participate in the pre-
school training program. The CENP is currently developing the training
program, which will be administered '.hrough the SEE's district offices
using educational consultants for face-to-face classwork, as well as video
segments. The program will emphasize modern pedagogical theory and
practice, with an emphasis on "hands on" loarning in an enriched
environment, small group interaction, strengthening problem solving skills,
and developing children's readiness for reading, writing and numeracy.
Teachers will also receive training in the utilization of educational
television programs to r7inforce classroom learning (see also paragraph
4.13). Although the project will give priority to the training of teachers
in the new schools to be financed by the program, all municipal and PNPO
teaching personnel will eventually be eligible to participate.
4.12      Technical assistance grants.  The SEE will also provide
technical assistance grants to municipalities and PNPOc participating in
the pre-school program. Each of the 38 municipalities in Greater Sao Paulo
will be eligible for these funds for contracting the services of education
planning consultants on a short-term basis to provide assistanco in
developing a comprehensive six-year municipal pre-school expansion plan.
The SEE will givo priority in awarding these grants to municipalities whose
13



institutions for designing and administering the pro-school program azre
currently weakest. PNPOr participating in the municipal plan will be
eligible for separate small technical assistance grants to contract
accountinq and other consulting services for strengthening school
administrative procedures and training personnel.
School Health l5.5%)
4.13       The objective of the school health program is to improve the
health of the approximately one million children in municipal and state
schools in grades one and two, and municipal and state pre-schools in C8P.
Participation of PNPO pro-schools will be phased in over the life of the
project. The school health needs of children in higher gradoe are not
included the project, but the SES plans to strengthen the school health
program in the higher grades over time based upon experience derived from
the proposed program in the early grades. The program will undertake
scr- ning and health education programs in the school, and will strengthen
ties between local health centers and the school., by developing a referral
systim for routine and curative services.
4.14       The SES has selected nine interventions, to be undertaken
primarily within the school, on the basis of their expected coats and
health and learning impact. The nine interventions will be: (i)
integration of health and nutrition themes into the regular curriculum of
pre- and primary schools; (ii) a physical exani upon entrance into pre- and
primary school (administered by the local UBS), which will replace the
annual physical examination required for students' participation in
physical education classes; (iii) an annual vision test administered by the
teacher, with referral of visually deficient children to the local UBS for
professional diagnosis and treatment, and within municipal schools, a pilot
program of hearing testing administered by specialists with referral of
children with deficiencies to the local UBS; (iv) completion of childhood
immunizations by local UBS staff; (v) preventive oral health practices
(teethbrushing, fluoride mouth wash, oral health education) in the
classroom, and referral to the local UBS for dental treatment; (vi)
execution of a pilot study to measure the prevalenre of iron and vitamin A
deficiencies, provide supplementation to those sub-groups with
deficiencies, and evaluate the pilot program. Based on the results of this
pilot phase, the program may expand vitamin A and iron supplementation to
cover th* entire target population. The school health program may also
include other studies on school children's health as agreed by the SES and
tho Bank; (vii) referral by school personnel of children with physical and
mental health problems to the local UBS for action; (viii) inspection of
environmental conditions of the school; (ix) training for UBS personnel in
health problems of pre- and primary school children, and for teachers in
health education (see Annex IV for further details on the nine
interventions). The project will finance the purchase of equipment and
supplies for health screening activities, health education materials,
training for UBS personnel in health problems of pre-school and primary
school children, training for teachers in health education, curriculum
development for pre-school, and studi-e (including the pilot program of
iron and vitamin A supplementation).  A condition of disbursement for the
school health component is the preparation by the SES of a detailed
implementation plan acceptable to the Bank covering the period 1991 to 1997
14



(paragraph 8.5). Tho plan will describe all program components, including
detailed costs and specific activities by year, as well as estimates of
incremental staff neds by type, and institutional arrangements for project
management, including the organizational location of the full-time project
coordinator. The 8ES will have responsibility for monitoring
implementation of th- school health program (see Annex V).
Zvaluation 10.6%1
4.15      The program evaluations will seek to determine the impact and
cost effectiveness of the pro-school programs and the in-school quality
improvement program, as well as to draw lessons from the impl nentation of
all programs applicable to adapting them to other areas of Brazil. In
addition, the evaluations will provide key information to the SEZ during
program implementation that will allow adjustments to program design. The
SEE will contract external institutions to carry out all evaluation
activities, but will maintain close contact with these institutions through
progress reports and discussions at least twice each year.
4.16      The project will finance four types of program evaluations:
implementation monitoring, cost analyses, implementation procecc, and
impact. All programs will be monitored to assess the degree to which
inputs are provided and are being used in accordance with the program
designs. Monitoring activities will identify implementation bottlenecks
early on, enabling implementation agencies to respond with appropriate
corrective measures. The cost analyses will measure actual costs of
program activities, and will provide information for determining cost-
effectiveness of programs and program components with respect to student
outcomes (learning and promotion). For the pre-school support program, the
cost analysis will also involve calculating the costs of alternative
models. The implementation process evaluations will examine the
institutional conditions and determinants of implementation of various
elements of the programs through a case study approach. The SEE will
contract thase studies durin. implementation as problem situations arise,
although two studies have already been identified -- on the roles and
relationships of principal actors in the pre-school support program, and on
the attitudes and behavior of pre- and primary school teachers (see Annex V
for further details). The impact evaluations will establish the
effectiveness of the in-school quality improvement and pre-school programs
in increasing poor and migrant children's learning and probability of
promotion. The impact evaluation will also compare outcomes from
alternative types of pre-school (e.g. municipal and alternative types of
PNPO pre-schools). The impact evaluations will be based on a four-year
longitudinal study of at least two cohorts of 1,000 children each, one
cohort entering pre-school is 4-year-olds in 1992 and the other entering
grade 1 as 6-year-olds in 1992. Education sector studies in recent years
have demonstrated the utility of this methodology in assessing program
impact.
4.17      The project will finance the evaluation studies in two stages--a
design &cage and an implementation stage. Explicit statements of design
will provide guidance for the SEE in monitoring the implementation of the
evaluation studies and will insure that research undertaken is directly
related to the central evaluation questions (described in Annex V). Each
15



design report will include detailed descriptions and clear specifications
for sample selection (including sample size, stratification and -- where
appropriate -- comparison groups), choice of measures and indicators,
methods of data collection (e.g. survey, observation, interviews, testing,
etc.), methods of data treatment, methods of analysis, staffing needs
related to each activity, schedules and costs. The CENP will desAgnate a
full-time staff person to monitor the studies. This person will .oport
both to CENP and the Project Management Unit (UGP). A condition of loan
*ffectiven-es will be the development of a design for the impact evaluation
of the project that in acceptable to the Bank (paragraph 8.2). No lae-r
than DeSoMbe_ 3J._199, the State shall sign contracts with terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank with the institutions selected to carry
out the Lmpact, cost and process evaluations, and monitoring activities
where necessary (paragraph 8.4).
4.18      Dissemination.  In order to disseminate the experience and
results of the project, the SEE will name about five well-known education
authorities or experts from around the country who will meet each year for
one week to review the programs and discuss how they may be adapted
elsewhere in Brazil. In addition, beginning in 1992 (with the
collaboration of the Ministry of Education, if possible) the SEE will begin
setting up a series of conferences to discuss program results and
disseminate them to education authorities from other states and large
municipalities. The SEE will develop a detailed dissemination plan for
review at the interim review.
Inst'tutional Develooment and Assessment 11.4%)
4.19      The project will support a variety of studies, programs, and
actions aimed at strengthening the institutions responsible for managing
primary and pre-primary education in the State of Sao Paulo. This will
include improving the state's capacity for planning and assessment, as well
as building municipal capacity to administer a primary school system, and
strengthening PNPOs' ability to provide quality educational and other
social services. kgreement was reached at negotiations on the terms of
reference of the studies.
4.20      Municivalization.   The most important organizational and
management issue facing the state of Sao Paulo in primary education is that
of rethinking the decision-making process and developing a means of
devolving responsibility to authorities who are closer to the actual
learning process taking place in the classroom  thus ensuring quicker and
more effective responses to children's learning needs. The State has
already begun this effort with the municipalization of some functions in
1989.  The project will finance the work of an independent commission to
evaluate the progress achieved to date, identify critical outstanding
issues, and recommend further policies and actions to be taken.  Once the
commission's report is released, and the SEE has presented to the Bank .an
implementation plan acceptable to the Bank, the project will finance a
program of activities designed to carry out its recommendations (paragraph
8.5). Inter ala, loan funds will be used for: (i) technical assistance
tc municipalities in Greater Sao Paulo to help thom to *stablish their
capacity for planning and management of the pre- and primary education
systems; (ii) further analysis of legal and financial issues; and (Iii)
16



seminars and training activities. In addition, as described below, the
project will provide funding for strengthening the SE'es planning,
budgetary, and asseeunsnt capacity.
4.21      Strenothenina  Plannino.  The SEE lacks analytical, planning, and
assessment capacity to permit it to make informed policy decisions
consistent with a decentralized administrative framework. Sypscifically,
apart from physical planning (in FDE), no SEE staff members currently work
full-time on analyzing long-term planning issues and medium or long-term
goals. The SEE requires a staff of three to five well-trained educational
planners to examine system-wide issues and to advise the Secretary of
Education on key policy matters. Furthermore, the SEE should met aside
fundn on a regular basis to finance a variety of policy studies which could
be undertaken by private and/or university contractors. In order to
strengthen planning capacity, the project will provide funding for
training, studies, and technical assistance leading to establishment of a
professionally staffed planning unit. The SES will by September 1 of *ech
year (starting September 1, 1992) prepare and send to the Bank a detailed
report on the sources and uses of funde for education in the State of Sao
Paulo (paragraph 8.1).
4.22      Strenathenina Assessment Capacitv.  The SEE also lacks a
capacity to assess overall piogress in its educational system. At present
a small unit in CENP is responsible for ,valuation, but most of these staff
members lack specialized training in assessment and evaluation.
As responsibility at the state level for primary *ducatior moves from
provision of education to monitoring standards of provision and
achievement, the CENP will need to build its capacity to supervise
contracts for conducting assessments. Also, increasing the numbers of
students that are tested on an anrnal or semi-annual basis requires
improving the ZENP's capacity in the areas of test development,
measurement, psychometrics, and statistics. Development of these
capacities can be undertaken in several stages. The project will finance a
f.asibility study of establishing a state-wide assessment capacity, as well
as steps to implement a state-wide program of learning assessment. The
study will identify personnel in Greater Sao Paulo with assessment skills
and will determine the feasibility of setting up an appropriately staffed
CENP assessment unit. The study will also examine to what extent the
assessment unit should undertake work directly or should contract out work
to other institutions in Sao Paulo. Pinally, the study will identify the
highest priority assessments to be undertaken and propose an implementation
timetable. The project will also provide funds for training and for the
costs of the initial assessments.
4.23      Strengthenina the Public/Private Partnership in Providino Social
Services In order to permit more effective utilization of PNPOs as social
service providers in Sao Paulo, the state will undertake an analytical
study of issues that PNPOs face .n trying to improve and expand their
contribution to poverty alleviation and human resources development. The
objective of this etudy will be to permit the formulation of policies and
programs which will encourage broader service coverage to the poor through
more effective use of PNPOs in service delivery and the mobilization of
additional resources. The etudy will also review the nature, magnitude,
form, institutional channels, and sectoral destination of private giving in
17



Sao Paulo, including the motivations of givers and the appropriateness of
current policies and institutions which may hampor the growth of giving
practices. Finally, the study will include specific proposals for
improving the policy and institutional framework for PNPO social service
providers and for private giving.
5.   PROJZCT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Cost of the Proiect
5.1       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$ 600.0 milllon.
Table 5.1 summarizes these estimated project costs by component.
Table 5.1: Progect Cost Summarv
Local       Fore$an          Total
----------(USs million)      
(a)  In-school quality improvement   365.3            54.6           419.9
(b)  Pre-achnol                         53.7           8.8            62.5
(c)  School health                      27.0           2.7            29.7
(d)  Institutional development           7.2           0.4             7.6
(e-  Evaluation, dissemination           3.2           0.2             3.4
(f)  Administration                      1.7           0.1             1.8
Base cost estimates (a-f)              458.0          6   8524J8
(g)  Contingencies                      65.7           9 5            75 2
i.   Physical                      34.5           5.7            40.2
ii.  Price                         31.2           3.8            35.0
PROJECT COSTS                          523.776 3                     600.0
(of which taxes)                                               (103.0)
5.2       Base costs.  Cost estimates are based upon prices as of March
1991.  Primary school construction cost estimates (including furniture,
equipment, and taxes) averaged USS 413/m2 (USS 927 per student), based upon
actual primary school construction contracts during the fourth quarter of
1990.  Classrooms are designed to serve 35 students (in each of two
shifts), with 1.5 m2 of space per student. Investment cost ostimates for
the pre-school expansion program (including furniture, equipment,
pedagogical materials, and taxes) are based upon a base cost of US$ 369/m2
(USS 518 per student), with 32 students per classroom (in each of two
shifts) and 1.2 m2 of spaca per student. Savings are realized in pre-
school construction by minimizing corridor and other non-classroom
construction, and by utilizing low-cost construction materials and
technologies such as pre-fabricated cement slabs. Cost estimates of
18



pedagogical materials and school feeding equipment for the in-school
quality improvement program are based on price quotations from major
suppliers. Training cost estimates are baled on a detailed breakdown of
requirements of each training course and pay scales of the FDF for the
hiring of lecturers ,nd technicians. Cost estimates for materials and
quipment in the school health program are based on price quotations from
local suppliers. Personnel costs are based on average staff salaries in
*ach of the professional specialties required. Zstimates of consultant
costs for the evaluation and institutional development studies are based on
an average local consultant cost of USS 150 per day and an average
international consultant cost of US$ 300 per day.
5.3       Continoengy allowancos.  Physical contingencies for civil works
amount to 10 percent of base costs, and 5 percent of base costs for goods
and equipment for all components. No physical contingency is applied to
consultant services. Price contingencies amount to 6.2 percent of the base
costs plus physical contingencies. Annual price contingencies are baced on
projected international inflation rates of 5.0 percent in 1991, 1.8 percent
in 1992, 1.9 percent in 1993, 3.9 percent in 1994, 4.9 percent in 1995, 4.2
percent in 1996 and 3.6 percent in 1997.
5.4       Foreign exchange com2onent.  The foreign exchange component is
estimated to comprise approximately 13 percent of total project costs, or
about US$ 76 million. Foreign exchange costs were calculated on the basis
of 15 percent for civil works; 10 percenc for furniture, school equipment
and training and pedagogicel materials; 5 percent for training and for
salaries and fees for local experts; and 100 percent for services provided
by foreign consultants.
5.5       Duties and taxes.  Locally procured furniture, equipment, and
materials are subject to two taxes-- the ICMS value-added tax (18 percent
on verage) on goods, fuel, energy, transport and communication; and the
IPI tax (15 percent) on industrialized products. Construction products
such as cement, sand, rock, etc. are subject only to the 18 percent ICMS
tax. The estimated base cost of the project includes local taxee, which
will reach approximately US$ 103 million. Bank financing has been
calculated based on total project coets net of taxes.
Financino Plan
5.6       The proposed project will be financed by a World Bank loan of
US$ 245 million. The loan will cover 100 percent of foreign exchange costs
and 32 percent of local coets. Counterpart financing from the state of Sao
Paulo and municipalities in Greater Sao Paulo will amount to US$ 355
million.
19



Table 5.2: Proiect Financina Plan
Finanging Plan:
USS Milllon            I
IBRD                                      245.0             40.8
State of Sao Paulo                        324.1             54.0
Municipalities (Greater Sao Paulo)          30Q92             5.2
600.0
5.7       The pre-school support program will be financed by the Bank loan
and the SEE, and through counterpart financing from the participating
municipalities, with financial participation of PNPOs according to
agreements to be worked out at the municipal level. The Bank will finance
the entire state share of construction, equipment, and educational
materials for new municipal pro-school spaces. Financial support for PNPOs
under the projtct will be provided by the SEE. The SEE will provide
municipalit -s with a financial incentive for working through PNPOs by
covering 80 percent of these initial expenditures for spaces opened in PNPO
prs-schools as compared with 60 percent for municipal pre-schools.
BecurM_nt_.costs
5.8       During the 1988 school year, the lornada unica (aix hour school
day) was implemented in 90 percent of first and second grades in the state
but in only 67 percent of primary schools in GSP. The iornada unica was
not implemented in the remaining schools because of a lack of physical
space. By 1989, the situation worsened and only 60 percent of schools in
GSP were implementing the program, due to increases in enrollments and
resulting overcrowded conditions which forced many schools to go back on a
three or more shift schedule. Implementation of the program in 1988
required a significant increase in the number of paid hours for c11Q
asico teachers as well as a major increase in the costs of the school
feeding program (the amount of calories provided was increased from 300 to
720 per day). In the long run, and if all other costs are kept constant,
full implementation of the ciclo basico/iornada unica program will require
an overall increase of about 77 percent in the cost of grades one anC two
(equivalent to a 17 percent increase in total SEE expenditures) over the
pre-1988 situation. This estimate is based on the 80 percent increase in
paid hours for ciclo ba ico/lornada unica teachers a 140 percent increase
in the costs of the school feeding program and significant increases in in-
service teacher training and in the provision of supplemental learning
materials.
5.9       The SEE was able to finance the increased costs in 1988 through
a combination of programs and policies: securing a real increase in
budgetary support, especially for non-salary items; successfully lobbying
for increased federal transfers; shifting funds from other education
levels; and increasing the student teacher ratio modestly. An extended
teacher strike in 1989 and a year-long delay in proceeding with the Bank
Loan prevented the SEE from taking significant steps to extend
implementation of the program during the past two years. Between 1991 and
1995 re:urrent costs of state primary education will gradually increase
because of the expanded provision of teacher training and educationeI
20



materials (to be financed by the World Bank in Greater Sao Paulo) as well
as because of completion of the construction program which will enable
schools which previously lacked adequate space to implement the iornada
"nqA program.
5.10      The SEE is takirg a number of steps to help insure financing of
future increased costs of improved primary school quality in the ciclo
kaA_ as well as in other primary school grades.  In the first place, the
ciclo ba_iQg/1ornada unica program is the stated highest priority of the
Government of Sao Paulo, which has therefore sought financing from the
World Bank to help implement the program. Under the project the Government
will be committed over a six year period to providing substantially
increased learning materials and in-service training which are essential to
attain program objectives. Second, the SEE has already agreed to take the
following policy measures which will have the effect of reducing system
costs and therefore freeing up funds for financing quality improvements (a)
an increase in the average student teacher ratio in  clo basico classes
from 33:1 to 35:1; (b) improvements in the efficiency and targeting of the
school f-eding program; (c) handing over pre-schools to municipalities,
which eventually could reduce the SEE's overall budget by 2 percent; and
(d) utilizing Parent-Teacher Associations for school maintenance, which
should reduce the costs of maintenance and possibly result in reduced needs
for future school ccnotruction. The SEE further estimates that the ciclo
basico/iornada unica program will reduce the probability of student
repetition in the early grsdes of primary school, free up spaces for
entering children and therefore raduce the needs for contracting new
teachers and constructing new classrooms. However, the projectad savings
through reduced repetition  tay be more than absorbed by increased
enrollment in higher grades of primary and secondary school by children who
previously dropped out after two or three years of educatior.  Furthermore,
recurrent costs of the SEE could increase significantly if the SEE decides
to extend the iornada unica program to grades 3 and 4, which is an
appropriate longer-term goal.
5.11      Despite the above steps taken and proposed, as well as continued
statements of support, the percentage of the state budget going to the SEE
declined from 15 percent in 1985 to 12 percent in 1989, although in 1990
the SEE received 14 percent of the state budget. In comparison, the
percentage going to higher education has increased significantly over the
past five years while higher education enrollment has remained essentially
static, In addition, the Sao Paulo public education system, like nearly
all other federal, state and municipal systems in Brazil has been plagued
for the past four years by teacher strikes lasting as much as two months
each year. Because of a relatively weak financial planning capacity
combined with the financial uncertainty of excessive inflation (over 1,700
percent per year in 1989 and 1990), the SEE has not adequately analyzed
past trends nor has it established clear-cut medium term goals.
5.12      To assist in resolv'ng t.hese issues and to help insure
satisfactory long term recurrent cost financing, project funds to be
provided under the institutional develonment component of the project will
strengthen SEE's capacity for financial analysis of the education system
(see paragraph 4.21). In addition, as part of the inter m review, thie SEE
and the Bank will jointly review the State's progress in increasing the
21



studentiteacher ratio in primary schools in Greater Sao Paulo (see
paragraph 5.10) and improving the efficiency of primary education, with a
particular emphasis on funds going to educational materials and in-service
teacher training, as well as on the extent of teacher satisfaction with
their salary level and working conditions, and will agree on any needed
steps to be taken to insure adequate financing of primary school quality
improvement. Bank supervision missions will regularly review progrems in
implementing the efficiency imprc -ment and cost savings measures proposed
by SEE. To further insure financial viability of the program, confirmation
was obtained during negotiations that the proposed cost reduction and cost
recovery measures will be undertaken (see paragraph 5.10). The State of
Sao Paulo also agreed to provide adequate and timely resources to insure
proper maintenance of primary school facilities, that will be equivalent to
1 percent of the annually updated value of newly constructed or renovated
buildings, with funds for routine maintenance channeled, to the extent
possible, through Parent-Teacher Associations (paragraph 8.1). Finally,
the State will insure that the ciclo basiro and iornada unica are fully
implemented on a timely basis in all state primary schools which have
adequate physical facilities (paragraph 8.1).
5.13      Recurrent costs of the pre-school support program will be
financed by the participating municipalities, with operating costs for PNPO
schools shared between municipality and PNPO according to agreements worked
out between them. On the basis of estimated annual operating costs of US
SlSO-180 per child (for a four hour per day program), incremental recurrent
costs of the pre-school support program will amount to USS 18-22 million
per year by 1995. This represents a significant increase over the
estimated level of municipal expenditure on pre-schools during 1987 of US$
30 million for 240,000 places. To insure that municipalities can sustain
this level of funding, in order to be eligible to receive state funds under
the program each municipality will have to demonstrate how it will cover
recurrent costs of the new pre-school spaces. Discussions with municipal
officials have indicated that municipalities will be able to cover this
increased level of pre-school expenditure through: (i) additional tax
resources available to municipalities as a result of the 1988 tax reform,
which is expected to generate by 1993 municipal revenues about 40 percent
higher in real terms than in 1989; (ii) municipalities' reallocation of
their expenditures in order to meet the new Constitutionally-mandated
requirement of spending 25 percent of municipal tax receipts and transfers
on education, which is a significantly higher percentage than most
currently achieve; and (iii) resources mobilized from neighborhoods
benefitting from the pre-school expansion, both in the form of financial
and other support givek, to PNPO schools, and in-kind support from parent.
for the municipal pre-schools, which is expected to cover almost 10 percent
of the program's recurrent costs. In addition to resources generated from
within their own communities, PNPO schoole will continue to obtain
resources from other public and private sources.
22



6.   IMPLEMENTATION. PROCUREMENT. DISBURSEMENT AND REPORTING
IDmlementation schedule
6.1       The project will be implemented over a period of six years.  A
project impleme-tation period of mix years is justified by the historical
pattern of implementation of education civil works programs in Sao Paulo.
Six years will allow the SEE to implement the pre-school support program
gradually and to adjust it as necessary in accordance with impl eme ntation
experience, and it should provide sufficient time to evaluate the effects
of all the programs.
6.2       In order to insure that the SEE in able to implement adequately
the in-school quality improvement program and cover the recurrent costs of
the ciclo basico and extended school day, an interim review of project
implementation will be held at the earlier of (i) the date when US$ 70
million equivalent of Loan funds shall have been committed for
constructing, expanding or refurbishing and equipping primary schools, or
(ii) srmetime between May 1 and August 31, 1993. For the purposes of this
review, the State shall prepare and send to the Bank: (i) updated plans
for the execution of the remaining civil works for p imary schools; (ii)
plans for dissemination of the results of the Project; and (iii) a report
on the implementation of the ciclo basico and iornada unica, including
proposals for their modification if necessary. Project implementation will
be evaluated based on achievement of the following objectives: (i) that
primary schools will be in session witn teachers present for at least 180
days per year; (ii) that state primary schools in GSP will continue
implementing the ciclo ba_si2  and that, in schools with the necessary
facilities, students and teachers will attend classes and school on a daily
basis in accordance with the policy of the iornada unica (e.g. for five in-
school hours of instruction per school day); and (iii) that the state has
substantially undertaken the measures described in paragraph 5.10. The
interim review will also review progress in implementing the project,
including the extent to which the in-school quality improvement program has
adhered to the conceptual framework of the ciclo basico and iornada unica,
as well as progress in increasing pass rates from second to third grades in
state schools in GSP from 63 percent in 1986 to a targeted 70 percent in
1992 with no increase in drop-outs from current levels. Dissemination will
be discussed and appropriate activities will be prograummed for the final
years of the project. The State will update the impleuentation plans for
carrying out the remaining civil works, making modifications as necessary,
or as requested by the Bank. Based upon the findings of the review, it is
expected that the pre-dchool support and school health programs will be
adjusted as necessary.
Administration
6.3       Proiect Manaaement Unit IUGPL  The SEE will be responsible for
overall implementation of the project, including coordinating the
management of specific components and activities by other agencies as
appropriate. The SEE will establish a Project Management Unit (UGP) that
will manage the pre-school support program and the institutional
development program directly, and will coordinate with the other agencies,
departments, and institutions that will have direct implementation
23



responsibility for the other programs. The UGP will also manage all the
financing, and will be responsible for relations with the Bank. The
following institutions will be responsible for administering the project:
(i) FDE -- physical facilities planning for pre- and primary schools and
all primary school construction and rehabilitation under the project; (ii)
CENP -- pre- and primary teacher trainiag, provision of educational
materials, and evaluation; (iii) DSE -- school feeding; (iv) SES -- school
health; and (v) municipalities will be responsible for constructing pre-
schools, assisted by FDE when necessary. A conditign of loan effectiveness
will be that the SEE and FDE enter into arrangements, with terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, for the purpose of governing FDF's
activities under the project (paragraph 8.2).
6.4       The SEE has established a UGP and designated a director
acceptable to the Bank. A condition of loan effectiveneas is that the 833
legally establish the UGP and staff it with a director, two coordinators,
and a financial administrator. All of these professionals should have
experienc, and qualifications acceptable to the Bank. The FDF will supply
an architect to work full-time on the project to supervise the construction
program. The CENP will provide a full-time evaluation specialist to be
paid by the project. The Director of the UGP will be responsible for
ensuring that heads of coordinating agencies meet from time to time as may
be necessary. The UGP will be responsible for preparing annual progress
reports to provide information on the quar-itative and qualitative status
of project activities.
6.5       Administration of the Pre-school SuDDort Proaram.  One
Coordinator of the UGP will be directly responsible for managing this
component. The Coordinator (aided by a small team if necessary) will be
responsible for; (i) developing and disseminating guidelines and other
information about the pre-school component to all municipalities in Grmater
SaO Paulo and to private non-profit organizations; (ii) allocating
technical assistance grants to municipalities ard to PNPOs (as described in
paragraph 4.12, above); (iii) calculating -- In accordance with program
guidelines -- the aggregate financial support due to municipalitioe which
qualify for the program; (iv) monitoring municipalities' adherence to their
approved pre-school expansion programs on an ongoing basis and m'aking a
formal annual determnination of each par 'icipating municipalities'
eligibility for support under the program; (v) preparing annual reports to
the SEE and the Bank on the implementation of the pre-school program; and
(vi) overseeing the program's financial accounts.
6.6       Each municipality's proposal for pre-school expansion will be
evaluated in a transparent two-stage process based on the criteria listed
in Annex III. One technical expert will determine whether: (i) the
municipal program meets minimum pedagogical quality standards, and (ii) the
municipality can adequately administer the proposed schools. A second
technical expert, in municipal finance and physical planning, will
determine whether: (i) the program is targeted to the poorest
neighborhoods, (ii) the municipality has an acceptable and coherent plan
for sustaining the recurrent financial costs of the program, and (iii) the
program involves a partnership with PNPOs, with at least 15 percent of new
school spaces in PNPO schools. If a municipality's proposal does not meet
all of the five criteria, the UGP may (i) reject the proposal and return it
24



to the municipality for reworking, or (ii) request a justification from the
municipality for non-compliance.  On an exceptional basis, the UGP may,
after receiving a satisfactory justification, approve a municipal plan that
does not meet the above criteria. The Bank and the SEE will jointly review
the guidelines for the pro-school support program each year. Once a
municipality's proposal has passed the technical review, the UGP will
authorize a three year program of state support to that municipality,
contingent upon the municipality's continued satisfactory adherence to the
program. The UGP will formally review municipalities' performance each
year, before authorizing the following year's disbursements under the
program. The amount of program funds coumitted to a municipality will be
based upon an ex ante calculation made by the SEE of the deficit of pre-
school spaces in poor neighborhoods in each municipality. Since the state
share will be greater for PNPO than for municipal pre-schools, municipal
programs that include greater participation of PNPOs would receive a higher
ex ant- allocation, everything else being equal.
6.7       Administration of the School Health Proaram.  Responsibility for
overall coordination of the school health program will reside in the
Secretariat of Health (SES) under the Program of Child Health. A condition
of disbursements for the school health program will be that SES appoint a
full-time program coordinator (paragraph 8.5). In 1987 health authorities
unified the state and INAMPS (National Social Security Institute for
Medical Assistance) health services and decentralized their administration
to 62 regions (SUDS) throughout the state. There are 15 such SUDS in
Greater Sao Paulo serving the 38 municipalities; there are 7 SUDS in the
municipality of Sao Paulo alone. These 15 SUDS will have the
responsibility of executing the school health program with direct
responsibility falling to the Program of Child Health Coordinator in each
SUDS. Most municipalities also run separate health systems, made up of
local health centers and, in some cases, general or specialized hospitals.
In order to unify the operation of basic health services, further
decentralization of state and INAMPS health centers (UBSs) to the municipal
level is currently underway. The school health program seeks to involve
all local health centers. Therefore, cooperative agreements between the
municipalities and the SES are needed. In the case of the municipality of
Sao Paulo, an additional cooperative agreement, between the SES and the
Municipal Secretariat of Education, will also be necessary. Because of the
large number of municipal health centers and schools in the city of Sao
Paulo, a condition of disbursements for expenditures in the city will be
that the SEE, the SES, and the municipality of Sao Paulo take all steFs
necessary to insure tnat state and municipal primary schools, municipal and
PNPO pre-schools, and their corresponding state or municipal health center
are legally able to undertake project activities (paragraph 8.5).
25



6.8       Table 6.1 summarizes procurement under the Bank Loan.
Tabl-  6.1:  Proiect Cost by Procurment Methods
(US$ million)
Total
Cateacrv             OCB        L&ther                  Cost
Civil Works          ---       386.3       4.7          391.0
(125.9)     (3.8)        (129.7)
Goods              110.3        27.6      25.2          163.1
(60.7)     (15.2)    (13.9)          (89.8)
Training             ---         ---      20.6           20M6
(11.7)        (11.7)
Consultants          ---         ---      16.2           16.2
(13.8)        (13.8)
Operating Expenses  ---          ---       ---            9.1
( 0.0)
TOTAL         110.3      413.9       66.7          600.0
(60.7)    (141.1)    (43.2)         (245.0)
Note:           Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed
by the Bank.
6.9       Civil Works.   The construction program for state primary
schools (USS 293 million) and municipal and PNPO pre-primary schools (USS
47 million) is characterized by numerous small works dispersed throughout
the metropolitan area.  In the case of primary school construction,
contracts will be packaged by geographic proximity (within a single school
district) and will vary in size between 10 and 40 classrooms (USS 500,000
to USS 2 million). Packages in this range will allow for bids from a large
number of medium-sized contractors who are expected to offer the lowest
bids. All municipal pre-school construction will be procured on a school-
by-school basis, with an average contract value of US$ 175,000. Design of
civil works for municipal pre-schools will be carried out by the state,
through the FDE in cooperation with local education authorities. Each
municipality will execute its pre-school civil works program, with
assistance from FDE when necessary. Some PNPO pre-school construction will
involve very small contracts for expansion or refurbishing of existing
facilities.
6.10      No civil works contracts exceeding USS 5 million in value are
expected. However, if there are any civil works contracts of US$ 5 million
or more in value, they will be awarded follnwing International Competitive
26



Blddlng (lCD) procedures ln accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracto
excoding US$ 50,000 but below US$ 5 million will be awarded following
Local CompetLtive Bldding (LCB) procedures acceptable to tho Bank,
including tomada d- or-coa (paragraph 8.1), or the annual establiohment of
regiatries of pre-qualified suppliers. Contracts valued at USS 50,000 or
leos will be procured through local shopping based on at least three price
quotations. The state will submit procurement documentation for the firat
throe LCB contracts and for all ICB contracts to the Bank for prior review.
The Borrower has indicated its intereat in using standardized bidding
documents acceptable to the Bank.
6.11      Goods.  Procurement of school furniture, equipment, and
materials; and health equipment and materials will be packaged to the
extent posaible in order to permit least-cost bulk procurement. School
furniture and equipment will Li packaged according to type and degree of
specialization, with six such packages procured each year-- wooden school
furniture for classrooms, for the cafeteria, and for administrative rooms;
steel school furniture (such as shelves and file cabinets); machinss (such
as typewriters, copiers, etc.); and other equipment (such as a
refrigerator, stove, clocks, etc.). Educational materials (excluding books
and other proprietary materials) will be grouped into a small number of
packages and procured each year. Health equipment will be packaged
according to type and procurAd annually. All contracts with values of USS
300,000 or more will be procured following ICB procedures with prior review
of procurement documentation by the Bank, except in the case of school
books, which will be procured through sole source contracts with
appropriate suppliers. Packages with values below US$ 300,000 but
exceeding US$ 25,000 will be procured followirg LCB procedures (including
tomada de Drecoo) acceptable to the Bank, with prior review cf the first
three contracts. Packages valued at US$ 25,000 or less will be procured
though local shopping based on at least three price quotations. No loan
funds will be used for goods that are prohibited from importation.
6.12      Consultants.  All consultant services will be contracted by the
SEE following Bank guidelines. The SEE has contracted three institutions
in Sao Paulo to prepare designs for the evaluation studies. Following
finalization of these designs, the SEE will contract consultants to
implement the evaluations under contractual arrangements acceptable to the
Bank.
Disbursement
6.13      The disbursement schedule is based on a six year implementation
timetable (see paragraph 6.1). The expected completion date is September
30, 1997, and the closing date io December 31, 1997. See Annex II, Table 3
for the disbursement schedule.
6.14      The proposed USS 245 million loan, which will cover 41 percent
of total project costs (49 percent of project costs net of taxes) will be
disbursed as follows:
27



Table 6.2: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Catecory                                             IL
CIVIL WORKS
Primary *chool classrooms (incl. consultant         31% of expenditures
services for design, supervision and
special construction techniques)
Municipal pr--school classrooms                     60%
KATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT                               100% of foreign *xp ands
Primary school furniture and equipment              33% of local oxp
Pedagogical materials                               50%  "
Goods under the school health program for           70%  "   "
vision and hearing testing, oral health,
record-keeping and training of teachers
and UBS personnel
TRAINING AND CONSULTANT SERVICES
Training for pre- and primary school teachers       50% of expenditures
Consultant services and training of teachers       100% of foreign exp and:
under the school health program for vision        70% of local exp
and hearing testing, oral health, record-
keeping and health education; training for
UBS personnel in and health problems of pre-
and primary schoolchildren
Studies and consultant services under the          100% of expenditures
school health program for curriculum changes
and for pilot studies
Consultant services for project evaluation,        100% of foreign exp and:
institutional development, and project            70% of local exp
administration
6.15      Disbursements will be made after the Bank has received full
documentation of expenditures, except in the case of civil works valued at
under USS 300,000 equivalent, and goods and services valued at under USS
150,000 equivalent, for which disbursements will be made against statements
of expenditure (SOE) certified by the accountant of the UGP. Supporting
documentation for SOEs will not be submitted to the Bank but will be
retained by the UGP, available for inspection during Bank supervision
missions and by independent auditors.
Accounts and Audits
6.16      Bank loan funds will be deposited in a Special Account (CESA) in
US dollars opened by the State of Sao Paulo in the Central Bank to covpr
local currency expenditures, and a Special Account (FESA) in US dollars
opened by the State of Sao Paulo in a bank acceptable to the Bank and the
State of Sao Paulo to cover foreign exchange expenditures. 2undo from the
CESA and the FESA will be available for financing only the Bank's share of
project costs. After loan effectiveness, the Bank will deposit an initial
sum of USS 20 million in the CESA and US$ 250,000 in the FESA to set up a
28



revolving fund for financing eligible expenditures equivalent to an average
of about four months' disbursements. The Bank will replenish the revolving
fund as requested upon receipt of satisfactory evidence that expenditures
were eligible for financing out of the fund.
6.17      The SEE, SES, FDE, and the participating municipalities and
PNPOs will each maintain separate accounts for project expenditures, which
will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
The independent auditors will also audit the Special Accounts annually.
Copies of the reports of the auditors will be sent to the Bank within six
months of th' end of each fiscal year. The auditor's report should includo
an opinion (and comments, as necissary) on the methods employed in
compiling the statements of expenditur s; their accuracy; the relevance of
supporting documents; their eligibility for financing in terms of the
project's loan agreement; and the standards of record-keeping and internal
controls related to the foregoing.
Retroactive financing
6.18      The Bank will finance up to US$ 24 million (10 percent of the
proposed loan) retroactively for expenditures made in accordance with Bank
procurement guidelines after August 1, 1990. Retroactive financing is
recommended so that the government of Sao Paulo may begin as soon as
possible the construction program that will alleviate conditions of
overcrowding in primary schools in GSP and enable the timely implementation
of the primary school quality improvement program.
1.   BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
7.1       The project is expected to improve significantly student
learning and retention in the early grades of primary school in Sao Paulo,
and to lead the way for other states to undertake similar measures on the
basis of detailed evaluation of the educational benefits of the innovations
and the administrative capacity necessary for their implementation. In
Greater Sao Paulo, an estimated 670,000 children will benefit from the in-
school quality improvement program each year of the project; about 1
million children in pre- and primary schools will benefit from the school
health program. The expanded pro-school education services will benefit
120,000 4-6 year-old children annually by the end of the project, expanding
overall pre-school coverage in greator Sao Paulo from 35 percent to 46
percent, and focussing services on children from families earning lses than
three minimum salaries. Reflecting improved learning in the early grades
of primary school, the internal efficiency of the primary school system
should also improve markedly. It is expected that the failure rate of
second-grade students will fall from 37 percent to 20 percent in Greater
Sao Paulo by 1997. The project is also expected to improve the
administrative efficiency of the SEE, and municipal education authorities
in GSP, and to contribute to increased public and private support for non-
governmental not-for-profit organizations active in the provision of social
services.
29



7.2       The implementation risks of the in-school program are moderate
because of reasonably good management capacity of the participating
institutions. There is a risk in the medium-term that the state of Sao
Paulo will have difficulty in cov-ring the recurrent costs of the extended
school day. This risk will be minimized by a set of measures that the SN
and the State of Sao Paulo will take as discussed in paragraphs 5.10
through 5.12.
7.3       Some risks are posed by the fact that the project will require
substantial coordination among agencies. The pro-school program will
involve developing a new degr-e of coordination between the state
secretariat and municipalities regarding the expansion of pre-school
services, as well as a more systematic relationship with non-governmental
pre-schools; the school health program will demand careful joint planning
by the secretariat. of Health and Education and between state and municipal
health secretariat.; the evaluation component will require extensive
coordination and sharing of information among the participating
institutions.  Successful implementation with an eye toward eventual
dissemination and adaptation to other states will require regular
discussions between the SEE of Sao Paulo and KEC officials. Discussions to
date indicate that the participating agencies are exhibiting the goodwill
necessary to make the programs work, and the project management unit in Sao
Paulo will play a key coordinating role.
7.4       The pre-school support program presents three significant risks.
First, it requires the SEE to play a strong role in the planning and
coordination of decentralized pre-school networks (run by municipalities
and PNPOs), a capacity which at present is not well developed. To addrecs
this, the project includes funds for technical assistance to strengthen the
CENP in playing an expanded role in the establishment of pre-school
pedagogical standards and assuring the quality of public and private pre-
schools throughout the state of Sao Paulo, possibly through the
establishmenit of a pre-school accreditation process and regular monitoring.
A second risk is that municipalities may not be able or willing to comply
with the program's guidelines. To minimize this risk, the project will
provide funds for municipalities to obtain technical assistance in
developing pre-school expansion plans, and all disbursements (for pre-
school construction) to municipalities will be authorized on a year-to-year
basis following a PICU reviews of municipalities' performance. In this
way, program design will retain the flexibility to adapt to unforseen
obstacles. A final risk is that even PNPOs whic;, .eceive financial support
under the project may not be able to maintain stable, good quality pre-
school programs, due to weaknesses in PNPO organization, accounting and
financial management. To reduce this risk the project includes funds for
technical assistance grants to help participating PNPOB strengthen their
administrative structures and tighten their financial management.
30



.*                   H   AND REOO43NDATION
1.1       Durlng negotiatLons, agr ement was obtained that:
(L)             the State will provide adequate and timely resources
to lnsure proper maintenanco of prLmary school
facillties, that wlll be equivalent to 1 percent of
the annually updated value of newly constructed
buildLngs, wLth funds for routine maLntenance
channeled, to the extent posslble, through Parent-
Teacher AssocLatLons (paragraph 5.12)1
(ii)           the SKZ will lncure that the project dlrector, two
coordinators, and a fLnancLal admLnLitrator of the WGP are
at all times a person whose qualiflcatlons and experience
are satlefactory to the Dank (paragraph 6.4)t
(iLL)          the SEZ will by September 1 of each year (startlng
September 1, 1992) prepare and send to the Bank a detailed
report on the sources and uses of funds for oducation ln
the State of Sao Paulo (paragraph 4.21);
(lv)            The State will lnsure that the cLglo basico and iornada
unilca are fully implemented on a timely basis in all State
primary schools whlch have adequate physLcal facilities
(paragraph 5.12);
(V)             the practice of tomada de orecos ln Brazil satisfies Bank
requirements for procurement under LCB (paragraph 6.10 and
6.11): and
8.2       Conditions of loan effectiveness will be:
i)             the development of a design for the imDact evaluation of
the project that is acceptable to the Bank (paragraph
4.17);
(il)            that the SEE legally establish the UGP and ,taff it with a
director, two coordinators, and a financial administrator,
each with experience and qualifications acceptable to the
Bank (paragraph 6.4); and
(iLi)           that the SEE and FDE enter into arrangement., with terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the purpose of
governing FDE's activities under the project (paragraph
6.3).
8.3       No later than three months after the date of loan effectivene;s
the SEE shall formally iLsue the operational guidelines
governing the pre-school sup?ort program (paragraph 4.10).
8.4       No later than December 31, 1991 the State shall sign contracts
wLth terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank with the
consultants selected to carry out the impact, cost and process
31



evaluations, and monitoring activities where necessary
(paragraph 4.17).
8.5       Conditions of disburnement will be:
(i)       on the school health program, the appointment, within tie
Secretariat of Health, of a full-time program coordinator with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank (paragraph
6.7); preparation by the SS of a detailed implementation plan
acceptable to the Bank covering the period 1991 to 1997
(paragraph 4.14) and; on disbursements on activities within the
municipality of Sao Paulo, the taking of all steps necessary to
insure that state and municipal health centers are legally able
to undertake activities in project schools (paragraph 6.7).
(ii)      on each municipality's pro-school program, the signing of
agreements between the state and the municipality comuitting
wunicipal counterpart funds, and between the municipality and
PNPOs as necessary (paragraph 4.10).
(iii)     on the second phase of the training program for ciclo basico
teachers, the presentation to the Bank of an implementation plan
acceptable to the Bank.
(iv)      on activities for the municipalization of primary education, the
presentation to the Bank of a specific implementation plan
acceptable to tha Bank (paragraph 4.20).
8.6       At the earlier of (i) the date when USS 70 million equivalent of
Loan funds shall have been committed for constructing, axpanding or
refurb;.shing and equipping primary schools, or (ii) sometime botween May 1
and August 31, 1993, the State and the Bank shall review all aspects of the
execution of the Project, including a discussion of the activities to be
undertaken for the dissemination of the results of the Project, and
especially an evaluation of the progreas achieved in implementing the ciclo
basico and the iornada unica. Progress with respect to the State's policy
of dovolving to municipalities pro-primary schools currently operated by
the State such that the number of pro-schools operated by the Borrower
shall have decreased significantly by the time of the interim review
(paragraph 4.9), and progress in increasing the student-teacher ratio in
primary schools in Greater Sao Paulo from an average of 33:1 to at least
35:1 (paragraphs 5.10 and 5.12) will be evaluated. For the purposes of
this review, the State shall prepare and send to tho Bank: (i) updated
plans for the execution of the remaining civil works for primary schools;
(ii) plans for dissemination of the results of the Project; and (iii) a
report on the implementation of the ciclo basico and iornada unica,
including proposals for their modification if necessary (paragraph 6.2).
8.7       Subject to tho above conditions, the project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$ 245 million equivalent to the state of Sao Paulo with
repayment in 15 years, incJuding a five years of grace with interest at the
Bank's standard variable rate. Retroactlve financing for up to US$ 24
million equivalent for expenditures incurred after August 1, 1990, is
recommended (paragraph 6.18).
32



ban!kx I
Table 1 -- Enrollment in Primary School in GSP
Table 2 -- Promotion, Repetition and Drop-out in GSP
Table 3 -- Pro-school Attendance in GSP
Table 4 -- Socio-sconomic Profile of Pro-school Students in GSP
Table 5 -- Age Profile of Students in State Primary Systm 08P
Table 6 -- Poverty Orientation of School Construction in C8P
Annex II
Table 1 -- Cost of Project Componenti by Expenditure Category
Table 2 -- Project Financing by Component
Table 3 -- Loan Disbursement Schedule
Table 4 -- Annual Expenditures by Category
Table 5 -- Annual Expenditures by Component
Annex III--   Guidelines for Operation of the Pre-school Support Program
Annex IV  --   The Schocl Health Program
Annex V       --   Central Evaluation Questiona
Annex VI   --   Terms of Reference for Studies
Annex VII --   Contents of the Project File
Annex VIII -- Map of Greater Sao Paulo (IBRD 21533)
33



Anm.. 1. TabS. 1: Enroll-mnt In Primary School In Brail by Region. 1996
----------------------------------------------------------
I          PRIMARY SCHOOL ENRGLLME"TS                    I--
-------------------------------- --  ENRLNTS I TOTAL POP    ------------------------
REGION   I FEDERAL      STATE   WUtICIPAL   PRIVATE       TOTAL       AGED 7 - 14 I ACED 7 - 14  I   (1)/(8) 1   (2)/(4) |
I                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(1)    I (2)  I (8)   I     d1    I     (1) I
I        ~~~                                                              ~~I  _  _ __  _                    I            I
INorth            77,138    611,766    638,338    166,774   1,678,86 8    1,323, an I 1,  993,262 j    u.o.  j        ua. o
III                                                                                  II                                      I
Northeast   I   13,640 U ,078,473  8,302,422    969,191   7,4U,/   1  5,02.220           9,199,0F         94.71i      29
iSouthe-st   !   12,247  6,844,601 1,916.16U  1,234,68-  10,067,6R4  81,683,284 !   9,979,347 I    19.9 I               66CCl
1  1                                                                             1~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,69113,2,4    171'1
ISouth       g    3,461  2,148,115  1,017,"76    417,197   ' 655,389                                         ., S,1 i..Sl    *,  2  i    1      111
IConter-Woct !    4,684  1,296,470    461,444    177,471   1,934,625 6    1,610,240 I   1,007,996    107.311           64 1
I       ~I                                                                       II
I        ~~~I                                                      I             I              I 
lTota       j  116,349 14,173,371  7,461,483  2,969,266  24,764,913    26,167,919      24,644C91   2/   97.n11 2/   79.951
l______|_________________ --                                                              _ 26,137,310   I  24,594,501  1__
jGSP         I            1,966,66s   476,5       296,933   2,762,606 1  21,3667  S/  2,771,361 I         0n.711       34.3
I-- -- --- --I-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -I           -- - -- - -- -I-- - - -  -  I-- --
1/ Populatilo osticto .xcludaa rural pepulation
2/ Calculated oucludlg North region
S/  Adjusted free 1927 estimated populatlo  (2,975,4U9)
Source: FICE, Anuarbo Estatlstico do Brasl, 1987/38



Annex Z, Table 2: Promotion, Rapmtitien, aqd Oro00-out im Preary Schools in Creater Sao Paulo, 1906
STATt SYSTEM:
I INLT;AL    TRANSFERED   OROPPED        F 9AL       S?bCVNTS   PERCEhT         FASLED FOR:
GRACE I NROLLU.WV4T   OUT          OUT       E%R6CULLMT   PRcOWrED    PRCWOTE   EVALUATION  ATTENDANCE
------------                                                                    -- -------------    _____- --
I   i   297,643       18,413       16,142      263,640     202,24        9. 7S          0          732
2   I   384,196       27,722       22,997      336,179     211,686       42.9X    122,913        2,540 1
a '      273,166      17,448       11,643      24',9 '     183,114       76.53     54,219        2,201
4 *      220,276       12,663      13,747      193,641      16l,414      63.35     30,773        1,664
5        273,941       19,613      51,630      207,796     139,65        62.6S     72,348        5,24u
I   '    194,426       14,037      33,14       144,839      1,4,644      71.3S      399031       3,164
7   I   144,127       19,935       24,197      19, 736      65,146       77.65     22,421        2,216
a   I    112,346        7,760      13,649       9, 744       79,443      67.6%      10,113       1,170 1
-- __.____                   __-__----- -    --------------- _ - -- - ------- -------- -____________
TOTAL I 1,996,512       121,654     191,65U    1,5U8,3J1   1,210,170       76.75    368,949       19,132 |
-__------------------     - -------- ---- --- --                               - -_ ------ -          _-------------
WUNICIPAL SYSTEM:
_____    - .----- ----  _- -- -           - -    -   -  _       _            _____ _    _  _  _  _  _  _  _
I INITIAL    TRhASFEED   OROPPED         FINAL       STRC4TS  PtRCV(T           FAILED FOR: 
CRAO( I ENPOLIMT      OUT         OUT      EDROtL fT  P*ObOTEC   PROVOTED V P     ALUATION  ArTTOAIKE I
--------- -----                  --      -------------- --
1   I    34,697         4,972       5,690       74,219       51,5g4      69.61      21,31"        1,219 
2         74,619        4,241       2,573       67,6 4       62,963      76.1%      13,963          374
3   I    67,135         3,6S4       2,77-       6o  "9      4',54U       79.91      I1,t"A          762
4   1     66,445        2,99"       2,3as       52,694       4A,16U      93.         7,93t          6Ngo
I   1     62,013        4,033        3,606      49,179       32,134 6  65.3         14,705        2,218 I
6         46,322        2,979       6,673       34,679       24,739      67.45      19,49"        1,641 1       4
7   I     32,196        2,029       4,443       21,614       19,643      76.35       6,227          844
a *       22,967        1,114        2,145      19,.49       17,393       .U         1,395         3Sa
- -    ------- -   -- ----..--           -    - __   --- ----_ - -- --
TOTAL 1   448,269        26,319       3S,U93     3",6.47      291,091      76.31      37,145        8,464 
PRIVATE SYSTEW:
I  INITIAL    TRAISF1ED   OROP!ED       FPIAL        STUDENTS   PeRCE4T         FAILED FOR:        I
GRADE I E14CLLWENT      OUT         OUT        EOL rVT   PRUOITED   PROMOTED  EVALUATION  ArTENIANC! I
1   1     6e,e73        2,134          619      67,575       13,9        92. 9f      3, 9l           I 
2   1     62,691        1,691          317      ",193        47,144      93.2S       3,421           22 1
3   i     47,669        1, 4"         268       44,139       42,812      92.65       3,292           32
4         43,631        1,25S          247      42,129       39,809      92.61       3, 47           33
S         44,165        1,625          654      41,696       34,686      63.2        6,917           94 1
6   I     37,967        1,333          767      3s,6"7       39,489      64.33       5,492           5i
7   1     32,078        1,11         78        29137        26,163      W.*.        3,929           4i
U   1     27, 9W          865         1         26,372       23,770         LA       2,6.44        .so I
TOTAL I   344,S15        11,S49       4,641      390,995      297,9W      9g. 9       32,577          423 
Source:  Anueoro lattletice de Educaca  de Euale de See Paulo, 1987
35



A.N'E(  ., Table 3: ?e-scr.ooL A::.'a-cq -t CS?
:   !.  F-i  !f *a    r - -  4 : -:r i;: It.  of                              
.r~~~~~~ ~~~~      . .s:    ..t   :: .-i . .- .    ....     . . . ., j- . .  . .. .--
...........  ...... ............         ......,---    --     ................... ..  .......    ..........  .   -............
j  ~        ~~~~~ 1,,,  .' 4, ."                              ';,
____-s ......     ___- ..... ----------r-6  -@@6 -- ............................  .........*- --
..   .... . .' .. .
I *                             =
.1                 _ 
I                  *,^-, t                                                          .
UP  -0 ~      ~      ~     1' an  ;-                     o in !   I                         '.
11 W ~ ~ ~ g.
.2 ~ ~      ~      ~      , i .9 2:1 ;".                         I
.tr WA    it  'a               V                 it
._12,Ll                                         I . 
.~~~~~~t .016  amn                                                                                it q   16
a':.~~~7.
?pa.                    I              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__   __.
as    OIL, 0.-        NOR          WM Wm                t      le a"                               t 2
?19 ~          ~           : -#,                         ?s oCt me P1144                    .
Cw9tm                        :'                  i :t 
at Wt K5  %8 .
=_                   !U             -              ,.#. I~~~~~~~~~~l    ,,>   .,
31 60 ~~~~0
: .~    .G.       bU                 mA.i                                 I rt[:  ,
19~~~~I
to  w :   t1 ad WF\                                 !
Ist :sJQ           t sze   ~    ~ ~~~I' I'
.4:1  Wwrtful " wolaot towv  at Of"*s                                                                 -
__bn  -pi  _w4mis Wm.___
'& ~ ~~~                        ~~     f.  r  :i tS:    S1 t             447^ 
/:l'~~               ~~ I ~ I                                                                         "
it9       *9I ''''  E" T U          IUa ^|            I           .  ,             :itI 
__,-             I                   _     u^   -    , _....
4.4.....Lj    V   ____ ,.UqI. __ ....A  4* __  'fi4  :4   L_._    m,
'^.a :a, a:-.t I  VsLt: Ns M*itu  ttu.m,4afrye  :tt |8 :    hyeiz1s rP-
i ~ ~    ~     ~    Ok @ z      u-  f..'ao   U.   ttt
rif



ANNEX T, Table 4: Socio-econoinwc Profile of Pre-school Students in r.SP
PEGCIMO :11:TIIOPOLITAIIA - SAO FAULO
Peseoae de ate 6 anoe quo frequentam Eatabelecimento de Eneino Pre-Focolar por grupon du idlide,
eegundo an Claeo,ee de Renuilmento Menoal FPamiliar.
CLAA'SIW  IDE IIN1UDIME"rO MENSAL   TOTAI ,       At  1 ANO   1    2 e 3 AW40;   %        4 at 6 AI1IO
FAMILIAR                          340072  100,0   8978    100,0  47415           100,0      2n16,19)       %
At6 I Snla'rio Minimo                3430    1,0    _          _        _           _          1430       1,2
Maio de 1 a 2 Sal.lfnibon           20525    6,0    862       9,6    1715-         3,fi       179411      6,3
Maia de 2 a 5 Sal.Miniuon         100823   29,7   2556    28,5    8121            1791        9014f.      31,n
I
l4nia de 5  naligrioo M'ni.o     209309   61,6   5560    61,9   36725            77,5      16/WO4        58,9
Sem Rendimentof  (1)                 2568    0,7    -          -        -          -           25tl6       0,9
Sem Declaranio                       3417    1,0    -          _       854         I,8         2563        0,9
fonte: FIDGE - Pesquina Nacional por Amootra de Dobicilios - PNAD - 82- Volume 6 , Tomo 2, pj.' 364
Snio Paulo.
Nota:  Exclueive peneioniatna o empregadas dom4oticao.
(1) Inclusive ae familino cujoo componentee receboram somente em beneficios



Annoa S, Table 5: AgeP PoIIo of Al lI Students I Primary Schools In Cr..t.r Sao Paulo, 167
I  ACE      MRADEI  GRACE 2  GRAOt   CRADE 4  GRADES  GRADES   GRADE ?  GRACE *    TOTAL   I
i -                                                                                      1  ,t   4
*    3,671       245                                                            I  68,9116
I   7    I 242,577    *7,22C        246                                                  1 819,43 1
I    46,5I    21U,U42    44,134          897                                         I 828,739 1
1    9   21,750   111,3W   138,59 3'9,36S          427                               1 815,584 
IU    I  14,1:7    "',1"9   61,237   112,227    33,876       277                     | 207,441
I  il    I   5,492    81,W94    43,657   71,411   161,511   25,857     221        * 1 235,471 1
12    1   8,112    17,688    86,383   44,548    77,717   78,840    21,243            447 1 273,467 I
I   13    1   1,U       9,910    17,071   29.344    19,72    56,312    U,621    17,62 1 244,526 1
1   14    1      54     3,646      ,967    11,366   42,612    43,218   48,119   46,244 1 2",154 
I   15           148    1,391     8,9 8    6,26    25,370    2,22        1,677   34,526    182,186 1
I  >1    I        74      413     1,144     2,383    23,919    86,0     44,773    52,9ON    161,918 1
I         1-I 
TOTAL   I485,64   517,52t   3711?,481   322,741   344,338   268,462   107,611  161,MC 12,683,417 1
Source: St/ATPCE/C11 - LDE/1l?
38



Anne. 1, Tob*: 6:  Peverty Orntatin of Sqho.l Conetructiotn Iae'te.   lSe  Paulo
._._,. _._. -- - - - - - - - - - -------   ------------- ~ ~ ~~ -  ------------ ------_--_-_
I     CLASSROCS       I        LAI
I O  POP   AVERAGE   0N I                          I NWNOT               I TAL
I   SCCOL.  ZSrRTsCT    I ELOW 2SM  mCOMI   CO U  .   SCHOOLS  CPANSION I AC;USR1D  ACQUtJZ           C.AIUJtOsI
--------I_- ------__--------------------------- ---- ----- --- ------_ 
:a;uaEuie.%bs           I         Is3    2.54    9.43 I       13 3            I       12         4, 1se
l:ta,.ea'icr 4dr S.X I                   1s 1.5   6.1 9   169                         1 3        9            2
IS    O CrO                       i ns    3.191    6.49 I     tI                      IS         St 71         1
lV"9; dog Cru43    3.41    6.54 |                             13           41 I       130        '            177
118th Capital o                    4S    2.53    6.4          24              I        9        I"|           24  |
Ittape,r@tI                    4X    3 041   0:48          Is          Ss          47       la            I11111
ILI/I! Capte istiatl    *3X    2.47    0.41                   Si           ofI        IS        in            l@ $74
jC;eirso                          53X    2.97    0.466                     63IS        64        S10 I
la; edoxao                        six    2.36    **.41 1                   39 1                   a U14
IC.ar;eamiba            I         513    2.63    9.42 1       19           41         176        4            21
ICUarulieu              I         1%    3.48    9.471         227          6o        ISS        S             I94
1l-26 Capital Oistrictl           18s    3.15    8.4I         340         la1        2 l2b                    *
Itst Capitat District  I          49S    3.21    0.44 1        33          46 1        1                        o 1
e9th Capital ODitricet  I         412    3.6      6.43 I       4 *                     t         3i2 1         4J
maa ms                            473    3.07    9.421         to          *           43        54 I9r
ltib.irae  PiI*         i         47%    3.37    0.49          20          32 1                  *2            It
117th Capital District I          473    3.94    9.12          s o         23 I       *2         40 11I
1Osson                  I         44X    3.44    0.44 I       134          42         in         67 I         170
92nd Capital District  I          44X    3.6       .44 9I       9                                  7               
l6th Capital Oisteict  1          44S    3.52    6.44 I        24          12          1 12      24             6  I
14th Capital Oirtrict  I          43X    3.77    0.46 I        *2          24 i        42         34            r 7
Sth Capital ODitrict  I          43S    3. U     6.44          1 12       t1o                    24 B
17th Capitol  isterict  1         42S    4. n     6.S  9        0          1  I         S         is            I?
13rd Captal District  I           464    4.41    6.51 i        36           *          IS         If            s o I
jSante Andre            I         483    4.20    6.5  I        71         S1 I         43         6  I         132
lldth Capital Oiatrict 9          39S    3.94    9.52 1        44                                  4            48 1
ISO*e -rnard. de Cam "            36S    4.71    6.12 1       143          57 I       117         la           2   |
1lth Capital DiOtrict  9          3n      4.55    a.SJ I        2           a 1        29          C            2  |
114th Capital ODitrict            3 71    6.75    6.58 I        36         3  I         6         11            72 1
l15th Capital Oistrict I          343    5.27    9.5l I         34          SI         so           I |7 |
112th Capital District I          38s    6.67    e.54           t o6        4 1        i      .   4 12
913th Capital District i          26     8.64    0.5s  I         6          6 I         6          6 I           *
---------          -      -      -      -      ---                                  --       -    -     -    -    I
SI         I11 U       2241       ISIS          416  I
Souwce:  SEADE, Analigs  Camparativa doe Carare*erticae do Atendimnte Edueational
na Grrnd- Sea  Palo we gundo Regioe  Me       naee, 19M.  Alc. projet d.cets.
CONST7UCT0N PPOGRAM WIHOtE:
S P   BELOW                          CLASSROM  WMt5
1 2 WINIMUM I TOTAL CLASSROOVS  i  LAW ACQ.URD   I
SALA*IU         *                9 S                  I
I   >sex    1    298U          49X      9m7         4719
1 443 - US I    1196           29JI      gas        21x3
148- 41X1          513         1239     26          1411
(403              463         Lai       154         ISI
I     I           4158                 Is161
I~~-
JAVG INCON11:I                       CASOON  1hiw
I (IIZNIWI       I TOTAL CLASSROOMS  I  LAN  ACQIJIZD 
1SALARES) |                  3 X       0          3    |
1 2 or Iow  1     250          SI        97         Ixl
1  2- - 3         144"         3431    6de          3431
I3  - 3.5  1    1649           44111     726        36XI
I 3.5  - 4        I I66        TX1      142         ?X
1 4. - I           490         l931      1t3        1939
S 6.        1      135          39       S7           3Xi
I            1    41U             9    91614
39



TtAe I
TABLE I: COST OF PROJECT COMPO1ENTS BY EXPENDITUtRE CATEGOT
5RAZ I L
INNOVATIONS 1I BASIC EDUCATION
(US$ tMillions)
II-SCH0L                                                                                                      PNIIYSICAL CONTINIENCIES
WQALITY      PRE-SCHODL           SCHOOL   EVALUATION    INSTITUTIONAL             PROJECT                  ----------------------
IPROVEMET            SUPPORT           HEALTH 9ISSEMINATION       DEVELOPMENT AMINISTRATION            TOTAL              X      A1O0UT
22   22   22 Z=Z======== =                      2 =====Z=K====-==== 22 t22Zt2Z2U2322=322Z2---- WZ=    U3232-U22ZZ22#  2222Z52Z223223S
INESTMENT COSTS                         419.9             62.5            22.0              3.4              7.6              1.1        516.4            0.1        40.2
CIVIL WRIKS                           293.0             47.0              0.0             0.0              0.0              0.0        340.0           0.1         33.1
STRUCTURES                         284.1             47.0                                                                           331.1            0.1        33.1
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGNS                 8.9                                                                                              8.9           0.0         0.0
EWIPIENT AM1 MATERIALS                108.6             12.3            21.8                                                           142.r           0.1          r.1
SPECIALIST SERVICES                     1.Z              1.0             0.2              3.4              7.6              1.1         15.0           0.0          0.0
TRAINING                               16.6              2.2                                                                            18.8           0.0          0.0
RECURRENT COSTS                                                             7.7                                               0.7          8.4            0.0         0.0
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                    419.9             62.5            29.7              3.4              7.6              1.8        524.8            0.1        40.2
o  PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES               33.8              5.3              1.1             0.0              0.0              0.0         40.2           0.0          0.0
o  PRICE CONTINGENCIES                  25.7              5.5              2.6             0.4              0.7              0.1         35.0           0.1          2.2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     479.4             73.3            33.3              3.8              8.3              1.8        600.0           0.1         42.5
o  TAXES                                82.6             11.8              7.9             0.2              0.4             0.1         103.0           0.1          6.6
X of total project cost                17X              16X             24S               51              5               3S           17S
o  FOREIGN EXCNANGE                     62.8              9.9             2.9              0.2              0.4             0.1          76.3           T.4X         5.7
X of total project cost                131              141              9S               51               51              31           131
-- - - - - - - -  - - -- -  - - -    - - - - --  - - -  - - - -  - - - --  - -   - -.-    - -  -- - - -  - -   -  - - - --  - - - - - -  - - - --  - - -  - - - -  - - -



NEX II
Tde 2
BRAZIL
INNOATIONS IN BASIC EDUCATION PRECT
PMOJECT FINACING BY CaUP(NENT
CUSS Miltions)
State of         mmicilpmlltie
Cawponent                            1BR                Sao Paulo      In Creater Sao Pulo        Total
In-School Ouality I provement S177.2    37.01      S302.2        63.01                           S479.4
Civil Works                5116.8    32.61      S241.0        67.4s                            S357.8
Educational Materials       S43.4    51.81       540.4        48.21                             S83.8
Teacher training            S10.3    56-61        S7.9        43.41                             118.2
School feeding               S6.7    34.31       S12.8        65.71                             *19.S
Pre-School Support             S41.2    56.11        S1.3         1.8J      S30.9        42.11     s73.3
XI                                   School Health                   117.4    52.21       $15.9        47.81                            S33.3
Institutionat Development       15.7    67.91        $2.7        32.11                             S8.3
Eva(Lstion and Dissemination    S2.8    74.2x        S1.0        25.8X                             s3.8
Project anagemnt                S0.8    43.9X        $1.0        56.11                             11.8
TOTAL            5245.0    40.81    S324.1          54.0X      S30.9                S600.0
-- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - -   -.- -  .-- - - - - - -- - - - - - -



Table 3
RAZIL
IWOVATIOMI IN USIC DucTION PROJICT
LOAN OIUIDIUT ICNEDULI
OIL"TZVf OiUUawUMNT
w* flecat Tear NW          fartorly
Ow lrLy    fr4          of Oaursameit                (USS mi l ie)             CX of  ot0lt)
CUSS of it fons)
1Wt_e  30, 1991                      0                        0                       0
0aecwr 31, 191                   120.3 /1                  120.3                      oX
March 31, 1992                   S16.5                     136.6                     15X
Jaw 30, 1992                     120.0                    *56.8                      232
FY93
VpteWwr 30, 1992                 S21.0                     177.8                     32X
D.c_er 31, 1992                  *19.0                    196.8                      402
March 31, 1993                   114.0                    1110.8                     452
Jure 30, 1993                    117.0                   1127.8                      52X
fY94
lateahor 30, 1993                216.6                   1144.4                      59X
Doce_br 31, 1993                S15.0                     5159.4                     65X
Narch 31, 199                    S10.0                    $169.S                     692
,DWW 30, 1994                    111.0                    1180.4                     742
PY95
S.pter 30, 1994                  110.0                    1190.4                     782
DecwAr 31, 1994                   S9.0                    1199.4                     812
March 31, 1995                    S8.0                    S20'.4                      85X
Jwue 30, 1995                     16.7                   1214.1                      87S
FY96
Sapteber 30, 1995                 16.0                    *220.1                     902
0oceef 31, 1995                   S3.5                    1223.6                      912
March 31, 1996                    13.0                    S226.6                      922
Jume 30, 1996                     13.5                    1230.1                     942
f"97
1ept_r 30, 1996                   14.0                    *234.1                      962
Ooc_e6er 31, 1996                 13.5                    1237.6                      972
March 31, 1997                    $3.2                    1240.8                      962
Jwe 30, 1997                      S3.2                    1244.0                     00X
lepteaber 30, 1997                S1.0                    S245.0                     1002
/1 Include  us20.25  lilfon deposfted In the Speciat Accounts
42



ANN3X I1
Table 4
BRAZIL
INNOVATIONS IN BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
ANNUAL EXPENDITURES BY CATEGORY
(USS millions)
CATEGORY                  1991     1992      1993      1994     1995      1996      1997    TOTAL
INV2STNENT COSTS
- Civil Works                    22.6    185.3    104.3       67.0      11.8       0.0      0.0    391.0
- Equipment and Materials        18.8      28.2      36.9     27.1      22.1      12.4     17.6    163.1
- Specialist Services             1.0       3.5       3.2      3.2       2.9       1.9      0.6      16.2
- Training                        0.9       4.2       4.3      4.2       2.3       2.4      2,2      20.6
Subtotal
RECURRENT COSTS
- Incremental operating           0.3       1.3       1.9      2.5       2.6       0.4      0.1       9.1
Expenditures
ANNUAL TOTALS                    43.5    222.5    150.6    104.0        41.7      17.1     20.6    600.0
Note: Contingencies included



ANNEX II
Table s
BRAZIL
INNOVATIONS IN BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
ANNUAL EXPENDITURES BY COMPONENT
(USS witlions)
t===== ==S==.=.     =S========================ZC n.           SSZlSS=Sr=SZZssSSZ USESCrRsssSSSSZ
COMPONENT                          1991      1992     1993      1994     1995      1996        1997       TOTAL
IN-SCHOOL QUALITY IMPROVEMENT    41.9    200.5    120.1        70.8      14.6      11.8       19.9        479.4
Civil Works                     29.2    180.1      94.6     53.9       0.0       0.0        0.0        357.8
Educational Materiats            6.3     13.4      18.4     10.5      11.9      9.1        14.1         83.8
Teacher Training                 0.9      3.6       3.7      3.5       2.1      2.1         2.2         18.2
School Feeding                   5.5      3.3       3.3      2.9       0.6      0.5         3.5         19.5
PRE-SCHOOL SUPPORT                  0.0      13.1     20.7      22.3     15.2       2.1        0.0         73.3
SCHOOL HEALTN                       1.0      6.6       7.2      8.2       9.1       1.2        0.0         33.3
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT           0.2      1.4       1.7      1.9       2.0       1.2        0.0          8.3
EVALUATION AND DISSEMINATION        0.2      0.7       0.5      0.5       0.7       0.6        0.5          3.8
PROJECT KANAGEMENT                  0.2      0.3       0.4       0.3      0.2       0.2        0.2          1.8
ANNUAL TOTALS                      43.5    222.5    150.6    104.0       41.7      17.1       20.6        600.0
* ontlngenctea Inluded 



Anx1:1  -- guidelines for Operation of the Pro-school luonort Fund
Criteria for M4unicipal Zlicibilitv for Prooram runin
1.        Following are the five criteria for municipal eligibility for
participation in the Pro-School Support Programs
(i)       the municipality must develop a six year program for pro-school
expansion targeted to neighborhoods of greatest poverty (i.e.,
with family income averaging no more than 3 minimum salaries);
(ii)      the program must be consistent with the pedagogical directions
recommended by the CtNP (studentateacher ratios of 32a1l
intensive usn  of books, toys and other recommended materials to
stlmulate the child; teacher training to strengthen the quality
of teaching and; a miaimum space of 1.2 m2 per child in newly
conitructed schools);
(iii)     the program must demonstrate a partnership with non-governmental
organizations (PNPOc) interested in supplying expanded pre-
school services and judged by the municipality to be
managorially and technically competent, witk not less than 15
percent of new spaces being provided in PNPOs;
(iv)      the municipality must demonstrate its capacity to sustain the
recurrent costs of the expansion, indicating how costs will be
shared with PNPOs and parents' groups; and
(v)       the municipality must demonstrate its capacity to administer the
(new or expanded) pre-school system.
2.        If a municipality's proposal does not meet all of the five
criteria, the UGP mnay (i) reject the proposal and return it to the
municipality for reworking, or (ii) request a justification from the
municipality for non-compliance. On an exceptional basis, the PICU may,
after receiving a satisfactory justification, approve a municipal plan.
The Bank and the SEE will jointly review the guidelines for the pro-school
support program each year.
Guidelines for Commitment of Proaram Fundina
3.        After determining municipal eligibility for program funding, the
program administration unit of the UGP will review municipalities' programs
and will award funding commitments for construction (including furniture,
equipment, and materials) for a three year period. The funding commitment
will be based upon an ex ante calculation of the deficit of pro-school
spaces in poor neighborhoods in each municipality, adjusted by the degree
to which the* proposed municipal program involves collaboration with PNPOs
exceeding 15 percent of new pro-school spaces. The program will allocate
construction funds to municipalities on a 60 percent (state) t40 percent
45



(municipality) matching basis for each new municipal pr*-school space
created and on an 80 percent (state) :20 percent (municipality/PNPO)
matchlng basis for each new PNPO space created. It is expected that about
20,000 of the new spaces will be in PNPO schools. It is also expected that
at least part of the 20 percent matching funds required for these spaces
will be generated by the PNPO.
4.        Municipal pre-school expansion proposals must encompass a six
year period, so that the comitment and capaclty of the municipalities and
PPOe to cover the recurrent costs of the expanded program are clearly
spelled out.  The construction program for which municipalities are sking
state funding should be designed to be carried out over a throe year
perlod. All of the USS 70 million of state construction funds will be
allocated by year three of the project, so that this. pro-school component
will be coipletaly disbursed by the end of the project.
5.        Although program coimitments will cover the full three years of
a municipality's program, the program administration unit will authorize
disbursements on a year-to-year basis after azi annual review of the
municipalities' adherence to the program. The SEZ's school district
offices will be responsible for monitoring municipal compliance with
program guidelines, and will report findings to the program administration
unit. Municipalities which fail to observe their commitments under the
program with respect to the targeting of schools to the poorest
communities, sustaining recurrent costs, working with PNPOs, or maintaining
pedagogical quality, will be ineligible for further funding under the
program.
Standards and Costs
6.        The size of the Pre-school Support Program (US$ 42 million from
the state secretariat and US$ 31 million in matching contributions from
municipalities and PNPOs) was calculated on the basis of a prototype low
cost-school design developed by FDE and the objective of reaching 120,000
more children in poor neighborhoods by year six of the project. The
initial design to be supported by the program will include a complete stock
of furniture, books, recreational and teaching materials (estimated at
about 20 percent of the total initial investment costs.)
7.        The prototype school will have two four-hour shifts per day, six
classrooms and 32 children per classroom, for a total of 384 children per
school. Achieving the target expansion of 120,000 new spaces would imply
the construction of 1,878 classrooms over six years. (If all of the
expansion were in new rather than existing schools, about 313 new schools
would be imp'ied.  However, the SEE anticipates substantial variation in
the physical design, particularly in the case of pre-schools run by PNPO-.
Program support for these schools will usually involve the purchase,
ronovation, expansion or adaptation of existing buildiz*gs rather than new
construction, and would thuAZ imply lower construction costs per classroom.
On the other hand, many municipal and PNPO schools currently operate for
10-12 hours per day, in light of community pressure for this type of
servico. The program will allow flexibility in school design to
accommodate fewer children for longer periods, but state financing will be
46



calculated on the basis of classrooms and overhead facillties used for the
four-hour pro-school program.
8.        All state inveutment funding will have to be matched by the
municipalities. It is expected that for state counterpart financing
channeled by the municipalities to qualified PNPO pro-schools,
municipalities will recover some part of the 20 percent matching funds
required for construction/renovation from the PNPOs. Operating costs for
P10 pro-schools will similarly be shared between the municipalitles and
P1PO1 accordlng to formulae of their choosing. A comeon pattern currently
is that municipalities finnce the costs of teachers and food and PNP05 pay
for administrative and service personnel and maintenance. This pattern is
broadly acceptable to the SBE, as long as teachers are contracted directly
by the school. However, neither municipal nor PNPO schools currently
supply adequate books, toys, games and other teaching materials. Explicit
arrangments for the continuing provision of these should be part of each
municipality's program.
9.        The prototype school design developed by the SEE would have
estimated annual operating costs of about USS 150 - 180 per child per year
(for a four-hour per day program). The program *a'imnistration unit will
not accept proposals with operating costs of over USS 200 per child per
year.  The SEE's prototype estimate of USS 150 is above the average found
for a sample of municipal pro-schools in early 19S89 (US $115/child/per
year) and considerably above the average foand ir, a sample of PNPO pre-
schools (USS 86/child/year, exclusive of rent). The SEE's cost estimate is
based on the assumption of more intensive usc of books, toys and other
materials in the pro-schools in order to stimulate child development, but
the higher costs of theme will be offset by economies made in other areas.
For example, municipalities will be encouraged to use make use of student
teachers to supplement fully-qualified teachers, so that the ratio of
students to fully qualified teachers may be slightly higher than the 25:1
average found in both municipa and PNPO school' in the study cited above.
On the other hand, to achieve the desired pedagogical quality at the pre-
school level, the SEE strongly recommends that student:qualified teacher
ratios not exceed 32:1. Municipal and PNPO schools planning to operate for
more than four hours per day will nheed to show in their proposals how the
increased costs of their programs will be met from their own resources.
The SEE's recommendation (which is also the current practice in most
extended day schools) is that the pedagogical program be confined to four
hours per day and that for the rest of the day, the children should engage
in supervised play, exercise and rest periods.
47



Ane   Vi  School HALUh P2arM
1.        The nlne lnterventlons of the school health program wlll bei
(L)       Health Yducation.  Developymnt of health and nutritlon education
currlculum and teachlng materLals by the SZS and CENP, teacher
training estimated at approximately 6 hours per teacher per
year, and subsequent integration of health and nutrition th me 
Lnto the regular currlculum of pro- and primary schools (for
prlmary school, the currlculum in health ia already developed,
but teacher training la needed. for pre-achool, both currlculum
development and teacher training is requlred.
(iL)      Physical Exams.  The annual phyalcal exam for admLttance to
phyalcal education will be replaced wlth a more thorough
physical exam for new entrants to pre- and primary school. The
location of thli physical exam wlll be determlned at the local
level. In most Lnstances, if is expected to occur in the UB8,
but in cases where the school does not have a nearby UBS, or the
UBS does not have the capacity, the physical exam will be done
ln the school by visLting health staff.
(Lii)     vision Screenlng.  An annual vision test adminiater-d by the
teacher, and referral of visually deficient children to the
local health center (UBS) for profession&l diagnosls and
provlison of eyeglasses. A small-scale hearing screening
program in munilcipal schools will also be supported. Screening
will be undertaken by specLaliats, and childron with hearing
problems will bo referred to the local health center (UBS).
(iv)      Immunizations.  Completion of childhood immunizations, by local
health center staff, (at present approximately 50 percent of
childr-an entering school have DLptheria/Tetanus and measlas
booster shots; the project will try to increase coverage to 100
percent).
(v)       Oral Health.  Preventive oral health (teothbrushLng, fluoride
mouth wash, oral health education) will be done within the
school. Referral to the UBS for dental treatment will be
introduced.
(vi)      Nutrition.  The school health program will introduce
surveillance and treatment of iron and Vitamin A deflciencies.
Since so little is known about these problems in schoolage
chlldren, this component will start with a pilot study ln years
1-3 of the project to measure the prevalence ef iron and vltamin
A deficiencies, provide supplementation to those sub-groups.wlth
deficiencies, and evaluate the pilot program. Based on the
results of this pilot phase, the program may expand vitamin A
and iron supplementation to cover the entire target population.
The school health program may also include other studies on
school children's health as agreed by the S8S and the Bank.
48



Under the pilot project, a sample of schools will be selected
and prevalence of levels of anmia and Vitamin A deflciencles
will be measured from blood samples of schoolchildren. Schools
will be classified by the prevalence of deficlencies. Where
anemia is high (30 percent of the sampie with hemoglobin levels
< 12 g/dl), students will receive iron sulfate daily for one
month.  In schools with low to medium prevalence (less than 30
percent of the population is anemic), the morenda will be
revised to include foods rich in iron and/or that help aide iron
absorption (Vitamin C, for exarple).  In schools where the group
sample has a deficiency in Vitamin A (5 percent of the sample
witl' values < 10 ug/100 ml or 15 percent of the sample < 20
ug/100 ml), children will receive a dosage of 200,000 UI of
Vitamin A annually.
In the schools where high provalence was found of either Vitamin
A and/or anemia, where supplementation was provided, blood
samples will be reanalyzed 8 weeks after the beginning of the
therapy to evaluate the impact of the therapy. in addition to
this, the side effects and success of teac'ieor administering the
supplements will be evaluated.
(vii)     Referral of health problems.  The teacher or school dlirector
would receive training in the recognition of problems in the
area of mental and physical health and in referral to the UBSo
for action.
(viii)    Sanltary Inspections.  The UBS staff will be responsible for
inspection of environmental conditions of the school, followed
by the school's prompt attention to health hazards and
infrastructural deficiencies.
(ix)      Training for UBS personnel in health problems of pre- and
primary school children, and for teachers in health education.
Simple records will be kept by school personnel so that health actions
undertaken in the school, as well as the results of referrals to the UBS,
could be monitor-d. The emphasis on monitoring and evaluation will be on
whether the activitios are actually being carried out in a proper fashion,
if referrals to the UBS are attended to, and on estimation of the actual
costs of the activities. Tho impact of the interventions on health will
not be ostlmated, except for the iron supplementation intervention, where
the outcome (on levels of iron deficiency) will be measured for a small
sample. The doscription of monitoring of costs and activities is described
in Annex V.
49



Annex V: Central Zvaluation ouestions
1.        The monitoring evaluations will answer the following central
evaluation questions:
a. Preschool Component
i.   Were additional classrooms built?  What was the socio-econonic
level of the community in which th-y were built? What was the
socio-economic background of students who enrolled in and
attended the schools?
ii. Teacher training: Did teachers in municipal and PNPO pro-schools
receive additional training? How much training did they
receive? How did the training affect their teaching?
b.   In-school Quality Improvement Component
i.   Longer instructional day:  Was the day lengthened?  How did the
teachers use their time during the day?   Were art and physical
education classes included in the Ciclo Basico?
ii. Teacher training in the ciclo basico philosophy: Did teachere
receive training? How did t:aining affect their teaching
behavior (provide playtime, identify weak students, etc)?
iii. Provision of quality inputs: Did schools rec ive materials?
Were they available in the classroom? How diL teachers ase the
materials?
iv. School feeding: Analysis of both centralized and decentralized
school feeding systems will be undertaken. For both systems,
the following questions will be answered: Is the planned menu
(with the designated calories) prepared? What are the major
differences in menus across municipalities? Does the timing of
the meals follow DSE's plans? Could the timing of the meals be
improved? How acceptable are the meals to the students? How
does the consumption of the meals vary by income level? What
are consumption levels overall? Are students given the
opportunity to eat more than the designat6d serving? Was the
training of cooks carried out? Is the cooking equipment
adequate? Are stocks monitored at the schools? Does the food
supplied equate well with demand?
c. School Health Component
i.   Provision of health services: Did children receive services
(screening, immunizations, teeth brushing) within the school?
How well does the referral system to the UBS for health problems
function? For physical exams, what proportion of students
actually receive entrance exams? Were schools inspected for
health hazards?
s0



Li. Health education: Was health and nutrition education curriculum
developed? Were the teachers trained in the curriculum? Wor-
the trained teachers better able to identify and teach health
thmses in the classroom?
2.        The cost evaluations will answer the following central
evaluation questions (diaaggregating costs as appropriate and providing
unit costs):
a. Pro-school Component
i.   Models of pre-school:  What are the operational costa of
alternative models?
ii. Teacher training: What was the coat of teacher training for
teachers in municipal and PNPO pro-schools?
b.   In-school Quality Improvement Component
i.   What was the cost of teacher training in face-to-face programs?
In television programs?
ii.  What was the cost of the instructional materials?
iii. What was the cost of additional school hours?
iv.  What are the full costs of the centralized school feeding
program under the new menu? What are the full costs of the
school feeding program under the decentralized system (including
resources provided by the municipality?  How do costs vary by
municipality?
v.   How do the costs of decentralized school feeding programs vary
by municipality? In what area do the major differences lie?
How much variation exists in what the municipalities contribute
to the school feeding program?
c. School Health Component
i.   What was the cost of health service provision by type of
intervention?
ii.  What was the cost of developing the health education program?
What was the cost of teacher training?
3.   Two implementation process evaluations will study:
a.   Preschool.  The preschool program requires a new relationship between
the state, municipalities and PNPO's as well as the establishment of
new administrative mechanisms for program implementation. In order
51



to utilize lessons to be gained from the process, a case study will
be undertaken to document the progress in implementation, including
the changing roles of the principal actors and institutions as well
as the reasons for success or failure of the program.
b.   Pro school and Ciclo Basico.  Implementation of the new pedagogical
practices will require significant changes on the part of teachers.
What factors affect successful implementation? And how are the
materials really being used in the classroom?
4.        The impact evaluations will answer the following central
evaluation questions:
a. Pro-school support program
i.   Does participating in preschool (and in various different models
of preschool) enhance children's school readiness, and their
subsequent learning of written Portugueso, mathematics, and
other subjects in primary school?
ii. Does participating in preschool (and in various different models
of preschool) enhance children's probability of on-time
promotion from grade 2 to 3, from grade 3 to 4 and from grade 4
to 5?
b.   In-school Quality Improvement
i.   Does participating in ciclo basico/jornada unica increase
students' learning of written Portuguese, mathematics, and other
subjects?
i.  Does participating in ciclo basico/jornada unica increase the
students' probability of on-time promotion to grade 3?
5.   Cost-effectiveness evaluation, based on the results of the impact and
cost evaluations
a.   Pro-school Support Program
i.   What is the cost-effectiveness of the pre-school support program
in terms of children's school readiness, and their learning of
written Portuguese, mathematics, and other subjects in primary
school?
ii. What is the cost-effectiveness of the pro-school support program
in terms of children's probability of on-time promotion from
grade 2 to 3, from grade 3 to 4 and from grade 4 to 5?
52



b.   Zn-school Quality Improvement
i.   What in the cost-effectiveness of the in-school quality
improvement program in terms of students' learning of written
Portuguese, mathematics, and other subjects?
ii. What is the cost-effectivenses of the in-school quality
improvement program in terms of students' probability of on-time
promotion to grade 3?
53



Annex VIt: Terms of Reference for Studies
TOSR for Evaluation Desion Reports
1.        The evaluation contracts will be let in stages.  The first stage
will be the design stage, in which evaluation designs will be proposed.
The scond stage is the actual evaluation stage, in which contracts will be
lot to conduct the evaluations.  Their third stage is the suppl _ ntary
studies stage, in which contracts for follow-on studies will be awarded to
allow specific questions that ariae, largely in connection with the
evaluation studies, to be further explored.
2.        The evaluation designs will have the following characteristics:
a. Monitoring evaluations will rely on implementation reports,
current archival data and on surveys.
i. a sampling plan, including sample stratification (if
appropriate), sample size, method of selecting sample.
Comparison groups will be specified.
ii. proposed indicators of implementation,
iii. proposed methods for treatment of data (collecting, coding,
ensuring quality control)
iv. proposed method of analysis,
v. proposed ataffing,
vi. timeline
vii. costs of evaluation.
b.   Process ev&luations will rely heavily on systematic observations
at participating schools and with institutions. Baseline surveys
will precede evaluation of innovations. Evaluation proposals will
include:
i. a sampling plan, including sample stratification (if
appropriate), sample size, method of selecting sample.
Comparison groups will be specified.
ii. proposed measures and indicators, draft instruments (student
social background and subcomponent implementation indicators are
required for all studies; each proposed instrument must be
associated with a specific evaluation question),
iii. proposed methods for treatment of data (collecting, coding,
ensuring quality control)
54



lv. proposed method of analysis,
v. proposed staffing,
vi. timeline
vii. costs of *valuation.
c.   Imact evaluations.  Impact evaluations will be panel designs,
following the same children over the duration of the study.
Uvaluation designs will includes:
i. a sampling plan, lncluding sample stratification (if
appropriate), sample size, method of selectlng sample.
Comparison groups will be speciflid.
ii. proposed measures and indlcators, drart lnstrumnts (student
soclal background and subcomponent impl m ntatlon indLcators are
required for all studies; each proposed instrument must be
associated with a specific evaluation question),
iii. proposed method of following (that is, retaining the sam
students in the data base) students over time (up to 4 years),
for both preschool and in-school children
iv. proposed methods for treatment of data,
v. proposed method of analysis,
vi. proposed staffing,
vii. timeline
viii. costs of each evaluation. Because a panel design li
required, the sample size should reflect the costs involved in
tracing students; proposals to test all children would be
unacceptable.
d. Cost analyses will be undertaken for sach subcomponent evaluated
in the impact evaluations and for several subcomponents subject to
process evaluations. Costs of subcomponents will be estimated
following the "ingredients" method (Levin, 1983), and costs per-pupil
will also be estimated. Tha ingredients method represents a
straightforward approach to estimating costs. The idea behind this
approach is that every intervention uses ingredients that have a
value or cost. If the ingredients can be identified and their costs
can be ascertained, it is possible to estimate the total costs of the
lntervention as well as the cost per unit of effectiveness. It is
also possible to determine how the cost burden is distrlbuted among
the sponsoring agency, funding agencies, donor and clients. The
ingredients method require. that each intervention be described in
terms of the resources or ingredients that are required to produce
the outcomes that will be observed. Each of these ingredients must
be carefully identified in order to place a value or cost on them.
55



Identification and specification of ingredients is often facilitated
by dividing ingredients into four or flve maln categories that have
comon properties. A typical breakdown would include personnel,
facilities, equipment and materials, other program inputs, and client
inputs. For more detail on the ingredients method of determining
costs, see Henry Levin, Cost-eff.ctiveneams A Primer (Boverly Hills:
Sage, 1983). When both costs and effectiveneos of program components
and subcomponents have been identified, it will be possible to
complete cost-effectiveness analyses of various (municLpal and PUPO)
preschool servicoe and cost-effectiveness analyses of the in-school
qua'ity improvement component and subcomponents.
i. proposed measures and indicators, draft instrumnts,
li. proposed staffing,
iil.. timeline,
iv. conts.
3.        Accert&ble expenditures for desion preparation.   in developing
the evaluation designs, it may be necessary for the contractor(s) to obtain
high level technical assistance from Brazilian and international evaluation
d-iign experts and economistv. Costs associated with obtaining such
technical assistance will be ccver^'d by the preaent contract.
56



Tfsof Reformnc   orDcnaiption Com~ission
Bacurond aLnd Obiectives
1.    At present the state of Sao Paulo through the 8cretariat of
Iducation (833) directly employs more than 160,000 primary school teachers
for 4.3 million prlmary school students, and has an annual budget of more
than US$ 3 billion, making it one of the largest non-military publlc
enterprlses in the world. The 8YY has made efforts to decentralize by
providing budgetary flexLbilLty to the 127 regional administrative units
(delogacLas). In early 1990 it began signing agreements to make
munlcipalitles responzlble for school construction and maintenance.
However, the state still provides 100 percent of the capital and recurrent
budgets, hires and pays teachers centrally, and sets curriculum and
teaching conditions.  Municipalities continue to look to the state for
financing of construction, equipping and refurbishing of schools.
2.   The 83X recognizes the need to rethink primary school management and
decision-making so as to give more responsibility to those authorities
which are closesi to the learning process. In principle in a future system
municipalities would be responsible for hiring teachers and school
administrators, for constructing and maintaining school buildings, for
direct supervision of teachers, and for payment to toacherm and others for
services rendered. The state would be responsible for planning,
regulation, assessment, curriculum development, setting and enforcement of
standards, and provision of financial assistance through block grants to
municipalities. A system of this sort would be based on a new partnership
between the *tate and the municipalitles. The system would be similar to
the new health system .urr-ntly being pioneered by sao Paulo under the SUDS
program. Furthermore, it would be in accordance with the new constitution
which states that "os municipios atuarao prioritariament- no ensino
fundamental * pre-escolar" (Chapter III, Section I, Article 211.2). The
modalities of shared responsibility to be worked out, as well as the
interim arrangements, could serve as a model for other states in Brazil.
3.   Teachers' unions, mayors, and bureaucrats within the system have a
strong interest in keeping the status quo. Because a new system would
require major attitudinal as well as legal and financing changes, it is
appropriate to use a commission format, in which a group of distinguished
citizens would be selected to review issues and make recommendations, as a
means of educating the concerned public as to the value of decentralization
as well as to take the issue out of the political arena. The comission
will have a small staff and would also have a budget for hiring consultants
to study specific issues. Besides its educational function it will provide
a set of guidelines for decentralization to be used by the state
government.
4.    The proposod commission will take as a point of departure the
problems and issues of the present system. It will review the reasons for
establishing a system with financial and decision making power at the
municipal and school level as well potontial problems and issues. It will
identify the organizational and flnancial structures noeded to make a
decentralized system work. The commission will cover both primary and
57



*soordazy education administration (the stato would continue to be
tepomsiblo for public higher education).
S. In order to inrurt the widest possible participation and acceptance,
the Govoereent will ssvablish a C ission of distinguished citizens and
tnpresentatives (10-12 memberr from all sectors of society) to agree on the
terms of reference of the study and to select and work with a small staff
(or possibly * consulting firm) to include an educ-tor, an education
*coonist. a management specialist, and support staff, which will act as
it* secretariat. Th final roport will therefore be the report of the
Commission rather than of the state or of the staff or consultants.
Activitias and Taska
6.    The following tasks will be undertaken:
(a) a critical review of the present system of financing and
msna ing primary education, including the pr-esnt municipal level capacity
for managing education, and expected changes in municipal financing because
of the nw constitution.
(b) definition of alternative forms of decentralization and
recame ndations for the most appropriate system for tho *tate of Sao Paulo;
(c) for the recommended approach, (i) a statement on the new
pedagogical and managerial obligations and responsibi.ities of the state
and the municipalities, including how the state would set and enforce
standards and how municipalities would contract teachers and other school
level persannel, (Ui) how the organizational structure of the SEE would be
changed; (iii) how the organizational structure of municipalities for
managing primary education would need to change (this structure would vary
depending on the size and administrative capacity of municipalities); (iv)
the financing requirements of a new system, including cost-sharing by the
state and the munilcipalities; (vi) how funds would flow from the state to
tho municipalities, including financial support for poorer municipalities;
and (vii) the role of private and PNPO schooling in the new system;
(c) a review of legal issues involved in changing to a decentralized
system, including status of teachers, administrators and physical
facilities, including secondary oducation activities taking plece in
primary schools; and
(d) a proposed plan, including a timetable, for changing over from
the prosent to the new system.
7.   The cominsion study will be implemented in several stages.  In the
first stage commission members will be selected and staff selectod. The
staff will interview key education decision makers, review relevant data,
and propare an initial draft report for discussion by the Commission
focussing on (a), (b) and (c) above. Parents, teachers, administrators,
academics, and high government officials will publicly review and discuss
the draft report. Subsequently the staff will revise the draft report and
prep ro tho detailed plan of action roferred to in (d) above.
58



Cualifications of the Stafj
S.   The staff should have expertise in the areas of public
administration, publlc finance, and education. It should have experience
preparing major administrative reforms for state, federal, and/or municipal
governme nts as well as for private industry. The staff should use
consultants in areas such an primary school curriculum, school
adminLitration and financing, and educational statistics.
Timetable and Costs
9.   The rr sort is expected to take about six months, as followas
one month                Lnitial preparation, establishing the team,
and preparing the work program
two months               meting wLth educational decision-makers on
proposed new system and estimating costs and
parameters of new system
one month                preparing draft report
one month                discussion of draft report and completion of
final report
one month                public discussion of report and preparation
of detailed implementation plan
The project would finance the costs of preparing the report and of
implementing the report's recommendations.
59



Terms of Reference for Asa-sment studv
Background and obiectives
1.   As responsibility at the state level for primary education movoe from
provision of education to monitoring standards of provision and
achievement, the CENP will need to build its capacity to supervise
contracts for conducting asessaments. Also, increasing the numbers of
students that are tested on an annual or semi-annual basis requires
improving the CZNPe* capacity in the areas of test development,
measurement, psychometrics, anJ statistics. Developymnt of these
capacities can be undertaken in several stages.
2.   The purpose of this study is to determine the feasibility of
establishing a state-wide academic achievement asseament facility, to be
housed within the Secretariat of Education (SEE) or another presently
existing or newly created Institution. The purpose of the assessment will
be to provide diagnostic information to the state and municipal
secretariat3 of education of Sao Paulo about the educational progress of
students in the state; its purpose is not to serve as a selection
examination.
Activitiee and Tasks
3-   The contractor will review the various types of assessment
possibilities, including the objectives to be attained by using samples
compared to using censuses, an well as the staffing and costs associated
with each type of assessment, in accordance with appendix A, and recommend
the most appropriate short, middle and long-term objectives for assessment
in Sao Paulo.
4.   In order to carry out this task the contractor will specifically
assess:
a.   the availability and professional qualifications of surrey
researchers, sampling statisticians, data analysts, me*uurement
statisticians, and psychometricians in the Sao Paulo r-gt3n;
b.   the capacity of the SEE to manage the assessment effort,
including providing comprehensive lists of schools and school
enrolment, and facilitating communication with schools and
parents in the system; and
c.   the requirements for starting an assessment agency, including
staffing requirements, required level of funding, appropriate
location of the agency (e.g. as a department within the SEE or
in another institution), and technical training needs.
Qualifications of the Contractor
5.   The institution contracted for the assessment study should have the
following qualifications: (i) expertise in academic achievement testing
and public policy analysis; (ii) experience in managing established
60



asesment unltul and (iii) knowledge of public sector management.  The
contracting institution will be selected on the basis of a review of the
capabilities of 3-4 institutions.
Chronocram
6.   The Assessment study will be carried out over a period of one month,
including three-weeks of field work in Sao Paulo.
61



Appendix A
1.    Ovorall, systematic assessments could be undertaken in one of four
ways, with decreasing levels of technical complexity and costs (a) testing
all children for their skills levels in the five basic areas of the
curriculum (e.g. Portuguese, mathematics, science, history and geography);
(b) testing all children in selected grade levels for their skills levels
in the five basic areas of the curriculum; (e) testing a sample of children
in all grade levels on the five basic skills levels; and (d) testing a
sample of children at s*lected grade levels on selected skills (e.g.
Portuguese, science and mathematics).   Implementing any one of these four
options would require the following:
All children. five orincioal subiects. all grades. Testing all
children in five principal subjects would provide information to
students, parents and schools about their individual performance; it
would also provide information to the state about its overall
performance in these five subjects for students in all grades. This
option would require the development of five tests at each primary
and secondary grade level, 1-11, or fifty-five tests, and
administration of the tests to all children in the state. As over 5
million (5,096,364 in 1987) children are enrolled in primary schools
alone in the state of Sao Paulo, a comprehensive assessment of
achievement would far exceed any existing institution's present
logistical capacity. In principle, however, such assessments could
be undertaken once the capacity was developed.
All children. selected grades. five principal eubiecte. A first
alternative is to reduce the number of grades selected for testing.
This reduces the number of tests to be developed significantly (for
example, if three grades are selected, only 15 tests need to be
developed.). It also reduces the number of children to whom the
tests are administered to only about 2.3 million students (in 1987:
1,017,650 in grade 2; 691,421 in grade 4; and 518,523 in grade 6).
Student sample. all orades. five princioal subiects. A third
alternative is to test a sample of children at all grades. This
strategy also requires the development of 55 tests, but the required
institutional capacity for printing, delivering, scoring, and
reporting results is not as great as in the first alternative.
However establishing a statistically valid sample also poses
technical problems. When carefully chosen, a sample can inform the
educational system regarding its performance; however, it cannot
provide detailed information about students or schools.
Student samole. selected crades. selected subiects. A fourth
alternative is to further reduce the test development work by
restricting the number of subjects tested.  For example, one type of
this assessment would test a sample of children of various ages in
the primary and secondary system, for example, children aged 9, 13
and 17, on their competencies in reading, mathematics and science.
By conducting such an assessment systematically over a number of
years, it is posaible to answer such question as: how well are
62



children learning, are differences between advantaged and
disadvantaged children declining, are differences between boys and
girls declining, etc. Glven Sao Paulo's present capacities, this
would be the preferred medium term option.
63



Terms of ReforenCe for the PNPO Study
-bictivea
1. The objectives of the PNPO Study are:
Mi)             to develop a typology of PNPOs active in providing
children's (age. 0-18) educational and health programs in
metropolitan Sao Paulo based on their current activities,
plans for expanlion, and needs for technical assistance and
capital for expanding their programs in a cost-effective
manner;
(ii)           to identify financial and qualitative measures needed to
strengthen these PNPO services in metropolitan Sao Paulo;
(iii)          to fill the present gap in systematic knowledge about the
nature, magnitude, form, institutional channeling, and
sectoral destination of private giving in Greater Sao
Paulo; and
(iv)           to formulate policy recommendations that would stimulate
private giving.
ActivJMs
2.   The contractor will conduct a census of the approximately 3,000 PNPOs
that are active in human resources development in the Greater Sao Paulo
area, collecting basic data on location, number of children served, and
types of services. On the basis of the census data, a sample of about 300
PNPOs will be drawn that reflects the mix of services offered. The sample
will then be surveyed in order to identify:
(i)       the sectoral composition, scope of operations, and expansion
programs of PNPOs catering to children in the following age
groups: 0-3 years, 4-6 years, 7-14 years, 15-18 years;
(ii)      the costs of these programs, both actual and prospective due to
planned expansion, broken down by recurrent and capital
expenditures, and differentiated by sector;
(iii)     also differentiated by sectcr, the financing "cost-sharing"
patterns characterizing these programs, including public
sources, beneficiaries' contributions, private enterprises, and
other private sources;
(iv)      the technical assistance and institutional strengthening needs
of the PNPOs;
(v)       the degree to which the beneficiary community participates in
designing and operating PNPO programs and designing,
constructing and maintaining physical facilitieas
64



{vi)      the degroe to whi-h PNPO programs have bien able to grow, both
in terms of tho number of children they eerve, as well as the
number of programs they offer;
(vii)     the degree to which public financing policies and mechanisms
have an impact (positively or nogatively) on community
participation, PNPO program delivery, and PNPO program
continuity.
3.   With regard to private giving, the contractor will carry out several
surveys, including a survey of corporate donors and private foundations, an
attitude survey of private philanthropists, and a survey of intermediary
organisations. Tho study will also Involve analysis of the legal, policy,
and institutional framework of private giving. The contractor will pay
particular attention to the following issuess
(i)       Flow of private giving.  The study team should determine the
magnitude and origin of grants, broken down into key categories
such au personal giving and corporate grantmaking programs, as
well as the institutional destination and sectoral distribution
of grant flows;
(ii)      Income of private givers.  To the extent possible, grants should
be related to the incomes of the givers, whether individual or
corporate;
(iii)     Determinants of giving.  Among other determinants, the study
team should examine tax incentives, the availability of
appropriate intermediary institutions, attitudes of private
philanthropists, including the level of confidence in the
integrity and efficiency of recipient institutions; and
(iv)      Policy and institutional environment.  The study team should
review the adequacy of the overall policy environment for
private giving in Greater Sao Paulo, including tax policy,
regulatory practices, and legal registration of private
entities. In assessing the adequacy of the institutional
environment, the team should pay particular attention to the
institutions and practices which monitor institutional integrity
and efficiency.
4.   On the basis of the above information, the contractor should
formulate recommendations regarding:
(i)       respective roles of government, PNPOs, private enterprise, and
beneficiary communities in a cost-effective partnership between
the public and private sectors building upon the comparative
advantages of each in the provision of children's services;
(ii)      changes in exieting public policy, as well an proposals fo- new
policies, that would be necessary In order to build a productive
relationship with PNPos;
65



(LLL)     guidelLnem for providing stable financial and technical
assiLtance to PNPOs;
(iv)      eatimates of the population that could be served using the
proposed model, and means of targetlng public assistance to the
neediest familles.
(v)       proposed government tax and regulatory pollcy that would
stlmulate the growth of prlvate givLng; and
(vl)      means of improving grant intermediation in Greater Sao Paulo,
taking into account creative developments ln prlvate gLving that
have taken place elsewhere and which might be of relevance to
Sao Paulo;
OualificatLons of the contracted institutlon
5.   The institution contracted for the PNPO Study should have the
following qualifications: (i) capacity for undertaking financial and
economic analysis; (ii) experience in evaluating PNPO programs; (ill)
experience in evaluating programs for developing human resources; (Lv)
experience in designing and implementing surveys; (v) experience ln public
policy analysis, including in the areas of tax, and legal and regulatory
policy; and (vi) experience in working with the private sector. The
contracting institution will be selected on the basis of a review of the
capabilities of 3-4 institutions in Sao Paulo by the SEE.
Chronocram
6.   The PNPO Study will be carried out over a period of six months as
follows:
Month 1                        Signing of research contract
Design and pre-testing of instruments
Census of PNPOs
Month 2                        Training of research teams
Months 2 - 4                   Implementation of the survey
Months 4 - 5                   Analysis of survey data
Months 5 - 6                   Formulation of recommendations
Presentation of findings
66



ANNEX VI1
BRAZIL
INNOVATIONS IN BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. ReDorts and Studies Related to Education in Brazil
1.        Secretaria de EZtado da Educacao (SEE), Ciclo Basico, 1987.
2.        CENP/SEE, Ouem auiser aue conte outra..., 1987.
3.        CENP/SEE, Isto so aDrende com o ciclo basico, 1987.
4.        CENP/SEE, Ciclo basico em iornada unica:  reflexao * sucestoeu
do trabalho -- modulo. oedaaooicou, 1988.
5.        CENP/SEE, Ciclo basico em iornada unica:  uma nova concegcao de
trabalho oedaaogico, 1988.
6.        Fundacao Carlos Chagas, "Diagnostico da situacao da educacao
pre-escolar na Regiao Metropolitana de Sao Paulo," July 1988.
7.        SEADE, "Analise comparativa das caracteristicas do atendimento
educacional na Grande Sao Paulo segundo regioes homogeneas,
Y988. 
S. Reports and Documents Related to the Prolect
1.        Project proposal March/April 1989 update (7 bound volumes):
o    Projeto Inovacoes no Ensino Basico no Estado de Sao Paulo
o    Subprojeto -- Educacao:  Ciclo Basico/Jornada Unica, Vol. 1
o    Subprojeto -- Educacao:  Ciclo Bauico/Jornada Unica, Vol. 2
o    Subprojeto -- Educacao:  Ciclo Basico/Jornada Unica, Vol. 3
o    Subprojeto -- Atendimento ao Pre-Escolar de Baixa Renda
o    Subprojeto -- TV Educativa
o    Subprojeto -- Saude Escolar
2.        FIPE, "Analise da viabilidade economica da descentralizacao do
programa de merenda escolar na Grande Sao Paulo, December 1988."
3.        FDE/SEE, "Volumen I:  Relatorio de acompanhamento," January
1989.
4.        FDE/SEE, "Volumen II:  Relacao de obras/ Criterias para
estimativa de custoc," January 1989.
5.        FDE/SEE, "Volumen II:  Informacoes complementares solicitadas
polo Banco Mundial," January 1989.
67



6.        FDE/8EF, "Volumon III: Analibo preliminar da *ituacao do
atendimonto *ducacional publico quanto a recursou filucon/
Prognostico. das condicoss do lmpl-montacao de pollticas
oducacionaio/ Avaliacao * reformulacao das ap clflcacoe-
olcolares a dos programas arquit.tonicoa," January 1989.
7.        FDh/SEE, "R-latorio do atividades -- geroncia de mobiliario."
S.        FDh/SZE, "Manual do manutencao * conbervacao de mobillario
escolar."
9.        Catalogo da UNICAMP -- *lit-ma construtlvo de balxo custo.
10.       Cad-rno REAGO 2 -- hlitema construtlvo de baixo custo.
11.       FDE/SEE, "Manual de scpeciflcac.os -- mobillario s*colar."
12.       FDE/SEE, "Mobiliario escoLar -- distribuicao de ambientes."
13.       FDE/SEE, "Listagem de insmos de mobiliarios."
14.       FDE/SEE, "Listagem de quantificacao de moeolliario."
15.       DSE/SEE, "Etapas de licitacao do Departamento de Suprimento
Escolar -- DSE."
16.       FDE/SEE, "Processo licitatorio -- EEPG Washington Alves Natel."
C. Workino PaDers and Other Materials
1.        February 1989 Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, Annex 7 --
Physical Faci'.ities
2.        Pre-school consultant reports
3.        February 1989 Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, Annex I-F --
Evaluation
4.        Mapa da RMSP -- Regioes homogeneas de perfil de rendimentos.
5.        Mapa da RMSP -- Salas de aula a serem construidas na RMSP.
6.        Mapa da RMSP -- Regioes homogeneas quanto ao congestionamento na
RMSP.
7.        Relatorio fotografico
S.        Planta da EEPG Bairro Ferrazopolis.
9.        Tabela resumo de programas arquitetonicos.
10.       Recorte de puLlicacao de licitacao de reformas.
11.       Rocorto do publicacao de odital de aquisicao do mobiliario.
68



12.       Sistematica de controls de qualidade de mobiliario.
13.       Protocolo normativo -- PGZ/FDZ/SEZ.



18RD 21531
B        R A  Z                                    ! L  i                                           -    - -
INNOVATIONS IN BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                   ,                           .MNAS
Sotr-r   AM E R i A                                                                                                                                                                                           -G~JERA S
4,, k HhAZ                                          SCHOOL DISTRICTS AND MUNICIPALITIES                                                                         r                               '
IN GREATER SAO PAULO
PARANA
4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,
_ _            *n            t~~~~~~~~RANCC DA     MAR'R                                5A'  SE                  + 
{{ EOM IES>< ' < , ~~~A R                              -..       A' RA:A
2  SANTANA OE  RARNAIEA  .
9~~~~~~~ >                                                                                                -^            ' Ltv.R4REM. tt2 ,,  
C :'sTt  ,r  /  t'C'
17   EvB  4>                                   o       j        tt                              I  Ct~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'B 
21~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~
A~~~
D   * X   ,  _.;    20           '               J'                                                                        itepl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ohoa Dstict Ba Dvso  Rndories
ig   \   [                                  '<                                                                        ,   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~School District Offices outside the
_   JUOdIT bA   /   t                 .        ,! .:                       .                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Munioipel'tyr of 5 Pa_lo
>  -iz  <  5:  v  CEsn  .  + 12 Scfhoo Distrir,% inside the btunicipolisy~~~~~~~1   ScoolDierite  sid th tuinaiplt
*jfr _       FRAA                        25P                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~          ~           ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~Built- p Areas2 s-
'Af .. - = - GR^AnF  .  Reser ars2
~~~~~~~~ 2' ,; R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~icers
\   JII!Ww                                                                                                *--- -  Muniopolily ol Soo Poulo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  uiialt  fSS   al
Limits of Greater SOO PaUla Are
-.~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - zC t   e- -  Intrnoboenol Boatadories linseal
K as iMt'aS
DA7~~~~~~~~~~~~ API'8
GUAC6            SAO BERNARC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SeNeeLit
ar.x                                                Or 3                                                                  Ac' 00~~~~~~~~~~~CAPC
.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5- Dirc i- -d.h



