Report No. 381a-CD l                                                                   FILE  COPY
Appraisal of a                                                                                       COPY
Second Highway Project
Chad
May 28, 1974
Western Africa Projects Department
Highways Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for officiai use only by the Bank Group. it may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authonzation. The Bank Croup does not accept responsibihty
for the accuracy or completeness ot the report.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00        =  CFAF 250
CFAF 1 million = US$4,000.
Fiscal Year: January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric                        British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)               =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2=   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )      0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)            =   2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)           =   2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)      =   2,204 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)               =   0.26 US gallon (gal)
=   0.22 British gallon (imp gal)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ATT   - Association des Transporteurs Tchadiens
CSPC - Caisse de Stabilisation du Prix du Coton
DPW   - Directorate of Public Works
ENTP - Ecole Nationale des Travaux Publics, N'djamena
FAC   - Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FED   - Fonds Europeen de Developpement
ONDR - Office National du Developpement Rural
ORT   - Organisation-Reconstruction-Travail (consultants, Saitzerland)
USAID - United States Agency for International Development
vpd   - vehicles per day



CHAD
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY   ...........        .................................        i - ii
1.    INTRODUCTION   .......................................
2.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR   ...............................                   2
A.    Background   ....................................                  2
B.    The Transport System   ..........................                  2
C.    Transport Planning, Policy, and Coordination   ..                  4
3.   HIGHWAYS            ............................... .                     5
A.    The Network   ...................................                  5
3.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic                          5
C.    The Road Transport Industrv   .....            ..............      5
D.    Administration   ................................                  6
E.    Planning and Financing   ........................                  7
F.    Engineering and Construction   ....            ..............      9
G.   Maintenance   ...................................                   9
4.    THE PROJECT   ........................................                  10
A.   Description  ......           .............................        10
-  Improvement and Maintenance of Feeder Roads..                  10
-  Preinvestment Studies for Secondary Roads ...                  il
-  Training Program for DPW Staff   ....           .........      il
- Technical Assistance to the Ministry of
Transport   ................................                12
-  Traffic Counting Program   ....            ...............     12
- Reconditioning and Three-Year Interim
Maintenance of Ferry-Boats ....            ............     12
- Feasibility Study for Replacement of Ferry-
Boats and Improvement of Dock Facilities                    12
B.    Cost Estimates   ..............      ..     ................      13
C.    Execution   ...................          ..................       14
D.    Financing and Disbursements   ........ .. .........               16
This report has been prepared by Messrs. D. Jovanovic (Economist), E. Staffini
(Engineer), and M. Iches (Engineer/Economist). The project was appraised in
October/November 1973.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
5.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION  .........................................  17
A.  General    ................................................    17
B.  Cotton Development Program  ............................. 17
C.  Cotton Processing and Marketing  ........................ 18
D.  Impact of Improved Feeder Roads on Vehicle Operating Costs 19
E.  Impact of Improved Feeder Roads on Cotton Production  ...  19
P.  Economic  Return    ........................................    20
G.  Other Major Project Elements .20
6.  AGRFEMENTS REACHED AND REOMM!ENDATION ........................ 21
TABLES
1.  Development of the Highway Network, 1970-73
2.  Growth of the Vehicle Fleet, 1967-72
3.  Expenditures on Highways, 1968-73
4.  Government Revenues from Road Users, 1969-73
5.  Project Cost Estimates
6.  List of Equipment to be Procured, and Cost Estimate
7.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8.  Cotton Development Plan Production Targets
9.  Estimate of Vehicle Operating Costs
10.  -Estimated Costs and Benefits of the Feeder Road Program
11.  Estimated Economic Return from Improving Cotton Feeder Roads
MAPS
Chad - Second Highway Project - IBRD 10845
Feeder Roads Project Area    - IBRD 10846



GHAD
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.         The Republic of Chad is a vast, landlocked country whach is
generally considered one of the poorest in Africa. The economy is based
primarily on agriculture which accounts for about 47% of GDP; cotton is
the main export commodity, contributing almost three-quarters of total
export earnings. Export-import trade depends on long routes outside the
country, as the principal economic centers are located at an average dis-
tance of 2,000 km from the nearest ocean ports. External transport is
therefore an important factor to the economy, since the high costs of
transport make exports less competitive, and also inflate the domestic
prices of imports.
ii.        The transport system is a simple one, with roads by far the pre-
dominant mode; air and water transport have only minor local significance.
The road network consists of about 7,200 km of classified roads (only 240
km are paved), and about 25,000 km cf earth tracks which provide connections
to agricultural areas. The distribution of the network is quite uneven,
covering mainly the south and south-west where almost all the cotton is
produced and where economic activity is located. The condition of the net-
work is generally poor; inadequate budget allocations allow maintenance only
of primary roads, leaving important feeder roads in the cotton-growing areas
not even minimally maintained.
iii.       The Bank Group's first lending to Chad for transport (Credit 125-CD,
US$4.1 million, August 1968) helped finance a project directed at improving
road maintenance. It consisted of: (i) a five-year maintenance program,
including provision for purchase of equipment and training of operators and
mechanics, (ii) a feasibility study of the Djermaya-Djimtilo road (82 km)
with detailed engineering if justified, and (iii) a program of road traffic
counts. Some difficulties were encountered in executing the maintenance
program, primarily due to delays in procuring equipment, and the Government's
inability to make adequate local funds available, but it was completed in
December 1973. The training program was not implemented as planned, however,
because the consultants' proposal exceeded the amount provided in the Credit,
and the Government requested that it be dropped from the project. The other
two items were executed satisfactorily, but detailed engineering for the
Djermaya-Djimtilo road was considered premature.
iv.        The Second Highway Project now proposed consists of:  (i) a five-
year program for improvement and maintenance of about 800 km of feeder roads
in cotton-growing areas; (ii) preinvestment studies for about 120 km of sec-
ondary roads; (iii) a two-year training program for staff of the Directorate
of Public Works (DPW); (iv) technical assistance to the Ministry of Transport
for reorganization of the road transport industry; (v) a two-year traffic



- ji -
count on about 2,000 km of the most important roads; and (vi) the reconditioning
and three-year interim maintenance of nine ferry-boats serving the cotton areas,
and a feasibility study for eventual replacement of these boats and for improve-
ments of dock facilities. The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is esti-
mated at US$3.5 million equivalent, with foreign costs of about US$2.65 million
(76%). In view of the severe budgetaiy constraints and general economic prob-
lems of the country which are being aggravated by the continuing severe drought,
it is proposed that the Association finance 100% of the project cost, net of
taxes.
v.         Execution of the project will be primarily the responsibility of
DPW assisted by consultants, most likely BOEOM (France) for the preinvestment
studies, and ORT (Switzerland) for the training program. Since both consul-
tants had been employed for these items under the first project and have done
the necessary preparation work, the Government is planning, and the Associa-
tion agrees, that they should be retained for the present project. The
Ministry of Transport will be responsible for the technical assistance to
study the road transport industry. Traffic counts will be carried out by
DPW. An outside expert will be in charge of the improvement and maintenance
of feeder roads for the first two years of the project; this responsibility
will then be gradually turned over to a Chadian counterpart technician who
will take over the expert's duties for the remainder of the project period.
Reconditioning and maintenance of ferry-boats will be carried out by DPW,
and the feasibility study by a consultant expert over a three-month period.
vi.        Direct responsibility for project execution of improvement and
maintenance work on the 800 km of cotton feeder roads will be entrusted to
COTONTCHAD, a Government-controlled company with mixed capital which has the
monopoly for processing and marketing of cotton. COTONTCHAD and DPW vill be
expected to enter into a management contract which would specify their respective
duties and responsibilities. Essentially, DPW will own and supply the equip-
ment purchased under the project, while COTONTCHAD will provide the personnel
needed for the work teams and for equipment maintenance. The amount of equip-
ment to be purchased will be consistent with the scope of work to be carried
out. Road maintenance and ferry-boat equipment will be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines;
in addition to the bid price, bid evaluation will take into consideration the
compatibility of the equipment, and the availability of service and spare parts.
Materials and workshop equipment and tools will be purchased following local
advertisement only, since this procedure is considered more efficient to enable
continuous execution of the project. The improvement and maintenance works
will be carried out by force account, since it has been determined that this
method will provide the least-cost solution. The basis for the management con-
tract has been discussed and agreed with the Government; the Association will
review and approve the contract before it is signed.
vii.      The proposed project is not only an operation in the transport
sector, since the feeder roads proposed for improvement and maintenance are
a component of a broader program for agricultural development in southern Chad.
The economic analysis therefore takes into account the probable impact of these



- iii -
roads on cotton production in the project area, and on this basis, the best
estimate of the economic return is about 18%. Other project items are consist-
ent with priorities set by the Government and the Association.
viii.     The project is suitable for a Credit of US$3.5 million equivalent
to the Government of Chad on standard IDA terms.






CHAD
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The proposed project has evolved from a Covernment request to the
Association for a contribution to a five-year (1973-77) Cotton Development
Program in southern Chad; the financial participation of the Fonds Europeen
de Developpement (FED) and the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) has
already been assured. Terms of reference for a FAC-financed feasibility
study of roads in the cotton-growing areas were prepared by the Bank's
Permanent Mission in West Africa (PMWA), and the study was completed in 1973
by consultants BCEOM (France).
1.02      This Second Highway Project is intended to support the cotton
program, and consists of: (a) a five-year program for improvement and main-
tenance of about 800 km of feeder roads in cotton-growing areas; (b) preinvest-
ment studies for improvement of about 120 km of secondary roads; (c) a two-year
training program for staff of the Directorate of Public Works (DPW); (d) tech-
nical assistance to the Ministry of Transport for reorganization of the road
transport industry; (e) a two-year program of traffic counts on about 2,000 km
of the most important roads; and (f) the reconditioning and three-year interim
maintenance of nine ferry-boats, and a feasibility study for ferry-boat
replacement and improvements of dock facilities. The total cost of the pro-
posed project, excluding taxes, is estimated at about US$3.5 million equivalent,
with foreign costs of about US$2.65 million (76%). IDA financing is proposed
to cover 100% of the total cost of the project, net of taxes.
1.03      The only other Bank Group lending operation in Chad's transport
sector was a Credit (125-CD, US$4.1 million, August 1968) which helped
finance: (a) a five-year highway maintenance program, including provision
for purchase of equipment and training of operators and mechanics; (b) a
feasibility study of the Djermaya-Djimtilo road (82 km), with detailed
engineering if justified: and (c) a program of road traffic counts. There
was an initial delay in procuring equipment for the maintenance program,
but since then progress was fairly satisfactory despite the effects of the
present drought and the reduced availability of maintenance funds forced by
Government budgetary constraints. The five-year program was completed in
December 1973, but the Closing Date of the project has been extended to
December 31, 1974 to allow payment of some outstanding disbursements and use
of the Credit balance for procurement of some additional equipment. The
training program proposed by consultants ORT (Switzerland) was a costly one
which exceeded the amount provided in the Credit, especially in view of the
adverse impact of currency realignments; this program was therefore dropped
from the project at the Oovernment's request. The feasibility study for the
Djermaya-Djimtilo road was completed satisfactorilv, but detailed engineering
was considered premature. Traffic counts were carried out in 1970 by DPW
with BCEOM assistance as envisaged; these counts will be continued under the
proposed project.



- 2 -
1.04      This report is based on the feasibility study mentioned in para.
1.01, and on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of Messrs. D.
Jovanovic (Economist), E. Staffini (Engineer), and M. Iches (Engineer/
Economist) which visited Chad in October/November 1973 and of a follow-up
mission by Mr. Staffini in March 1974.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Background
2.01      Chad is a vast (1.3 million km2) landlocked country In central
Africa. The entire north and east, about 90% of the total area, is mainly
Sahelian grassland and desert; agriculture is therefore concentrated in the
south and in the basin of the Chari and Logoné Rivers (Map 10845). Throughout
the country the terrain is generally flat, presenting no major topographical
obstacles to transport.
2.02      Chad is one of the poorest countries in Africa.  It has few record-
ed natural resources, lacks economic infrastructure, and is burdened by the
high cost of external transport. The population of 3.7 million is growing
at a rate of 2.1% p.a. The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita was
estimated at US$80 in 1971, increasing at about 5% p.a. in constant prices.
Agriculture is the most important economic sector, accounting in 1971 for
about 47% of GDP. The main export commodity is cotton which contributes
about 75% of total export earnings. The proposed project is designed to help
stimulate cotton production by providing more reliable transport services in
the areas under cultivation.
B.   The Transport System
2.03      The system is a simple one based on about 7,200 km of classified
roads, of which only about 240 km are paved (Table 1). Water and air trans-
port have only minor significance.  The principal economic centers are
located about 1,800-2,800 km from the nearest ocean ports, making export-
import trade dependent on long routes outside the countrv. External trans-
port is therefore an important factor to the economy, since the high costs
of such transport 1/ make exports less competitive, and also inflate the
domestic prices of imports.
2.04      The country uses three major transport routes for access to the
sea, and Government policy is not to depend solely on any one of them.  The
routes from N'Djamena are:  (2) the Transequatorial road, river and rail
system to the port of Pointe-Noire in Congo (about 2,600 km); (ii) the Trans-
cameroon road/rail route to the port of Douala in Cameroon (about 1,800 km);
1/   Transport costs an average of 15% of the FOB price for cotton fiber,
35% of the domestic retail price of gasoline, 55% of the price of
imported fertilizer, and 70% of the price of cement.



- 3 -
and (iii) the Nigerian route by road to Maiduguri, or by the seasonally
navigable Benoue River to railheads and seaports in Nigeria (about 2,000 km).
In 1970/71, the distribution of import-export flows over these routes
was 47% on the Transequatorial, 37% on the Nigerian, and 16% on the Trans-
cameroon. By 1978/79, however, expected improvements to the two latter
routes will make them more efficient, and will favor a re-distribution of
Chad's traffic to about 40% of the total on each of them.
Highways
2.05      A road system comprised essentially of earth roads and tracks
constitutes the main mode of transport. This system and its administration,
as well as the characteristics of the road transport industry, are discussed
in detail in Chapter 3.
Waterways
2.06      Water transport by small vessels on Lake Chad and on the Chari and
Logone Rivers is seasonal, and decreasing in importance to the point where
it now accounts for only about 3 - 4% of total transport.
Air Transport
2.07      Air services are provided mostly through Chad's only international
airport at N'Djamena, which handles more freight than any other airport in
the landlocked countries of central Africa. In 1972, air traffic through
N'Djamena totalled 16,000 tons of freight and 79,000 passengers. There are
11 other airfields (two with paved runways) which can accommodate only light
aircraft (DC-3) and which carry low volumes of traffic. The local airline
company, Air Tchad, operates scheduled domestic service between a few princi-
pal cities with a fleet of four old planes. The company is owned partly by
the Covernment (60%) and partly by Union des Transports Aeriens (UTA, France).
It has financial autonomy, but is supervised by the Ministry of Transport.
2.08      The amounts envisaged for air transport in the 1971-80 Development
Plan represent less than 8% of total investments for transport. The main
planned investment appears to be relocation of N'Djamena airport, but this
will not solve the critical problems of air transport, namely, operating
difficulties of secondary airfields, and the deteriorating financial position
of Air Tchad. The possibility of making limited investments for improving
the seasonal reliability and capacity of secondary airfields will have to be
studied (para. 2.12). As regards Air Tchad, gradual rerewal and increase of
the fleet will become necessary [n a few years, but the company wili not be
able to finance these requirements because of its poor financial situation
partly due to unpaid Government bills.



- 4 -
C.   Transport Planning, Policy, and Coordination
2.09      The Mlnistry of Transport has been responsible for transport policy
and coordination since its establishment in late 1971. However, the Ministry
lacks the necessary qualified personnel to ensure adequate data-collection,
economic analysis, and decision-making; its activities have therefore been
limited to the immediate problems connected with road transport, and negotiat-
ing with neighboring countries the use of their transport routes.
2.10      Transport infrastructure has been expanding only slowly, primarily
because of lack of financial resources. Investments made under the Develop-
ment Plan of 1966-70 totalled about CFAF 6.1 billion (US$24 million), »mstly
in foreign aid. This amount was modest considering the importance of the
transport sector, but it represented about 23% of total public investments
during the period. Almost 90% of total transport investments were devoted
to roads, and they helped improve the reliability of facilities, particularly
in the south; however, some of the works (for example, the N'Djamena-Guelendeng
road, and some feeder road bridges) have already deteriorated as a result of
inadequate engineering.
2.11      The Second Development Plan (1971-80) envisages investments of
about CFAF 46 billion (US$184 million) in the transport sector, with most of
this amount coming from external sources. High priority, about 85% of total
investments, is again given to roads. Further improvements are envisaged
mostly for roads in the south, and the Plan also correctly emphasizes the
need for improved connections to external routes, for example, completion of
the road N'Djamena-Doba-Sarh (to the Central African Republic border), as
well as construction of the road between Moundou and Guidjiba (Cameroon) and
of a bridge over the Chari River at N'Djamena.
2.12      Inter-modal coordination is not a pressing problem, because road
transport is so clearly dominant. In the future, development of air transport
could offer an important traffic potential, because low traffic volumes in
the north and east of the country do not justify substantial investments in
land facilities. Air transport therefore appears as the most suitable alter-
native to roads to ensure the flow of certain specific goods and services to
remote areas. This problem deserves careful attention and analysis, but it
has not been elaborated on in the Second Plan. The question was accordingly
discussed with the Government, who agreed to make its best efforts to obtain
external aid for a study of air transport development, and to establish, in
consultation with the Association, a long-term program to develop internal
air transport.



- 5 -
3. RIGHWAYS
A.   The Network
3.01      The road network consists of about 7,200 km of classified roads,
of which only about 240 km are paved; the remainder are gravel or earth
facilities constructed to varying standards, and some of which are closed
to traffic periodically during the rainy season (Table 1). There are also
about 25,000 km of earth tracks which provide connections with agricultural
areas.
3.02      The classified network is unevenly distributed, and is located
primarily in the south of the country where economic activity is concen-
trated; the vast uninhabited areas in the north are only sparsely served.
Average density of the network is about 2 km per 1,000 inhabitants, one of
the lowest in Africa.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.03      Traffic is almost entirely concentrated in the south and southwest,
following the location of economic activity in these regions. Total freight
traffie in 1972 was estimated at a low 500,000 tons.  The predominance of
agriculture in the economy makes transport demand seasonal. There is no
regular collection of traffic data. The most recent country-wide traffic
counts were carried out in 1969/70 as part of the First Highway Project, and
these showed traffic levels on an average of less than 50 vehicles per day
(vpd) on most of the primary roads. The proposed project envisages a continua-
tion of traffic counting, and includes a two-year program to help DPW establish
priorities for future road investments (para. 4.09).
3.04      The motor vehicle fleet has been increasing since 1967 at a modest
5.5% p.a., and in 1972 totalled 12,000 units, of which about one-half were
heavy trucks (Table 2). This truck fleet is considered sufficiently large
to serve the country's transport requirements. Based on estimated growth
of GDP, development of agricultural production, and recent trends in fuel
consumption and growth of the fleet, road traffic is expected to increase
at an average rate of about 5% p.a. over the next several years.
C.   The Road Transport Industry
3.05      Public road transport is handled primarily by the Association des
Transporteurs Tchadiens (ATT) which controls most of the road freLght transport,
except for the operations of COTONTCHAD 1/ in the south. ATT is a private
company with mixed capital (70% foreign, mainly French and Lebanese, and 30%
1/   COTONTCHAD is a Government-controlled company with mixed capital, which
has the monopoly for processing and marketing of cotton.



- 6 -
Chadian), but it is autonomous only in the financial sense. Its activities
are sunervised by the Ministry of Transport which has a representative on the
Managing Board. The company owns a fleet of about 1,500 trucks of varying
sizes`, whilst independent public carriers together own only about 80-90
vehicles. ATT has the control over international freight transport (to
neighboring CAR, Cameroon, and Nigeria) which is regulated by Governnental
bilateral arrangements.
3.06      Public freight transporters are required to obtain licenses from
the Ministry of Finance, and authorizations for purchase of all commercial
vehicles must be obtained from the Ministry of Transport. Annual vehicle
inspections are also required by the Ministry of Public Works, but there is
only loose enforcement of this requirement. Maximum loads are specified by
law at 11 tons per axle, but here again this regulation is not strictly en-
forced.
3.07      There is a clear need for improvement in the road transport in-
dustry, particularly for trucking. The lack of coordination among carriers
and customers, together with the imbalance in tonaages carried for export
and import traffic, have had the effect of reducing the average vehicle load
factor for road transport to about 50%, and creating high unit costs for
such transport. The present high tariffs are also largely a result of the
monopolistic structure of the industry whereby ATT carries most of the
freight. Freight tariffs, which are regulated by the Ministry of Transport
for particular routes and products, range between CFAF 7-17/ton-km. The
Ministry estimates that these levels could be reduced by as much as 30% if
the industry were better organized and greater operating efficiency achieved.
The proposed project will help effect iinprovements required in the road
transport industry by financing the services of a transport economist to
provide technical assistance to the Ministry of Transport. The expert will
be expected to study critical aspects of the road transport industry in
order to determine its deficiencies and make proposals for its reorganization
(para. 4.08). Agreement has been reached with the Government that the expert
would start work as soon as possible under terms of reference which, inter
alia, would be directed toward finding means of introducing more competition
into the trucking industry, and eventually leading to a reduction in tariffs;
a draft of these terns of reference will be prepared by the Association, and
sent to the Government for its approval. In addition, the Government has
confirmed that, following its review of the expert's proposals, it will consuit
with the Association to agree on a plan of action for implementing them.
D.   Administration
3.08      Until 1972, DPW was responsible for administration and maintenance
of the primary road network (abo<ut 4,600 km), and the secondary system (about
2,600 km) was under the jurisdY-:.on of 'Local authorities.  However, because
of staffing difficulties and fir<anciai constrainits, these authorities could
not be suitably organized -o carry out the maintenance required on the



-7-
secondary network. The Government therefore rightly decided to centralize
the responsibility for this network under DPW authority, so as to ensure
better administration and maintenance of the roads. In 1973, DPW assumed
responsibility for about half of the secondary system, and it is expected to
take over the remainder during 1974 (para. 3.19).
3.09      DPW's headquarters at N'Djamena include central divisions for
administration and accounting, and a section for minor road studies. In
addition to road maintenance, its duties also include the construction and
maintenance of government buildings. The field organization for road main-
tenance is composed of four sub-divisions reporting to two regional divisions.
3.10      DPW is adequately staffed, with senior positions held by French
engineers under a long-term technical assistance agreement with FAC. This
agreement is now being revised and put up for renewal, and there is every
likelihood that the technical assistance will remain available to DPW for
several years. Clearly, however, the Government's long-term goal should be
to have Chadian staff take over the responsibilities presently held by
foreigners. Recent graduates of the Ecole Nationale des Travaux Publics
(ENTP) at N'Djamena ensure the availability of local civil engineers, but
they will need to acquire considerable work experience before qualifying for
senior positions. This can very likely be achleved through a well-planned,
phased program of training and gradual replacement of technical assistance
staff. Action towards this end should start soon if the long-range objectives
are to be achieved, and the Government has agreed to make such a start, and
to develop a realistic plan of action with well-defined targets. Details on
implementing the plan are to be specified later, but it will essentially con-
sist of assigning the most promising of the locally-graduated civil engineers
to take over higher-level positions. The Government will explore with FAC
and other agencies the assistance which could be obtained to achieve this
goal. In the meantime, the Government has agreed that ît will discuss with
the Association details of the plan, and will keep it fully briefed on progress
made in implementation.
3.11      The need for adequate training of lower-level specialized personnel
(e.g. plant operators, mechanics, equipment overseers, and foremen) was
recognized at appraisal of the first project, but although a program was drawn
up, it was not executed. The proposed project now provides for a comprehensive
training program for all the abovementioned categories of specialized per-
sonnel (para. 4.06 and 4.07).
E.   Planning and Financing
3.12      The objectives for highway development are determined by the Yinistry
of Planning in the context of a general development plan for the country, but
such planning is limited merely to determination of a lîst of priorities,
and execution of projects depends almost completely on the availability of
foreign aid.



- 8 -
3.13       Over the period 1968-73, annual expendltures on highways averaged
about CFAF 1.33 billion (US$5.3 million), of which. about three-quarters was
provided by foreign aid (FAC, FED, USAID, and the Association) and devoted
to capital expenditures (Table 3). The remaining expenditures were met from
government funds and directed mainly to recurrent maintenance needs.
3.14       Funds for the maintenance of primary roads are allocated from a
Road Fund in accordance with the Government's conmitment under z:he First
Highway Project; this Fund is fed by fuel taxes of CFAF 18.5/liter on gasoline,
and CFAF 16/liter on fuel ail. ToIl charges from ferry-boats included in the
proposed project will also be deposîted in the Road Fund. The allocations
made for highway maintenance have always been lower than the amounts actually
collected from the taxes (Tables 3 and 4) or estimated by DPW, partly because
receipts are deposited in the Central Treasury rather than earmarked directly
for the Road Fund, which thus becomes absorbed into the general budget. The
Government has now agreed that, in order to ensure improved control over the
Road Fund, proceeds of the Fund will in future be kept in a separate account
in the Central Bank, and the amounts budgeted for highway maintenance and
operation of ferry-boats will be allocated from the Road Fund to be used
exclusively for that purpose (paras. 3.15 and 3.19).
3.15       The budget for road maintenance is prepared by DPW according to the
annual program to be carried out, and allocations are made by the Ministry
of Finance within the general budget. Budgetary constraints have resulted
in a drastic reduction of the allocation for maintenance of primary roads
to about half the amount required by DPW; the allotment for secondary roada
was insignificant (para. 3.19). The Government is now suffering large
budgetary deficits, however, a situation further aggravated by the droughts
of 1972/73; it therefore seems inappropriate to require any definite commit-
ment in terms of increased allocations to be made, at least over the project
period. Nevertheless, the road maintenance budget would be the subject of
annual consultations between the Association and the Governnent, in order to
determine the appropriate level of allocations for that purpose which, inter
alîa, will allow proper use of available eqluipment. The amounts to be
allocated for operation of ferry-boats will also be determined on the basis
of these annual consultations. The Government would also review the feasibility
of revising fuel taxes and tolls if this is considered necessary to cover ex-
penses for maintenance of the primary and secondary networks, and for operation
of ferry-boats. Such a review would help assure continuity of the maintenance
effort started under the first project, and a general improvement in the level
of maintenance.
3.16       Road users contribute Wo Government revenues through fuel taxes,
annual vehicle registration fees, as well as import duties and other taxes
on vehicles, tires, spare parts, and lubrîcants (Table 4). These revenues
accrue to the general budget. Over the period 1969-72, revenues from these
sources averaged annually about CFAF 634 million (US$2.5 million), which i8
about twice the average annual ameount spent by the Government for highway
maintenance only, and about half of total average annual expenditures for
the highway sector, including construction, in the same period (Table 5).



- 9
F.    Engineering and Construction
3.17       DPW headquarters has a section which deals with the engineering
of minor road works.  Larger projects, normally financed by foreign agencies,
are prepared and supervised by consultants under DPW control. Road con-
structîon works are carried out by foreign contractors, of which the two
largest are French firmas (Colas and Satom) registered locally. Major road
construction works have until now not represented a constant source of
business, and consequently there has been no real incentive for growth and
development of domestic firms capable of executing such works; also, this
question is presently not anong the Government's priority concerns. There
are some domestic contracting firms, but they deal primarily wiith building
construction.
G.    Maintenance
3.18       DPW has two regional divisions and four sub-divisions, and is
properly organized for the administration and execution of highway main-
tenance work. Under the First Highway Project, sufficient road maintenance
equipment was procured to cover the needs of the primary road network, and
operations are carried out regularly to the extent allowed by fund alloca-
tions.  There are some remaining difficulties alising from the inadequacy
of workshop equipment and tools, and from long delays in delivery of spare
parts for which suppliers now demand cash payments. In general, however,
equipment is in satisfactory condition considering the heavy work to which
it is subjected, the difficulty of repairs, and the insufficient training
of some operators and mechanics. These latter shortcomings will be eliminated
by the proposed training program which also includes procurement of tools
and workshop equipment (para. 4.06).
3.19       Budget allocations for maintenance of primarv roads have been in-
creasing over recent years, but are still far from adequate to satisfy re-
quirements (Table 3). The 1973 allocation for maintenance of secondary
roads was only about CFAF 30 million, but this amount was spent instead on
primary roads as they were considered to have first priority. The secondary
system has therefore received practically no maintenance. For FY 74, DPW has
included in its budget, in addition to the funds it will need for primary
roads, a request for allocations to maintain the secondary system. Re-
shaping of this entire network is foreseen at an average expenditure of about
CFAF 14,450/km, making a total of about CFAF 38 million (US$0.15 million)
requested for its maintenance. This amount is less than previous annual
allocations (except for 1973), and considering the importance of some roads
in the secondary system, should be increased to include other maintenance
operations. This matter has been discussed with the Government in the framework
of a general review of the road maintenance budget for 1974 as outiïned in
para. 3.15.



- 10 -
4. THE PROJECT
A.    Description
4.01       The proposed project consists of:
(a)  a five-year program for improvement and maintenance of about
800 km of feeder roads in cotton-growing areas;
(b) preinvestment studies for about 120 km of secondary roads
connecting cotton-growing areas with the main export route;
(c) a two-year training program for DPW staff;
(d) technical assistance to the Ministry of Transport for
reorganization of the road transport industry;
(e)  a two-year traffic count on about 2,000 km of the most
important and heavily trafficked roads in the country;
(f) reconditioning of nine ferry-boats, and their interim
maintenance over a three-year period; and
(g) a feasibility study for replacement of ferry-boats and
improvements of dock facilities.
Improvement and Maintenance of Feeder Roads
4.02       About 275,000 ha of land in the regions of southern Chad are under
cotton cultivation. The cultivated areas are spread over about 150,000 km2,
and are served by about 14,000 km of feeder roads.  These roada are all in
poor condition, and are unsuitable for the traffic of heavy trucks used to
collect the cotton crop. A major obstacle for this traffic is presented
by the numerous crossings required over rivers, streams, and low-lying land
which often are not in passable condition, and cause long delays. A FED-
financed program to improve crossings was executed in 1969/70, but with very
little success because some of the structures were not adapted to the partic-
ular crossing, and some were soon completely destroyed. These shortcomings
were due primarily to incomplete hydrological information concerning the
streams over which crossings were required. The result is that much of the
work completed under the program now needs to be re-done.
4.03       Consultants BCEOM execii'ed e FAC-financed study of feeder road
requirements, and in June 1973 SUbmree?  a report identifying about 800 km
of roads which justified improvement and maintenance sufficient to accommodate
10-12 ton trucks with a maximum sveed of up to 50 km/h.  The improvements
proposed are essentially:  (a) re-sh.aJIng of road formation on most of the
network; (b) re-gravelling the mos: `ater½orated sections; and (c) constructing



- il -
or reinforcing structures at the stream and lowland crossings. In view of the
low traffic volumes, a roadway width of 4 m will suffice. The proposed project
makes provision for a five-year program during which the abovementioned im-
provement works would be executed and the required maintenance carried out.
Preinvestment Studies for Secondary Roads
4.04       Cotton fiber for export is now transported to ocean ports in
Cameroon and the Congo either via Garoua in northern Cameroon or by routes
through the Central African Republic (CAR). However, BCEOM's preliminary
investigations indicate that this traffic pattern will shift by about 1978/79
when it is expected that a total of about 75,100 tons annually of freight
(more than 70% of the cotton fiber production as well as other by-products
for export, e.g., oil, soap) will take the Cameroon route along the road
Moundou-Guidjiba planned for paving with FED financing, and expected to be
completed in 1977. By that time, the planned consolidation of COTONTCHAD
ginneries and the construction of new oil factories will also be completed.
4.05       Part of this projected traffic originating north of Moundou will
have to pass through Beinamar to reach Guidjiba and continue south. To allow
the flow of this traffic to Beinamar, several feeder roads must be improved,
and the BCEOM study has indicated as priorities: (i) improvement of the
roads Krim Krim-Beinamar (60 km) and Kelo-Gounou Gaya (53 km); and (ii) con-
struction of a bridge, including about 5 km of access roads, on the Gounou
Gaya-Sorga road (Map 10846). The Government and the Association are in agree-
ment with these suggestions. The proposed project therefore provides for
a feasibility study to confirm the expected traffic flow on the roads and
evaluate the scope of possible improvements, and for detailed engineering
if found justified.
Training Program for DPW Staff
4.06       The maintenance program under the First Highway Project had included
a provision for training of specialized workers on DPW staff. Consultants ORT
carried out a detailed assessment of training requirements,and submitted a
comprehensive report with their proposals for meeting these needs. The Govern-
ment has now accepted the proposed new two-year training program which covers
all categories of skills of DPW staff: operators, mechanics, equipment
overseers, foremen. The progran includes purchase of workshop equipment and
of personal tools for mechanics (to be used also for maintenance operations),
since lack of these items is considered one of the major shortcomings of road
equipment maintenance. The proposed project provides an estimated total of
83 man-months of expert services for implementation of the program, which would
also include training of local counterparts to assume responsibility for a
continued training effort on expiration of the consultants' contracts.
4.07       The exact number of staff to be trained will be determined in due
course by the consultants in agreement with DPW. However, ORT's preliminary
study makes the following estimates: (i) foremen, 12-16; (îi) diesel mechanies,



- 12 -
12-16; (iii) helper-greasers, 24-32; (iv) plant operators, 100-120; (v) equip-
ment overseers, 5-6; and (vi) training counterparts, 4-8. A particular
fearure of tha training program is the award to some counterpart staff of
fellowships for study abroad.
Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Transport
4.08       The road transport industry in general, and trucking in particular,
is presently operating under poorly defined conditions aggravated by the ATT
freight monopoly. This fact, as well as the related inadequate transport
organization, results in high transport tariffs.  No improvement in the
existing situation can be expected as 1cng as the Ministry of Transport, which
is responsible for transport policy and coordination, lacks personnel qualified
to study the problems related to road transport. The Goverument has therefore
agreed to the recruitment and assignnent of a transport economist to the
Ministry of Transport. rhis expert would be expected, over a period of about
nine months (including report-writing), to evaluate the problems of road
transport, and to advance proposals for solving them (para. 3.07). Terms of
Reference for this assignment will be drafted after detailed consultations
and agreement between the Ministry of Transport and the Association.
Traffic Counting Program
4.09       Complete traffic counts, including origin/destination data, were
carried out in 1962/63 by DPW with assistance from BCEOM. These figures were
updated in 1969/70 under the First Highway Project when a census was taken
at some of the checkpoints used in the original survey. The data now needs
to be further updated and refined to allow a realistic determination of
priorities in identifying further road investments. The present project
therefore includes a provision for carrying out a two-year traffic counting
program on about 2,000 km of the most important and heavily trafficked roads.
The Government will submit to the Association for its approval a list of roads
selected for traffic counts.
Reconditioning and Three-Year Interim Maintenance of Ferry-Boats
4.10       Of the existing nine ferries, one services a connecting route with
Cameroon, and most of the others are located on roads used for transporting
seed-cotton to ginneries. They are all over 30 years old, and in poor, run-
down condition; spare parts for their propelling engines are no longer avail-
able. Under these conditions, breakdowns are frequent, and even minor problems
can cause protracted delays in operations. Also, the lack of a service truck
impedes the dispatch of repair crews, and this further extends the length
of breakdown periods. The proposed project includes a provision for procure-
ment of equipment for reconditioning of the ferry-boats, and materials for
their interim maintenance over three years.
Feasibility Study for Replacement of Ferry-Boats and Improvement of
Dock Facilities
4.11       The above proposal for improving ferry-boat operation is only an
interim measure; the problem will be resolved only when the existing ferries
are replaced. At present, their output is very low and their maintenance



- 13 -
expensive. Moreover, most of the ferries cannot carry the large trucks
currently in use, and improvement of dock facilities is required to allow
easy embarking and landing of fully loaded vehicles. The proposed project
will therefore also provide funds for a feasibility study to determine the
extent of new investments required. The study would be carried out by a
consultant who would, over a period of three months (including report-writing),
evaluate the above problems, and submit an economically justified program for
replacement of ferry-boats and improvement of dock facilities.
B.    Cost Estimates
4.12       The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at about
US$3.5 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange cost of US$2.65 million
(76%).  Details of cost estimates are given in Table 5 and summarized below.
All estimates reflect expected prices at end-1974.
----CFAF Million---   -------US$t000        _ ______ Foreign as
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total % of Total
A.  Improvement and
Maintenance of
Feeder Roads                96      239     335    385       956    1,341       71
B.  Preinvestment Studies       14       77       91     54      306       360       85
C.  Training Program            35      145      180    140      581       721      80
D.  Technical Assistance to
Ministry of Transport        2       12      14       8       48        56      85
E.  Traffic Counts               4        4        8     17       17        34       50
F.  Ferry Reconditioning
and Maintenance              2       56      58       6      227       233      97
G.  Ferry Feasibility Study    1          7        8      5       27        32       85
Sub-total A-G              154      540     694    615   2,162    2,777         78
H.  Contingency Allowances:
a)  quantities:             13       37      50      52      149      201       74
b)  prices:                 37       79     116    150       315      465       68
TOTAL               204      656      860    817   2,626   29IŽ.4
(Rounded)                                           850   2,650      ,5300      76



- 14 -
4.13       Cost estimates for improvement and maintenance of feeder roads are
based on studies carried out by BCEOM. Estimates for preinvestment studies
are based on the average cost of consulting services for similar assignments
on recent Bank Group-financed contracts in West Africa, as well as on BOEOM's
preliminary estimates. Costs of the training program have been determîned
on the basis of ORT's estimates of their fees, as well as on the cost of
purchasing the required tools and equipment and on expected operating costs
of the program. Estimates for the traffic counting program have been
determined by DPW based on the costs of labor, vehicle operation, and its own
supervision. Estimates for ferry-boat equipment and materials have been made
by DPW and revised and updated by the Association. Allowances have been made
for variations in quantities as follows: 5% on the purchase of equipment and
on technical assistance; 5% on consulting services for preinvestment studies;
10% for all operating costs. Contingencies for price variations have been
determined on the basis of expected annual price increases as follows: for
1975 (second half only), 11% on equipment and 15% on operating costs and serv-
ices; for 1976-80, 7.5% on equipment and 12% on operating costs and services.
C.    Execution
4.14       Execution of the project (except for technical assistance to the
Ministry of Transport) will be the responsibility of DPW, assisted by consult-
ants for preinvestment studies, the training program, and for the ferry
feasibility study. An outside expert will initially be in charge of the
improvement and maintenance of feeder roads (para. 4.16). The Ministry of
Transport will be responsible for the technical assistance to be provided for
studying the road transport industry. The Government is planning to employ
BCEOM for preinvestment studies on the feeder roads, and ORT for implementing
the training program; the Association agrees with this arrangement. The expert
who will provide technical assistance to the Ministry, as well as the expert
for the ferry-boat feasibility study, will be recruited under terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association.
4.15       The amount of equipment supnlied under the project will be consistent
with the work to be carried out. A list of items to be procured is given in
Table 6. Road maintenance and ferry-boat equipment will be procured on the
basîs of international competitive b.dding in accordance with Bank Group guide-
lines; in addition to the bid price, bid evaluation will take into considera-
tion the compatibility of the equipment, and the availability of service and
spare parts. Materials and workshop equipment and tools will be purchased
fullowîng local advertisement only, since this procedure is considered more
efficient to enable continuous execution cf the project.
4.16       The improvement and m             works will be carried out by force
account, since, in view of the scattered nature of operations and the flexi-
bility required in conducting them, this method will provide the least-cost
solution.  In determinîng the acru;. ehod cf execution, special attention
was given to the question of balance aezween zhe use of labor and of equipment.
llowever, manpower in the project are2 .s 5'.:ed  and Government policy is
to keep what is available employed in agriculture; especially in the case of
cotton-growing, anv shift awayv f-.  , ;ld be detrîmental to implementation
of the cotton development plan aire.a&y weaKened by the drought situation.



- 15 -
The Association supports the Government's position, and accepts the consul-
tants' suggestion for use of equipment under the project; nevertheless, during
execution the possibility will be explored of using seasonal surplus manpower,
particularly for the improvement works.  The feeder road program will be car-
ried out by four work teams, one each for re-shaping and regravelling, and
two for structural works. One expert will be in charge of planning, organizing,
and supervising the works, and will also be responsible for procurement of
equipment and construction materials, He will be assisted by a Chadian counter-
part technician during the first two years of the project; the counterpart
will then take over the expert's duties for the remaining three years, but
the expert will remain available during the third year to provide advice and
assistance. The counterpart could be selected from among the engineers grad-
uated from the local Ecole Nationale des Travaux Publics (para. 3.10). The
expert (and subsequently the Chadian engineer) will report to DPW, and will
submit to the Directorate semi-annual reports on work performed.
4.17       The normal solution for administration and management of these works
during the project period would be for DPW to assume responsibility for the
entire operation. Rowever, since DPW is already charged vith the maintenance
of primary roads and is also becoming increasingly responsible for secondary
roads, the Government and the consultants consider it more realistic to assign
management of the work teams to COTONTCHAD. This company has large and com-
plete mechanical facilities in Moundou where the equipment is to be maintained.
Also, starting with the 1974/75 season, it will have smaller workshops at
other locations in the area served by the cotton feeder roads. Fuel is avail-
able at all its ginneries, and constant radio contact with Moundou will permit
the immediate dispatch of repair crews when needed.  COTONTCHAD has already
indicated its willingness to accept this task, and a management contract will
be signed with DPW specifying the duties and responsibilities of both parties.
Essentially, DPW will own and supply the equipment purchased under the proposed
project, and vill check that it is properly used and maintained; COTONTCHAD
will provide the personnel needed for the four work teama and for equipment
maintenance. The contract will specify the details for reimbursement of
COTONTCHAD's direct costs, such as labor, materials, fuel, lubricants, spare
parts, etc. The contract will be defined following direct negotiations be-
tween DPW and COTONTCHAD, and the Association will review and approve the
contract before it is signed. The draft of this management contract, as well
as all the above arrangements, have been agreed with the Government.
4.18       Once the five-year program has been completed, there will remain a
continuing need for maintenance of these feeder roads.  The roads are not now
under the juriediction of DPW, but proper continuation of operations would be
assured only if this is the case.  Accordingly, the Government has agreed
that the feeder roads improved and maintained under the project vill in future
be included in DPW's normal annual maintenance program.
4.19       ORT has already appraised the needs and prepared a work program
for training of DPW staff. Training will be done essentially on the job,
with teams of trainees maintaining some road sections assigned to them, and
also the equipment used to carry out the road maintenance.  This practical



- 16 -
effort will be complemented by theoretical courses. The consultants have
recommended that, to achieve the best results, trainees should be provided
with their own tools, and workshops supplied with the necessary repair equip-
ment. In addition, it is recommended that theoretical lessons be illustrated
by suitable didactic materials. The project therefore includes financing for
purchase of the above items. An important feature of the program will be the
training of local counterpart staff who could replace the experts at the end
of the program; this training will include the selection of about £ive persons
to study abroad on fellowships provided under the program. ORT has also
suggested that the mechanics could benefit from scholarships often granted
by equipment suppliers at their factories. The foremen in training could use
the facilities at some specialized institutions in neighboring countries in
West Africa.
4.20       Traffic counts will be carried out by DPW which will be responsible
for hiring the temporary staff required, providing inspection personnel, and
supplying vehicles for transporting and deploying the teams.  Financing is
provided under the project for the necessary operating costs, including
hiring of vehicles.
4.21       Reconditioning and maintenance of ferry-boats will be carried out
by DPW.
D.   Financing and Disbursements
4.22       The Association will finance the entire cost of the project,
excluding taxes. Disbursements from the Credit will be made as follows:
(a) 100% of total costs of equipment for roads and ferry-boats,
spare parts, and materials for construction and maintenance;
(b) 100% of total direct operating costs of the teams for
improvement and maintenance work;
(c) 100% of total expenditures for consulting services and
technical assistance;
(d) 100% of total costs of counterpart fellowships abroad; and
(e)  100% of total direct operating costs of teams for traffic
counts.
Disbursements against (a), (c), and (d) above will be documented by appropriate
invoices. In the case of items (b) and (e), disbursements will be made against
certificates of expenditure by DPW; details of the accounting system for esta-
blishment of these certificates, and of its control, have been clearly defined
(including the possibility of spot-checks during project supervision) and agreed
with the Government. However, no disbursements will be made against item (b)
until the management contract between DPW and COTONTCHAD has been executed.
Any funds remaining in the Credit Account upon completion of the project will
be used for other project-related items.



- 17 -
4.23      A schedule of cumulative quarterly disbursements from the proposed
Credit is shown in Table 7.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The proposed Second Highway Project is not only a transport opera-
tion, but the feeder roads proposed for improvement and maintenance are a
part of a broader program for agricultural development in southern Chad.
The economic analysis therefore takes into account the probable impact of
these roads on cotton production in the project area. On this basis, the
best estimate of the economic return of the feeder roads is about 18%. Other
project components, including the two-year training program for DPW staff
and preinvestment studies for future road improvements, are consistent with
the priorities set by the Government and the Association.
B.   Cotton Development Program
5.02      Cotton is Chad's main cash crop as well as its major source of
foreign exchange (about 75% of export earnings). The export tax of CFAF 17/kg
levied on cotton is also an important component of Government revenues. Seed-
cotton production slightly exceeds 100,000 tons annually, but has not grown
during the past few years due to the,drought. There are however forecasts for
a substantial increase in production following implementation of the current
cotton production development plan (Table 8).
5.03      The Five-Year Agricultural Production Development Plan (1973-77) is
one phase of a long-term integrated program of cotton development for the
whole of southern Chad, where about 98% of the country's cotton is produced.
The program which started in 1965 envisages increasing food crop production,
developing the use of draft animals, and improving management techniques,
extension services, and credit facilities. Cotton is the program's primary
target, and several strategies are planned to produce higher yields, including
increased use of fertilizers and pesticides, and more precise timing of the
cultivation process. Execution of the program is the responsibility of the
Office National du Developpement Rural (ONDR), a public autonomous agency
incorporated in 1965 under the Ministry of Agriculture. Cotton production
targets and forécasts shown in Table 8 assume improvement and maintenance of
the proposed feeder roads as an integral part of the development plan.
5.04      Financing for the cotton program is provided jointlv by FAC and FED,
and by the Government and farmers. The farmers selected to participate in the
program are charged a fixed amount for Drocurement of fertilizer and pesticides
(CFAF 5,500 per hectare), with an approximately equal amount paid jointly by
the Government and FED over the development period. The farmers' contribution



- 18 -
is collected after they have been paid for the crop. Interim funding is pro-
vided by the Banque de Developpment du Tchad (BDT) which also finances purchases
of agricultural inputs and draft: animals for farmers. The FED share in the
program's financing is schedulecL to decrease gradually over the years.
5.05      The cotton program aims at improving productîvity rather than
increasing the area under cultivation. To date, the program has had good
results in achieving higher yields. The average yield per hectare cultivated
by traditional production methods is about 300 kg of seed-cotton; however, in
fields where the program has been initiated, average yields are about 800-
1,000 kg per hectare. In southern Chad, about 40,000 ha which are under the
programn produce nearly as much cotton as the remaining 235,000 ha. It is
significant that the program has been able to maintain good production levels
through several years of drought. Production targets and forecasts are how-
ever contingent upon the gradual resumption of rainfall.
C.   Cotton Processing and Marketing
5.06      The processing and marketing of cotton is the rmonopoLy o.f COTONTCHAD,
a company controlled by the Government and financed by both public and private
capital. This company was established in 1971 to replace COTONFRAN, a private
foreign enterprise. According to the ten-year convention (1971) between the
Government and COTONTCPAD, 80% of COTONTCHAD's profits are to be transferred
to the Caisse de Stabilisation du Prix du Coton (CSPC), a public autonomous
agency whose purpose is to guarantee (and increase, if possible) the price
paid to farmers for their crop in the face of fluctuating world prices.
5.07      Distances betweer. cotton collection points and the ginneries vary,
but farmers are paid the same price for their seed-cotton by CSPC, regardless
of differences în transport costs. This uniform price paid may induce farmers
to spread their planting at great distances from the ginneries. Applying
market economy mechanism, the total cost of production could be reduced if
prices were to reflect differences in transport costs. However, a uniform
price has been paid for cotton for several decades, and the Government, for
Dolitical and social reasons, wants to maintain the system. This position
is supported by the effects of the drought which has caused some farmers to
shift away from cotton-growing, since the Government is now trying to induce
them back.  Within the existing constraints, the Government 's policy appears
reasonable, although it is not based exclusively on economic rationale.
5.38      Until COTONTCHAD began operations, the cotton crop was collected
from market-places and sh;pped to ginner,es by private operators who charged
a very high price (CFAF 54/ton-kni) for this transport. COTONTCHAD therefore
decided to provide its own trucks, and now operates a fleet of about 70
vehicles, mainly of 12-ton capacitv; a substantial decrease in transportation
costs has resulted. However, the 1973 operating cost of about CFAF 40/ton-km
still appears high in comparison with existing tariffs of about CFAF 15/ton-km
on good earth roads. Recent arrangements with ONDR, whereby COTONTCHAD trucks



- 19 -
are allowed to carry agricultural inputs (seeds, fertilizers, pesticides),
have resulted in better utilization of the fleet. Processed cotton is trans-
ported from the ginneries to ocean ports by private carriers, and COTONTCHAD
has no plans to enter this market at present.
5.09      The proposed improvement of cotton feeder roads will initiaily
benefit COTONTCHAD by reducing the company's vehicle operating costs.  .owever,
since 80% of COTONTCHAD profits are transferred to CSPC, such benefits will
eventually accrue to farmers either in the form of higher guaranteed prices,
or as contributions to the cotton development program. Moreover, part of the
20% of COTONTCHAD's incremental profits remaining with the company will be
used for internal investment.
D.   Impact of Improved Feeder Roads on Vehicle Operating Costs
5.10      The 800 km of roads proposed for improvement are the most traffîcked
and deteriorated of the feeder road network in southern Chad. They represent
less than 10% of all cotton feeder roads, but carry about 40% of the seed-
cotton production in the area. Estimates of future traffic on the project
roads are based on projections of cotton production, the planned relocation
of certain cotton ginneries, other transport demands, and the present operation
of the COTONTCHAD fleet. Non-cotton traffic is estimated as a constant pro-
portion of cotton traffic. Although there are large differences in traffic
from one road to another, levels are expected to be modest on all 800 km of the
proposed network. It is estimated that annual traffic carried on individual
roads will range between 2,000 and 9,000 tons in 1974.
5.11      The present poor condition of the feeder roads results in high vehicle
operating costs because of: (a) frequent vehicle damage which is expensive to
repair, and which results in immobilized vehicles and the need for frequent
replacement; (b) high fuel consumption; (c) low annual mileage travelled by
vehicles using these roads; and (d) the need for expensive specialized vehicles
for use on sandy terrain. Using the BCEOM study as a basis, it is estimated
that the project will produce average savings in vehicle operating costs of
CFAF 18/ ton-km in late 1974 prices. This is the estimated average saving for
COTONTCÇAD's 70 vehicles after the project feeder roads are improved from theîr
present condition and regularly maintained. Table 9 shows estimated average
vehicle operating costs on all types of roads in the country.
5.12      Total vehicle operating cost savings are estimated on the basis of
the revised production forecasts in Table 8, the average length of haul (about
45 km), and the estimated transport savings per ton-km. Total savîngs in
vehicle operating costs are expected to increase from CFAF 58.3 million in
FY 76 to CFAF 84.6 million in FY 85 (Table 10). One-third of the normal annual
savings are forecast to occur in FY 75, the first year of project implementation,
based on work expected to be accomplished during that year.
E.   Impact of Improved Feeder Roads on Cotton Production
5.13      There is a strong indication that if the feeder roads were not
improved, cotton production would not increase to the extent otherwise anti-
cipated.  The present condition of the feeder roads occasionally imposes lengthy



- 20 -
delays on the production process when vehicles break down and cannot deliver
seed, fertilizer, pesticides, and other agricultural inputs required by far-mers.
It has been demonstrated that cotton production declines unless operations in
sowing, spraying, and fertilizing are properly timed. Improving the existing
feeder roads would make this possible, and would also enable agricultural
extension service staff to reach more farmers; further, economic activity in
general would be encouraged by improved communications in remnote rural areas.
5.14       No precise rationale is known for quantifying the impact of ±nïproved
feeder roads on cotton production. For purposes of calculating total project
benefits, a modest 2.5% of the incremental benefits of the agricultural de-
velopment program were attributed to improving the cotton feeder roads. How-
ever, it is not unreasonable to expect that transport improvements would induce
5% of the net program benefits, and thiai was also tested as an alternative.
The net value of additional cotton production to the Chadian economy was esti-
mated as CFAF 21.5/kg at 1974 prices by subtracting the cost of fertilizer,
pesticides, seeds, transport outside Chad, and other economic inputs, from the
FOB price received for cotton lint at the port of Douala.
F.    Economic Return
5.15       If only vehicle operating cost savings are considered, the economic
return from the cotton feeder road project is estimated at 9.2%. However,
since the feeder roads are part of the Cotton Development Program, part of
its incremental production is attributable to the road project. If it is
assumed that as little as 2.5% of the net value of the incremental cotton
production is attributable to this road project, the economic rate of return
would be about 18% (Table 11). The return is sensitive to the value of
incremental production included, because of parallel streams of cost and
benefits. If the project contributes 5% of incremental production, the esti-
mated return increases to 25%. The probability that the agricultural output
attributable to the project would be less than 2.5% of the net value of incre-
mental production is considered remote.
5.16       The economic return was also tested for sensitivity to cost escala-
tions. Price inflation is considered to affect both costs and benefits simi-
larly, and therefore not to affect the estimated rate of return. In particular,
higher fuel prices are expected to increase vehicle operating cost savîngs
more than they will increase project costs. Within a possible cost escalation
of 10%, the best estimate of the economic return is about 11% which stîll
exceeds the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Chad of 10%.
G.    Other Major Project Elements
5.17       The proposed Credit will also finance preinvestment studies for
improvement of about 120 km of selected secondary roads, a tralning program
for DPW staff, as well as reconditioning and interim maintenance of ferry-boats.
The secondary roads are expected to experience substantial treffic grmîth
following construction of the Moundou-Guidj±ba road in 1977, and will therefore
require upgrading. A feasibility study will determine the scope of appropriate
road improvements.



- 21 -
5.18       The proposed training program is intended to improve the efficiency
of DPW operations at all levels. The comprehensive program will also provide
for the purchase of tools and workshop equipment. Although it is difficult to
quantify the benefits of this program, it is clearly justified in view of the
recognized urgent need for training of DPW staff (para. 4.06).
5.19       The proposed purchase of maintenance equipment and materials for
nine ferry-boats on the Chari and Logone Rivers in south-west Chad will enable
reconditioning and regular operations of the ferries over a three-year period.
During this interim stage, a feasibiiîty study will be carried out on renewal
of the ferry-boats in order to determine a long-term solution. The proposed
minor investments for ferry-boats are justified not only by the need for
improved internal communications, but also because the ferries provide impor-
tant transport lînks for the major export items cotton and cattie, and regular
operations will assure the reliability of their transport.
N     6   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01       During negotiations between the Governnent and the Association on
the proposed Credit, the following principal items were discussed and agreed:
(i) the need for the Government to make its best efforts to obtain
external aid for a study of air transport development with a
iriew to establishing, in consultation with the Association, a
long-term program to develop internal air transport (para. 2.12);
(ii)  details of employment and assignment to the Ministry of Transport
of an expert to carry out a study on reorganization of the road
transport industry; following review of the expert's proposals,
the Government will consult with the Association to establish
a program for implementing them (paras. 3.07 and 4.08);
(iii) developtment by the Gevernment of a realistic program to train
Chadian nationals for managerial, engineering, and technîcal
positions in DPW, and the need for the Association to be kept
regularly informed on progress made in implementing the program
(para. 3.10);
(iv) proceeds of the Road Fund will in future be kept in a separate
account in the Central Bank, and the amounts budgeted eor highwav
maintenance and operation of ferry-boats will be allocatex  rom
the Fund to be used exclusively for that Durpose (para. 3.14);
(v)  budgets for road maintenance and for operation cf ferry-boats
will be estabiîshed foilowing annual consultatIons with che
Association. Also, the Government will review, and if
necessary, revise fuel taxes and ferry-boat tol 18 sufficiently
to cover road maintenance expenses and ferry-boat operattng
costs (para. 3.15);



- 22 -
(vi) details of arrangements for implementation of improvement
and maintenance works, including the draft of a contract
between DPW and COTONTCHAD for the latter's management of
the work teams (paras. 4.16 and 4.17); and
(vii)  feeder roads improved and maintained under the project will
in future be included in DPW's normal annual maintenance
program (para. 4.18).
6.02       The proposed project is suitable for a Credit of US$3.5 million
equivalent to the Government of the Republic of Chad on standard IDA terms.
May 28, 1974



CHAD
SECOND HIGHWAY PRO JCT
Development of' the Highway Network, 1970-73
(km)
1970        1971        1972         1973
A. Classified Network
Primary Roads
Paved                      242          242         242         242
Gravel and Earth         1,738        1,838       2,38        4,360
1,980       2,080       2,680        4,602
Secondary Roads
Earth                    4,150        3,500       3,500       2,630
Total Classified Network    6,130        5s580       6,1807
B. Unclassified Network
Tracks                  25,000      25,000       25,000      25,000
Sources   Ministry of Public Works, November 1973.
January 1974.



TABLE 2
CHAD
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Growth of the Vehicle eleet, 1967-72 1/
(wnits)
Percsntage
of Total
1967     1968     1969     1970     1971     1972    in 1972
Trucks            5,367    5,369    5,140    5,336    5,794    5,891        49.0%
Passenger cars,
jeeps & pick-ups  3,304    3,299    3,294    4,023    4,765    5,250        43.7%
Trailers            399      402      396       400      448      620        5.2%
Buses                95       97      105      108       126      133        1.1%
Tractors             53       61       94      120       128      128        1.0%
TOTAL       9,218    9,228    9,029    9,987   11,261   12,022
Average Annual Increase
of the fleete 1967-72:       5.5%
1/ Figures at end of the year.
Source: Ministry of Public Works, Novemnber 1973.
January 1974.



CHAD
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Expenditures on Highways 1968-73
(CEAF millions)
Construction and
Year       Road Equipment                  Maintenance           Administration         TOTAL              Source of Funds
DPW   Local Authorities                          OFAF     US$         local      Foreil
millions millions
1968              1,208            167           40                  140 (*)        1,555     6.2          277        1,278
1969             1,388 (*)         181           40                   140 (*)       1,749     7.0          291        1,458 (*)
1970              1,136            176           40                  140 (*)        1,492     6.0          286        1,206
1971             1,049             220           40                   140 (*)       1,449     5.8          330        1,119
1972                438 (*)         223          40                   140 (*)         841     3.4          333          508 (*)
1973                451 (*)         300          30                   140 (*)         921     3.7          320          601 (*)
(*) = estimates.
1/  Including IDA Credit 125-CD, First Highway Project.
Source: DPW, Novemnber 1973.
February 1974.



CHAD
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Government Revenues from Road Users,1969-73
(CFAF millions)
Taxes levied for
RoadJ 'ud                                   Other Taxes
Annual      ,X
Gasoline   Diesel Fuel        Lubricants  Tires  Spare  Parts  Licensing  Registration-      TOTAL
1969      233.9        116.0              32.7     43.6       40.9         2.6          n.a.           510 (*)
1970      337.5        136.8              42.4     75.2       40.6         2.8         51.1            686.4
1971      363.0        173.5              33.6     66.5       43.1         3.7         67.2            749.6
1972      297.6        112.6              28.6     45.1       36.1         4.3          66.7           592.0
1973       n.a.         n.a.              n.a.     n.a.       n.a.         n.a.         70.1 2/
n.a. = not available.
(*) = estimate.
1/ Includes a saall amount for fees levied on motor-boats.
2/ First nine months of the year.
Source:  DPW, Customs Department, and massion estimates.
February 1974.



TABLE 5
CHAD
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Cost EstimatesL"
Foreign
(CFAF millions)            (US$ '000 Equiv.)         cost
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   C m   n  t
A.  Improvement & Maintenance
of Feeder Roads
i) Equiument                         2.2     86.6      88.8      9        347       356       97
ii) Operating Costs                  93.1    133.4    226.5    372         534       906       59
iii) Construction Materials            1.0     18.7      19.7      4         75        79       95
96.3    238.7    335.0    35          956    1,341        71
B.  Training Program
i) Consulting  Services             21.3     76.0      97.3     85        304       389       78
ii) Workshop Equipment and Tools    2.8       30.5      33.3     il        122      133        92
iii) Operating Costs                  10.9     24.1      35.0     44         96       140       69
iv) Counterpart Fellowships           -       14.8      14.8     -          59        59      100
35.0 1o59.       180.5   -150         581       721       80
C.  Preinvestment Studies                 13.5      76.5     90.0      54       306       360        85
D.  Technical Assistance to the
Ministry cf TransDort                  2.1     11.9      14.0       8        48        56        85
E.  Traffic Counts                         4.2       4.2      8.5      17        17        34        50
F.  Ferry Equipment and
Maintenance Materials                  1.6     56.7      58.3       6       227       233        97
G.  Ferry Feasibility Study                1.2       6.8      8.0       5        27        32        85
Sub-total A - G                   153.9    540.2    694.1    615        2,162    2,777        78
H.  Contingencies
i) for quantity variations:
- 59% for services and
equipment
-10 h for construction and
maintenance materials      13.1      37.2      50.3     52        149      201        7L
ii) for price variations 2/           37.5     78.8    116.3    150         315       465        68
Sub-total H                         50.6    116.0    166.6    202         464       666       70
TOTAL                     205.5    656.2    860.7    817       2,626    3,443         76
(rounded)                                               (850)   (2,650)  (3,500)        76
1/ Excluding taxes.
2/ Based on annual price increases as follows:
Year    Equipment  Operating Costs ^O Services
75         11%                  15%
76-80      7.50/o               12%
Source:  DPW and consultants' estinates, adjusted by appraisal mission.
May 1974.



CHAD
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT                           TABLE 6
List of Equipment to be Procured, and Cost Estimat.e/
(CFAF Million)
A. For Improvement and Maintenance of Feeder Roads
Item                          Quantity       Unit Cost        Cost
Motor Graders, 125 HP                                2             11.50         23.00
Front Loader, 100 HP                                 1             11.00        11.00
Compactor, 15 t                                      1              8.00          8.00
Dump Truck, h m3                                     6              3.68         22.10
Water Tanker, 6,000 1                                2              4.15          8.30
Towed Water Tank, 3,000 1                            1              1.15          1.15
Towed Fuel Tank, 1,500 1                             1              0.86          0.86
Motor Pump, 50 m-h4i                                 1              o.46          0.46
Concrete Mixer, 250 1                                1              0.58         0.58
Service Car                                          1              1.20          1.20
Pick-up                                              1              1.85          1.85
Service Truck, 2.5 t                                 1              2.30          2.30
80.80
Stock of spare parts (about 10% of equipment costs)                               8.00
TOTAL        88.80
US$ Equivalent:      $356,000
B. For Reconditioning and Maintenance cf Ferry-Boats
Item                          Quantity       Unit Cost        Cost
In-board marine engine 50/60 HP including
shaft and propeller                                6              2.75         16.5
Fuel Tanker, 8,000 1                                 1              7              7.0
Service-truck with tools                             1              6              6.0
Service vehicle                                      1              1.7            1.7
31.2
Stock of spare parts (about 105k of equipment costs)
34.3
Marine engine maintenance materials
(CFAF 3 million per year for 3 years)                 -           Lump Sum          9.0
Boat maintenance materials (steel plates,
hardware, supplies, etc.)
(CFAF 5 million per year for 3 years)                 -           Lump Sum         15.0
TOTAL
US$ Equivalent:       233,200
1/ Estimated costa are excluding taxes, and in prices at end-1974.
Source: DPW and consultants' estimates, adjusted by appraisal mission,
December 1973 and April 1974.
April 1974.



TABLE 7
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                            Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter Ending                              at End of Cuarter
(Us$'000)
1974/75
December 31, 1974                                       50
March 31, 1975                                         250
June 30, 1975                                          800
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                   1,100
December 31, 1975                                    1,400
March 31, 1976                                       1,700
June 30, 1976                                        2,000
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                   2,175
December 31, 1976                                    2,350
March 31, 1977                                       2,525
June 30, 1977                                        2,700
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                   2,750
December 31, 1977                                    2,800
March 31, 1978                                       2,850
June 30, 1978                                        2,900
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                   2,950
December 31, 1978                                    3,000
March 31, 1979                                       3,050
June 30, 1979                                        3,100
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                   3,300
December 31, 1979                                    3,500
Source: Mission Estimates
April 1974



TABLE 8
CHAD
SECCND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cotton Development Plan Production Targets in the Pro,iect Area
(thousands of tons of seed-cotton)
Actual             Program          Revised
Year         Production           Targe 2          Forecast.Y
1971             95
1972            109                 132
1973            104                 141               -
1974            114/               157               _
1975                                171              110
1976                                183              120
1977                                190              125
1978                                201              130
1979                                215              135
1980                                225              14o
1981                                240              150
1982                                 250             160
1/ Information obtained from COTONTCHAD during Credit negotiations
in May 197h.
2/ Targets for the program established for 1973-82.
2/ Mission estimate, established on the basis of latest information
available; used as a basis for the economic evaluation in this report.
Sources:  ONDR, COTONTCHAD, BCBOM, appraisal mission.
May 1974.



CHAD
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimate of Vehicle Operating Costs
(CFAF/ka net of taxes at late 1974 prices)
Vehicle Type          Paved Road      Good Earth Road     Improved Feeder Road       Bad Feeder Road
Light vehicle-                43                 51                      75                      112
Light truck (5T)              54                 70                      90                      145
Medium truck (12T).!/         78                110                     161                      261
Heavy truck (22T)."          118                169                     285
I/ Figures for light vehicles are an average of Renault R4, Peugeot 404 and Land Rover, the three most
commonly used types.
g Includes trailer.
Source: Mission findings based on information supplied by BCEOM and DPW.
February 197h4.



COAD
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated (Joats and Benefits of the Feeder Road Program
(in CFAF million at late 197h Drices)
-  -------___  ___ _--Benefite -
Capital Plus        Savings in vehicle   Value Added from  1/
Fiscal Year    Operating Costs aperaing co8ta    Cotton Production -                  Total
1975               80.5                  18.5                    o                 18.5
1976              109.2                  58.3                    4.3                62.6
1977               53.3                  61.3                    5.4                66.7
1978               46.0                  64.2                    6.5                70.7
1.979              46.o                  67.2                    7.5                74.7
1980               46.0                  70.0                    8.6                78.6
1981               85.3 2/               72.9                   10.8                83.7
1982               46.0                  75.9                  12.9                 88.8
1983               46.0                  78.8                   12.9                91.7
1984               46.0                  81.7                   12.9                94.6
1985               46.0                  84.6                  12.9                 97.5
§/  3Based on assiuutions set forth in para. 5.14 of main report.
_/  Includes projected vehicle renwlal.
Source: Mission estimates.
March 1974.



TABLE 11
CHAD
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Economic Return from Improving Cotton Feeder Roads
Sensitivity Analzsis
Costs     Costs
Estimated  increase  increase   Costs increase 50/o,
Return      5°h       10 /o   Benefits decrease 50/o
Best Estimate (based on
2-1/2%» of the value of
incremental cotton pro-
duction)                          17.7%h    13.9%h   io.0 50/%            9. 8°0,
Based on 5°h of the value of
incremental cotton production    24.90o    21.1 %    17.7%/              15.80°
Based on vehicle operating
cost savings only                  9.2%/      5. %       1.9%             1.5%
Source: Mission analysis.
March 197h.






''  j  4         X  X              ~~~~~~~~L I B Y  A                                 iA.R.E.
Tçl«\>sG :^,t,)  .S.), tX   '   -: jt    I   lC H A D                                             r
= -`>ttt | \ ~~SECOND  HIGHWAY PRCOJECT 
XRc A        F   0    0  N                                        GAU|''                                                  ' 
0 ~~~~~~~~~ =' -FIA                                                  REPUB  i 4    FIC_ 






;4 _   l-j   /               \      Zi'&                1   MASSENYA                                             a
16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
MCFli                          /                            . J \CH AD
:    4    /   '  O  ;   GoeI.nd.ogss    >                                                  / `\^                                    SECOND  HIGHWAY  PROJECT
o 4  -  O         P          0             <                                                  2    '   ,                              FEEDER ROADS PROJECTAREA
FFEDER ROADS
FOR IMPROVEMENT AND MAITENANCE
% J   9`i                        /                                \                               2                  8         (                __  FOR PRE - INVESTMENT STUDIES
MAJOR ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS
----------UNIMPROVED ROADS
MIOTORABLE TRACKS
RIVE RS
IN'TERNAT1ONAL RCUNDARIES
AIRPO0R TS
Y. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~/
KE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE
sLIBYA tl|<<<C XC   
C  H  A  D        f°                                             °                       «                              )                                                               nE
5CENRAL -N DJAEN  M,    )/|
MRICAN RE?UBLI   c  , ,          s,o1Z .                          A      F      R                     A C    A  N         R     E            U     B      L    I    C
jeoJfIh,~,o,  A



