CONFORAED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 490 CD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 28, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 490 CD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 28, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1974, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherevei used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "COTONTCHAD" means Socitd Cotonini&re du Tchad, a company
registered in the Registre du Commerce of the Borrower with number 12/B/71
on November 1, 1971.
(b)   "DPW" means the Directorate of Public Works, a department of the
Minist6re des Travaux Public6 ,t de l'Aminagement du Territoire of the Borrower;
and
(c)   "Road Fund" means the fund established Under Law No. 33 of the
Borrower dated January 8, 1960 and Dcret d'application of the Borrower
No. 33/TP dated February 20, 1960, as they may be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million five hundred thousand
dollars ($3,500,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; provided, however,
that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on
account of expenditures under Categories 1(a) and 2 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement until the contract referred to in Section 3.05 hereof has been executed.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods, the carrying out of works or services (other than consultants'
services) for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January I
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing
July 1, 1984, and ending January 1, 2024, each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B, C, D, and F of the
Project through its DPW and Part E through its Ministry of Transport, with due
diligence and efficiency and in confornity with appropriate engineering,


﻿5
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts C
and D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A and E of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ experts acceptable to the Association upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) within twelve months after the Effective
Date, or such other date as the Association shall agree, employ and assign to its
Ministry of Transport an expert acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association to carry out a study on the reorganization
of the road transport industry; (b) furnish to the Association, for review, promptly
upon completion, the study -mferred in sub-paragraph (a) hereof; and (c) in
consultation with the Associatioi, establish a program to implement the proposals
made in such study.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) employ and assign to DPW an expert
acceptable to the Association to: (i) plan, organize and supervise the civil works
included in Part A of the Project; and (ii) assist DPW in the procurement of the
equipment and construction materials required for such civil works. Such expert
shall be employed for a three-year term not later than three months after the
Effective Date, or such other date as the Association shall agree, to carry out
(i) and (ii) hereof during the first two years of his employment, and, thereafter,
advise the technician referred to in sub-paragraph (b) hereof; and
(b)   employ a Chadian technician to: (i) assist the expert referred to in
sub-paragraph (a) hereof during the first two years of his employment and,
thereafter, replace such expert until the completion of the Project.
Section 3.05. In order to assist DPW in carrying out the improvement and
maintenance works included in Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
DPW to enter into a contract with COTONTCHAD upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. In carrying out Part B of the Project the Borrower shall submit
to the Association, for approval, lists of roads selected by the Borrower for the
traffic-counting program.


﻿6
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to.the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintI,ned records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintaincd Lppropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) as soon as practicable before the
completion of the Project, furnish to the Association, for review, a program to
train Chadian nationals for managerial, engineering and technical positions in DPW;
and (b) inform regularly the Association on the progress made in carrying out
such program.


﻿7
Section 4.03. The Borrowei shall: (a) maintain in its Central Bank a separate
account for the Road Fund; (b) allocate to the Road Fund the amounts collected
from fuel taxes and ferry boat tolls; and (c) provide out of the Road Fund such
amounts as shall be budgeted in accordance with Section 4.04 of this Agreement
for road maintenance and operation of the ferry boats included in Part F of the
Project, and use such amounts exclusively for these purposes.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, in consultation with the Association,
annually: (a) (i) establish the maintenance budget for the road system, including
the proper use of available road maintenance equipment; and (ii) determine the
amounts to be allocated for the operating costs of the ferry boats; and (b) review,
and revise, if necessary, the taxes and tolls referred to in Section 4.03(b) hereof
with a view to provide the Borrower with revenues sufficient for road maintenance
expenses and ferry boat operating costs.
Section 4.05. Promptly upon completion of the Project the Borrower shall
include in the annual road maintenance program of DPW all Project feeder roads.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be reasonably
required to ensure that the dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles using the
Borrower's highways system are consistent with the structural and geometric design
standards of the roads used.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause its road network and its road
maintenance equipment to be adequately maintained and shall cause all necessary
repairs thereof to be made promptly, all in accordance with sound engineering
and economic standards, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the foregoing.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall collect and record in accordance with
appropriate statistical methods and procedures such technical, economic and
financial information as shall be reasonably required for proper planning of
maintenance, improvements and extensions of the highway system.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall make its best efforts to obtain external
aid for a study of air transport development with a view to establish, in consultation
with the Association, a long-term program to develop internal air transport.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. The Association may, upon the occurrence of certain events
specified in Sections 6.02 or 7.01 of the General Conditions and the continuance


﻿0
8
thereof for the period, if any, specified for the purpose: (i) suspend in whole
or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account
or (ii) declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately together witit the charges thereon.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date January 28, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of* Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement, except for Section 4.09 thereof, shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date fifteen
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.0 1. The Ministre d'Etat chargd de l'Economie Moderne, du Plan,
du Commerce et de la Coopdration Internationale of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditi. as.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6re de I'Economie
Moderne, du Plan,
du Commerce et de la
Coop6ration Internationale
B.P. 28 6
N'DJAMENA, Republic of Chad
Cable address:
Ministre Economie Plan
N'DJAMENA


﻿9
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ H.E. Bawoyeu Alingu6
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
1.   (a)   Road mainte-               440,000          100% of total
tenance equip-                              expenditures
ment and con-
struction ma-
terials
(b)   Ferry boat                 230,000          100% of total
maintenance                                 expenditures
equipment
and mate-
rials
(c)  Workshop equip-             130,000          100% of total
ment and tools                              expenditures
2.    Operating costs for             910,000          84% of total
Part A of the Proj-                               expenditures
ect, including serv-
ices of an expert
3.    Operating costs for             170,000          88% of total
Parts B and C of the                              expenditures
Project
4.    Consultants' services           400,000           100% of total
under Part C of the                               expenditures
Project
5.   Experts' services                 60,000           100% of total
under Part E of                                   expenditures
the Project


﻿11
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
6.    Feasibility                       400,000           100% of total
studies and                                         expenditures
detailed en-
gineering
under Part D
of the Proj-
ect
7.    Fellowships                        60,000           100% of total
expenditures
8.    Unallocated                       700,000
TOTAL          3,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "total expenditures" means the
aggregate of: (i) expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of any country other than the Borrower; and (ii) expenditures for
goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if ani' event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Associ 'ion may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement -ercentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithsta.nding  the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percei-tages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated


﻿12
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet such estimated
shortfall proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursemert percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.    Implementation of a five-year program for improvement and maintenance
of about 800 km of feeder roads in cotton-growing areas as specified in
the Exhibit to this Schedule, including the purchase and utilization of
highway maintenance equipment.
B.    Implementation of a two-year traffic-counting program on about 2000 km
of primary and secondary roads.
C.    Implementation of a training program for DPW staff on all aspects of highway
maintenance, including provision of about 5 fellowships for local instructors
trained under such program.
D.    1.   Feasibility  studies  concerning  improvement   of  roads   Krim
Krim-Beinamar and Kelo-Gounou Gaya (about 120 km), including the
construction of a bridge on the Gounou Gaya-Sorga road and about
5 km of access roads to this bridge, followed by detailed engineering
for the roads and the bridge considered economically feasible.
2.    Feasibility studies concerning the renewal of the ferry boats referred
to in Part F hereof and the improvement of dock facilities.
E.    Provision of experts' services for the reorganization of the road transport
industry.
F.    Purchase and utilization of maintenance equipment and materials for nine
ferry-boats over a three-year period.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿14
EXHIBIT
Feeder Roads included in Part A of the Project
Order No.                                      km
1           KELO-BITIKIM-DOHER                 68
2           GAYA-GOUNOUGANG                    23
3           GUIDARI-MADANA                     32
4           GAYA-BEREM-BELE                    32
5           GAYA-SORGA                         56
6           BORO-KOUTOU                        48
7           KOUMOGO-KEMDERE                    51
8           PANZANGUE-TAPOL                    75
9           BODO-BEKODO II-BETI                37
10          KOUMRA-GABOULO-GOUNDI              44
11          BEBOPEN-DERGUIGUI-BEDIONDO         21
12          DOBA-BEMOA                         15
13          BEREM-ALMI-WORI KAOUNA             10
14         PALA-GAGAL-BEYNAMAR                108
15          DIGUE DE NARABANGUA                 2
16          KELO-KASSELEM-MBAYMOU              13
17         JEBE-GOUNOUGANG                      9
18          MURSALE-LAME-BADIE                 34
19          BEKAMBA-OBOLO-PENI                 13
20          BONGOR-GOUNOUGANG                  12
21          BEYNAMAR-BEISSA                    25
22          DELINGALA-MOISSALA                 15
23          KELO-GOUNOU-GAYA                   52
24          DJOLA 1I-DOBO                       8
Total Km   803


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Contracts for road and ferry boat maintenance equipment shall be let under
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as
revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
2.    Contracts for construction materials, ferry boat maintenance materials and
workshop equipment and tools shall be let under procedures consistent with those
set forth in the Guidelines, provided, however, that with respect to invitations
to bid advertisements may be limited to newspapers of general circulation in the
Borrower's country.
B.    Procurement without contracting
Improvement and maintenance works included in Part A of the Project may
be carried out on force account.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to all contracts for the road maintenance equipment:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended


﻿16
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request.


