Document of
The World Bank                      FILE COpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2877-GUA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
GUYANA
FOR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR POWER DEVELOPMENT
September 18, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of  1
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World BanL authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =    Guyana dollar (G$)
G$1.00             =    US$0.39
G$1.0 million      =    US$390,000
US$1.00            =    G$2.55
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations
CDB           -   Caribbean Development Bank
CIDA          -   Canadian International Development Agency
IDB           -   Inter-American Development Bank
HENR           -   Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources
ODM           -   U.K. Overseas Development Ministry
OLADE         -   Latin American Energy Organization
USAID         -   U.S. Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUYANA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR POWER DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Guyana
Amount:               US$8.0 million
Terms:                 10 years, including 4 years of grace, at an interest
rate of 9.25% per annum.
Project Description:  The principal objectives of the project are to assist
the country in developing renewable energy sources to
substitute for imported oil and to improve the manage-
ment performance of Guyana Electricity Corporation (GEC).
The project, which is a follow-up to the hydroelectric
power survey of Guyana, carried out with UNDP financing
in 1974-76, envisages: (a) a power demand study under
different assumptions; (b) prefeasibility studies of
various hydropower sites and engineering studies and
cost estimates of Upper Mazaruni hydropower site in
order to make economic comparisons and determine a
feasible site for hydroelectric development; (c) a
feasibility study of the hydropower site selected as
the most economic means of meeting the probable elec-
tric power demand; (d) feasibility studies of small
and mini-hydro developments for isolated systems;
and (e) provision to the GEC of management assistance,
staff training, and assistance in developing energy
conservation techniques. The project's principal risk
is that adequate Guyanese counterpart personnel might be
in short supply in the sector. Assignment of key
counterpart staff at an early stage of project execution
and close Bank monitoring would reduce this risk.
This document has  restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
------US$ Million--------
Local    Foreign    Total
Interconnected System
Optimization Study                              0.3         1.1       1.4
Additional Work at Upper Mazaruni               0.2        0.5        0.7
Feasibility Study Preliminary Design            0.3        1.2        1.5
Isolated Systems
Pre-Feasibility and Feasibility Studies
and Bidding Documents                          0.4        1.3        1.7
Management Assistance for GEC                      0.6         2.0       2.6
TOTAL BASELINE COST                                1.8         6.1       7.9
Contingencies
Physical                                         0.2        0.6        0.8
Price                                            0.4        1.3        1.7
Total Project Cost                                 2.4         8.0      10.4
Financing Plan:                                        -------US$ Million-------
Bank    Government  Total
Interconnected System                              2.8        0.8        3.6
Isolated Systems                                   1.3        0.4        1.7
Management Assistance for GEC                      2.0         0.6       2.6
Other Charges                                      1.9        0.6        2.5
TOTAL                                              8.0         2.4      10.4
Estimated Disbursements:                            ---------US$ Million--------
FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84
Annual                        2.0     3.9      1.5     0.6
Cumulative                    2.0     5.9      7.4     8.0
Appraisal Report:      None.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO GUYANA
FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR POWER DEVELOPMENT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Guyana for technical assistance for power development for the equivalent
of US$8 million. The loan would have a term of 10 years, including four years
of grace, with interest at 9.25% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        An economic mission visited Guyana in May 1980 and an economic
report has been distributed to the Executive Directors ("Economic Memorandum
on Guyana" (3015-GUA) of June 9, 1980). Annex I contains the basic country
data.
3.        Guyana's economy is based on the export of sugar, rice, bauxite
and alumina. Economic activity and population are concentrated along a narrow
coastal strip where sugar and rice are grown. With the exception of bauxite
mining, the hinterland remains undeveloped. Economic development has been
retarded by a difficult physical environment and sharp fluctuations in
output and income stemming from the vulnerability of the economy to exogenous
factors such as weather and fluctuations in international prices and demand.
Income, while fairly evenly distributed, is among the lowest (US$580 per
capita in 1979) in the Western Hemisphere. Real growth of the economy has
been highly variable but since 1976 real GDP per capita has fallen steadily.
Consequently, it has not been possible to reduce persistently high levels of
unemployment, which reached nearly 20% of the labor force in 1979.
4.        When Guyana gained its independence in 1966, the economy was largely
owned and controlled by foreign enterprises operating principally in bauxite
mining, sugar production and retail trade. The indigenous private sector was
limited to local trading and agricultural activities. Shortly after indepen-
dence the Government sought to gain control over national assets through
acquisition of foreign owned enterprises. The role of the public sector
became dominant as the Government expanded state enterprises, created new
state-owned financial institutions and nationalized the bauxite/alumina and
sugar industries. The growing role of the public sector was reflected in the
increase of its share of gross domestic capital formation from 40% in 1968 to
about 80% in 1979. At the same time, the Government has given high priority to
development of the cooperative sector, to an equitable distribution of income,
and to the provision of food, housing, health care and education.



5.        In recent years, the country's economy has been adversely affected
by a number of changes in external economic conditions. Although the 1974
sugar price boom temporarily compensated for the increase in petroleum and
other import prices, when prices returned to lower levels in 1976 the economy
experienced serious difficulties. The temporary flood of sugar earnings had
led to a greatly expanded level of public sector expenditures and a concomitant
high import bill in 1975, neither of which it was possible to sustain. Public
sector savings fell from about 7% of GDP the previous year to about 2% and the
balance of payments registered a record current account deficit of over 30% of
GDP. Net international reserves became negative. The economic situation
continued to deteriorate in 1977, with real GDP contracting by 5% and further
decline in net foreign exchange reserves. The country accumulated about US$32
million in commercial arrears by the end of the year.
Recent Economic Developments
6.        The Government made concerted efforts to alleviate the country's
severe economic problems in 1978. It entered into a one-year Stand-by Agreement
with the IMF, which provided SDR 15 million over a 12-month period. A Bank/IDA
program loan which began to disburse in the latter part of the year provided
another US$10 million. Through fiscal and monetary measures aimed at mobilizing
domestic resources and restraining demand, the Government was able to increase
public sector savings from a negative 2% of GDP the previous year to 5%, and to
reduce the current account deficit on the balance of payments from 22% of GDP
to 6%. Commercial arrears were reduced by US$10 million, and net international
reserves increased by US$12 million by the end of the year. The Government
was, for the most part, successful in meeting the monetary and fiscal targets
established under the Standby Agreement. Efforts to control imports, however,
resulted in increasing shortages of intermediate goods and spare parts, leading
to a depletion in capital stock and a deterioration in services that interrupted
production and retarded economic activity. As a consequence of the import
cutback, investment reductions and power shortages, real GDP stagnated in 1978.
The consumer price index rose by an average annual rate of over 20%, reflecting
the removal of subsidies, an increase in indirect taxation, and upward
adjustment in the prices and rates charged by the public enterprises.
7.        Economic conditions continued to deteriorate in 1979, with real GDP
falling by about 3%. Poor weather and labor difficulties led to production
declines in all three major export commodities. The production declines
reduced revenues of the major public corporations and contributed to a lower
level of public sector savings, while declining export receipts and rising
imports due largely to a 50% increase in petroleum prices led to an increase
in the current account deficit of the balance of payments to about 14% of GDP.
Inflation continued to average about 20% annually. Although a three-year
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) was negotiated in June, 1979 the Government found
itself unable to meet its targets as a result of reduced public sector revenues.
As a consequence, the Agreement was suspended in late 1979.



- 3 -
8.        The Government took a number of steps in the first few months
of 1980 toward increasing national savings, promoting the recovery of
production and exports, and raising the productivity of workers, whose
real incomes have dropped considerably during the last two or three years.
In addition to the establishment of production targets in the major export
sectors, the Government included the following measures in the 1980 budget
proposal:
(a) an increase in electricity tariffs in a phased manner so that
average tariffs would exceed the December 1979 levels by about 33%
over a 12 month period, and an increase in tariffs for road, air
and water transport;
(b) increase in farmgate prices for rice;
(c)  the introduction of an 8% consumption tax on all imports (except
imports of price-controlled goods and imports of major public
sector corporations and government projects); and
(d) an increase of 37% in the excise tax on tobacco.
9.        At the same time, the Government announced some measures aimed
at reducing the negative impact of inflation on the real income of the
population and providing incentives for production, including:
(a) a wage increase of 5% across the board for the public sector
(except for sugar and bauxite sectors), provision of a 7%
increase for sugar and bauxite workers, an additional 5%
"skill premium" for specified categories of workers, and
incentive wages related to improved productivity;
(b) a 25% increase in personal income tax allowances;
(c) an upward adjustment in pension payments and abolition
of differences in social security payments between urban
and rural recipients; and
(d) new pricing policies to standardize retail prices of
goods sold in public corporations which would in many
cases decrease mark-up levels.
10.       In June, the Government adopted an economic program aimed at
accelerating economic growth through more intensive and efficient use of
existing productive capacity and the improved execution of the public
sector investment program. In particular, the program calls for more
efficient resource allocation through the removal of price distortions
and the relief of supply bottlenecks caused by the shortage of foreign
exchange, the development of managerial and labor skills, the improvement
of agricultural yields through more systematic application of fertilizer
and appropriate farm management practices, and the removal of obstacles
to private sector initiatives. In support of the program, a new three-year
EFF in the amount of SDR 100 million was approved by the IMF Board in
July 1980.



-4-
Development Issues
11.       Guyana's development strategy aims at accelerating economic growth,
generating employment and strengthening the balance of payments through the
development and expansion of export-generating and efficient import-substituting
activities. While the main productive sectors of sugar, rice and bauxite will
receive major emphasis, efforts to expand production of nontraditional agri-
cultural and manufactured goods are also under way. Guyana's prospects for
economic recovery during the next two years depend largely on the ability of
both the public and private sector to maintain and more fully utilize existing
productive capacity and to improve the productivity of labor. The provision
of adequate foreign exchange to meet the raw material and investment require-
ments of the agricultural and manufacturing sectors is a crucial requirement
for the resumption of economic growth. The maintenance of stable industrial
relations and the improvement of labor productivity are also crucial to
renewed economic growth during the short term. To this end, the Government
has recently established additional incentive schemes which tie wage increases
to increased labor productivity. Over the medium and longer term, the achie-
vement of the country's development goals will, to a large extent, depend on
the timely execution of the public investment program and the ability of the
economy to mobilize increased levels of private sector investment. In this
regard, the Government has taken a pragmatic approach towards both the foreign
and local private sector. In 1979, it established an investment code which
attempted to set out the basis for promoting investments in the national
economy by the private sector, both local and foreign. Recently, there has
been evidence of renewed interest among foreign investors in the exploration
and development of Guyana's mineral resources. In addition, the Government
reiterated in the 1980 budget speech its intention to support the efforts of
the private manufacturing sector.
12.       One of the most serious development issues confronting Guyana in
recent years is the deterioration of its terms of trade, which has contributed
to a steady decline in real gross domestic income. This largely reflects the
heavy fuel import bill, which in 1980 is estimated to account for almost
one-third of import value and 24% of GDP. The development of a balanced
energy program aimed at reducing reliance on imported oil thus is of critical
importance to Guyana's economic equilibrium. In this regard, the Government
is considering a number of measures to reduce oil imports, such as the restruc-
turing of electricity tariffs, increased use of nonpetroleum energy sources,
improvement in the efficiency of existing thermal capacity, development of
small hydropower sites, and development of an effective energy conservation
program.
13.       Guyana possesses considerable potential for the development of
substantial hydropower resources at a number of alternative sites in the
western part of the country. One promising potential site is Upper Mazaruni,
which would have a capacity of 750 MW in its first stage of development. The
development of hydropower resources on such a scale, however, is contingent
upon a number of factors. Essential is the identification of adequate markets.
In this regard, the concomitant construction of an aluminum smelter would be
vital to the economic feasibility of Upper Mazaruni; neighboring countries
might also provide additional markets for this project. A second important



-5-
requirement is the Government's ability to raise substantial levels of exter-
nal financing to execute the project. Finally, a project of this scale would
pose a considerable burden on the economy. Immediate steps to expand and
strengthen the construction sector, to ensure the availability of required
infrastructure, and to provide for adequate technical and managerial manpower
are required if such a project is to proceed without major bottlenecks. Apart
from these actions, the Government will have to attract the participation of a
competent partner to provide technology, investment, management and markets
for the proposed aluminum smelter. Should these requirements be met, the
large-scale development of hydropower holds the potential of substantially
relieving Guyana's foreign exchange constraints.
Public Sector Investment and Financing
14.       In the context of its first program loan and in its capacity as
coordinator of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development,
the Bank has reviewed the public sector investment program during the last few
years. Although the emphasis of the investment program has been largely in
keeping with the country's development requirements, the shortage of local
counterpart funds, the scarcity of managerial and technical manpower, and
sizeable cost overruns have impeded its progress, with the consequence that
public capital expenditures in recent years have fallen short of targeted
levels in real terms and the completion of major projects has been delayed.
The 1980-82 investment program, which amounts to over G$1.3 billion or an
average of 23% of GDP each year, seems appropriate in magnitude and composition
to the prospective financial resources and development priorities of the
Government. It consists largely of projects which are already underway. In
line with Guyana's development goals of export-oriented economic growth, about
80% of total public investment is allocated to the productive sectors of the
economy and related infrastructure. Agriculture alone accounts for almost 40%
of the total investment program. Projects in manufacturing and mining account
for another one-fifth. Essential infrastructure projects in communications,
power and transport to support projects in the directly productive sectors
amount to about 18% of the total. The remainder of the program is devoted to
projects in the social sectors and administration.
15.       If the public sector investment program is to remain on track
and avoid the difficulties which have beset it in the past, the Government
will need to make special efforts to improve project administration and
ensure the availability of local counterpart funds. To this end, the
Government is seeking technical assistance for project execution as well as
external financing for local costs. To finance the public sector investment
program in 1980-82, as well as external debt amortization payments amounting
to G$455 million, a determined effort to mobilize substantial public sector
savings will be necessary. Given the Government's decisions to increase
power tariffs and some agricultural prices, and to limit the growth of real
wages, and in view of favorable prospects for increasing output in the main
productive sectors, public sector savings are projected to provide about
one-quarter of the required resources. The remainder, approximately G$1,080
million, will have to be mobilized from external sources. About 60% of



- 6 -
external capital requirements will be available from funds committed to
ongoing projects and programs; the rest will have to be raised from new
sources. In order to forestall an undue increase in Guyana's external debt
burden, a large proportion of additional external resources will need to
be available on concessional terms.
Economic Prospects
16.       In the absence of adverse weather conditions, renewed labor problems,
or further petroleum price increases, and based on the output record of the
first five months, real GDP could increase by about 6% in 1980, a rate which in
part reflects recovery from the economic contraction in 1979. Thereafter,
real GDP growth rates averaging about 5% per annum could be attained. Long-
term growth prospects will depend on the successful execution of the public
investment program, the country's ability to develop its hydropower resources,
and on the speed at which the private sector invests in new export-oriented
and import-substituting activities. To attain the projected levels of econo-
mic growth, the level of gross domestic investment may need to increase from
about 21% of GDP in 1979 to an average of 25% during 1980/82. This relatively
high level of investment allows for some rebuilding of inventories which have
been seriously depleted during the last two years.
17.       Merchandise export receipts are projected to increase by about
45% in 1980. The increase reflects a number of factors, including recovery
from low export volume the previous year, increased production of sugar,
expansion in the bauxite/alumina sector, and favorable price developments for
all three major exports. At the same time, as a result of greatly increased
petroleum prices, the requirements of the investment program and the need
to increase import of inputs and spare parts in order to achieve projected
levels of GDP growth, import value will need to increase by about 40%--or
about 11% in real terms. The current account deficit in 1980 is projected to
be equivalent to about 12% of GDP.
18.       Beyond 1980, export prospects are reasonably favorable.  The volume
of sugar exports is expected to increase by about 6% in 1981-82 as a result
of new plantings and increased yields. Rice export volumes should increase
substantially as a result of rising output from new acreage under double
cropping and propagation of improved seed varieties. Bauxite export volumes
should also expand as investments to increase production capacity begin to
yield results. Prices for Guyana's three major exports are expected to remain
relatively favorable through 1982. At the same time, increased lumber process-
ing capacity is expected to come on stream in 1982. Other nontraditional
exports, while relatively small in absolute amounts, are also expected to grow
at a fast pace as a result of increased availability of raw materials and
spares. In order to develop and sustain export-oriented manufacturing in
Guyana, the Bank is currently preparing a structural adjustment loan. Based
on favorable price trends for exports, given no precipitous changes in real
petroleum prices and assuming that nonessential imports remain limited, the
current account deficit is projected to decrease to about 11% of GDP in 1981
and to less than 9% in 1982.



- 7 -
19.       The external capital inflows required by the public sector for the
1980-82 period have been estimated at US$423 million. About 60%--or US$252
million--of the public sector requirements has already been committed.
Approximately US$170 million from new commitments would be required from
external donors. Substantial resources available under the EFF agreement
should permit elimination of commercial arrears and the rebuilding of foreign
exchange reserves during the 1980-82 period.
20.       The above financing program would permit substantial progress toward
achieving greater balance of payments viability. Essential import levels
could be maintained, arrears reduced, and existing debt service obligations
would be fulfilled. At the same time, the current account deficit on the
balance of payments would still be at a level difficult to sustain over the
longer term. In view of anticipated increases in export volume after 1982,
when several major export-oriented projects are expected to come on stream,
more rapid progress toward achieving the latter goal should start by 1983.
However, the adjustment process will need to continue for the next four or
five years, during which sound economic and financial management will be
essential.
21.       The servicing of public external debt obligations has become an
increasing burden in recent years with declining export receipts in most of
these years and increased amortization liabilities, in particular from nation-
alization loans and medium-term borrowings in commercial markets. The service
on the public and publicly guaranteed debt increased from 4% of foreign
exchange earnings in 1975 to about 30% in 1979, a ratio which in part reflects
a depressed level of foreign exchange earnings that year. In 1980, it is
projected to drop back to 22%, to 20% in 1981 and 14% in 1982. Provided that
the authorities maintain their present commitment to sound economic and
financial management, and assuming that a substantial part of the required
external resources are obtained on concessional terms, Guyana may be considered
creditworthy for limited borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUYANA
22.       The first Bank loan made in 1961 to the then British Guyana for
agricultural credit was repaid in full. Since independence in 1966, Guyana
has received, net of cancellations, US$55.8 million in loans from the Bank and
US$28.5 million in credits from IDA for eleven development projects. In
addition, an EEC Special Action Credit of US$3 million equivalent was provided
in 1979 for an import program. Reflecting the development needs of the
economy, past lending to Guyana has been for physical and social infrastruc-
ture. 25% of Bank Group lending has been for sea defenses, highways and
power. Two education projects designed to improve secondary education and
strengthen agricultural and vocational skills account for 21% of Bank Group
lending to the country. Assistance to agriculture, forestry and livestock
development account for 42% of total Bank/IDA lending to Guyana while program
lending accounts for the remaining 12% of Bank Group operations in Guyana.
There has been one IFC operation in Guyana, namely, a stove manufacturing
project in which an investment of $2 million was made. Annex II contains a
summary account of the status of projects under execution.



- 8 -
23.       In general, while the execution of Bank Group projects has been satis-
factory, the pace of project implementation has been slow. Shortage of skilled
technicians, institutional weaknesses, lack of a central office to coordinate
and monitor project implementation, and lack of enough resources to meet local
costs account for delays in project implementation. Several of the ongoing
projects which were appraised before the substantial rise in world inflation
in 1973-74 have been faced with substantial cost overruns to be met by Guyana.
The Bank Group has been assisting the Government in obtaining financing from
external sources to meet the needs of some of these projects. In the case of
the ongoing Tapakuma irrigation project which is facing a 170% cost overrun,
a financing package was worked out with the UK Overseas Development Ministry
(ODM), the OPEC Special Fund (OPEC-SF), and the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB).
24.       Earlier Bank Group operations in Guyana have been mostly aimed at
strengthening both the physical and social infrastructure and the institutional
setup in the Government. The two Sea Defence projects (Ln. 559 and Ln. 765),
approved in 1968 and 1971, were designed to protect the coastal agricultural
lands and the country's administrative and population centers from tidal
inundation. The Highway Project (Cr. 301), approved in 1972, while supporting
agricultural operations, included technical assistance to the Ministry of
Works in preparing a national transport development strategy. Acting as the
executing agency of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Bank
organized a transport sector study and helped in setting up the Central
Transport Planning Unit. The Power project (Ln. 875, 1973) cofinanced by CIDA
and ODM, and, more recently by the CDB, was designed to increase modestly the
thermal generation capacity, integrate the national power system through
frequency conversion and interconnection and provide training and institutional
improvement. Acting as the executing agency of the UNDP, the Bank organized a
survey of Guyana's hydropower potential in 1974/75.
25.       With a view to developing a relevant educational system and reducing
manpower constraints, the Bank Group has assisted Guyana with two education
projects (Cr. 139 and Ln. 583 for the First Education project of 1969, and
Cr. 544 and Ln. 1106 for the Second Education project of 1975). These projects
include multilateral secondary schools, community high schools and teacher
training facilities, and emphasize agricultural education and rural training.
The Second Education project includes the development of curricula for tech-
nical institutes, fellowships for technical teachers and a study to assess the
effectiveness of vocational and technical education and training system in
meeting Guyana's needs. This study would help identify priorities for long-term
investment in education and training.
26.       Apart from the recently launched Upper Demerara forestry project
(1978) and the Black Bush irrigation project (1978), the Bank Group has financed
other directly productive projects, namely, the Livestock Project (Cr. 221 of
1970), and the Tapakuma Irrigation Project (Ln. 1016 of 1978). These projects
seek to utilize Guyana's land resources so that the country can fulfill its
role as the food supplier to the CARICOM while developing efficient livestock
and rice production systems. The Livestock Project has helped to reduce
imports of meat and dairy products and is expected to lay the basis for an
export-oriented livestock industry. The investment already made in the
agricultural development program in the Tapakuma Irrigation Project has raised



- 9 -
rice yields substantially, thus contributing to increased export earnings.
In order to assess the potential in agriculture, a sector review was completed
in 1977 under the Bank/FAO Cooperative Program. The ongoing Tapakuma irriga-
tion project, the IDB-financed MMA irrigation project, and the Black Bush
irrigation project are designed to help utilize the country's agricultural
potential and increase both export earnings and rural household incomes. The
Upper Demerara forestry project in central Guyana has been designed to increase
significantly the export earnings of the forestry sector by 1982. This
project, as well as the irrigation projects, which are devoted to export-
oriented production, require complementary investments in training and institu-
tional improvements. Assistance in these areas is being arranged under
programs financed by other bilateral and multilateral agencies. The Bank
Group has also arranged cofinancing for these projects from other external
aid agencies. The forestry project is cofinanced by the IBRD, EDF, EIB and
IDB, while the Black Bush irrigation project is financed by the IDA, IFAD,
IDB, and USAID. The Bank Group's lending strategy will continue to emphasize
increased production for exports, while continuing support for essential
infrastructural projects.
27.       The Bank has maintained a continuing dialogue with the Government
on its economic policies and development priorities. The policy measures for
economic recovery, as well as the new production-oriented investment program
adopted by the Government, are designed to correct imbalances in the economy.
In support of the policy measures and with a view to easing critical shortages
in investment resources, the Bank has helped organize a subgroup of donors
to coordinate aid to Guyana under the auspices of the Caribbean Group for
Cooperation in Economic Development. In addition, to support the Government's
overall investment program and to permit the import of inputs essential for
production and investment, the Bank Group provided a US$10 million program loan
(LN. 1622, Cr. 853) to the Government in 1978.
28.       Past Bank Group operations in Guyana have made it apparent that
institutional and management strengthening and staff training should receive
special emphasis in the design of investment projects.
29.       Future Bank Group activities in Guyana would support the struc-
tural transformation of the economy by reducing Guyana's dependence on
fuel imports and by promoting higher stages of processing of the country's
mineral, agricultural and forestry products. The technical assistance
project now proposed is of special significance in this context.
30.       Bank Group financing accounts for about 8% of total external debt
outstanding and disbursed and about 4% of debt service. It is estimated that
by 1980 the Bank Group's share of total external debt outstanding and disbursed
would increase to 11% and total debt service to 5%.



- 10 -
PART III - THE SECTOR
Energy
31.       Guyana, whose total energy consumption in 1977 was 9.8 x 10   kcal,
imports almost all of its energy requirements in the form of petroleum.
Imports of fuel and lubricants in 1979 amounted to about US$84 million,
accounting for 25% of the value of the total merchandise imports.  About US$21
million (25%) of this imported fuel was used to generate electric energy and
it is expected that the fuel import bill for electricity generation would be
twice as large in 1980.  In view of steeply rising costs of fuel imports, the
Government has assigned high priority to the development of hydroelectric
resources. At the same time it is proceeding with a modest development of
other "nonconventional sources" of energy such as wood waste and bagasse.
32.       Although Guyana is not a hydrocarbon producer, surveys and explora-
tory drilling indicate that there might be possibilities of commercial dis-
coveries. Some 15 wells have been drilled both onshore and offshore during the
period 1938 to 1975 and have produced some oil and gas shows. Recently, U.S.
and Canadian petroleum firms have secured rights and concessions to conduct
further explorations. Seismic investigations in the interior have been encour-
aging, and exploratory drilling is scheduled to begin in late 1980 or early
1981.
33.       The feasibility of using solar power, sugar cane bagasse, wood
waste and other biomass has not been demonstrated yet, but some studies and
pilot project investments which have begun are:
-    technical assistance from Brazil on production and use of ethanol;
-    establishment of demonstration units to produce methane from
waste material, in cooperation with the Latin American Energy
Organization (OLADE);
-    utilization of wood waste, funded by the IDB, and of rice husk
in cooperation with USAID;
-    experimental testing of solar dryers, in cooperation with the
CDB;
-    installation of 6,000 kw of diesel-generating sets using methane
gas extracted from wood waste under the Bank-financed Upper
Demerara forestry project (Ln. 1623-GUA); and
-    feasibility studies of converting kilns at the alumina plant from
oil- to charcoal-fired.
34.       Guyana's main indigenous commercial energy resource is hydropower.
The feasible hydroelectrical power potential of Guyana, as identified in
studies conducted by foreign consulting firms under the auspices of the UNDP,
is estimated to be over 7,200 MW with an annual capacity factor of 60%.



Government Energy Policy
35.       The Government's energy development policy aims at maximum utili-
zation of the only proven abundant domestic energy resource - hydro power.
The objective is to reduce Guyana's dependence on imported petroleum and to
develop low-cost energy for industrial use, primarily for the aluminum
industry.
36.       The Government has established within the Ministry of Energy and
Natural Resources (MENR) a National Energy Unit pending statutory incorpora-
tion of a National Energy Authority, with responsibility for formulation of a
national energy policy and for improving energy management. Responsibility
for alternative-energy research and development is vested with the Institute
of Applied Science and Technology, which is part of the National Science
Research Council. Both the Unit (Authority) and Institute are in need of
human and financial resources. Initial help in this regard has been provided
by USAID, which is providing structuring and staffing assistance to the Energy
Unit and has begun a CARICOM regional energy management program, which focuses
on conservation, alternative energy, and the institutional manpower and
financial arrangements needed to sustain a meaningful energy-management
program. Assuming that it obtains the services of an energy consultant
(currently being negotiated with USAID), the Energy Unit will be capable of
carrying out its initial role of data gathering and monitoring, policy
guidance and coordination with other agencies.
Energy Conservation Measures
37.       In the face of rising energy costs, the Guyana Government is
giving special attention to energy conservation programs. Studies carried
out recently indicate that the bulk of energy usage in Guyana is devoted to
productive activities.  Under schemes financed by the USAID, studies are being
undertaken to assess energy utilization. Specific targets for energy conserva-
tion are being adopted by several public sector corporations and some of them,
such as the Guyana Mining Corporation and the Guyana Sugar Corporation, have
been reasonably successful in achieving energy conservation. These major
corporations, as well as the GEC, are monitoring energy usage and are sub-
mitting periodic reports to the Cabinet on the progress made in energy
conservation. Measures to eliminate subsidies and periodic adjustment of the
price of fuel, transport services, etc. to reflect the real cost of energy
are looked upon as means of encouraging energy conservation. In order to
strengthen energy conservation efforts, the Government is seeking the assis-
tance of external agencies, such as OLADE and USAID.
Electric Power
38.       The Guyana Electricity Corporation (GEC), the main public service
electricity supplier in the country, is not efficiently managed, and its finan-
cial position has been precarious. Poor operating practices and lack of
maintenance of the existing thermal plants have made the public system unreli-
able and expensive. Its tariff levels are too low to cover operating expenses,



- 12 -
its tariff structure is not based on cost of service, and the company has been
unable to retain qualified staff. External technical assistance financed by
the UK did not produce the desired results. However, the Government has once
again obtained technical assistance funds from the UK to provide limited
assistance to GEC in three areas: a medium-term market survey; an identifica-
tion of the equipment needed to rehabilitate GEC's principal generating
stations; and provision of technical personnel on a contract basis. While
helpful, this assistance will have to be complemented by help for GEC's
overall management.
39.       The Bank's first loan in the power sector (Loan 875-GUA) aimed at
the development of an interconnected system which reduced required reserve
capacities and permitted economies of scale. It also was directed at improving
the operations of the GEC through provision of management training to senior
staff. The project has encountered considerable problems. At the most recent
estimate, project completion will be 5-1/2 years behind schedule and the
project, reduced in scope with respect to frequency conversion of some customers'
equipment, has a 36% cost overrun, most of which was financed by a Caribbean
Development Bank loan (US$6.9 mn) and government contributions. The company is
presently running an operating deficit. In July, it applied for a tariff
increase of about 30%, which would have raised tariff levels to a very high
US$0.19 kWh, enabling the company to cover its operating costs. The Govern-
ment granted a 7.5% increase effective August 1, 1980, and plans further
increases. The Bank is continuing its dialogue with the Government concerning
the importance of upward adjustment of electricity rates. A major contributing
factor to GEC's financial difficulties is its inefficient technical operation,
characterized by abnormally high consumption of fuel and electricity losses.
GEC's main deficiency is not in its tariff levels but in its acute lack of
effective management. The proposed project would continue the efforts begun
under the first power loan toward improving GEC's management capability.
40.       Over the medium to long term, the government seeks to expand its
national grid for interconnection of existing power systems within Guyana and
possibly with neighboring countries and to improve management and operation of
the systems. More immediately, the government's role is to:
(a) improve sector planning and design coherent development programs;
(b) identify, prepare and execute energy projects of high priority;
(c) devise appropriate energy demand and pricing policies;
(d) strengthen sector administration and regulation, with particular
attention to GEC; and
(e) promote the development of energy conservation programs.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       A Loan and Project Summary is placed at the front of this report.  A
Supplementary Project Data Sheet is appended as Annex III. The project was
prepared between December 1979 and April 1980, and was appraised in May 1980.
Negotiations were held in Washington from August 19 to 21, 1980; the Guyanese
delegation was led by Mr. Crawford, Head of the National Energy Unit.
Origin
42.       Under a UNDP grant, with IBRD as executing agency, a Canadian
consulting firm completed a hydroelectric survey for Guyana in April 1976.
This survey recommended, inter alia, the further study of three schemes on the
Potaro River (Amalia - 195 MW, Kaieteur - 520 MW, and Tumatumari - 90 MW).
These schemes are smaller than Upper Mazaruni (UM) and have the advantage of
permitting a phased development. However, Kaieteur can be considered feasible
only with a major new market.
43.       In 1975 the Government of Guyana engaged a Swedish consulting
firm to prepare a feasibility study of the UM hydroelectric scheme to serve
(i) the public supply system (base load of about 45 MW now, expected to
reach 70-100 MW by 1987), (ii) conversion of oil-fired boilers (70 to 90 MW)
and possible conversion of oil-fired kilns (about 80 MW) at Guyana's alumina
facilites, and (iii) a proposed 148,000 TPY aluminum smelter (270-300 MW).
The feasibility study concluded that, based on full cost recovery, electricity
from UM - either a 750 or 1050 MW version - might be priced low enough to be
attractive for aluminum smelting. A crude estimate (March 1976 price levels
indexed to December 1979 prices) indicates the cost of the hydro development
and smelter at more than US$700 million each.
44.     . In May 1979 the Government requested review of the UK hydro/smelter
scheme. In subsequent discussions, principally in Washington in December
1979, it became evident that with a firm large market a development as large
as UM could be justified, and in the absence of such a new market, a phased
development of smaller hydroelectric project(s) would be appropriate.
Objectives
45.       It is believed that the least-cost solution to supplying Guyana's
future electric-power requirements is based on the substitution of renewable
energy resources (hydraulic or biomass) for oil, which is now used for almost
all public-service electricity supply in the country. Whether oil-fired
generation at existing units should be used in conjunction with hydro genera-
tion is subject to investigation.
46.       The objectives of the project, with respect to new electric-power
developments for the interconnected system, are: (a) to assist the country in
determining the least-cost solution for adequate power supplies for each of
five demand assumptions - (i) base load; (ii) base load plus boiler/kiln
conversion; (iii) base load plus smelter; (iv) base load plus boiler/kiln
conversion and smelter; (v) base load plus external sales with or without
boiler/kiln conversion and/or smelter; (b) once the Government has selected



- 14 -
the electric-power development to be undertaken on the basis of the then
assessed possibilities of building a smelter and/or conversion of the existing
kilns, to prepare a full feasibility study, including preliminary designs.
The project's principal component is designed so that the least-cost determi-
nation may proceed simultaneously with but independently of, Guyana's nego-
tiations with potential major power users, such as an aluminum smelter. This
would enable the Government to have a fall-back position if such negotiations
should break down or be unduly delayed.
47.       With respect to the small isolated developments, the project objec-
tive is to improve the quality of service and reduce the cost of supply by
substituting renewable energy resources for imported oil.
48.       A further objective of the project is to improve the efficiency
and performance of GEC from currently unsatisfactory levels, which will
result in savings to the country.
Description
49.       The project consists of three components: optimization/feasibility
studies for interconnected-system generating plant; feasibility studies and
bidding documents for generating plants in three isolated systems; extensive
management assistance to GEC.
50.       Interconnected System.  The optimization study would consist of
market projections for each of the five assumptions shown in para. 46 and an
economic comparison of all technically feasible solutions to each market
assumption, which would compare UM, the Potaro developments (Amalia, Kaieteur
and Tumatumari), two other hydro schemes (Tiboku and Tiger Hill) and develop-
ments using biomass as fuel. The location of each development is shown on the
map.
51.       The second phase - feasibility study and preliminary design - would
be undertaken for the selected development once the market had been defined.
If UM is selected, the second phase would consist of updating the 1976 feasi-
bility study. To enable the updating to proceed promptly, provision is made
for additional work at UM--principally drilling, review of tunnel-construction
methods, determination of powerhouse location and preparation of detailed
cost estimate.
52.       Isolated Systems. (See map for locations).  In the Lethem and
Mathews Ridge areas, the project would consist of a study of the least-cost
solution to meeting the electricity requirements, comparing continued use of
thermal generating sets to installation of small and mini hydro developments.
For Tumatumari, the feasibility study would include steps needed to reinforce
the existing rockfill overflow dam and consideration of increasing the plant's
present 1.5 MW capacity. The studies, including bidding documents, would be
done to Bank appraisal standards.



- 15 -
53.       GEC Management Assistance.  The assistance would consist of two
phases: (i) an initial assessment of GEC's existing organizational struc-
ture, management capabilities, operational procedures and staffing, and
proposals for improvements in cases where deficiencies are found; and (ii)
implementation of the proposals for improvements after discussion with
appropriate IBRD staff, governmental and GEC officials and approval of GEC.
It is anticipated that the review stage, including design of new or improved
systems and drafting of new or improved procedures identification of counter-
parts and discussion with all parties, will require six months, most of
which will be spent in Guyana. The implementation phase would be carried
out by residency assignments of two to three years and would emphasize on-the-
job training of GEC counterpart personnel. During their residency, the inter-
nationally-recruited specialists (one manager, three technical and three
financial) would function as line management of GEC, with all authority
necessary to carry out their responsibilities. To the extent possible, the
consultant would take into account technical assistance provided by other
bilateral or multilateral aid. Management assistance consists largely of
financial and technical support to the Corporation, as well as assistance
in developing energy conservation techniques.
Project Cost and Loan Amount
54.          The cost of the feasibility study for the interconnected-system
generation development depends on the development which the Government selects.
The cost included as a basis for the loan amount is a notional amount repre-
senting a feasibility study for an intermediate-size development, e.g. in the
range of 200 MW. If a larger development is selected, additional finance may
be necessary for the feasibility study, or, in the case of the UM site, for
the completion of the required additional work. The cost of bid-level design
and bidding-document preparation could be included in a future project, when
the identity of the hydroelectric development to be undertaken is known. The
project cost is summarized as follows:
US$ millions
Local   Foreign Exchange  Total
Cost         Cost          Cost
1.   Interconnected system:
1.1  Optimization study                    0.3          1.1            1.4
1.2  Additional work at UM                 0.2          0.5            0.7
1.3 Feasibility study/preliminary
design                              0.3          1.2            1.5
0.8         2.8            3.6
2. Isolated systems - pre-feasibility
and feasibility studies and
bidding documents                     0.4          1.3            1.7
3. Management assistance and training
for GEC                               0.6          2.0            2.6
1.8         6.1            7.9
Physical contingencies                     0.2          0.6            0.8
Price contingencies                        0.4          1.3            1.7
Total                 2.4          8.0           10.4



- 16 -
55.        The project's principal foreign-cost component consists of about
550 man/months of consultant services including about 180 man/months of
management assistance to GEC. The cost of consultant services is estimated
at US$10,000/consultant-month which includes salaries, overheads fees, allow-
ances and international travel. The other foreign-cost component is for
equipment and services (drilling and mapping, vehicles, aircraft support)
related to the work. Baseline costs were estimated using price levels of May
1980. Physical contingencies of 10% of the baseline cost were added to
provide for unforeseen changes in scope. Price contingencies were added for
the baseline costs and physical contingencies using annual worldwide inflation
factors as follows: 1980-10%; 1981-9%; 1982-8%; 1983-7%.
56.        The recommended loan amount of US$8 million would cover the foreign-
exchange cost. The Government would finance the local cost, most of which is
personnel-related expense.
Execution
57.        The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources (MENR) will serve as
executing agency for the project. The Ministry has suffered from shortages of
managerial and technical staff. Recently, it has been receiving structuring
and staffing assistance through the USAID for its Energy Unit, and it is
currently seeking the services of an energy consultant. In addition, it plans
to draw on the services of other governmental agencies, including the Bauxite
Industry Development Co. Ltd., in the execution of the project. Terms of
reference for all three components of the project have been prepared by MENR
in consultation with the Bank and issued to consultants. Six firms were invited
to submit proposals for the interconnected system study. MENR plans to engage
a Canadian firm to undertake the isolated development study and has indicated
that it would request a proposal for GEC management assistance from a UK firm
providing similar services to the utility in Jamaica. These arrangements for
consultants are acceptable to the Bank. A schedule of activities for the
study component is included in Annex III.
58.       Interconnected System Development.  The Government recognizes the
importance of a firm (take-or-pay) market contract with a smelter, or possibly
a foreign market, to justify the UM hydroproject. Negotiations with major
power users may well take substantial time. This might delay the launch-
ing of a hydro plant to minimize consumption of oil in generation of electricity.
However, the Government has agreed to select a development for full feasi-
bility study and provide satisfactory commitments from one or more large
power users to justify proceeding with the selected generating facility (if
such justification is needed) by August 1, 1981 (Section 3.03 of draft Loan
Agreement).
59.       Much of the additional work at the UM site would be undertaken as
soon as possible to enable aluminum companies to have a clearer understanding
of potential construction difficulties, and hence a closer appreciation of
the cost of that development. Engineering investigation of the UM site would
proceed forthwith and preparation of the detailed cost estimate would follow,
taking into account the degree of interest shown by aluminum companies. The
preparation of detailed cost estimates of the Upper Mazaruni site would pro-
ceed in consultation with the Bank (Section 3.04(a) of draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
60.       OperatinR Entity for Isolated Systems.  The three isolated systems
included in the project are all operated by ministry branches or other govern-
ment entities which are not commercially oriented. In order to avoid subsidies
to energy users, the operation of these systems should be placed on a commer-
cial basis. In spite of GEC's management and operational problems, it is
still better able to undertake the additional responsibility of service
to isolated communities than any other agency; moreover, the extensive assis-
tance to GEC to be financed by the loan would improve its managerial effective-
ness. Assuming that the feasibility studies show that hydro developments are
a more economic solution than continued operation of diesel sets, it would be
highly desirable to proceed with their execution as soon as possible. To prevent
delays the Government has agreed to decide within one month after the scheduled
completion of the feasibility studies and prior to the preparation of bidding
documents on whether to proceed with each of the small hydro developments. It
has also agreed, for each of the three systems to be served by a small hydro
development, to transfer authority for operating the isolated system to GEC by
September 30, 1981 (Section 3.04(b) of Draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disburbursement
61.       The comparatively small amount of imported equipment (US$0.4 million)
and services other than consultants' services (principally vehicles, drilling
services or equipment, office machines and local air support) would be obtained
by prudent shopping, because full international competitive bidding is less
appropriate taking into account the small size of the purchases, limited
availability of supply, need for close collaboration with the consulting firm
(in the case of drilling services) and necessity of meeting a tight schedule.
It is expected that most such goods and services would be purchased by the
consultant firm.
62.       The loan would be disbursed as follows (disbursements would be fully
documented):
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for consultants' services;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures (or 75% in case of local purchase)
for imported equipment, materials and services procured through
local or international shopping; and
(c) 75% of the cost (representing the foreign-exchange component)
of aircraft services obtained in Guyana.
Retroactive financing of US$200,000 to cover consultants' expenses from
August 1, 1980 would be provided.
63.       The closing date is June 30, 1984, allowing six months for final
payment for GEC management assistance.
Environment
64.       About 3500 Amerindians (Akawaio and Arekuna) inhabit or use the
area which would be flooded should the UM site be chosen, and most other
potential hydroelectric sites may affect smaller numbers of people.



- 18 -
Most of the development to be included in the least-cost comparison would
impound substantial reservoirs, with attendant health (principally schisto-
somiasis) problems. The Kaieteur development would divert water from above
the 741 ft. Kaieteur falls, which, although not readily accessible, has the
potential of being a tourist attraction. The agreed-upon terms of reference
direct the consultant to estimate the costs of relocation of indigenous people
and the economic effect of diverting various volumes of water from above the
falls. If the UM development is selected, particular attention would be paid
to the needs of the indigenous population because of the fragile nature of its
culture. If any scheme involving impoundment of waters is selected for feasi-
bility study, such study would address the resultant disease potential and
means to counteract it.
Benefits and Risks
65.       The proposed loan would provide the basis for Guyana to substitute
renewable sources of energy for imported oil with respect to virtually all
its electricity generation, thereby enabling the country to achieve signifi-
cant foreign exchange savings and enhance industrial development by providing
electric service with greater reliability and at lower cost. The loan would
also achieve savings for the country by improving the performance of GEC.
66.       The principal risk is that adequate Guyanese counterpart personnel
might be in short supply in the sector. Assignment of key counterpart staff
at an early stage of project execution and close Bank supervision would reduce
this risk, but could not eliminate it entirely. A second risk relates to
a border dispute concerning the territory where most of the hydropower sites
are located, because a territorial claim might delay decisions on the selected
project at the stage of construction.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between Guyana and the Bank and the
Report and Recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section IV(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
September 18, 1980
Washington, D.C.



-20 -                                       ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
GUYANA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUYANA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WIEIGHTED AVER  ES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SH. ElM.)                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)E
TOTAL            215.0
AGRICULTURAL      13.8                                 MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE 7b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
ONP PER CAPITA (US_)                  210.0       340.0     560.0                   1384.1                   2381.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EOUIVALENT)     579.0       1093.0    1070.0                  1055.9                    1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      0.56         0.72      0.82
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 26.4         23.3      21.9                    63.4                      53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EMS.                        3.0         3.0       4.0                    29.1                      77.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     41.0         52.0      59.0                    81.7                     129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         46.6         44.2      41.6                    41.4                      30.6
15-64 YRS.                         50.2        52.5       54.8                    54.7                      61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.2          3.1       3.6                     3.9                       8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.8          2.3/c     1. 7/c                  2.7                       1.6
URBAN                               1.6         1.2       I.0                     4.1                       3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      43.0        35.0      28.0                    34.8                      22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAID)      10.0         8.0       7.0                     8.9                       8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         2.8       1.7                     2.5                       1.5
FAMILY PLANJNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED IIOMEN)    ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          95.0         96.0      99.0                   106.9                     113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  103.0        102.0     110.0                   107.4                     125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          57.0        58.0       61.0                    65.6                      91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       25.0         30.0      26.0                    33. 7                     39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      10.0         5.0       4.0                     8.4                       4.3
HEFALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YFARS)    61.0         64.0.     67.0                    63.1                      67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             *-         50.0d        -                    66.5                      55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
PO PILAT ION )
TOTAI                                ..         ..         ..                    65.9
BRBAN                               ..          ..         ..                    80.4
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         93.0      96.0                    62.3
URBAN                               ..         95.0      99.0                    79.4
RURAL                               ..         92.0      94.0                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICCAN          8100.0       4310.0        ..                   1849.2                   1030.1
POpL'LATION PER NURSING PERSON    1730.0/e    1070.0      807.0                  1227.5                     929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             189.0/e     210.0     206.0                   480.3                     289.7
URBAN                             54.0         70.0        .
RURAL                           1828.0       1401.0
ADLMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        37.0        ..                      1. 17.0
HOUSINC
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.0          5.4
URBAN                              4.4           ..
RURAL                              5.1           ..
AVERAGE NlMFR CF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                           2.1
URBAN                              1.7          2.1
RURAL                               ..          ..         .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWEI.LINCS)
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 21 -                                   ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
GUYANA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUYANA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEBAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) a
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEA            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                107.0        98.0       99.0                    99.7                     105.9
MALE                 107.0       100.0     100.0                    101.0                     109.3
FEMALE              106.0         96.0      98.0                     99.4                     103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 33.0        55.0       55.0                    34.4                      64.0
MALE                 36.0         55.0      55.0                     33.5                      71.1
FEMALE               30.0         56.0      56.0                     34.7                      56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  14.0          5.1        5.2                    38.2                      28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            41.0        29.0         ..                    30.5                      29.4
SECONDARY                          32.0        26.0         ..                    14.5                      26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          ..         91.3        ..                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         19.0        25.0       35.2                    43.0                      84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         66.0       113.0      340.0                   245.3                     192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          ..        ..                     84.2                     118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  67.0        58.0      155.0                    63.3                      93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  8.0          11.0      10.9                      ''                       5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       173.0       204.0      265.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   22.5        23.5       25.0                    22.2                      30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              37.0        33.0       34.0                    37.1                      37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 29.0        42.0       48.0                    23.5                      29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                31.0        28.8       30.6                     31.5                     40.9
MALE                                 48.0        44.1       46.3                     48.9                     55.9
FEMALE                               14.0         13.6      15.0                     14.0                     26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6          1.8       1.4                      1.4                       1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.8/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  46.5/f         .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.3Lf         *.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.6/f
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..                     190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     171.0                   474.0
RURAL                                ..          ..      171.0                   332.5                     385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..
Not available
INot applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countrites
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970 between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Due to emigration, population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d 1972; je 1963;
/f 1955-56, excluding self-employed in the high income bracket.
April, 1980



- 22 -                                                                  ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
DEFTNITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
N_ten:  Although the data are dra-  from   -rce  generally jodged thr most -thocttati-e and reliable, it should also be noted that they may not be Ine--
nationa1lo  -oparable becausee of the hack of --odardleed definiois and cnce.pta ased by different c-atrir  In collecting tIe d-aa.  The dana are, none-
thel-na. useful LIc  .-lit~ crd-r  uf aagnitsude  iadcate treds, atd  -brasri cetin najar dl ffer-ene   he-ene  .... tea..
Th   I -frer rp  are (I) the --a ..n cutry group of the subj-at conty und  D) ennute  grun  a. ... sm"ha  higler aera..ge inton   than the ceatry grop
of to  suljci cuntry(eu-pt Ice "Capital Surplus Oil Enpc-tr-" group ohere 'iddle  Inne-              ot  Artea. mud Mfiddla tear' Is -cose  because of sneanger
mai-utua   aft nilie..    . I  the ref-c-e. group data tie arn game popalattos  nlighted arithmeiti  neas. for .ear  indi-ta   and shee  Illy chine en
leant hlf of te cauntier Is   group  aa  an  far thaidnnr. Ifn.e the  .e.e.ag  If  -netoleseag  h   ndcte  dependa us the svailabiisy If
dat  and is ca  -tif-erm     e,auIon  mut heb    rimdItrelatIng aIraeao  nineIdl_atnrI tcache.Thr  ancges ar .olyuetc  ise-paring the value
uf une iodi-atlrar   nIc  anan.g the coutiry and refere..         graes
LAND AREA(tuudua.)oplinpe  ch~                                                                                           e puuatins lVintoe   by sunset n  p-actcun   pyp-
Tutu1 - Tonal surac  aea capilgln   eeadinadetr.aeuag                                                            if :d  cu       elu   cb    tuleaty p Ie.
pnutrl-Estimaeo  agriicuture Ianaoadeperrlly  -t permanenly                         Pateletiat Per Narua i Peraa- Enpa1enins dinidad by  .unberi of .practlcig,
foe cep,  pnoes   attaaktiete gads   rr   ie fallne; 1971 dutu.                           male and female grad uaa  ures  pruoting   use,adae     etluen
Paelalt pr asinal fed - total, urban, a erI   Ppltian irt-al
TNP PER CAPITA (CI$) - TIP PerI         iaeootsa   urn   ale   rcs   a-                          cbs   n   aa)dnddb   bi   epel nLiIe   fP bespit.l beds
calated hr same  .n--tl- nethud anWord taob Atlas  11975-78baI;  l961                         available in pabiir ad private ge--rl and ep-nialied hespisa1 and en-
19Th1, ad 1971 dat.                                                                           habilietLin.entees     Hfospitals ate en tbli.bmenta penmasetly staffed
byta leas  one pbysieias.  fEn-blisbmemta previdimg priaripally nuatadie1
litRle CENSUfSPTIIN PER1 CAPITA - A ...a  cursam-ption nic,srlleegy (ca                           aeseericeed                ua   epel,bseve   eld   eihadmdia
adlgrlo      Irtu.ntrlgs  e   pr-   ala   n   ecbra   lo                                    err   r  pemaently snffed hy a physician (bat by a medicl1.. asistant,
telcitiy)ItiIegea  i  ol  q itaeu  pnr tupita; 1960, 1970, and 1976                           sae    idife, etc.) cinh after is-patiene moneemdate  an d provide a
dat.-                                                                                          limited rsge of medIea  fani tele.  Far  tsstistitl1 parpens  lrb.. bpt-
ta!s i-elude Wain5 prltipe-i     rrl n,neiie  hospinals, anM ua
POPULATIaN AND IITA.  STATTISTICS                                                                bosItanlclo   aaIhpiitas admeiaat    utniyctra
Total Panlarics.  id-lear (illiuna)- Am of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1978           Adm1issinsper nodpitaI ted - Total sumbet of adeimmien.C  Ito or .            g
data.                                                                                       tram h.sp.ea   dirided by the samber of heda.
trIe   oulte   pecn  e   aa) - Rasia  fuca    t tar1 population;
differect drfnci-nin  of u-bAn area  na    fet cmparai lly of data                     itonnpyw
amadcutrie-; 1960, 1970, aud 19ff data.                                             Aerrage Sitea ftnHu...bhld(rresmne  heume.id                                   --oa,uba,adeel-
Pauelatin PnrtoaA houeodnnisee      rs f                                                                                              1sf ididuals chi  hebs   living quatets
Poplaton  n yarDII  -  amet   opuanln po tisa  re  asd o  191       md   heir main nein.  A boarder  -r ledgr  may or map son be i-nclde I
rara  po paltien by ag  ed ten and thetir aunLiy and fertility rte.                       nbn heusebold fan atatistinsi puepases.
PraJactia Ipreeeo a  mortaity ttls -oprise of three leel-a1.                             veA, enme   fpresprra      oa,abn   s   ne   Average Ia--
Ing lit, repctny It birth In aingit  cene's" Per caiaicm                                  bto     ,esasprrn,t    all .'  urban,tend eriuopeneetn
level  asd  feaelt  epceny  t len   at7.   er.  7he pae--                                 dali -eep-nti-ely.'lelasaldnnprasttntran
fetlty acodingt  bon'b               n   at fanily plun..isg perform-ee             A-ne. to flectricity (perteet af deellinga).  tatl,l urban  .  d rural -
tEch coanty Ia thecannlgord one of  hbe,  tn cobiextiena nf onriallty                     C...neI....a . d11ligmait, eetiay In liniuf qotesnpLertstgr
and fertIlity tec   c  projection '.purue..o   oa,uhe   n   au   elig   epcIey
the birth ruet  Is .qa  so the drh rate,Ian  elan the            l agEDUCur   e-      itATtIO
mainscosut   Thl,is to-hieved Inly ufter fertility rates denlis- tO                     Adlasted teln         ignin
tSrrelecme    lve  ofunt mt  epodutle  tte,ohen  uc  geertio                    Pimar  school - t tal. male end femle -Iren- total, male and femal
If e me   elo t iefexcl.The  tatL                       P.e poplaio tieseaten1llmeon of all ages en th  primary level as pertentagas of repe nine
ettloeteom  the  asis oftheI prnjrosed   f ohr eisnc  af _the pul n                   primary mohel-ago popalasianel anenaly icledes chIldre  aged 6-11
In  he year 2000, and thertofdlief fertiltyrte torplace                                     yer   u   duted             ifretlssa  fpiay edatte   a
mit lenel.                                                                                 oauar. bsaids-t usvesL adiffatie  snrolmh m   nap i-       d.ed  tlt  fsetes
YearsainayeTuatthsrahe                        . b  yea   h.et mtstin...y populati-c            miser some Pupil  are .ela  at above Lbe ufficie1 -h-e1 age.
sloe has b..renreanbed.                                                                   Sacendary schatl - sua.  male an.   d female_C Tputedama bave:aeno.dsry
POUpaumlesi                                                                                       ducation reqoie- at leas t fat  yeaa If appre-ed primary i-strunios;
Per so. S. - Mid-fee  populatIon per aqaure kIlomete  (100 heotres) of                         providesgaerl,rocim.., or I  teanher training  i-arratienefer papib
t.t.1 .,e..                                                            ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~uual  at11 f12t  17 years atf  ge; narreponde_e cu.... are generlly
Per to. lm. earicaltaral lard  - Computed  s above foeagicltrl.lad                      _toued
only.                                                                   glacaV ..tina .                 t.. ler Ipere-i ofseodary) - loca.tional.Isiuin
Papalanan Age tructae (reecet) -  hildres (f-li year) , entking-ag   15                iolude t-ohnir1, irdassteL  er  ther peagnms chinS opetrat  iadepe
hi years), and retired (SD  ear  erd avr) am peecetgot of mId-year pepo-                       destly or as departm.r  ef naredryinstituions
tunien; 1906, 1970, and 1979  ata                                                             upel-teanher retia -primary, and secen.da              --       Itnl  tdes    -neeled is
Pofulatlon.ychat   ceet      am  - Annul got  rae                    .f oa  mid-                primary and              1-1dsy  enl  divided by mebers tlf teanbera. Is the
yrar papuieti.as for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1971-Pd.                                            -armpanding levels.
Parolatio    menS Sae Iperces) - urban- casul groah rates of urban papa-           Adalt lIIter..y rats inercent) - Literte aisles (able to etad end trite)
Gl-tioo  fur 1950-60, 1960-70, aed 1970-78                               .                      esperteItnaeE   taee1 adult pepubasiem  aged 15 yeute tad ever.
Crue birth_tt   0t hued  - Ae.u.. Iv If             ritho  Per ahoosund If end-near
popultIon; i96ST  1970, and 1976 data..CNUaTI
Crude lean  bane (pert t.t .. d) - Annual IdsthP  t        h e  ..n.sed If mid-yea           asegrCas(r CtOsadeeaain)-Pasne  or   omee  mater
enpuILatta; 1960, 1970, eod 1978 data.                                                      oss    .eai      ..ls  thas eight Per-a -   tiuda  amhalsaeee  h-eses  sad
ELeatfe dutn  lt- Average amber of d-agher      coa                       b-ilha  ine          militarytvehicles.
her   -ma  -epr-du-tive period if she enper Iesoe  prtet  ge-mpm .If in far-              led    Re-eirer  (err thousan.d r-paltin-)- All types of re...iv-re fme radit
tilic  rates; amually floe-year aorrsgea edisg  1. 19661, 1970, and 1977.                   broa.dn..ats to geasea  public pet thossssd of  Ipepultln;  etlades asli-
PamlIc Plsnltg-Aennntns, Attual (houseads) -dasnual nuber If ace.ptors         teemed reneivers im caserisaadis pere chatr. isri                   Ifm radi.e
of blrh--cntr- denicta under auspi.es of national family pleas.ing pegam                     s  in effent; data far retest, years may net be -enparabie slat  mast
yamnly Plateina-caere (errcenr of married tam~et) - Percentage of married         c...eisa abolished lIIeni.       .
caeoofchld- SceeS age (15-44 year) aho us  birth-cetral1 devices to                              ...tuive   .ertosad..laim   TV rareiners fee broadcas.t te
all  artiedmseInae age group,                                                               generlI public per shessand papilatima  eselede  usicnedT  eanelliva
t. (1969    ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~         ~ temat'dil  genealIsseems  Iecpape"  deftited esperidiaal pab-
PIeuto    f al  mma onsedtei             Prdcto   enluessed and feed and                    liratlem  devoted priaiyt   eednggnrlse.I  is cmaid_erd
Is on calendr year busis   Conedit te  nacer primay goads (e.. sgar.a..       so be "daily' if it  ppears at least fea  nimemast
Inrado  sugr)  bb   see edible end c-teiensrenm(e.g. coffee and                       linen  A-Iue  Arteedas lee Is e tee learNamd am the aubet If
tee ar  etclaed).Aggngate production at each conryi  hsd5tithts saId during the year~, breladirygedmlaiesi..  t  driv-iates
atia...l averge p-adoer Price eeightm; 1961-b5, 19710, .td 1976 data.                       ad mobile ..it..
Per day.  Aveilable suppliescaprs  donmtil  praduorill, impoens less                  TAOta Lae   mc   eeaed)-iaainlysnn    seea   sld
ports , and chaegs   I  enact,  let mupplits ase.lade snima  feed, seeds,                 amdtrs    t   tmlydbteeaigbaee,                              students, et.
unttes lsedto  odperen,adbssI  dltebttn                             bqIre             Dfinitinos  in  -ari-n   conbe  r  nen c-mperble; 1960, 1970 asd
seots coe  stmtedhy FAE hosed as physialeginel sen ds for norma  uct-                      1976 data.
niry und health ao...lderimg enonron_ente1 tesperature, body meights, age               feaeimnn)t.eaelbrfae   spemsgs at total  lber fae..
ead sea distribotlan If cnpulati-asI,deA      lcn   1   eno   o  etet as                Irclr   pret -l Laher  fmrre ig  Pa-s.  eere,bete   n
house.hold level; 1961-65, 1970, ar I177 dsta..                                            fih.  as percentag  o If total laber foe...; 19661  1970 and 1976 data.
her tootle srtlo of orotin (seams oa  duo) - Pro'estateet of per ..Pot.         Ird.datry nerce..) -labor fame im mining, contrttt,              matntrg
tn   upl  o ,od per day.  lot mupply of fon Is  efbeambn.-            ne-          adentiiycnresgaaspcnaeatoalabefc;19,
qsrernsfr a1l_ltutilo   -oteblisbed by U1D0 provide for minimu                       91ad17 ae
allasanr of STgrsmn       totalproI i. pee dap and 20 geans at animl and         r_aetioiaro  late1 (eretd            ee.ml,ad  eae-priimit
pItptem of 0olh11ga t abtldbe-aimal prateim.  These stand-                       eciry atsrecnndastr,ml,edfmleaSracen
P.naeIatta  toeo   bgaso   -tnta  prtIts end 21 grams of                                                    t           Ld   ttl    I-.dt-.l.   :
atml    protein as an _nrg   o   h   ml,prysdb   A s mthird                                pere-nrges If total,maendfalppltieatllgertetilp
W-cld Food Surrey; 1961-65, 1970 ead 1177 data.1t1,  9)9  s                                                     f 195dtae .p tbias   arm  Il's  pLtiipetimrssd fecAm
Per capta pronir surey from  rimal ad rulse- Prmten suppl  of foo  de-         ag-set seacrure   t the ppPlatia, amdpply           timetreed.d   fec ea
ri-rd f1mm anmlsad pulues it foams piet day; 1961-65, 1970 and 197  daarcomi    fepndsr  tati -I   Rati  ofppltinadr  5md55adae
Child fas-)   rnit              e(p-er  h-usad) - Alnrual deaths pe ,tha.....d in              t  the total lbher fame.
age group h-4 years, ta ohildens is this age graup; tot moa  de-elopteaue
tries data deriord from  lifr tables; 1960, 1970 and 1977 data.                         INTONE pISTRI .UTION
HEIALTH                                                                                        Porteeae of Privaite Imc..e (both in cash end bind) - Rneived bY rithest
Life Empectasnyat ibeth (ceart) -Average number of yer o.   f life remInIng         .5f pa.cet, rithest 2i Peret   eeet2   etst   o   ernt4   ecn
atbirth; 1960, 1970 and 1976 data,a  hushls
Tuat ifotalt late(per theosand) - Aecua1 deaths of lotfunto under .tt yt   POVERTY TARGEfT GROUPS
of agr per thr....nd lion births.                                                         Lsnaed Abslr Pvry  nme1ee 111Peat caI Ite) - urban and renal
eaerspply (it-1ude   tr-nd surface  -,.-r or netreatd bun... ucnatnee-d                  affordable.
nater  _ho amthat (rum  peanersed b-tholem, springs, and sniteepeello) as                  -tlmated Relati-e PevryIrmeLvl-l rrrLie  - arbam and ma
poret-tgen  of their re-peoti-epouatos.I  an urban aLes.pblir                                Rae1 relative povertyl om   lee soetid of anerage Per .a pita
f_unteti  ornrandpoat 1tatedmo  more tIes O-200 asters ftromah,,,e  maybe                   Pcet..aIlIIaemnfnLe.a-ntry.  lrbael1velis de-i-'dftnmtheru-1
coIet abeima cithit rees.nnabls access  f that h...e.  1seural  ceam                 levl min  mdjostment f.orhigher test at lIinlg iatLbe..e..a..
dono  bnet  spenda  d          .coprin_te pat afte day in ftrhbsgte                      and meal - Pmorest af popaltine  (ur.a  and eural)              r   asoueps"
family', u tene,les
.. 1eatto i.ctesd lisemml.rcru of                                                                                      E-coulAanlot - totalJ urh.ab  and
of humo  ncrt  and  nneetmby -te-b-hcn.ytn  cctt  us  of                                                                                   April, 1981
cit pryioirtad sIe    ntlai



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5 pages
GUYANA: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(In Millions of US Dollars)
PRE-           AVERAGE ANNUAL
ACTUAL                        LIMINARY          GROTN1 RATE                ACTUAL
1974      1975      1976      1977       1978      1979              1976-79           1977      1978       1979
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                            Constant 1977 Us$ nillion                                                 As percentage of GDP
Gross .. omestic Product                      414.4     441.0      461.7     437.8     438.9     425.9               -0.9             100.0     100.0     100.0
Gains from Ter-s of Trade                    30.8      34.4      -2.8         -      -24.4     -53.9                 .                -        -5.6     -12.7
-roos Domostic Inoms                        445.2     475.4     458.9      437.8     414.5     372.0               -5.9            100.0       94.4      87.3
Imports (including NFS)                       318.5     417.7     442.0      347.5     289.9     257.1              -11.4             79.4       66.1      60.4
Eoports (Ulport rapacity)                     332.5     421.1      322.7     275.7     291.3     220.0              -14.2             63.0       66.4      53.5
inolstaptlor                                  321.3     327.0     409.5      386.1     329.0     303.7               -1.5              88.2      75.0      72.5
Oeveotmerx                                    109.9     145.0     169.7      123.5      84.1      92.5              -10.6             28.2       19.1      21.7
Domestic Sa-iogo                              123.9     148.4       49.4      51.7      85.5      63.3              -19.4             11.8       19.4      14.8
National S-vings                               98.7     139.3       19.9      25.9      59.9      40.5              -26.5               5.9      13.6       9.5
'ERCPANDISE TRADE-                                                    Current US$-million                                              As percentage of total
Imp or to
Consuner Goods                               47.9      55.9       64.8      56.1      51.4      57.8                0.8             17.8       18.4      18.2
Intormodlsto Goods (exol. fuols)             93.1     118.5     122.6       98.2      98.4     110.5               -1.8             31.1      35.3       34.8
Fuels and Lubricants                         46.2      57.3       53.9      62.9      66.7      90.2               12.0             19.9       23.9      28.4
Capital Goods                                65.7     110.6      118.8      88.8      60.2      57.2              -15.2             28.2       21.6      18.0
Miscellaneous                                 1.4       1.8        3.5       9.4       2.2        1.9               1.3               3.0       0.8       0.6
Tltul Mtrch. Imports (oif)                  254.4     344.1     363.6      315.4     278.9     317.6               -2.0            100.0      100.0     100.0
Espo-tt
Sogar                                       127.6     162.0      101.5      72.8      92.0      88.7              -14.0             28.1       31.1      30.7
RiOe                                         22.0      33.3       28.9      26.2      37.6      31.7               -1.2              10.1      12.7      11.0
CaLcibed B.amito                             56.5      63.9       74.7      82.9      79.1      85.8                7.6             32.0       26.8      29.7
Dried Bauxite                                12.3      16.2       13.2      16.2      18.9       21.5               7.3              6.2        6.4       7.4
Al-lmin.                                     21.1      26.6       25.3      30.8      32.2       21.1              -5.7              11.9      10.9       7.3
Other                                        30.7      62.3       35.4      30.4      35.9      40.2              -10.4             11.7       12.1      13.9
Total Notch. Exports (fob)                  270.2     364.4     279.2      259.3     295.7     289.0               -5.7            100.0      100.0     100.0
Goods and NFS  -rade Indicos                                           1977 - 100
Eopet Price Index                            85.7      97.7      90.4      100.0      99.4     108.8
Import Price Indeo                           77.8      89.7      91.2      100.0     107.7     136.5
T-r-s of Trado Indox                        110.2     108.9       99.1     100.0      92.3      79.7
VALUE ALDED BY SECTOR                               ANNUAL DATA AT 1977 PRICES AND EXChANGE RATE
Agriculture                                    94.1      84.7       86.7      82.4      91.0       83.9              -0.2              20.8      23.2      22.3
Industry                                       42.0      45.9      52.1       48.2      47.8      45.9                 -              12.2       12.2      12.2
Mining                                         73.7      73.7       65.5      64.3      62.7       55.3              -7.0              16.2      15.9      14.7
Services                                      169.8     201.6      218.8     201.6     191.4     191.0               -1.3             50.8       48.7      50.8
Total GDP at Factor Cost                    379.6     40519     423.1      396.5     392.9     376.1               _1.9            100.0      100.0     100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                                            ANNUAL DATA AT CURRENT US1  MILLION                                          As percentage of GDP
Weotr-l Go-ernment)
5rrent Receipts                               136.8     195.2      152.9     140.4    143.5      162.2                                 32.1      29.1      31.2
Current txpenditures                          111.9     128.4      179.3     162.7     166.3     194.3                                 37.2      33.7      37.4
Crrent Surplus                                24.9      66.8    -26.4    -02.3        -22.9    -32.1                                 -5.1       -4.6      -6.2
CenLral Govt. Capital Exp onditure-            40.7     122.2      135.6      50.4      42.7      63.8                                 11.5       8.6      12.3
.avings, Central Govt.                        -15.8    -55.4   -162.0    -32.7    -65.5          -95.9                               -16.6    -13.2    -18.5
Capital Eopenditure, Public Sector             ...        ...      186.7     117.3      98.4     110.2                                 26.8      19.9      21.2
DETAIL OF PUBLIC SECTOR
INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND FINANCING                         As percentxte of Total                  Selected Indicators                  1975-79
(aver-age for perIod sh.o-)
Aetool             Elt.
1979               1980
Agric-lture, Forestry and Fishing                         31.9                35.6
Mining and Quarrying                                      24.5                14.7                Import Elasticity                        2.0
Mbasufacturing end Processing                            )                     7.4               Marginal Domestic Se-ing  Rate           18.5%
Other                                                     43.6                42.3               Marginal National Stings Rate            13.2%
Total Ecpedditores                                     100.0               100.0
Finencing
Public Sector Ssvings                                    7.5                15.1
Fotern-l Sources b/                                     63.0                66.8
Other                                                   29.5                18.1
Total Financing                                        100.0               100.0
a    - Ieluding transfers to the rest of the public sorter.
b/ Includes exteensl gra-ts.



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                                           Page 5 cf 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMNETS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million 0S$ at corrent prices)
Actua1                                                    Projoct.d
1975        1976        1977          1978          1979               1980          191           1982
Balance of Payments
Exports of C.-od. and NFS                                         377.7        294.3       275.7         313.7         306.7              443.4         530.2         627.6
Imports of Goods and NFS                                          374.7        403.1       347.5        312.2          350.0              491.1         582.7        665.9
Resource Balance                                                  3.0      -108.8        -71.8           1.5         -44.3              -42.7         -52.5        -38.3
Not tran.fers and factor services                                 -17.8       -28.4        -25.1        -29.0          -27.8              -31.2         -34.4        -36.8
Current account balance                                         -14.8      -137.2        -97.6        -27.5          -72.1              -78.9         -87.0        -75.1
Net Public Disbursements                                           54.3         88.7        35.3          39.6          22.0               68.3          76.5          67.2
Cron.  Disbur-emenat                                            (60.4)    (107.5)        (59.2)      (100.4)        (131.4)            (135.5)       (142.8)      (123.7)
Amortization                                                    (-6.1)       (18.8)    (-23.9)       (-60.8)       (-109.4)            (-67.2)       (-66.3)      (-46.5)
Other Capital                                                       3.3        -43.2         0.4           7.9          -3.3                10.6         11.8          1l.6
Capital Account Balance                                            57.6         45.5        35.7          47.5          18.7                78.9         88.3          79.0
Overall balance                                                   -42.8         91.7        61.9        -20.0           53.4                  -          -1.3          -3.9
Change in Reserves (-,incrense)                                 -42.8        91.7         22.3        -12.2           48.7                               -             -
Arrears                                                            -            -         32.5        -10.2            4.7                  _          -1.3         -3.9
Government Funds                                                   -            -          7.1           2.4            -                   -            -             -
Memcrandum Items
Gran. Intesrntional Re- -                                       124.7        47.1         34.0         71.5           39.5               39.5          39.5         39.5
As months of imports                                              3.7          1.6         0. 2          2.5           1.0                 a.           n.a.         v..
1975        1975        16            197          1978          1979
Gross Disbursements of Public and Publicly
Guaranteed M&Lt Loans                                                34.2         94.6        70.0          43.9         57.4          96.0
IERD/IDA                                                            5.7         5.9          3.9          3.6          10.3         16.0
Official export credits                                             2.3          8.5        11.3           9.2          5.8            -
Other multilateral                                                   -            -           -            1.2          3.5         13.2
Bilateral                                                          23.3        43.6         26.7         17.1          25.6         24.4
Private source                                                      2.8        36.7         28.2         12.9          12.2         42.4
Total Public and Publicly G-sranteed Debt
Outstanding and Disbursed                                           204.4        291.4       362.6         397.7        427.5         467.0
IbRD                                                               10.1         15.4        18.6         20.1          25.3         34.4
Other                                                             191.5        239.3       315.8        364.7         390.0        390.2
Private source                                                      2.8        36.7         28.2          12.9         12.2         42.4
Undisbursed                                                         142.3        106.8        95.7          82.7        223.3         252.3
Debt Service
Total debt service payments                                        13.2         16.1        32.9          32.7         50.0         90.5
Interest                                                         (8.0)       (9.6)       (19.5)       (15.1)        (17.2)       (24.6)
Payments as % of Exports 6 NFS                                      4.5         4.3         11.2          11.9         15.9          29.5
Payments as /. of GDF                                               3.5          3.4         7.4           7.5         10.1          17.4
IBRD/ IDA Exposure
IBRD DOD/total DOD (%)                                              4.9          5.3         5.1          5.1           5.9           7.4
1BRD disbursements/total gross  disbursements (7.)                 16.7         6.2          5.6           8.2         17.9         16.7
IBRD debt service/total debt service                                5.3          7.1         4.0           6.4          4.8           3.1
-R'scludes SDR 100 million from Extended Fund Facility to disburse during 1980-83.



- 25 -               ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUYANA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of June 30, 1980)
Loan or                                                             US$ Million --------
Credit                                                    Amount (or Less Cancellation)
No.     Year   Borrower          Purpose                Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
Six loans and three credits fully disbursed
(Loans 285, 559, 583, 765, 875 and 1622; and
Credits 139, 221 and 853)                                 24.9       10.2            -
301      1972   Guyana      Highway                                  4.3          0.1
1016      1974   Guyana      Tapakuma Irrigation          12.9                     1.5
1106/544  1975   Guyana      Education II                  8.0        4.0          9.9
820      1978   Guyana      Black Bush Irrigation                   10.0          9.7
1623      1978   Guyana      Forestry                     10.0                     8.9
Total (net of cancellations)              55.8       28.6         30.1
of which has been repaid                   3.4        0.1
Total now outstanding                     52.4       28.5
Amount sold                     0.8
of which has been repaid       0.8
Total now held by Bank
and IDA /1                              52.4       28.5
Total undisbursed                         18.5       11.6         30.1
/1 Prior to exchange rate adjustments.
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of June 30, 1980)
Investment  Fiscal             Type of                         Total Held        Total
Number     Year   Oblipor  Business  Equity  Loan  Total    by IFC         Undisbursed
437 GUA     1979  Industrial Domestic    -         2.0   2.0       2.0            0
Domestic   Appliances
and
Electrical
Appliances
Lrd (IDEAL)



-26-                    ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3 pages
C.   Projects in Execution /1
Cr. No. 301 Highway Project: US$4.4 Million Credit of April 26, 1972
Effective Date:  November 15, 1972
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project has been completed. Disbursement of the balance of
about US$34,000 remaining in the credit will be completed upon receipt of the
final withdrawal application from the Borrower.
Ln. No. 875 /2 Power Project: US$6.0 Million Loan of January 12, 1973
Effective Date: May 8, 1973
Closing Date: June 29, 1979
This project for which cofinancing has been provided by UK-ODM,
CIDA and the Bank encountered delays in implementation and cost overruns of
about 36%. Difficult relations between project consultants and the Borrower
resulted in a 98% increase in the engineering cost. The Bank reallocated its
loan to meet the increased engineering costs and the ODM and CIDA contributed
a larger share of the equipment and construction costs.  The project is
completed except for construction of a transmission line being funded by a
US$6.9 million loan from the CDB.  GEC continues to have financial and manage-
ment problems which adversely affect project execution.
Ln. No. 1016 Tapakuma Irrigation Project: US$12.9 Million Loan of June 25, 1974
Effective Date: May 27, 1975
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is about 36 months behind schedule due to delays in
contracting consultant services, scarcity of local professional staff and
counterpart funds and the need for additional studies. A civil works contract
for the Tapakuma and Somerset-Berks irrigation and drainage works and roads is
about 60% completed. Cost of civil works for the project has increased
about 170% over the appraisal estimate. With the assistance of the Bank,
additional external financing to meet substantially the cost overrun was
obtained from the OPEC Special Fund (US$4.0 million), CDB (US$4.0 million)
and UKODM (US$5.7 million). The agricultural development phase of the project
is progressing and applied research and seed production programs are proceeding
well. The applied research and extension services provided by the project
contributed to yields which were the highest in the country. A program for
extension training is helping to resolve the scarcity of local agricultural
staff, as well as serve as a model for extension activities throughout the
country.
/1   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of the
strengths and weaknesses of project execution.
/2   Though the Bank loan has been fully disbursed, the transmission line
component is still under execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3 pages
Ln. No. 1106  Second Education Project:  US$12.0 million of May 9, 1975
Cr. No. 544   Effective Date:  July 8, 1975
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Execution of the project is about 42 months behind schedule due
to delays in fulfilling the effectiveness conditions, subsequent delays in the
award of contracts for civil works items and a shortage of local currency
resources. The manpower study has been completed and the Caribbean Animal
Technical Training Center is under operation. Construction of the first
phase of the project, which consists of 11 institutions, is under way.
Cr. No. 820   Black Bush Irrigation Project:  US$10.0 Million of December 4, 1978
Effective Date: April 3, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This project, which is cofinanced by IFAD, USAID and IDB is about
20 months behind the schedule set in the Staff Appraisal Report, mainly
because of delays in securing the financial package for the project and the
Government's inability to meet all loan and credit conditions for project
effectiveness. The consultants have been working on the project since May
1980 and the first progress report is expected by September 1980. A substan-
tial cost overrun is expected due to price increases since appraisal of the
project in 1977.
Ln. No. 1623 Upper Demerara Forestry Project: US$10.0 Million of December 4, 1978
Effective Date: May 31, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project, which is cofinanced by EDF, EIB, IDB and IBRD, has
begun procurement of immediate purchase item and supervision of construction
services has started. The immediate purchase portion of the power plant
equipment has been installed. Procurement of total logging and transport
equipment, sawmill and power plant is practically concluded. Construction of
the contracted housing has begun and clearing for township roads is near
completion. The main project access road, while not completed, provides easy
access to the sight. The scarcity of local managerial staff may pose problems
for the execution of the project.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) The project was identified in December 1979 and prepared in
April 1980.
(b)  The project was appraised in May 1980.
(c)  Negotiations were completed on August 21, 1980.
(d)  The planned date of effectiveness is December 15, 1980.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Main assurances are that:
(i)  The Government will select an electricity power development for
full feasibility study and, if required, furnish the Bank with
satisfactory commitments from at least one large power user which
afford adequate justification for the development by August 1, 1981
(Section 3.03 of Loan Agreement);
(ii) The preparation of terms of reference for and the execution of
the detailed cost estimates of the Upper Mazaruni development
shall be done in consultation with the Bank (Section 3.04 of Loan
Agreement);
(iii)  With regard to the isolated systems component, the Government will
decide within one month after completion of the feasibility studies
and prior to the preparation of bidding documents whether to proceed
with each of the small hydro developments (Section 3.04 of Loan
Agreement); and
(iv) For each of the three systems to be served by a small hydro develop-
ment, the Government has agreed to transfer authority for operating
the isolated systems to GEC by September 30, 1981 (Section 3.04 of
Loan Agreement).



IBRD 15161
A UGUST i980
IN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
j ~~~~,jV ~   ~9
I                                                                                                                                                                                       Ui
06. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~          >
ly ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~-                                            1~
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9'>
k..  0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E0_-"
~~~~   I> ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~
Me~~~~~~~~~                                                                      '       N
Z) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     0 
7    .).  ~ ~ ~~~~    9 ~ ~       9                       6C                               <       0
fr  ~ ~         ~            ~           ~           ~           ~           ~           ~          ~           ~         ~          ~         -  V~~~~~~~Lr
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ 



