FFICIAL       LOAN NUMBER 1906 GUA
Loan Agreement
(Technical Assistance for
Power Development Project)
between
GUYANA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated,/, 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1906 GUA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated U.AIe'L-- /P                , 1980, between
GUYANA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated o46 29, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "GEC" means the Guyana Electricity Corporation, a
statutory corporation established and operating under the
Borrower's laws; and
(b) "MENR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Energy and
Natural Resources.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million
dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-2-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be
procured through prudent shopping in accordance with the Bor-
rower's procurement procedures.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, '1984 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
nine and one-fourth per cent (9.25%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MENR with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate engineering, administrative and financial prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment (in-
cluding terms of reference) shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than August 1,
1981: (a) select an electricity power development for full feasi-
bility study under Part A (3) of the Project; and (b) in the case
of Upper Mazaruni and Kaieteur development sites, furnish the Bank
with evidence of satisfactory commitments from at least one large


﻿-3-
power user which afford adequate justification for proceeding with
the development selected by the Borrower.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall consult with the Bank
before proceeding with the preparation of detailed cost estimates
under Part A (2) (ii) of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) no later than one month after
the completion of the feasibility study under Part B of the
Project and prior to the preparation of the bidding documents for
Part B of the Project, decide and so inform the Bank whether
it will proceed with the small hydroelectric developments at
Tumatumari, Lethem and Mathews Ridge; and (ii) no later than
September 30, 1981, transfer to GEC responsibility for operating
the isolated systems under Part B of the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall furnish to, and review with, the
Bank the proposals to be made under Part C of the Project before
they are executed.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
as soon as possible after their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, contract documents and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and sites included in the Project and to examine the goods


﻿-4-
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performa1ce by the
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-5-
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rower; provided, however, that for the purposes of this Section
the term "entity" shall not apply to Guyana State Companies which
are organized as business corporations in accordance with laws and
regulations applicable to private companies and whose appropria-
tions are not included in the Borrower's budget, except that the
provisions of this Section shall apply to any such entity to the
extent that it would hold any foreign exchange assets on behalf of
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, with respect to the
Project: (i) have the accounts and financial statements (state-
ments of income and expenses and related statements) of MENR for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank; (ii) cause MENR to furnish to the Bank as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than four months after the end of
each such fiscal year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) cause MENR to
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning its accounts
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date                A/ /400/, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Sect      n 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Main Street
Georgetown
Guyana
Cable address:
MINFIN
Georgetown,
Guyana
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
GUYANA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                     Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Imported equipment             330,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
for directly
imported items
or 75% for
items procured
locally
(2) Consultants' services        5,670,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(3) Aircraft services              100,000         75%
(4) Unallocated                  1,900,000
TOTAL             8,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule   the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of


﻿-9-
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$200,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after August 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated short-
fall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another
Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to
meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot
fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Interconnected System
(1) An optimization study consisting of: (i) market projec-
tions for the following five demand assumptions: (A)
base load; (B) base load plus boiler/kiln conversion;
(C) base load plus smelter; (D) base load plus boiler/
kiln conversion and smelter; and (E) base load plus
external sales with or without boiler/kiln conversion
and/or smelter; (ii) an economic comparison of all
technically feasible solutions to each market assumption
involving the following electric power developments: (A)
Upper Mazaruni; (B) Amaila; (C) Kaieteur; (D) Tumatu-
mari; (E) the Tiboku; (F) Tiger Hill; and (G) develop-
ments using biomass as fuel.
(2) Additional work at Upper Mazaruni including: (i) geolo-
gical field studies, review of tunnelling techniques %ad
determination of power house location; and (ii) prepara-
tion of detailed cost estimates.
(3) Feasibility study and preliminary design of the selected
electric power development to be undertaken by the
Borrower after the market has been defined.
Part B:   Isolated Systems
(1) A study for the Lethem and Mathews Ridge areas of the
least cost solution to meeting electricity requirements
involving comparison of use of thermal generating sets
to installation of small and mini hydro-electric devel-
opments.
(2) A feasibility study for Tumatumari involving a consi-
deration of measures required to: (i) reinforce the
existing concrete and rockfill overflow dam and increase
the plant's present capacity; and (ii) connect the
expanded plant (about 20 MW) to the interconnected
system.


﻿- 11 -
Part C:   Management Assistance
(1) Assessment of GEC's organization, operations and manage-
ment and proposals for improvements and the execution of
those proposals.
(2) Training of GEC's staff.
(3) Assisting in formulation and execution of energy conser-
vation measures.
The Project. is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning June 1, 1985
through   June 1, 1990                       665,000
On December 1, 1990                               685,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 13 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than two years
before maturity                                    1.85%
More than two years but
not more than four years                           3.70%
before maturity
More than four years but
not more than six years                            5.55%
before maturity
More than six years but
not more than eight years
before maturity                                    7.40%
More than eight years
before maturity                                    9.25%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this /Z l    day of aLad , 198 0.
FOR SECRETARY


