Document of
The World Bank
18640 ME
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUNIENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$444.45 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 30, 1998
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Mexico Country Managing Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 1998)
Currency Unit = Mexican Peso (Mx$)
Mx$1.0 = US$.11
US$1.0 = Mx$9.0
FISCAL YEAR
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALCAMPO         Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Productividad Agropecuaria
Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
BANRURAL    Banco Nacional de Credito Rural S.N.C.
National Rural Credit Bank
CADER           Centro de Apoyo para el Desarrollo Rural
Rural Development Support Center
CEA             Consejo Estatal Agropecuario
State Agricultural Council
CNA             Comisi6n Nacional del Agua
National Water Commission
COTEGAN         Comisi6n T&enica de Ganaderia
Livestock Technical Commission
CPT             Cedula de Perfil Tecnico
Technical Profile Forrn
DDR             Distrito de Desarrollo Rural
Rural Development District
DGPOP           Direcci6n General de Programaci6n, Organizaci6n y Presupuesto
General Directorate for Programming, Organization and Budget
ECP             Equipo de Coordinaci6n del Proyecto
Project Coordination Team
FIRCO           Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido
Trust Fund for Shared Risk
GOM             Gobiemo de Mexico
Government of Mexico
[NE             Instituto Nacional de Ecologia
National Ecology Institute
INI             Instituto Nacional Indigenista
National Institute for Indigenous Affairs
INIFAP          Instituto Nacional de Investigaci6n Forestal, Agricola y Pecuaria
National Institute of Forestry, Agricultural and Livestock Research
Vice President:    Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director: Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:  Maritta Koch-Weser
Sector Leader:    Adolfo Brizzi
Task Team Leader: Michael Carroll



M&E             Seguimiento y Evaluaci6n
Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS             Sistema de Informaci6n Gerencial
Management Information System
O&M             Operaci6n y Mantenimiento
Operation and Maintenance
PAC             Programa Alianza para el Campo
Alianzapara el Campo Program
PEAT            Programa Elemental de Asistencia Tecnica
Elemental Technical Assistance Program
PRODAT          Programa de Desarrollo de Areas de Temporal
Rainfed Areas Development Project
PRODEP          Programa de Desarrollo de Riego Parcelario
On-Farm Minor Irrigation Improvement Project
PRODUCE         Fundaciones PRODUCE
PRODUCE Agricultural Research Foundations
PROFEPA         Procuraduria Federal de Protecci6n del Ambiente
Federal Environmental Protection Agency
SAGAR           Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia y Desarrollo Rural
Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, and Rural Development
SECODAM         Secretaria de Control de Administraci6n
Secretariat of Administrative Control
SEMARNAP    Secretaria de Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y Pesca
Secretariat of the Environment, Natural Resources and Fisheries
SINDER          Sistema Nacional de Extension Rural
National Extension System
TRA             Autoridad de Revisi6n Tecnica
Technical Review Authority



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective .................................................................2
1. Project development objective and key  performance indicators .........................................2
B. Strategic Context .................................................................2
1. Sector-related  CAS  goal supported by the Project ...............................................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ..............................2
3.  Sector issues to  be addressed  by the project and  strategic choices ....................                                ..................4
C. Project Description Summary ................................................................5
1.  Project components .................................................................5
2.  Key policy and  institutional reforms supported  by the project  ......................                                 .....................5
3.  Benefits and target population .................................................................5
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ................................................................. 6
D. Project Rationale ................................................................                                                                   10
1.  Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection ................................................... 10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ............. 11
3. Lessons learned and reflected  in proposed  project design  ............................                              ..................... 12
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ......................................................... 12
5.  Value added  of Bank support in this project ...............................................................     12
E. Summary Project Analyses ...............................................................                                                             13
1. Economic ................................................................                                                                13
2. Financial ................................................................. 13
3. Technical ...............................................................                                                                14
4. Institutional ...............................................................                                                            14
5. Social ................................................................ 15
6.  Environmental assessment ................................................................                                               15
7.  Participatory  approach ................................................................                                                16
F. Sustainability and Risks ...............................................................                                                             16
1. Sustainability ................................................................                                                          16
2.  Critical risks ................................................................ 17
3.  Possible controversial aspects ................................................................ 17
G. Main Loan Conditions .................................................................18
1. Effectiveness conditions .....................................................                                                           18
2. Other ....................................................                                                                                18



H. Readiness for Implementation .......................                                                                              18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .18
Annexes
Annex  1.                     Project Design Summary ........................................ 19
Annex 2.a                     Detailed Project Description ........................................ 21
The Alianza para el Campo Program  ... ..................................... 21
Project Activities ......................................... 23
Environmental Aspects ....................................... 27
Annex 2.b                     Participation of Indigenous Communities .......................................                       31
Annex 2.c                     Project Monitoring and Evaluation ....................................... 35
Annex 3.                      Estimated Project Costs ....................................... 45
Annex 4.                      Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary ........................................                                46
Annex 5.                      Financial Summary ....................................... 51
Annex 6.                      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .....................                       .................. 52
Table A.                      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ....................................... 55
Table B.                      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ............................. 56
Table C.                      Allocation of Loan Proceeds ...........................                                            57
Annex 7.                      Project Processing Budget and Schedule ........................... 58
Annex 8.                      Documents in Project File ...........................                                                 59
Annex 9.                      Statement of Loans and Credits..................                                      .. .            61
Annex 10.                     Country at a Glance ............ ..                                                                   63



MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Mexico Country Management Unit
Date: November 30, 1998                                    Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Michael Carroll
Country Director: Olivier Lafourcade                        Sector Manager/Director: Maritta Koch-Weser
Project ID: 48505            Sector: Agriculture            Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan                Program of Targeted Intervention:              [XI  Yes    [ ]  No
Project Financing Data                         [X] Loan            I ] Credit        [I  Guarantee           I] Other ISpecifyl
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount: US$444.45 million
Proposed terms:                                   I     Multicurrency          [XI  Single currency. UJS Dollar
Grace period (years): 3 years          [     Standard Variable      [Xl  Fixed                I I     LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 9 years
Commitment fee:       %
Front end fee:     %
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                                    Local                  Foreign               Total
Federal Government                                                           66.2                     12.0                 78.8
State Government                                                             32.3                      0.0                 32.3
IBRD                                                                        332.7                    111.8                444.5
Total                                                                       431.2                    124.4                555.6
Borrower: Nacional Financiera S.N.C. (NAFIN)
Guarantor: United Mexican States
Responsible agency: Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development (SAGAR)
Estimated disbursements (BankFY/US$M):                1999          2000           2()01         2002       2003
Annual       71.1.0)       120.9         124.6         87.5        39.9
Cumulative       71.1         192.1          316.7        404.1       444.5
Project implementation period: 4.5 yrs. Expected effectiveness date: March 1999    Expected closing date: 06/30/2003



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 2
Country: MexAco                                     Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
To increase capitalization of small farmers and improve their productivity and income by promoting
the adoption of sustainable agricultural production systems, by providing technical and financial
assistance to eligible beneficiaries under a matching grant scheme. This would be done within the
framework of selected programs currently being executed under the ongoing Agricultural
Development Program Alianzapara el Campo (PAC). This objective would be achieved through:
(i) the improvement of access of small and poor farmers to the activities currently supported by the
three programs of the currently 90% disbursed Bank-financed Rainfed Areas Development Project
(PRODAT) (Loan 3778-ME), as well as the Rural Development Program, that are being executed
under Alianza; (ii) promotion of a better integration of the various activities of Alianza aimed at the
development of irrigated and rainfed agriculture; (iii) generation, validation and transfer of
technologies suited to small farmer production conditions; (iv) strengthening production support
services for small farmers; and (v) support of the Government promoted decentralization process by
strengthening the planning and implementation capacity of the State institutions and producers'
organizations.
Key performance indicators of progress towards project objectives are outlined in Annex 2c. They
will be measured through a M&E system centered on physical-financial input and output indicators
for monitoring purposes, combined with outcome and impact indicators for the purpose of evaluating
development performance. Performance indicators would mainly focus on changes in farm
productivity, household income, level of farm capitalization and adoption rates of new technologies
being promoted.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
GAS document number: R96-207 CAS Program Report R98.49 Discussed March 26, 1998
The joint IBRD/IFC Mexico Country Assistance Strategy and the latest CAS Progress Report
emphasizes a development agenda with three core interrelated aims: (i) sustainable growth; (ii)
social development; and (iii) modernization of the State. The proposed project, which is a targeted
operation, will contribute directly to the CAS objectives of sustainable development through
improved productivity of small farmers and expanding the opportunities of this sector to access
financial assistance for investment. It will also contribute the modernization of the State by assisting
the Government in its decentralization efforts, bringing beneficiaries into the decision making
process, and fostering closer cooperation between public services and the private sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Agriculture remains a weak sector of the Mexican economy. In 1996, agricultural Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) accounted for about 6% of total GDP, down from 19% in 1960. The sector's slow
growth coupled with stagnating productivity and wages, has resulted in a decline in the sector's
employment from 50% to 25% of the total labor force during the same period. Nevertheless,
agriculture could remain an important economic sector provided, on the one hand, its commercial
sector continues to be competitive through the permanent use of modern technologies and increased
yields and on the other, the productive potential of the small farmer agriculture, especially in rainfed
areas, can be fully developed.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 3
Country: Mexico                                        Project Title: Agrcultural Productivity Improvement Project
During the late 1 980s and early 1 990s, the Government of Mexico implemented an important set of
reforms in the agricultural sector including liberalization of prices and marketing, trade reforms, and
privatizations. Additionally, it also revised the regulatory and legal framework of land tenure as well
as of the water and forestry sectors. The Government also promoted a greater role of the private
sector in the provision of support services. Following these reforms, Government support switched
from commodity price subsidies to non-distortionary direct income transfer to producers through the
PROCAMPO program and has established the bases for a gradual exposure of the Mexican economy
to international trade and globalization, mainly to the North American Free Trade Agreement
(NAFTA).
Despite the reforms and policy changes, the performance of the agricultural sector has been lagging
and for most of the 1 990s its growth has stagnated. Sector performance has remained relatively
isolated from recent macro-economic events such as the major financial crisis and devaluation at the
end of 1994, the impressive recovery in 1996-1997, and the economic crisis that afflicted the country
at the end of last year. However, agricultural exports are expanding and some diversification of
production is taking place. But the impact of the reforms and the production response seems to have
been limited mostly to the commercial sector. Furthermore, rural poverty has been expanding in
recent years and the limited options available to small producers to cope with income and
consumption fluctuations, have induced farmers into risk averse investment strategies thus widening
the gap with the modern commercial sector competing in the international market.
Improving the delivery of financial services to the rural population remains one of the main
constraints to the development of the agricultural sector. The Government has started a process of
liberalization of interest rates, phasing out government support to state-owned financial institutions,
while providing incentives for the private financial sector to increase its presence in the rural areas.
Penetration of financial services, in general, in the rural areas remains deficient, although some
schemes of savings and loans and micro-finance activities have developed. However, access to
financial resources for productive investment continues to be rather limited, especially for small
farmers.
The Government's sector development strategy, which would be supported by the Bank, includes the
following main lines of action:
a) maintaining the policy framework and strengthening the market economy;
b) pursuing second generation type of reforms in factor and output markets (financial services,
access to output markets, land and water markets; labor markets);
c) increasing agricultural productivity of small and medium-sized farmers;
d) promoting the integration of small farmers in the economic growth process; and
e) strengthening institutional development and decentralization and better integrating cultural and
gender perspectives.
In 1996, the Government launched a national agricultural and rural development program (Alianza
para el Campo) to increase capitalization in the agricultural sector with the aim of promoting
improved agricultural productivity and production, and increased income of farmers. It fosters
agricultural productivity by promoting productive investment (under a matching-grant scheme) and
providing more effective support services (research, extension, information, training) for a wide



Project Appraisal Documnent                                                                  Page 4
Country: Mexico                                           Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
range of agricultural sub-programs. The cornerstone of the Alianza program is its decentralized
approach, with a delegation of administration and decision-making to the States, as well as a
substantive contribution of the States to the program's budget. The program offers the opportunity
and the operational mechanism to implement a decentralized, demand-driven approach to channel
technical and financial assistance directly to small farmers.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project would aim at assisting the Government in its effort to increase capitalization in
agriculture and promote sustainable agricultural productivity and facilitate the access of small
farmers to the benefits of the Alianza program and agricultural development in general. In shaping
the underlying strategy of the project the Government has made a number of choices:
a) it promotes, under its federalization policy, the transfer of responsibility for implementation of
the programs to the states and the strengthening of local ownership;
b) it recognizes the lack of capital for productive investment as a key constraint to unleash the
development potential of small farmer agriculture and adopts a demand-driven and participatory
approach for investment decisions;
c) it facilitates access to financial resources required through a matching grant system to promote
productive investments, while moving away from traditional general subsidy schemes;
d) it places demand-driven and participatory approaches also at the core of a capacity building
process in which beneficiaries and farmer's organizations become partners and clients in the
provision of support services.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 5
Country: Mexico                                             Project Title: Agncultural Productivity Improvement Project
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2a for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                 Category      Cost Incl.     % of    Bank-        % of
Contingencies    Total  financi      Bank-
(US$M)                (US$M)    financing
1.- Productive Investment            Physical         343.3         62       272.0        80
Under this component, the project
would finance small grants for demand-
driven subprojects currently financed
under the ongoing Bank-financed
PRODAT Project, aimed at small
irrigation development and
modernization, improved pasture
establishment and management,
improved dairy production technology
and marketing, as well as subprojects
providing small-scale on-farm
infrastructure and minor equipment and
supplies.
2.- Production Support Services     Capacity          172.9         32        137.0       80
This component would include         Building
financial support for applied research
and technology transfer as well as
demand-driven extension, technical
assistance and training to small
farmers.
3.- Institutional strengthening and  Institutional     34.9          6         31.0      100
Project Administration              Building/
This component would support training  Project
and technical assistance to staff with  Management
implementation responsibilities at the
central and state levels, with particular
emphasis on subproject preparation and
selection mechanisms and procedures;
the development and implementation of
a comprehensive monitoring and
impact evaluation system; and the
establishment and operation of a
Project Coordination Team (ECP)
Total     551.1          100      440.0        80
'Total Loan amount is US$ M4.45 due to the supplemental front end fee of 1%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project builds on existing policy and institutional framework and does not pursue key policy and
institutional reforms, but focuses on strengthening the decentralization process and progressive
delegation of decision-making responsibilities at the state and local levels.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would provide technical and financial assistance: a) for productive investments to some
240,000 small commercial farmers who would improve their productivity and competitiveness in an



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 6
Country: Mexico                                         Project Title: Agrcultural Productivity Improvement Project
increasingly open economy; b) for subprojects providing small-scale on-farm infrastructure and
minor equipment and supplies for up to 750.000 poor rural households; and c) for demand-driven
technical assistance, training and extension activities to approximately 1.5 million poor and small
farmers to improve their level of income and standard of living. The project activities, although
nationwide in scope, would be targeted to groups of eligible beneficiaries including indigenous
people, women and rural youth located mostly in the Center and Southern States of the country, i.e.,
the areas with the largest concentrat.un of small and poor farmers. Eligibility of households would
be screened applying simple and easily verifiable criteria based on size of holding and/or livestock
assets.
Economic benefits of the project would be the result of increased agricultural production and farmers'
income. The analysis of a sample of farm models would indicate that small commercial farmers
wou!d generate a significant increase in on-farm income as a result of productive investment
financed under the project (see Annex 4). Project investments targeted to poor farmers would have
not only a positive impact on household income but would also result in improvement in overall food
security.
As a result of project activities, small rural business and enterprises are expected to develop, which
would have a positive impact on local employment. The project would also promote private sector
participation in the provision of production sunport services, particularly technical assistance to
producers, which is expected to increase the impact of project-financed on-farmn investments.
Sustainability of project benefits is expected to be high, given that the increase in physical assets
would be complemented with improvements in social and human capital through training, technical
assistance, organization and better access to project financial, marketing and technological services.
About 62% of project resources are likely to be channeled to productive investment demanded by
beneficiaries, while an additional 32% would be allocated to technical assistance and training of the
target population. The combination of improved provision of production-related support services,
and the assistance to decentralized management and administration of rural services is expected to
increase the effectiveness and efficiency of public expenditures.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 4.5 years
Executing Agency:           Secretariat of Agriculture Livestock and Rural Development
(SAGAR)
Implementing Agencies:      Implementation of the Productive Investment Component would be
highly decentralized, utilizing the institutional structure established by the Government for the
administration of the ongoing Alianzapara el Campo Program. Formal agreements (Convenios)
would be signed annually between SAGAR and each state, which include Technical Annexes
describing proposed project activities, subproject features and approval process and the annual
budget, with the respective financial commitments of the federal and state governments.
Beneficiaries, either individually or organized in groups, would be responsible for subproject
implementation, consistent with a highly participatory demand-driven approach to subproject
identification, design and selection. Delivery of demand-driven Support Services (technical
assistance, extension and training) would be based on direct contracts from beneficiary organizations
or groups to private sector individuals or small firms, within the ongoing SINDER and PEAT
programs for poor farmers and the recently established programs for small commercial livestock and



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 7
Country: Mexico                                     Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Poject
irrigation producers. Technology Transfer and Adaptive Research would be implemented by the
existing Agricultural Research foundations (PRODUCE) in each state, who would award contracts
either directly to INIFAP or on a competitive basis to specialized institutions, including INIFAP,
State research agencies, Universities and private sector organizations.
The innovative feature of the Alianza program is its cost sharing arrangements between the federal
level, the states and the producers. A Trust Fund (Fideicomiso) has been established in each state to
channel financial resources funds from the federal and state governments to the various sub-programs
of the Alianza. Definition of priorities of the various sub-programs, selection of investment proposal,
and approval of transfer of financial resources to beneficiaries, is the responsibility of the State
Agricultural Council (CEA), the maximum Alianza-related authority operating in each State. CEAs
are comprised of state representatives form the various institutions involved in rural development, the
SAGAR delegate, and producer and civil society organizations.
In terms of project cycle, beneficiaries, either individually or in groups, may submit proposals to
Alianza at the local level in different ways, but most commonly through the Rural Development
Districts (DDRs) located in each municipality. The DDRs receive the application forms, review that
they contain the minimum required information and forward them to the operational branches of the
CEAs at the regional level. These operational branches of the CEAs are the committees (Comisiones
de Desarrollo Rural or CDRs), which are formed by, and depend of, the CEAs. The CDRs have
specialized technical groups ("Vocalias T&cnicas") that carry out the actual analysis and
recommendation for technical approval of the proposals submitted. Upon approval by the CEAs, the
subproject proposals are forwarded to the Fideicomiso for technical approval by the Technical
Committee of the Fideicomiso and payment to the provider of goods and services associated with the
subprojects. CEAs also promote inter-institutional coordination and foster synergy and
complementarity of the programs operating within the state.
Given the programmatic nature of Alianza, its decentralized implementation structure with federal
and state institutions involved, and the fact that the project will support some of the programs within
the Alianza framework, the existence of a detailed project manual is considered a key tool for
successful implementation. The Project Implementation Manual would not only contain an itemized
description of the operational rules, technical, financial and environmental criteria and specific
procedures for all federal and state institutions involved in project implementation, but it would also
include institutional arrangements, procurement details, monitoring and evaluation reporting
requirements and standard terms of reference for recruitment of technical assistance and annual
program evaluations. A draft Project Implementation Manual, prepared following a table of contents
agreed with the Bank during project preparation was reviewed at negotiation, while the final version,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be required as condition for loan effectiveness.
Project Management: The project would be implemented, within the framework of the Alianza para
el Campo, by SAGAR, through its Subsecretariats of Agriculture and Rural Development and the
Project Coordinating Team (ECP), which will be located in the General Directorate of Agricultural
and Livestock Development (DGDA) of SAGAR. The main functions of the small ECP to be
established would be to coordinate project activities with SAGAR, ensure adequate differentiation
between the project and overall Alianza activities, consolidate technical and financial reporting
requirements, implement the monitoring and evaluation system, and perform as the focal point
between the project and both the Borrower (NAFIN) and the Bank. In addition, a Project
Administration Committee, comprised of Director-level representatives of DGDA, DGPOP, and the
Delegation Coordinating Directorate of SAGAR, as well as senior ECP staff, would be established to



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 8
Country: Mexico                                    Project Title: Agricultural Pmductivity Improvement Project
provide oversight to project implementation activities. The establishment of the ECP with staffing,
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements (See Annex 6): The financial management,
accounting system, and internal controls are already in place as part of the Alianza program and are
currently utilized by the Rainfed Areas Project and the On-farm and Minor Irrigation Project. They
have been operating satisfactorily and their use would be continued under the present project.
Resources and mechanisms that would permit financial monitoring and reporting of the project will
be in place prior to effectiveness. SAGAR has begun to take steps to adapt it financial management
systems in line with Bank's new Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI), with the intention of
e .tablishing the project as a pilot and model for LACI implementation in Mexico. A transition
phase, tentatively expected to extend for the first two years, would allow for training, software
development, adaptation to new FMRs and integration of technical reporting while full conversion to
LACI-style disbursements takes place, which is expected to occur sometime after the second year of
project implementation.
At the state level Financial reporting would be carried out by the SAGAR Delegation, including
information required for preparation of simplified Statements of Expenditures (SOE). The
Fideicomiso would carry out financial accounting and maintain separate project accounts and records
for project related expenditures in accordance with sound and accepted accounting practices.
Financial reports and SOEs would be consolidated at the central level by SAGAR through the PCT
with the assistance of FIRCO and NAFIN for submission to the Bank. Financial audits would be
carried out annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank and GOM regarding technical
agents. Audit reports would be prepared in accordance with International Auditing Standards (IAS),
FARAH and MET (Framework agreement existing between the Bank and the Secretariat for
Administrative Control-SECODAM). The annual auditors' opinion would be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the end of each calendar year. SAGAR would also prepare annual progress
reports each April, and annual planning reports each October.
Procurement (See Annex 6): Procurement of goods and small works financed by the project would
be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits (January, 1995). All consulting services to provide technical assistance and training
would be selected in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, of January
1997 and revised in September 1997.
Most of the goods, small works and services to be procured under this project will be carried out
with direct participation and financial contribution of the beneficiaries, and implemented as part
of the Productive Investment Component. Procurement would be carried out by the beneficiaries,
and payments made through the State Fideicomiso. Eligibility criteria and operational procedures
would be included in the Project Implementation Manual. Given the remote and scattered location
of many rural communities and in order to encourage community participation in project
execution, simplified procurement and disbursement procedures, including the utilization of
local shopping and direct contracting, will be applied to subprojects with a Federal and State
contribution of less than US$50,000 equivalent. Individual subprojects with a total cost
exceeding US$50,000 equivalent would be procured through local bidding.
The implementation of these procedures would be closely monitored during project supervision
and would place a substantial demand on the national staff in SAGAR and its regional branches,



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 9
Country: Mexico                                     Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
which would be strengthened on pircurement matters as part of the project's training program.
Details on the procedures and mechanisms for the procurement of goods and services under the
Institutional Strengthening Component, as well as prior review arrangements, are provided in
Annex 6. The Project Procurement Plan would be incorporated in the Project Implementation
Manual, to be submitted to the Bank as a condition of effectiveness.
Monitoring and Evaluation arrangements: Given the highly decentralized nature of the project,
adequate monitoring would be essential to effective project implementation. In order to provide
improved supervision of activities implemented, as well as an assessment of the impact of project
interventions on beneficiaries, a comprehensive Monitoring and Evaluation System (M&E) System
would be established at the central level within the ECP to undertake overall project M&E. This
special area would work in close coordination with the States' CDRs (the operational branches of the
CEA at regional level), the Fideicomiso and offices of the implementing agencies for project
monitoring at the local level. A new computerized centralized management information system
(MIS) would be set in place; it would replace the existing heterogeneous systems presently operated
by the different implementing agencies in charge of each Alianza program to be financed by the
project.
The structure of the MIS would be based on three different modules: programming and
administration (PA); physical and financial monitoring (PFM); and performance evaluation (PE).
The system would allow to collect and process information uniformly and periodically on the set of
indicators needed by the M&E system to achieve its purposes. Indicators would be divided into three
main categories: a) physical-financial; b) performance (divided in up to five categories: input, output,
outcome, process and impact); and c) efficacy (divided into two categories: efficiency and
effectiveness), thus providing the conceptual basis for the M&E framework. M&E activities would
be based on the first two groups of indicators, while the third group would be developed and used for
management purposes by the units within SAGAR responsible for the technical oversight of Alianza
programs.
Monitoring. Tracking of project activity progress would be based on the group of physical-financial
indicators (PFM). The MIS's PA module would produce the Annual Plans (APs) and provide the
necessary background information to assess implementation progress, as well as to produce the
necessary financial and expenditure statements. The MIS's PFM module would provide up to date
information to allow monitoring of project physical and financial implementation, and also to verify
that implementation is consistent with the rules and criteria included in the Project Manual.
Evaluation. The evaluation of the overall implementation performance and development impact of
the project would be coordinated by the ECP and would be either processed or contained in the
MIS's PE module. It would involve different areas of activities, including evaluation of project
implementation performance, and both continuous and global evaluation of development impact. In
all, these activities would entail the assessment of physical and financial implementation
performance based on input and output indicators, coupled with specific evaluations based on a
complementary set of indicators, to determine the specific results and impacts attained by the
activities financed by the project.
The project would promote a tiered system of evaluations ofproject implementation performance,
based on the annual evaluations currently carried out at the state and federal level. Annual
evaluations of individual programs at the state level would be based on agreed sets of indicators and



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 10
Country: Mexico                                       Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
would be carried out utilizing standard terms of references satisfactory to the Bank, so that quality
would be uniform and results would be comparable and additive. Under these conditions the state
evaluations could provide valuable input for the program evaluations at the federal level; they would
also provide a sound basis for the annual project implementation reports and the midterm project
evaluation. Given the time horizon on which they would be based, these evaluations would focus
mostly on input and output indicators, and provide a quantitative assessment of physical and financial
implementation performance, complemented with qualitative analyses of the implementation process
by both beneficiaries and other agents involved.
Furthermore, the MIS's PE module would contain the information regarding achievement of
development objectives. Information would come from two different areas of activity: a continuous
evaluation area and an independent system encompassing the performance evaluation activities per
se. Continuous evaluation would be closely associated to the monitoring system and it would be
based on the evolution of a small group of indicators of "potential development" based on known
relationships between activities' outputs and development impacts. Actual global evaluation of
development impact would be based on a series of studies, including a baseline study, as well as
midterm and final evaluation reports. These activities would allow, in the medium term defined by
the project life, to measure trends toward attainment of the development objectives defined at the
outset both for the different components and for the project as a whole.
D: Project Rationale
I. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The initial project proposal was designed to provide assistance to beneficiaries of all 18 national
subprograms comprising the Alianza para el Campo Program. During project preparation, it became
evident that the existing institutional structure lacked the capacity to address the objectives of the
project on such a broad spectrum of activities. This assessment, combined with the realization that
the ongoing Rainfed Areas Development Project (Ln.3778-ME): (i) was close to completion, (ii) had
been satisfactorily implemented with indications of positive impact on beneficiaries; and (iii)
presented evidence of a considerable level of unattended demand and/or need for consolidation of
activities, resulted in the decision to narrow the focus of the project, concentrating the actions on the
three programs currently supported by the Rainfed Project. Furthermore, recognizing that the entire
target population of the Alianza Program could not be reached with the available resources, SAGAR
and the Bank agreed to apply a well-defined targeting mechanism that would enhance the poverty
alleviation impact of these resources.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 11
Country:' Mexico                                          Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andlor other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Sector Issue    X                Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
I |                                  Ratings
;______________________________  {___________________  (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Progress (IP)    Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
Rehabilitation of irrigation and       Irrigation and Drainage       S              S
drainage infrastructure and transfer of   Sector Project (Ln.
their O&M to beneficiaries            3419)
Assist private sector with the         On-Farm and Minor             S               S
improvement of on-farm irrigation    Irrigation Improvement
efficiency                            Project (Ln. 3704)
lImprove productivity of rainfed       Rainfed Areas                 S               S
farming activities                    Development Project
(Ln. 3778)
Small scale municipal infrastructure,    Second Decentralization     U               S
institutional strengthening           & Rural Dev. (DRD 11)
Poverty alleviation in highly         Rural Development in
marginalized rural areas              Marginal Areas                 S               S
Development of rural financial        Rural Finance T.A.             S               S
services; policy coptent              (Pilot) -
Irrigation/drainage, rural infrastructure,
extension                             2nd Tropical Agricultural     NA             NA
Development Project
Rural and social infrastructure,      (Completed)                   NA             NA
decentral. & linstitutional Strengthening  Decentralization &
Rural Dev. (DRDI)
(Completed)
Other development agencies
Rehabilitation of irrigation and     Irrigation and Drainage
drainage infrastructure and transfer of   Sector Project
their O&M to beneficiaries (IDB)
I P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 12
Country: Mexico                                       Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
3. Lessons learned and reflected in project design:
The proposed project builds on the experience of decentralized, rural development investment
programs. In general, they indicate that flexibility and grass-root demand-driven approaches are key
in building ownership, defining local priorities, and setting the ground for better implementation and
sustainability. The Bank's record of financing this type of programs in Mexico and elsewhere is on
the whole satisfactory, and there is consensus on continuing this line of financial assistance. In
Mexico, positive examples can be drawn from the first and second Decentralization and Rural
Development projects (DRD I and II) as well as the Rainfed Areas Development Project (PRODAT).
Over time, however, some shortcomings in the implementation of these programs have emerged:
a)    Past municipality-based demand-driven approaches (DRD I and 11) have been globally
successful in the promotion of rural infrastructure and social investments. However, because
investment decision by municipalities tend to favor collective investments, little has been
achieved in triggering production-oriented activities and tapping the productive potential of
existing resources;
b)    Notwithstanding their intrinsic merits, micro-investments tend to form a disparate collection
of interventions, and may not reach the critical development mass required to attract the
private sector, generate buyers competition, facilitate access to markets, and foster the
establishment of support services;
c)    It is important that access to resources for productive investments be accompanied by the
required technical support for technology validation and community organization; and
d)    Poor timing and lengthv budgetary and bureaucratic processes are likely to jeopardize the
implementation of this type of programs particularly in agriculture where natural cycles
impose rigid time constraints.
The proposed project would take up the challenge of trying to overcome these limiting factors by: (i)
promoting decentralized and agile mechanisms for subprojects approval and disbursement at the state
level; (ii) providing a broad range of technical assistance and training to small producers to improve
the quality of project design and implementation, thus strengthening the demand-driven nature of
proposed productive investments; and (iii) fostering more integration between investment projects
and technical assistance to small farmers.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The project is an integral part of the ongoing nationwide Government initiative Alianza para el
Campo launched in mid 1996, with strong political support and the provision of a substantial increase
in budget allocation for SAGAR in 1998. Its decentralized strategy and matching contributions by
the states ensures a stronger involvement and ownership at the state level.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
The Bank, with its extensive experience in poverty alleviation and decentralized, demand driven
projects in Latin America oftentimes under matching grant arrangement, is uniquely qualified to
support the Government of Mexico in its efforts to reduce rural poverty by improving access to
physical and technological production inputs, stimulating the rural economy and promoting
sustainable agricultural production and agro-enterprises. In the context of this project, value added



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 13
Country: Mexico                                      Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
of the Bank would be directed to:
a) improve small farmer access to existing Alianza programs by providing targeted training and
technical assistance programs;
b) strengthen participation of producer's associations in the preparation and selection of investment
proposals to be financed under the project
c) develop monitoring and evaluation mechanisms consistent with other sectoral programs and
activities
d) support the Government's effort for decentralizing agricultural support services;
e) foster markets for private-sector delivery of technical assistance and training.
Additionally, the Bank has built considerable experience in Mexico and worldwide on policy
dialogue and operations dealing with rural investment funds. The Bank can facilitate access to
information and advisory capacity on design issues and lessons learned with comparable projects and
subsequent incorporation of the lessons of these experiences.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$2,104.4 million; ERR= 18.5%
Given the demand-driven nature of investments to be made by project beneficiaries, it is not possible to
etermine a priori the exact composition of the investment program to be financed under the project.
Some working hypotheses were developed to estimate the internal economic rate of return of the
project's Productive Investment Component. Economic Return estimates were based on a sample of
investment subprojects likely to be demanded by beneficiaries, following actual Alianza expenditures
over the past two years. The results obtained from individual farm models were aggregated, according
to the relative importance of the various productive investment proposals as indicated by historical
demand patterns, to obtain an estimate of the projects likely overall rate of retum.
2. Financial (see Annex 4):
NPV=US$2,338.2 million; FRR= 26.3 %
The financial rates of return of individual farm models are considerably higher than the ERR, given
the subsidy element in investment cost, and most models show increases in total on-farm income
between 30 and 80 % at full development, thus indicating that given the adequate combination of
investment incentives and technical assistance, the proposed programs would be attractive to small
farmers.
Fiscal impact: The project will be implemented under the Alianzapara el Campo Program, which
has a total budget for 1998 of about US$250 million equivalent from the Federal Government and an
estimated budget of about US$140 million contributed by the States. The federal financial resources
allocated to the Alianza Program in 1998 represent about 14% of SAGAR's budget. The total cost
of the Project, excluding farmers' contribution, is estimated at about US$550 million, or about
US$ I10 million per annum, of which roughly two-thirds would come from federal sources and the
remaining one-third from state governments. The proposed project would support ongoing SAGAR



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 14
Country: Mexico                                       Project Title: Agrcultural Productivity Improvement Project
programs and would operate within the existing budget allocation of SAGAR and the state
government, and will not generate additional budge.ary financial requirements beyond the US$90
million per annum in matching grants already foreseen in SAGAR's budget for these programs.
Incremental tax revenues accrued to the Federal Government as a result of project activities would be
negligible as agricultural sector-related activities are mostly exempt from Value Added Tax (IVA).
Income tax revenues from incremental profitability of on-farm production would also be negligible
given the level of income of the target population. Consequently, the fiscal impact of the project
would be negative, but it would be equivalent to that of the current Alianza programs.
3. Technical:
The project is considered technically sound, given that:
a) The basic constraints to improved productivity and living conditions of rural poor households
and small-holder farmers have been adequately diagnosed during preparation;
b) The key elements of the innovative mechanisms that would be utilized by the project to provide
direct financial assistance to beneficiaries are already known by the implementing agencies, as
they are being applied by SAGAR since 1996;
c) The main technical aspects of the ongoing matching grant program that would improvements
(technical assistance to subprojects, compatible extension methodologies, demand-driven
delivery of technology generation and dissemination programs, and subproject planning,
monitoring and evaluation) have been defined and agreed upon during preparation, with specific
actions to address these limitations incorporated into project design;
d) The compliance of individual beneficiary subprojects with acceptable technical and operational
standards would be ensured through a combination of instruments, including improved screening
mechanisms, provision of technical support for the identification, preparation and
implementation of proposals, and the establishment of a detailed monitoring and evaluation
system.
4. Institutional:
Although project design poses a considerable institutional challenge due to the decentralized nature
of implementation, the project is considered institutionally sound. This assessment is based on the
fact that the Alianza Para el Campo Program was initiated in 1996 as a financial and operational
partnership between Federal and State institutions. Despite the natural difficulties encountered
initially, all participating agencies have now acquired considerable experience in applying the rules
and procedures of the Alianza in each State appear to be fairly consolidated. As a result, the roles
and responsibilities of institutions involved in the beneficiary subproject cycle are well defined, a key
element for successful implementation of the main component of the project.
The current weaknesses in the institutions involved in the implementation of Alianza were identified
during preparation as a result of a comprehensive Institutional Arrangement and would be addressed
by the project as part of the Institutional Strengthening Component, with emphasis on the
administrative, environmental, and monitoring and evaluation capacity of decentralized institutions.
In addition, SAGAR's efforts to gradually improve the institutional framework currently involved in
the delivery of support services would be supported.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 15
Country: Mexico                                          Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
5. Social:
During project preparation, a systematic analysis of the socioeconomic, organizational and
institutional factors that could interfere with project implementation was conducted. Based on this
analysis, targeting and eligibility criteria responsive to the beneficiary's characteristics were designed
and included in the project's Implementation Manual.
The project is expected to provide technical and financial assistance to an estimated I million small
farmers and rural poor households. Women farmers and young producers would have equal access
to project benefits. To ensure the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of project results and impacts,
the base line study, with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, would undertake a
socioeconomic analysis of project beneficiaries. This assessment would serve as a benchmark to
assess project impacts on social features and living conditions of beneficiaries.
With respect to indigenous peoples, the project would continue to strengthen the existing mechanisms
implemented by Alianza regarding the utilization of culturally appropriate instruments to ensure access
and active participation of indigenous communities in the project. This would be supported by
information and experience gained through the recent World Bank report on indigenous peoples in
MexicoI and the preparation and implementation of the ongoing "Rural Development in Marginal
Areas Project"2. These and other available documents3 provide a great deal of background on the
opportunities and constraints to project approaches aimed at ensuring that indigenous organizations,
including those representing indigenous women and youth, participate actively. This material, and
experience with the Marginal Areas Project will be routinely reviewed and incorporated in the
implementation of project activities addressing indigenous communities.(See Annex 2b)
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category [] A  [ X] B      []C
The project is designed to improve the efficiency and sustainability of agriculture in the small-farm
sector. Due to the specific resource management focus adopted, all potential impacts in most types
of subproject should be positive or insignificant. Overall the project is expected to have no negative
environmental impacts. In order to achieve this, rigorous environmental procedures will be applied.
The Implementation Manual would include screening criteria oriented primarily to the mitigation of
potential contamination arising from selected types of subproject. The Manual contains a list of
these subproject, the environmental checklist to be applied, and the procedures to be used at the state
level in which state delegations of federal agencies responsible for environmental monitoring
(SEMARNAP and the National Water Commission [CNA]) will participate. In addition, a list of
activities which would not be eligible for project financing has been established in the
Implementation Manual including: deforestation, new road construction, resettlement, restrictions on
use of agro-chemicals and encroachment on natural habitats, wetlands, parks and reserves.
Implementation of environmental procedures and compliance with the negative list will be the
responsibility of the Technical Agent for each investment program. All recommendations will be
reviewed by state technical committees and the State Agricultural Councils (CEA) in which
World Bank, "Mexico, Indigenous Peoples Profile". Washington D.C., June 1998.
2    World Bank, "Mexico: Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project". Report No: 17263-ME. Washington
D.C., December 1997.
3    Grupo Knode, S. A. "Programa de Desarrollo Productivo Sustentable en Zonas Indigenas - Opciones de
Reinversi6n Local de Recursos" Mexico, D.F., junio de 1997.
Red Ingenieria, S.A. de C.V., "Sistemas de Comercializaci6n y Formaciones Microempresariales en las
Huastecas Potosina, Hidalguense y Veracruzana". Mexico, D.F., agosto de 1997.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 16
Country: Mexico                                         Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
representatives of both state and federal agencies with responsibility for environmental oversight
participate. The ECP will prepare an annual report on environmental procedures, and at the end of
the first year operation, will conduct an evaluation of such procedures with a view to recommending
modifications where needed (see Annex 2a).
7. Participatory approach:
Preparation    Implementation     Operation
Beneficiaries/community     IS/CON           IS/COL            COL
groups__                    _ _ _ _ _ _  __ _  _ _ _  _ _
Intermediary NGOs      IS/CON           IS/COL            COL
Academic institutions    IS/CON           IS/COL            COL
State and Local government    CON/COL           IS/COL            COL
IS = Information Sharing CON = Contribution COL = Collaboration
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is expected to be sustainable, as it would increase the long-term viability and impact of
the Government's existing matching grant program (Alianzapara el Campo). This would be
achieved by improving the quality of proposed productive investments, through strengthening small
farmer participation in project selection, and by addressing a series of technical, institutional and
financial aspects directly linked to the sustainability of project activities, including the development
and adoption of improved technologies, the incorporation of financial criteria for the evaluation and
selection of subproject proposals, the promotion of decentralized delivery mechanisms, and the
implementation of adequate monitoring and impact evaluation systems.
The project's sustainability would be strengthened as it would finance only subprojects that are
technically and financially viable and sustainable from an environmental viewpoint. Regarding the
financial criteria for the evaluation and selection of subproject proposal, only projects with a rate of
return of more than 12% would be approved for financing. Any subproject with an investment of
more than US$50,000 would require a feasibility study; subprojects with an investment between
US$30,000 and US$50,000 would require a technical profile and a simple benefit-cost analysis.
Smaller projects would require only cash flow analysis to determine its financial viability.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 17
Country: Mexico                                              Project Title: Agrcultural Productivity Improvement Project
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
Project outputs to development objectives
Productivity gains do not meet expectations N          Project would improve integration of TA with
investrnent programs; training components of l
technology transfer would be strengthened. l
Subprojects are not sustained          N-M             Project would improve subproject screening
mec'hanisms, including output market linkages.
Macroeconomic conditions change        M....
Macroeconomic condition  change        M               Project investments continue to address high-
sincat  negh                                           potential production systems; poverty alleviation
measures would be adapted to meet immediate
critical production and processing support.
Drought conditions worse than ten-year  M              Project would continue to support small-scale
average                                                irrigation investments and water-conserving
dryland production.
Project components to outputs
Subprojects submitted inadequate for   M               On-going training of service providers would
significant increases in productivity and              ensure designs appropriate to beneficiary needs;
income.                                                subproject screening mechanisms would be
improved to address appropriate criteria.
TA strategies ineffective in technology  M             TA strategies would be evaluated annually and
transfer                                               necessary changes incorporated to the Technical
Annexes; state-level training programs would
adjust to training of service providers.
Research does not generate technology  M               Research strategies would be evaluated annually
required                                               and PRODUCE Foundations would incorporate
changes to proposal evaluation and resource
allocation.
Institutions do not adjust policy to reflect   M       Annual external evaluations of investmnent
beneficiary needs                                      programs and TA strategies would be key
instruments for identifying critical policy
constraints; policy changes would be negotiated
annually through Technical Annexes.
Political interference                 M               Clear targeting criteria and well defined
subproject selection procedures and enforcement
of demand driven mechanisms should minimize
political interference.
Strong State Government participation should
contribute to the project's continuity beyond the
present administration
Substantial efforts dedicated to capacity building
to improve project implementation procedures
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No controversial aspects are envisaged.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 18
Country: Mexico                                          Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
a) Establishment of the Project Coordinating Team with staffing, functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank.
b) Approval of the Project Implementation Manual.
c) Approval of the Annual Plan (AP) for Year I of the project.
2. Other:
Conditions of disbursement would be the review and approval of the first five subprojects of each
type (irrigation, pasture establishment, dairy development and on farm minor equipment and
supplies), as well as the first five research subprojects.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ I The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation. [XI Not applicable.
[XI The procurement documents for the first year's activities would be ready for the start of project
implementation.
[XI The Project Implementation Plan would be reviewed at negotiations. A realistic and satisfactory
version of the Project Implementation Plan is expected to be finalized prior to effectiveness.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[XI This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[signature]
Task Team L:  ie 11
LCSES
[signature] k( t
Sector Dire  r:    a    o W
LCSES
[signature]e6
Country Director. Olif ier Lafourcade
LCCIC               I



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                             Page 19
Country: Mexico                                                            Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Annex 1
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary              Key Performance Indicators I   Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions
CAS Objective                  Reduce incidence of rural poverty                            Political commitment and
Improve the well-being of the  among beneficiaries by project                               financial support at federal and
rural population and expand the   completion                  Mid-Term and Impact           state levels to implement policies
integration of small holders into  Increase sustainable productivity   Evaluations          and actions to improve the
the growth process             of small scale agriculture                                   livelihood of small holder farm
families
PROJECT DEV. OBJECTIVES
To improve the productivity and   Average beneficiary household    Beneficiary surveys      Modified Alianza, integrating
income of small farmers by     income increased by 25% by                                   TA, is the best approach to
promoting the adoption of      Project Completion.            Participatory Rural Appraisals   achieving productivity gains
sustainiable agricultural
production systems             Productivity increases of 25% in                             Implemented subprojects bring
target farming systems.       Mid-term and Impact Evaluations sustained and widespread
technology improvements,
Annual State-level External   including micro-enterprise
Program Evaluations           development
Project MIS                   Macroeconomic conditions and
price stability translates
productivity gains into higher
income levels
Regional drought conditions no
worse than ten-year average
PROJECT OUTPUTS
I. Delivery of improved services  Improved irrigation systems on    Monthly reports of BANRURAL  Beneficiaries implement
to assist beneficiaries in the  >300.000 ha                                                 subprojects according to plan;
identification, design,                                       Monthly reports of FIRCO or    plans adequate for significant
implementation and maintenance   Pastures established on > 2 m ha Technical Agents          increases in productivity and
of investments.                                                                             income
Milk production established or    Minutes of CDR meetings
2. Improved access by         improved on > 10,000                                          TA strategies effective in
beneficiaries to financial     production units               Minutes and reports of        technology transfer and extension
resources for achieving and                                   VOCE/COTEGAN
maintaining sustainable        Rural support activities reach >                             Fundaciones PRODUCE able to
productivity gains.            750.000 beneficiaries          TA provider end-of-cycle reports define research needs and select
best provider; research generates
3. Improved nanagement and     TA integrated to investment    Annual State-level External   technology required.
administration of matching grant  projects in > 50% participating   P. 'gram Evaluations
programs through enhanced M&E  states                                                       Economies of scale can be
systems, allowing better focus                                Project MIS                   achieved in input purchase and
and strengthened decentralized                                                              output marketing
institutions.                                                 ECP Progress Reports
SINDER, PEAT and PAI
programs reach 350,000, 1.2 m,                               Institutions adjust policy and
and 15,000 beneficiaries,                                    operational systems to reflect
respectively                                                 client needs
> 50% research projects address
ALCAMPO beneficiary needs                                    Project executes pilot subprojects
Pilot projects addressing district                           addressing distinct and/or
and/or municipal design and                                  municipal design and
management of agricultural                                   management of agriculture
development.                                                 development.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                            Page 20
Country: Mexico                                                           Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Narrative Summary             Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions
PROJECT COMPONENT
1. Rural Investments financing    US$ 343 million allocated for  Project MIS               Subprojects addressing limiting
minor works, goods and services  productive investments over the                           constraint(s) are submitted for
related to beneficiary-demanded   life of the project        Disbursement records          financing
subprojects for on-farm
productive infrastructure and  US$173 million allocated to   Audit reports                 Subproject evaluation and
equipment, community          beneficiaries' TA and research                               approval mechanisms are
investments, and small rural  strategies                     ECP Progress Reports          effective
enterprises.
US$35 million allocated to    FMRs, once LACI system is     Timely release of funds
2. Suppon Services financing  institutional strengthening of  implemented
adaptive research, contracting of  selected departments within                             Coordination mechanisms
technical assistance staff, and  SAGAR and state institutions,                             effective in managing multi-
training of farmers and producer  and to develop the M&E System                            institutional resources
organizations
Political interference has minimal
3. Institutional Strengthening                                                             impact on subproject cycle
financing consultant services,
equipment, studies and training of
participating agencies.      I_I
Project Implementation Manual includes a comprehensive list of indicators to be monitored. The supplemental letter to the
loan agreement contains specific impact indicators with quantifiable benchmarks.



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 21
Country: Mexico                                    Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Annex 2a
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
A: The Alianza para el Campo Program
During the late 1 980s and early 1 990s, the GOM implemented an important set of reforms in the
agricultural sector including liberalization of prices and marketing, trade reforms, and privatizations.
In 1996, as a complement to those measures, the GOM launched a national agricultural and rural
development program, Programa Alianza para el Campo (PAC) directed at generating a profound
change in the agriculture sector through increased capitalization. Within this framework, the
program supports investments in human capital, technology, infrastructure and equipment in the
agricultural sector with the aim of promoting improved agricultural productivity and production, as
well as increased income of farmers.
The working scheme focuses on an integrated management of present instruments of agricultural
policy and strengthening of federalism, based on the implementation of several sub-programs under
the Alianza "umbrella", destined to reactivate production and improved living conditions of the rural
population. The program promotes productive investment under a matching-grant scheme and
supply of more effective support services (research, extension, information, training) for a wide
range of subprograms.
The cornerstone of PAC is its decentralized approach, with a delegation of administration and
decision-making to the States. The program offers the opportunity and the operational mechanism to
implement a decentralized, demand-driven approach to channel technical and financial assistance
directly to farmers. Formal agreements (Convenios) are signed between SAGAR and each state,
which include Technical Annexes describing proposed project activities and the annual budget with
the respective financial commitments of the federal and state governments.
A Trust Fund (Fideicomiso) has been established in each state to channel financial resources from the
federal and state governments to the various sub-programs of the Alianza. Definition of priorities of
the various sub-programs, selection of investment proposal, and approval of transfer of financial
resources to beneficiaries, is the responsibility of the Rural Development Commission (CDR)
operating in each State. CDRs comprise state representatives form the various institutions involved
in rural development, the SAGAR delegate, and producer organizations. Subsequent to the approval
by the CDRs, the subproject proposals are forwarded to the Fideicomiso for payment to the provider
of goods and services associated with the subprojects, upon fulfillment of their obligations.
For productive investments, beneficiaries either individually or organized in a group are responsible
for subproject implementation, consistent with a highly participatory demand-driven approach to
subproject identification, design and selection. Demand-driven support services (technical
assistance, extension and training) are delivered based on direct contracts from beneficiary
organizations or groups to private sector individuals or small firms. Finally, Technology Transfer
and Adaptive Research is implemented by the PRODUCE Foundations in each state, who award
contracts on a competitive basis to specialized institutions, including INIFAP, State research
agencies, Universities and the private sector.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 22
Country: Mexico                                                   Project Title: Agrcultural Productivity Improvement Project
The Alianza para el Campo program started in 1996 with the implementation of 22 programs (17
with national coverage and 5 regional), and was later expanded in 1997 to 27 programs with a budget
allocation of approximately US$350 million (Table A2a. 1). Programs are roughly divided into six
groups, encompassing productivity increase, agriculture (crops), livestock, programs targeted for
less developed areas, general support programs and irrigation related programs implemented by the
National Water Commission (CNA). The following table summarizes the programs and budget
allocations for the 1997 Alianza.
Table A2a.1 - Alianza para el Campo (1997)
Budget allocations ('000 Mx$) and number of beneficiaries
Program                                Resources                     Beneficiaries
Federal         State    |    Total
TOTAL                                   2,044,438.5    1,176,787.7    3,221,226.2 1    3,359,682
SAGAR                                    1,574,991.3    1,176.787.7    2,751.7779.0    3,232 073
- Irrigation development                  238,039.2      114,222.2      352,261.4         13.451
- Mechanization                           159,023.7       93.950.6      252.974.3         61.807
- Kilo per kilo                           109,552.2,      45,976.1      155,528.3       282.127
- Saline soils rehabilitation              13,000.0        4,149.0       17,149.0          1,602
- Oil seeds                                34,424.3       16,316.4       50.740.7          1.984
- Coffee program                           92,841.2       37,420.3      130,261.5        172.000
- Cacao program                             4,075.4        2,876.5        6,951.9         16.436
- Rubber program                           12,531.0        8,602.5       21,133.5          1.707
- Plant health                             61,446.6       62.370.8      123,817.4        515,060
- Improved pasture establishment          153,176.9       84,151.1      237,320.0         40,859
- Dairy technology improvement             62.360.4       46,302.6      108,663.0         13,197
- Improved cattle                          63,470.1       81,993.7      145,463.8         26,896
- Genetic Improvement                      42,111.8       57,819.4       99,931.2         32,989
- Animal health                            61,240.8       48,477.7      109,718.5       450,540
- Rural equipment                         197,709.5      168,828.3      366,537.8        461,486
- Development of Indigenous areas   [      26,936.0       17,094.1       44,030.1          7,200
- Technology transfer                      78,041.6       54,677.8      132,719.4           N/A
- Training and extension                   63,939.1       53,709.5      117,648.6        205,300
- Elemental technical assistance program   51,465.4       76,661.3      128,126.7       850.000
- Bee keeping program                       6,527.2        7,273.6       13,800.8         13,396
- Other (state) programs                   43,078.9       93,914.2      136,993.1        61.036
CNA                                 [    469,447.2                      469,447.2        127,599
- Rehab./modernization of irrig. Districts  84,435.2 |                   84,435.2         47,000
- Efficient use of water and power         96,611.0                      96,610.0         12,400
- Parcel development program              244,401.0                     244,401.0         53,000
- Full use of rural hydraulic infrastructure  44,000.0                   44,000.0         15,199



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 23
Country: Mexico                                       Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
B: Project Activities
The Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project, ALCAMPO, is an innovative, decentralized
project mechanism designed to provide opportunities for economic development to Mexico's smaller
and poorer farmers who are normally unable to obtain financing through regular channels, and who
lack the technical tools to improve their current production systems. Building on Alianzapara el
Campo, the Federal Government's strategic agricultural development thrust, ALCAMPO would
focus on four investment programs and four strategies for support services. It would address all 32
states of the nation.
Component 1: Productive Investment - US$343.3 million (about 62% of total project cost)
The project would finance demand-driven investment subprojects to ilicrease capitalization of small
farmers and improve their agricultural productivity and the sustainability of their production systems
as well as to improve their standard of living. Investments would be financed through a matching
grants system under which beneficiaries' contribution would be up-front, either in cash or/and in kind
and would be about 50% of subproject cost, in the case of proposals presented by small farmers, and
not less than 30% in the case of the poverty alleviation-oriented program (Rural Development).
Additionally, ceilings would be established for the grant-financing that would be provided in the
various investment categories financed under the project. The specific level in each category would
be established in the Project Implementation Manual.
Under this component, the project would finance investment subprojects currently financed under the
investment programs supported by the ongoing Bank-supported Rainfed Areas Development Project
(PRODAT) and the On-Farm and Minor Irrigation Improvement Project (PRODEP). Characteribtics
of each program are as follows:
a) Irrigation Development:
Objective: Efficient water use and diversification into high-value crops.
Beneficiaries:    Approximately 33,000 producers with individual farm size of up to 30 ha.
Eligible investments:   Soil and water conservation practices, purchase and installation of new
irrigation materials, equipment and irrigation systems of high or low pressure, ferti-irrigation
equipment (tanks, filters, injectors, mixers), meters, shelters, replacement pumps (as part of complete
system), project design and technical assistance in installation, start-up and operation.
Financial assistance: the Federal Government would finance, on a non reimbursable basis, about
35% of total investment of a subproject, but with a ceiling of US$340 per hectare; the State
Government would finance on average an additional 10% ot total investment. Up to 10% of these
funds could be utilized to cover the cost of subproject preparation and technical assistance during
implementation.
b) Dairy Technology Improvement:
Objective: Improved milk production systems leading to greater productivity and end-product
value-added.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 24
Country: Mexico                                         Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Beneficiaries:    Approximately 51,000 producers in 10,000 group production units, each producer
with no more than 70 cows.
Eligible investments:   Construction materials, specialized equipment and its installation, inputs for
improving and modernizing milk production systems (silos, forage harvesters, balers, mixers, mills.
grader blades, front-end loaders, molasses systems, milkers and cooling tanks), and equipment and
construction or rehabilitation of basic infrastructure (collection centers, stables, stores, silos and
milking sheds), and design support for farm development.
Financial assistance: the Federal and State Governments would finance each, on a non-reimbursable
basis, about 25% of total investment of a subproject.
c) Improved Pasture Establishment:
Objective: Improved pastures for meat, milk and wool production.
Beneficiaries:    Approximately 110,000 producers on more than 2 million ha, each producer with
no more than 70 cows or their equivalent in minor species.
Eligible investments:   Acquisition of seed and implements for establishing and rehabilitating
pastures and rangeland (cutters, borderers, harrows, fert-zer spreaders and sprayers), materials and
installation of fences (conventional or electric), livestock watering points (including alternative
energy methods), power lines, work corrals and equipment (scales, presses and ectoparasite
equipment), and design support for farm development.
Financial assistance: the Federal Government would finance, on a non reimbursable basis, about
40% of total investment of a subproject, but with a ceiling of US$7,780 per farm; the State
Government would finance on average an additional 10% of total subproject investment.
d) Kiral Development Program
Objective: Promote the capitalization and improved incomes of poor and small producers whose
production systems have economic potential.
Beneficiaries:    Approximately 750,000 poor rural households farming on less than 20 ha of
rainfed land or 5 ha irrigated land, and/or whose animal production is based on less than 20 cows, or
100 sheep or goats.
Eligible investments: Activities and small equipment that would bring about improvements in
productivity (purchase of land preparation and cultivation tools and small soil and water management
equipment, green houses, and livestock) as well as constructing and rehabilitating basic infrastructure
for on farm production and small rural processing facilities for post-harvest value-adding.
Financial assistance: the Federal Government would provide up to US$2,220 per beneficiary per
annum to finance approved investment proposals, on a non reimbursable basis; this ceiling would
increase to US$5,835 in the case of investment proposals submitted by groups of beneficiaries; and
to US$6.6700 in the case of subprojects presented by groups of producers which promote the
adoption of new technologies.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 25
Country: Mexico                                        Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Component 2: Production Support Services - US$172.9 million (about 32% of total project cost)
Under this component the project would provide financial support for the programs that are currently
being executed under the Alianza Program for applied research and technology transfer as well as
extension, technical assistance and training for small farmers. The project would promote integration
of technical assistance with investment programs to maximize the impact of technologies financed by
the project and to improve farmer understanding of the value of technical assistance relative to other
goods and services. Built upon three existing and one new support program within the Alianza:
a) Research and Technology Transfer
Objective: Adaptive research in, and transfer of, productivity-improving appropriate technology
mainly for small-farming systems.
Beneficiaries:    Technologies would be available to the entire farmning community, although
dissemination efforts by the project would be concentrated on project beneficiaries.
Method:   A combination of assigned (to INIFAP) and competitive research activities to finance
subprojects addressing principal production constraints identifieJ by farmers and prioritized by the
state-!evel farmer-led PRODUCE research foundations. In each state, PRODUCE Foundations
would allocate resources and coordinate technology transfer activities for technical assistance
providers. Technology transfer would include training, demonstration units and publications.
b) Training and Extension (SINDER)
Objective: Technological change in small-farming systems to achieve improvements productivity
and income.
Beneficiaries:    Approximately 350,000 small farm families of the same stratum as beneficiaries
of the Rural Development Program.
Method:   Demand-driven TA contracts with locally-based individuals or small firms providing
intensive community-based attention.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 26
Country: Mexico                                         Project Title: Agricultural Producfivity Improvement Project
c) Elemental Technical Assistance Program (PEAT)
Objective: Improved crop production.
Beneficiaries:    Approximately 1.2 million producers with small areas of high-potential rainfed or
irrigated land.
Method:   Seasonal demand-driven TA contracts with individuals or small firms providing crop-
module attention.
d) Integrated Projects (PAI)
Objective: Improved livestock production.
Beneficiaries:    Approximately 6,000 livestock producers beneficiaries of the Dairy Development
and Improved Pasture Establishment programs.
Method:   Demand-driven group-based TA contracts with individuals or small firms providing
attention in areas of high livestock concentration.
e) Technical Assistance to beneficiaries of the Irrigation Development Program:
This program would represent a pilot scheme in which technical assistance would be integrated from
subproject start-up. Farmers would be entitled to allocate up to 10% of their total investment in
direct-contract TA services with providers registered in their state. The experience with this program
would be used to address improvements and integration of TA services to other investment programs
and the overall development of a market for TA services.
Component 3: Institutional Strengthening, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Project Administration -
US$34.9 million (about 6% of total project cost)
This component would provide financing for investments in equipment and technical assistance
aimed at improving the operational capacity of SAGAR and state agencies involved in the
implementation of Alianza. In addition, the component would support the establishment of a
comprehensive Monitoring and Evaluation System, as well as the operation of the Project
Coordinating Team (ECP). More specifically, this would involve:
a) training for staff directly involved in project implementation, both at the federal and state, but
with special emphasis on the latter to support the decentralization process initiated by the
Government;
b) the installation and operation of a computerized network linking SAGAR Headquarters with all
32 delegations in each state;
c) training and technical assistance to federal and state agencies involved in Alianza to improve
subproject preparation selection and monitoring systems;
d) implementation of a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system (see Annex 2b);



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 27
Country: Mexico                                        Project Title: Agrcultural Productivity Improvement Project
e) a series of studies on relevant small farmer development issues, including in the first year of the
project: i) strengthening private-sector TA and training service delivery; ii) evaluation
methodology for demand-driven TA through the SINDER, PEAT and PAI programs; and iii)
state-level integration of demand-driven TA programs.
f) the establishment and operation of a small team (the ECP), comprised of a group of highly
qualified professionals who would be responsible for coordination of project activities within
SAGAR, ensuring adequate differentiation between the project and overall Alianza activities,
consolidating technical and financial reporting requirements, implementing the monitoring and
evaluation system, and performing as the focal point between the project and both NAFIN and
the Bank. In addition, a Project Administration Committee, comprised of Director-level
representatives of DGDA, DGPOP, and the Delegation Coordinating Directorate of SAGAR, as
well as senior ECP staff, would be established to provide oversight to project implementation
activities.
C: Environmental Aspects
1) Environmental Issues
The project is designed to promote the improvement and sustainability of small-scale agriculture and,
due to the specific resource management approach adopted and the size of individual subprojects,
potential environmental impacts of the types of subprojects to be financed are expected to be positive
or insignificant, particularly compared to the production practices currently being utilized by the
small farmer community. In this context, only the four investments subcomponents (irrigation
development, dairy and forage production, and small scale on-farm infrastructure) could generate
potential environmental consequences, mainly associated with use of agrochemicals, excessive
pumping of groundwater, intensive livestock production systems and small-scale agroindustries.
These potential risks would be addressed by the project through a clearly defined set of
environmental screening and monitoring procedures, combined with the enforcement of a negative
list of subprojects. More specifically, project activities are expected to contribute to an improvement
of environmental conditions in the following areas:
Groundwater exploitation: A critical environmental issue associated with agriculture in Mexico is
potential over-exploitation of certain aquifers from irrigation. The issue of over-exploited aquifers in
Mexico, together with the related question of official registration of water rights is a top priority for
the National Water Commission (CNA); two Bank operations are directly supporting the effort. The
subprojects under ALCAMPO involving mini-irrigation and increased irrigation efficiency (none of
which will involve any increased extraction of groundwater) would continue to meet the same
rigorous environmental review applied by CNA under the ongoing Rainfed Areas Development
Project (PRODAT, Ln. 3778-ME).
Contamination of ground and surface water: Given the expected size of most subprojects funded
under these four programs, the expectation of any significant environmental damage is remote.
Erosion and loss of soil fertility: much of the area targeted by Alianza is characterized by these two
types of degradation. All eight programs under ALCAMPO are designed to reverse this situation.
Accordingly, except in the positive sense, no environmental issues arise in the project from this
source.
Deforestation and loss of biodiversity: these two aspects are closely linked to erosion and loss of soil
fertility and, like the latter, are characteristic of much of Alianza 's target area. As in the case of



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 28
Country: Mexico                                         Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
erosion and fertility decline, the project is designed to stop and reverse these processes. Thus, there
will be no potential negative environmental impacts on these issues.
Toxic agro-chemicals: Mexican law on the use of high-risk agro-chemicals is consistent with Bank
guidelines. In particular, funding under the project will not be available for purchasing of chemicals
such as those classified by WHO as IA or l B. A detailed list of prohibited and restricted pesticides
would be included in the Operations Manual for the project.
Protected areas: the project will follow the same rules with respect to protected areas as those which
apply to the overall Alianza program. The "Negative List" of activities prohibited under the project
in the Implementation Manual specifies that no support would be provided for proposed subprojects
which would affect natural habitats, wildlands of special concern, or protected areas recognized by
the federal or state governments.
Change in land use: in view of the small-scale nature of the majority of subprojects to be funded
under the proposed project, there will be no significant changes in land use that could be threatening
to the environment.
Integrated resource management: Alianza's current structure offers limited opportunity to engage in
integrated watershed or river basin management, or to specifically target certain beneficiary
populations. Systematic monitoring and evaluation (M&E) is applied to the project's geographic
referencing of both investment and production support subprojects. This, combined with capability
to identify the total number of subprojects approved for each individual or group applicant, will
enable progressive coordination of activities within a spatial context, with positive implications for
both natural resource management and social impacts.
2) Environmental Benefits
Most of the actions supported under the proposed project would produce environmental benefits.
Some examples are: overall sustainability of improved practices promoted by the project; measures
for soil conservation that reduce soil loss and nutrient runoff into water sources; gully control and
reclamation by check dams that restore damaged land to productive use; technology transfer for crop
diversification that reduces soil erosion and permits greater groundwater recharge; technology
transfer that rationalizes and reduces input use; and improved range and pasture management.
3). The "Negative List"
The Project Implementation Manual would specify exclusion of the following activities from the
project: a) deforestation; b) road construction or rehabilitation, except small access roads; c)
resettlements; d) encroachment or modification of reserve areas including natural habitats, wildlands
or wetlands of special concern; and e) reconversion out of shaded coffee.
4) Renewable Energy Program
Implemented by FIRCO, a program in renewable energy sources for remote marginal rural areas in
Mexico provides an interesting opportunity for Alianza in general, and ALCAMPO in particular, to
disseminate this environmentally-friendly technology beyond the current pilot phase. Financing of
renewable energy systems as part of subprojects for marginal areas (outside the electricity grid
service), largely inhabited by marginal rural households, appear to be an appropriate focus for
ALCAMPO. In this respect, the preparation of a GEF-funded project to further support this
complementary initiative has been tentatively agreed with the Bank and preparation is expected to



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 29
Country: Mexico                                      Projectritle: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
begin shortly.
5) Environmental Procedures
All subprojects in the four investment programs will be subject to standard procedures applied by
SEMARNAP. Additionally, in the case of two of the investment programs (Dairy Technology
Improvement and Rural Development) certain types of subprojects would be subject to special
environmental procedures (application of an environmental checklist). This is because in spite of
their small size, which exempts them from standard procedures, these types of subprojects have a
potential for water contamination, particularly in areas of concentrated population e.g. semi-urban.
The checklist would be completed by the technician who approves the subproject proposal ("Cedula
de Perfil Tecnico" or CPT) prior to its presentation to the Technical Agents for these two programs.
The respective Technical Agents will be responsible for review of the checklist and decision on
rejection on environmental grounds, acceptance or contracting of additional environmental studies to
define necessary mitigative measures.
6) Monitoring and Evaluation of Environmental Performance
The Project Coordination Team (ECP) will be responsible for monitoring and evaluation of the
environmental screening procedures. An annual report containing statistical data on CPTs by
program will be produced, showing: a) number registered by the Technical Agents; b) number with
"dictamen ambientar' approved by SEMARNAP; c) number where environmental checklists were
applied; d) number where environmental studies were conducted; e) number where environmental
mitigation measures modified the original project design; and f) number rejected or withdrawn on
environmental grounds.
At the end of the first year of operations, the ECP will contract an evaluation of the specific
environmental procedures applied and recommend changes in procedures as deemed appropriate.
The evaluation of positive environmental impacts - reduced rate of natural resource degradation,
water and energy savings and improved sustainability of agriculture - will be undertaken within the
context of evaluation of overall ALCAMPO performance. Specific environmental indicators would
be incorporated in the Project Implementation Manual.
7) Institutional Capacity to Implement Procedures and Training Requirements
The responsible federal entity (SEMARNAP), and its subsidiary agencies (CNA, INE and
PROFEPA), have a total of 2,500 staff members in their state delegations. CNA and INE are
responsible for approving the required environmental impact evaluation and issuing the official
environmental report ("dictamen ambiental"). PROFEPA conducts environmental auditing and
carries out inspections and applies the sanctions called for under the law. These agencies are
adequately staffed and no additional institutional strengthening would be required to apply
environmental procedures.
The point of departure for the environmental procedures lies with the Technical Agents for the
respective investment programs. In their technical reports ("dictamen tecnico") to the CEAs or their
technical sub-commissions, they will certify compliance with the negative list, banned pesticides,
application of checklist, the "dictamen ambientar', water rights, etc. The state delegations of



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 30
Country: Mexico                                          Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
SEMARNAP will provide technical support to the CEAs and their sub-commissions as well as to the
Technical Agents.
8) Consultation with Local Groups and NGOs.
The proposed project constitutes a part of eight of Alianza 's 47 programs that have been underway
for the past two years under agreements between SAGAR and all 32 state governments. Since local
communities and NGOs have been formally and informally involved in all aspects of the
implementation process, adequate consultation on environmental aspects of those portions of the four
investment programs addressed by the project has been conducted.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 31
Country: Mexico                                      Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Annex 2b
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Participation of Indigenous Communities
The poverty alleviation program of the Alianza, known as the Rural Development Program
(Programa de Apoyo al Desarrollo Rural) has been in operation since 1996 and has experienced a
continuous process of reform to improve both access of the rural poor and its impact on rural poor
communities, including indigenous people. The Program is geared towards poor rural households
farming on less than 20 ha of rainfed land or 5 ha irrigated land, and/or whose animal production is
based on less than 20 cows, or 100 sheep or goats, and it finances activities and small equipment that
would bring about improvements in productivity (purchase of land preparation and cultivation tools
and small equipment, green houses, and livestock) as well as constructing basic infrastructure for
small rural processing facilities for post-harvest value-adding.
The Rural Development Program of Alianza is one of the four investment programs of Alianza
included in the Productive Investment Component of the Agricultural Productivity Improvement
Project (ALCAMPO). In budgetary terms, this program is expected to account for about US$163.0
million, equivalent to almost 50% of total expenditures allocated by the project to providing financial
assistance to beneficiaries. Together with the SINDER Program, the extension program of Alianza
targeted to potential beneficiaries of the Rural Development Program, (which represents an estimated
US$50.0 million, or 30% of the total budget for the Support Services Component) the project is
expected to implement a sound strategy of integrated technical and financial assistance to rural poor
communities.
In the context of the assessment of the rural poverty alleviation elements of the project, the situation
of indigenous communities, which represent a significant portion of the rural poor community was
analyzed during project preparation. This was mainly based on the background information provided
by the recent World Bank report on indigenous peoples in Mexico4 and the "Rural Development in
Marginal Areas Project" (also known as "The Program for Sustainable Development in Indigenous
Areas")5 which were considered valuable references to assess the opportunities and constraints that
indigenous organizations, including those representing indigenous women and youth, are facing to
participate actively in the activities promoted under the Rural Development Program. In particular,
the information provided by the intensive assessments conducted in the State of Oaxaca as part of the
preparation of a rural development program, which subsequently became the basis for the preparation
of the Marginal Areas Project. During preparation, discussions were held with representatives of
SAGAR's Subsecretary of Rural Development, to analyze the mechanisms utilized to both adapt and
incorporate the experiences of the design of the Marginal Areas Project into the strategy and
operation of the other Alianza programs under their responsibility, including the Rural Development
and SINDER Programs. Most importantly, the lessons learned through these various activities are
4    World Bank, "Mexico, Indigenous Peoples Profile". Washington D.C., June 1998.
5    World Bank, "Mexico: Rural Development in Marginal Areas Projecf'. Report No: 17263-ME. Washington
D.C., December 1997.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 32
Country: Mexico                                          Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
contained in and have been systematically incorporated in SAGAR's discussions with the State
governments on ways to better adjust their individual implementation strategies for Alianza 's poverty
alleviation activities.6
Thus, project preparation benefited from prior consultations carried out in the context of the Rural
Development in Marginal Areas Project and the Indigenous profiles, in which extensive consultation
with indigenous communities took place. Also, during project preparation, INI staff and
representatives from NGOs working with indigenous peoples at the state level, as well as state
government authorities were consulted regarding the mechanisms used in the Alianza 's poverty
alleviation program to address the specific requirements of the indigenous communities. At the same
time, project preparation benefited from the case studies completed as part of the Ej ido Study, which
gave special attention to the assessment that indigenous beneficiaries had of the various Alianza
programs.
The demand-driven approach of the project and the decentralized nature of its implementation,
means that local communities are substantially involved in all aspects of the implementation
process. Furthermore, the strong State government participation in the annual programming and
decision-making process of the Alianza, ensures that local development priorities and needs are
taken into account in the various programs. Through joint supervisions, the experience with the
implementation of the Marginal Areas Project will be routinely reviewed and utilized to improve
the implementation of ALCAMPO activities involving indigenous communities.
The proposed project includes eight of Alianza 's 47 programs, which have been underway for the
past two years through contracts between SAGAR and all 32 state governments and the Federal
District. The Rural Development Program has a country-wide scope, but priority is given in its
implementation to the 800 poorest rural municipalities, and despite its primary focus on rural
poverty, regardless of other characteristics of potential beneficiaries, indigenous people are an
important part of the Program's beneficiaries as the priority municipalities include most of the
indigenous people living in rural areas. Municipalities are selected first, on the basis of a rural
poverty criterion, and second, on a criterion of agricultural potential. The Rural Development
Program is expected to benefit some 750,000 poor farmers, or about 75% of ALCAMPO Project
beneficiaries. Data from the first two years of Alianza implementation show that this program is
already active in about 70% of the rural municipalities in the country, of which 28% are classified as
indigenous municipalities. A municipality is classified as indigenous when more than 50% of its
population belongs to indigenous groups, consequently the number of indigenous people actually
benefited by the program is higher than what those percentages would suggest.
It is evident t'iat the overall program is focused on alleviation of rural poverty through increase in
efficiency and productivity in agriculture and related micro enterprises. It is not solely targeted to
indigenous peoples, but to the extent that these communities comprise a large proportion of the
poorest of the poor, they are routinely incorporated, subject to application of the criterion that they
have access to land and water resources with potential for viable intensification. The specific needs
of indigenous people with no potential for intensification of agricultural production are being
addressed by the Marginal Areas Project, which is currently being implemented in four states but
6    Grupo Knode, S. A. "Programa de Desarrollo Productivo Sustentable en Zonas Indfgenas - Opciones de
Reinversi6n Local de Recursos". Mexico, D.F., June 1997.
Red Ingenieria, S.A. de C.V., "Sistemas de Comercializaci6n y Formaciones Microempresariales en las
Huastecas Potosina, Hidalguense y Veracruzana". Mexico, D.F., August 1997.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 33
Country: Mexico                                       Project Title: Agricultural Producivity Improvement Projeed
would be gradually expanded to cover most of the indigenous communities in other states. As
indicated above, the Marginal Areas Project and the poverty alleviation activities-of the project
would have strong synergies and complementarities, including the facts that both are managed by the
same unit within SAGAR, and that active integration of Bank's supervision efforts for the project is
envisaged.
Alianza operates in a context where the ethnic plurality of the nation is guaranteed under Article 4-of
the Constitution, which recognizes the cultural rights of indigenous peoples and specifically provides
for other legal protection. Article 27 enables indigenous rural communities to convert ejidal to
communal lands, which are inalienable. Notwithstanding these overall legal guarantees, Alianza's
strategy regarding indigenous farmers, which has been fully incorporated into the ALCAMPO
Project, includes:
(a) the participation of the National Indigenous Institute (INI). NNhich has general responsibility for
the protection and development of indigenous communities, in the State Agricultural Councils
(Consejos Estatales de Agricultura, CEA) in all states where indigenous population
predominates; representing about 90% of the indigenous municipalities participating in the
program. The CEA is the entity that is responsible for defining policy and pr;-rities, and
providing coordination of the program at the state level;
(b) the enforcement of a much smaller level of beneficiary contribution than in the rest of the Alianza
Programs, i.e. between 20% and 40% of the total investment cost of the subproject submitted for
financing;
(c) the use of bilingual material and officers to promote the Rural Development Program in
indigenous municipalities;
(d) the use of bilingual extension officers in indigenous municipalities to facilitate the participation
of indigenous people in the poverty alleviation program;
(e) the project would continue to strengthen the existing mechanisms implemented by Alianza
regarding the utilization of culturally appropriate instruments to ensure access and active
participation of indigenous communities in the Rural Development Program; and
(f) the annual evaluation of the program carried out at the state level incorporates a consultation to
beneficiaries, including indigenous communities, on its effectiveness.
In the context of the comprehensive set of monitoring and impact indicators that would be utilized to
assess performance of the poverty alleviation activities of the project, a set of specific indicators
would be measured to enable monitoring of s-ervices to indigenous communities, including: a)
number of indigenous municipalities participtti. - in the Program; b) number of bilingual extension
agents supporting the Rural Development Program's activities by state; and c) number of extension
publications in indigenous languages. In addition, both the baseline study, the Mid-Term Review,
and the evaluation of project impact, would include surveys of representative samples of indigenous
communities.
Additionally, the Bank, in association with INI, has proposed the development of a GIS specially
oriented to indigenous peoples, making a clear distinction between the characteristics of urban and
rural areas.7 At such time as this proposal becomes operational ALCAMPO would collaborate in
providing relevant information.
7    World Bank, (June 1998), op.cit.



Proec Appraisa Doment                                                                        Page 34
CouWt. Mexdco                                             Prec Tie: Agricultral ProdudhMty Improvement Project
Consistent with the agreements reached regarding the implementation of the strategy to address
indigenous communities as part of the poverty alleviation objective of the project, the Operation
Manual of the Project would include specific references to:
(a) detailed information of the states in which INI participates as a member of the CEA;
(b) the bilingual extension officers hired in the indigenous municipalities;
(c) the bilingual material used for the promotion and dissemination of the Rural Development
and SINDER Programs in indigenous municipalities;
(d) the consultation process that would take place as part of the state annual evaluations of the
program; and
(e) the monitoring indicators of services to indigenous communities provided by the project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 35
Country: Mexico                                     Project Title: Agricultural ProductivityImprovement Project
Annex 2c
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ProjectMonitoringand.Evaluation---: 
A: Operationalarrangements
Given the highly decentralized nature of the project, adequate monitoring would be essential to
effective project implementation. In order to provide adequate supervision of project
implementation, as well as an assessment of the impact of project interventions on beneficiaries, a
comprehensive Monitoring and Evaluation System (M&E) would be established and operated by an
M&E area within the Project Coordination Team (ECP). This M&E area at central level would be
specially created to undertake overall project M&E, and its staff would work in close coordination
with the State CEA, CDRs and offices of the implementing agencies for effective project monitoring
at the local level. A specialist within the ECP would be responsible for management of the M&E
System and the overall supervision of the decentralized data collection process.
The ECP would also be responsible for introducing any modifications needed to overcome
constraints to adequate project implementation and to guide participating agencies to adjust their
actions. Institutions participating in project implementation would collect data on agreed indicators
regarding the activities they execute. The ECP would ensure that these institutions carefully record
the required information in the central database, and monitor the respective institutional
performances in project implementation. They would also be required to submit full periodic
progress reports to the ECP, as well as other relevant project information.
A new computerized centralized MIS would be developed to replace the existing heterogeneous
systems presently operated by the different implementing agencies in charge of each program
supported by the project. It would be implemented, among other things, to collect and process data
to monitor physical and financial progress of the project, as well as data for ongoing impact
evaluation. The MIS would provide the basis for standardizing, coordinating, processing,
consolidating and reporting on the input and output data generated by the individual agencies
involved in project implementation.
The new system would take advantage of existing communications infrastructure and capabilities to
allow close to real time data recording and processing of information. It would have a centralized
data storage location at the ECP level, with decentralized data input and access features to avoid
duplication of data recording efforts, maximize system usefulness at all users levels, and promote
ownership of and commitment to recording of up to date quality data. State level users would be able
to use the data they collect to generate their own specific planning and monitoring information, but
still share it with the central level who would use it for overall project planning, monitoring and
evaluation purposes.
Since the project would be driven by beneficiaries' demands for the activities initially included in the
programs supported by the project, and others that may be included at a later date, the MIS would
allow the ECP to: (i) monitor the overall project's and the specific programs' progress in terms of
their established goals and objectives; (ii) verify that project activities are compatible with project
guidelines; (iii) monitor compliance with project procedures, selection criteria and other provisions
of the project's Implementation Manual; (iv) keep track of status of input, output and ongoing



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 36
Country: Mexico                                     Project Title: Agncultural Productivty Improvement Project
evaluation indicators; (v) have easy access to baseline data; (vi) ensure that the institutions would
transfer the required information accurately and in a timely manner; and (vii) assess the need to
support new activities demanded by beneficiaries.
Using MIS data, together with periodic controls on the performance of the implementing institutions,
field visits, etc., the ECP would have a good understanding of the overall implementation of the
project and its components and programs. Due to the comprehensive monitoring, the ECP would be
able to quickly detect poor performing areas, identify the cause of the weaknesses, and take
appropriate corrective measures.
The MIS would provide information on the beneficiary population (by categories of beneficiaries)
which would be used for project programming, especially for training and promotion of new project
supported activities. The MIS would also provide a basis for validating the Annual Plans (APs),
facilitating the introduction of adjustments to those plans and their corresponding annual budgets.
B: Conceptual basis
The structure of the MIS would be based on three different modules: programming and
administration (PA); physical and financial monitoring (PFM); and performance evaluation (PE).
The system would allow to collect and process information uniformly and periodically on the set of
indicators needed by the M&E system to achieve its objectives. Indicators would be divided into
three main categories: a) physical-financial; b) performance (divided in up to five categories: input,
output, outcome, process and impact); and c) efficacy (divided into two categories: efficiency and
effectiveness), thus providing the conceptual basis for the M&E framework. M&E activities would
be based on the first two groups of indicators, while the third group would be developed and used by
the different implementation sectors for management purposes.
The new MIS system and associated indicators structure would help ECP support and improve
present monitoring and evaluation efforts of the executing institutions; compile and prepare reports
required by the Bank for administrative and monitoring purposes; and produce implementation
progress reports that would be submitted to the Bank twice a year, in time for the biannual Bank
supervision missions. Most importantly, beyond these capabilities, the proposed system is expected
to meet the requirements for being adopted by other Alianza programs, or even for the entire Alianza
itself if deemed useful, since the division into programs is merely administrative and all integration
efforts between programs is a positive step toward larger implementation efficiency.
C: Monitoring of Project Implementation
Tracking of project activity progress would be based on a group of physical-financial indicators. The
MIS's PA module would provide the information necessary for the APs, produce them and monitor
their implementation, as well as produce the necessary financial and expenditures statements under
the initial SOEs system and also the LACI system to be implemented at a later stage. The PFM
module would provide up to date information to allow monitoring project physical and financial
implementation and also to verify that implementation is consistent with the rules and criteria
included in the Project Manual. The PE module would contain information regarding achievement of
development objectives.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 37
Country: Mexico                                     Project Title: Agncultural Productivity Improvement Project
D: Evaluation of Project Implementation and Impact Performance
The evaluation of the overall implementation performance and development impact of the project
would be coordinated by the ECP. It would involve different areas of activities, including; evaluation
of project implementation performance, and both continuous and global evaluation of development
impact. In all, these activities would entail the assessment of physical and financial implementation
performance based on input and output indicators, coupled with specific evaluations based on a
complementary set of indicators, to determine the specific outcomes and impacts attained by the
activities to be financed by the project.
The project would promote a tiered system of evaluations ofproject implementation performance,
based on the annual program evaluations currently carried out at the state and federal level. Annual
evaluations of individual programs at the state level would be based on agreed sets of indicators and
would be carried out under standard terms of references approved by the Bank, so that quality would
be uniform and results would be comparable and additive. Under these conditions the state
evaluations could provide valuable input for the program evaluations at the federal level; they would
also provide a sound basis for the annual project implementation reports and the midterm project
evaluation. Given the time horizon on which they would be based, these evaluations would focus
mostly on input and output indicators, and provide a quantitative assessment of physical and financial
implementation performance, complemented with qualitative analyses of the implementation process
by both beneficiaries and other agents involved.
Besides, the MIS's PE module would contain the information regarding attainment of development
objectives. The development impact assessment would focus on specific indicators, some of which
would measure: (i) changes in farm productivity; (ii) changes in farm household income; (ii) changes
in the level of capitalization; and (iv) adoption rates of new technologies being generated.
Information would come from two different areas of activity: a continuous evaluation area and an
independent system encompassing the performance evaluation activities per se. Continuous
evaluation would be closely associated to the monitoring system and it would be based on the
evolution of a small group of indicators of "potential development" based on known relationships
between activities' outputs and development impacts. Based on the information about these
indicators the MIS would allow to assess the project's ability to achieve its proposed development
objectives. Actual evaluation of development impact would be based on a series of studies, including
a baseline, a midterm and a final evaluation study. These activities would allow, in the medium term
defined by the project life, to measure trends toward attainment of the development objectives
defined at the outset both for the different sub-components and for the project as a whole.
A list of indicators to be monitored is provided in Table A2c. I. Main development performance
indicators include change in beneficiary's household income, change in productivity of target
farming systems, change in irrigated area, change in area with pastures, change in percentage of
Alianza projects receiving integrated technical assistance and change in research projects addressing
smallholder needs. Based on the table, list of selected key indicators was developed. Agreed upon
during negotiations and included in the Project Implementation Letter.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 38
Country: Mexico                                    Project Title: Agicultural Productivity Improvement Project
E: Products
1) Reports. The ECP would be responsible for the preparation of the following types of progress
reports:
Annual budget and work plan. Annual plans would be produced, no later than December 15 of each
year, describing all project activities to be done in the subsequent year along with their corresponding
budgets.
Semiannual reports. Semiannual reports on all project activities in the previous six months would be
produced no later than Marcch 31 and September 30. The reports would have a format and coverage
acceptable to the Bank, including presentation of project implementation indicators. The reports
would basically contain a physical and financial analysis, stemming from a synthesis of MIS data,
indicating implementation,progress. -
Annual review. Annual-project reviews would be produced no later than March 31 of each year.
The annual review would cover project implementation in the past year and analyze the proposed
budget and work plan for the subsequent year with respect to the project's implementation indicators
and agree on any necessary changes in implementation. This Report would utilize the standard
format of the semiannual Project Progress Report agreed upon with the Bank, but would also include
summaries of the status of Project Performance Indicators; status of specific institutional
strengthening activities; compliance with procedures outlined in the Project Implementation Manual;
and analyses and recommendations relevant for optimizing project implementation, based on
technical studies.
Project midterrn review report. A midterm review (MTR) of the project would be held to evaluate
overall progress with project implementation, to assess results and to define measures to reorient the
project as necessary. The MTR would constitute the annual review for the year 2000 and examine
implementation based on the indicators agreed upon. Data for the MTR would include all
information about project costs and activities and observed or expected benefits from those activities.
All data would be complete for the first 24 months of project implementation. Besides the
quantitative data, the MTR report would also include an overall project evaluation and individual
program evaluations that would be especially carried out as part of the review process.
The MTR's function would be to evaluate the project's overall performance in terms of achieving its
expected outcomes. The MTR would assist the GOM, the ECP and the World Bank in identifying
positive experiences as well as problems occurring during the initial years of project implementation.
This evaluation would recommend any adjustments required during the second half of project
implementation. The MTR would evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of project activities; the
performance of the institutions involved in implementation; management performance; the
supervision mechanisms and the MIS; the effectiveness of institutional strengthening and technical
assistance activities; and the project's targeting mechanisms.
The MTR would be based on the management monitoring reports, the Semi-Annual and Annual
Reports, technical studies and socioeconomic assessments. At negotiations, GOM and Bank would
agree on: a) that the ECP would prepare a framework for the formulation of the TORs for the MTR;
and b) to make necessary adjustments in project implementation as recommended by the MTR.
2) Evaluations. Evaluation of the overall performance and development impact of the project would
involve standard evaluation procedures complemented with beneficiary assessments (socioeconomic
impact on beneficiaries, with emphasis on small farm modernization/diversification and income



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 39
Country: Mexdco                                          Projec Tile AWWur Producty IMoent Prject
changes). Operationally, the evaluation of development aspects of the project would be coordinated
by the ECP and would be conducted by a specialized team staffed from independent sources with
extensive relevant experience nationwide.
The socioeconomic impact assessment would be based on a sample of beneficiaries representative of
the different types of interventions supports and their geographical distribution. The assessment
would focus on specific issues, including: (i) level of farm productivity; (ii) level of farm household
income; (iii) adoption rates of new technologies being generated; (iv) effectiveness of technical
assistance; etc.
The assessment process would encompass three different studies during three different stages of
project implementation: a) a baseline study to determine the initial status of project beneficiaries; b) a
set of mid-term evaluation studies covering both for the overall project and the different Atianza
programs supported (end of second year), to allow assessment of any implementation corrective
measures needed; and c) a final project evaluation complementary of the baseline study (end of
fourth year), that would allow to assess project outcomes and trends in development impact of
project activities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 40
Country: Mexico                                              Project Title: Agricultural Productivity improvernent Project
Table A2c-.1: MAIN PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
Indicator                                   Unit         Program'
INPUT
Systems installed and in working order (by type)                                          ID
Independent technicians hired                                              #             ID
Despachos (TA providers) hired                                             #              ID
Basic infrastructure supported and in working order, by type (barns, silos,              DTI
milking parlors, etc.) and by category (new, rehabilitated)
Equipment purchased and in working order, by type (refrigerated tanks,                   DTI
milking machines, forage and silage equipment, etc.)
Seed supplied by species                                                  ton            IPE
Equipment supplied, by type (fertilizers, sprayers, etc.)                                IPE
Supplies and equipment provided, by type (wire, drinking troughs, electric  unit         IPE
fence equipment, scales, pumps, pens, etc.)
Supports given by stage (services, production, processing and marketing)                 RD
Sprayers supplied                                                          #             RD
Mini-Tractors supplied                                                                   RD
Ag. Tools supplied                                                                       RD
Greenhouses installed                                                                    RD
Demonstration modules installed                                                          RD
Livestock modules supported and head of cattle supplied                                  RD
i'oultry modules supported and head of poultry supplied                                  RD
Ovine and other small animal modules supported and head supplied                         RD
Rabbit modules supported and head supplied                                 #             RD
Small irrigation project supported and area benefited                    #, ha           RD
Vegetable production plots supported                                     #,ha            RD
Fruit orchards supported                                                 #,ha            RD
Rural micro enterprise projects supported (by type)                                      RD
Improved services market projects supported (by type)                                    RD
Marketing of non-traditional ag. products projects supported (by type)                   RD
Applied research projects                                                                RTT
Validation projects                                                        #             RTT
Days of training by type of recipient (technicians, professionals, other)                RTT
Field days                                                                 #             RTT
s     p     - Project-wide
ID    - Irrigation development
DTI  - Dairy technology improvement
IPE   - Improved pasture establishment
RD   - Rural development
RTT  - Research and technology transfer
TE   - Training and extension
ETA  - Elemental technical assistance
IP    - Integrated projects
ISPA  - Institutional Support and Project Administration



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 41
Country: Mexico                                              Project Title: Agrcultural Producfivity Improvement Project
Fairs and shows supportd_                                                                 RTT
Exhibitors in fairs and shows (by type)                                _                  RTT
Demonstration lots                                                         #              RTT
Technology tours by destination (national, inteMational)                                  RTT
Days of qualified consultants hired by origin (national, international)  ______ _         RUT
"Fact sheets" produced                                                     #RTT
Other dissemination materials ('Dipticos and tripticos") produced          #              RTT
Flyers produced                              ._#                                          RTT
Bulletins produced                                            :_____                      RTT
Technical videos produced                                                                 RTT RU
TV programs produced                                                       #              RTT
Technicians hired for ADR                                                   #             TE
Coordinators hired for ADR                                           _                    TE
Technicians hired for PA (by type of project)                               #             TE
Coordinators hired for PA (by type of project)                             #              TE
TT PADEMs (by type of project, except for "other projects")                 #             TE
TT MODEMs (by type of project)                                              #             TE
TT exchange tours (by type of project)                                                    TE
CP community workshops (by type of project)             -_:_#                              TE
CT regional workshops (by type of project)                                 #              TE
CT technical workshops (by type of project)                                #              TE
Specialist/hours hired for CT (by type of project)                   _______TE
PEAT technicians hired                                                                    ETA
PEAT coordinators hired                                                    #              ETA
PEAT modules                                                           .                  ETA
PEAT PADEM                                                                 #              ETA
Seed exchanged in the "Kilo por Kilo" program                            ton, $           ETA
Projects approved (by type)                                                #               IP
Individual promoters hired (by type of project)   L__                                     IP
Despachos (TA providers) hired (by type of project)          .                             IP
Technical workshops                                                        #               IP
GGAVATT(by type of project)                                                I               IP
Requests for DTI supplies                                                  #               IP
Requests for IPE supplies                                                  #               IP
Request for other supplies                                                 F               IP
Training events (by type and agency)                                     #_ISPA
Equipment purchased (by type and agency)                                                 ISPA
Financial resources available by source                                a_     _ISPA
Manuals produced                                                                         ISPA
AP produced at federal level                                     -         #_ISPA
AP produced at state level                                                 #             ISPA
Quarterly project progress reports produced                                 #            ISPA
Bi-annual project progress reports produced                              #_ISPA
Annual project progress reports produced                                   #             ISPA
OUTPUT                                                                     L        X
Beneficiaries per program                                                  #:        I     p
Change in irrigated area ( % change and new area incorporated)           ha,, %            ID
Irrigatee area rehabilitated                                               ha              ID
Water made available by type of intervention (decreased losses, increased  000m31yr        ID



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 42
Country: Mexico                                              Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Projed
pumping capacity)                                                  l_l_l
Capacity (in2 , # of animals, tons, etc.) of barns, silos and other new  Unit            DTI
infrastructure installed and in working order
Capacity (M2 , # of animals, tons, etc.) of barns, silos and other       Unit            DTI
infrastructure rehabilitated and in working order
Processing capacity of equipment supplied and in working order (by type:  Unit           DTI
refrigerated bulk tanks [It/day], milkers [units], baler, choppers and other
forage processing equipment [ton/hr], etL.)
Pasture improvement supported and effcctive: installed, b\ type (new      Ha             IPE
improvements -by type-, rehabilitation of exisiing improvements -including
"agostaderos")
Beneficiaries with fencing supplies by type (conventional, electric)                     IPE
Tianguis sponsored                                                                       RD
Attendees to tianguis sponsored                                                          RD
Persons trained by type (technicians, professionals, other)                              RTT
Attendees to field days                                                                  RTT
Attendees to fairs and shows                                                             RTT
Visitors to demonstration plots                                                          RTT
Participants in technology tours, by destination (national, international)               RTT
Attendees to technical videos shows                                                      RTT
Airings of TV programs produced                                                          RTT
Municipalities covered by ADR                                                            TE
Communities covered by ADR                                                               TE
Beneficiaries of PA (by project type)                                                    TE
Producers trained (by project type)                                       #              TE
Producers trained in PADEM (by project type)                      L                      TE
Producers trained in MODEM (by project type)                              #              TE
Technicians trained (by project type)                                                    TE
Municipalities covered by PEAT                                            #             ETA
Communities covered by PEAT                                                #            ETA
Beneficiaries                                                                           ETA
Area covered by PEAT, by crop (beans, wheat, rice, sorghum, barley, oats,  ha           ETA
soybeans, other)
Promoters trained                                                          #              IP
Basins covered                                                                           IP
Municipalities covered                                                     #              IP
Regional development basins set up and developed                           #              IP
Beneficiaries (by type of project/activity)                                #              IP
Personnel trained                                                          #            ISPA
- Environmental
Subproject proposals registered by the Technical Agents                                   P
Subproject proposals with "dictamen ambiental" approved by SEMARNAP                       P
Subprojects to which the environmental checklist was applied                              P
Subprojects where environmental studies were contracted                                   P
Subprojects where environmental mitigation measures modified the original                 P
project design
Subprojects not approved or withdrawn due to environmental problems                       P
- Indigenous Peoples                                   -
Indigenous municipalities covered                                                         P
States with an INI representative within the Alianza structure             #              P
Bilingual extensionists working with indigenous communities                #              P



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 43
Country: Mexico                                             Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Dissemination/promotional publications in indigenous language                            P
Indigenous beneficiaries in Rural Development and SINDER activities                      P
OUTCOME
Change in proportion of cropland destined to commercial crops           %, ha           ID
Change in proportion of production marketed                            %,ton            ID
Change in productivity of main crops (ton/ha), by crop and former    Ton/ha, %          ID
production system (irrigated/non-irrigated)
Change in gross value of production                                     %, $            ID
Change in water consumption by type of system                        %, m3/ha/yr.       ID
Change in power consumption by type of system                        %, kw/ha/yr        ID
Change in fuel consumption by type of system                         %, It/ha/yr        ID
Change in fertilizer consumption                                    %, ton, ton/ha      ID
Incremental water consumption                                        'OOOm3/yr          ID
Change in head of cattle milked mechanically                            %,#             DTI
Change in volume of milk milked mechanically                           I%,t             DTI
Change in the proportion of refrigerated milk marketed                  %, It           DTI
Change in total volume of milk marketed                                 %,It            DTI
Change in total volume of refrigerated milk marketed                    %, It           DTI
Change in carrying capacity                                           %, AU/ha         IPE
Percentage of inductions that derive in adoption of technology           %              IP
Change in % of extensionists that attend at least one training event and a  %          RTT
field day per year
Change in % of producers that adopt at least one technology developed    %             RTT
Change in the participation of non-INIFAP research institutions in the total  %        RTT
value and the total number of research and validation projects implemented
A central database of completed and on-going research is created                       RTT
A common operational set of procedures is adopted for processing and                   RTT
approval of research projects                                                                    D
A monitoring system for research and validation projects is implemented                RTT
% of subprojects with TA cost included as part of total investment cost  %              TE
% of subprojects receiving operational TA                                 _             TE
TA cost as % of total subproject cost                                    %              TE
% of subprojects in which the producer pays a fraction of TA costs       %              TE
% of total TA costs that is covered by producers                           _TE- ETA
% of subprojects in which TA is self-financed                            %           TE- ETA
N of TA providers by state                                               #          TE- ETA
N of TA despachos by state                                                          TE- ETA
Average number of technicians per despacho                                #          TE- ETA
N' of training events received by each TA provider                       #           TE- ETA
N of institutions providing training                                     #          TE- ETA
Average cost per training event                                           $          TE- ETA
% of producers that adopt proposed technologies (by type)          _ ._%
NO of production -processing marketing chains strengthened               #
PROCESS              =_ __
Change in intensity of soil/cropland use                                 %              ID
Change in cropping pattern (% cropland destined to subsistence crops,                   ID
extensive and intensive commercial crops)                          _ _ _
Change in total cows                                                    #,%             DTI
Change in proportion of cows in production                              #, %            DTI
Change in proportion of forage hayed                                   Ton, %           DTI



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 44
Country: Mexico                                              Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Change in proportion of forage made into silage                         Ton, %           DTI
Change in animal load per ha (AU/ha)                                    AU, %            IPE
Producers' evaluation about the process of capturing demand for research,                RTT
and the value of their participation
IMPACT
Change in production per unit                                           Unit, %           P
Change in productivity per unit                                         Unit, %           P
Change in unit cost of production                                      $/unit, %          P
Change in gross value of production per unit                             $, %             P
C'hange in amount of labor used per init                             Days/unit, %         P
Change in labor productivity per unit                                    $, %             P
Change in average net income per unit                                    $, %             P
Change in level of capitalization attained                               $, %             P
Change in average price per It. of milk sold, due to increased volume sales  $, %        DTI
and/or improved quality
Change in productivity per cow in the herd (It/cow)                      It, %           DTI
Change in productivity per cow in production (It/cow)                    It, %           DTI
Change in productivity per ha (Its/ha)                                   It, %           DTI
Change in production cost ($/lt produced)                                $, %            DTI
Change in availability of forage                                      DM/AU/yr           IPE
Change in production of meat, milk and wool per ha                      Unit, %          IPE
Change in level of capitalization attained                               $,%              P
Evolution of adoption and diffusion rates of research products by socio-                 RTT
economic stratum
% research projects addressing appropriate technologies for project       %             RTT
beneficiaries' needs                                                        .
Average years of TA per unit assisted                                      #          TE -ETA
Technology adoption rate within units assisted                            %           TE -ETA
% production units that have established a sustained and sustainable working  %       TE -ETA
relationship has been established with the TA provider
% of modules that pay bonus as established in the contract                %           TE -ETA
% cost recovery (% TA paid by the producer)                         __IP
Change in productivity per ha and per head                               %, $             IP
Evolution of adoption rates of proposed technologies                      %               P



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 45
Country: Mexico                                           Project Title: Agricultural Productivty Improvement Project
Annex 3
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                      Local              Foreign          Total
-----------------------US$ million--------------------
1) Productive Investment                                264.2                64.3          328.5
2) Production Support Services                          116.7                48.7          165.5
3) Institutional Strengthening                           27.7                 1.3           29.0
4) Project Administration                                 1.2                 0.3             1.5
Total Baseline Cost                                     409.8               114.6          524.5
Physical Contingencies                                 3.4                 0.1            3.5
Price Contingencies                                   18.1                 5.0           23.1
Total Project Cost                                      431.3               119.8          551.1



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 46
Country: Mexico                                       Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Annex 4
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Table A4.1 - Summary of economic, financial and fiscal analyses
Present Value of Flows'         Fiscal Impact'
Economic  Financial
Analysis   Analysis       Taxes2         Subsidies3
Benefits        (Mx$ M)  21,044.0   23,381.5           -.-          2,381.5
(US$ .M)   2,104.4    2,338.2          -.-           264.6
Costs           (Mx$ M)  18,787.9   19,163.4
(US$ M)   1,878.8    1,916.3
Net Benefits:    (Mx$ M) 2,256.0    4,218.1
(US$ M)   225.6       421.8
IRR:                          18.5%      26.3%
'Base 1998 =0
2Agricultural production is not subject to VAT in Mexico
3 Includes value of state and federal contributions to project costs
A: Summary of Benefits and Costs
The project would provide technical and financial assistance to some 240,000 small commercial
producers to develop productive investments and to improve their competitiveness in an increasingly
open economy and would implement a program aimed at providing small-scale on-farm
infrastructure and minor equipment and supplies as well as technical assistance and training to some
750,000 poor farmers to improve their level of income and standard of living. The project activities,
although nationwide in their scope, would concentrate mostly on groups of eligible beneficiaries,
including indigenous people, women and rural youth, which are located mainly in the center of
Southern States of the country, i.e., the areas with the largest concentration of small and poor
farmers. Participating households would be screened applying simple and easily verifiable criteria
based on size of holding and livestock assets.
Economic benefits of the project would be the result of increased agricultural production and farmers'
income. From an analysis of a sample of farm models it can be concluded that small commercial
farmers would see a significant increase in the on-farm income as a result of productive investment
financed under the project. Project investment targeted to poor farmers would have not only a
positive impact on their income but would also result in an improvement in food security for these
households.
As a result of project activities, small business and enterprises are expected to develop, which would
have a positive impact on local employment. The project would promote also private sector
participation in the provision of production support services, particularly technical assistance to
producers, which is expected to increase the impact of project-financed on-farm investments.
Sustainability of project benefits is expected to be high, given that the increase in physical assets
would be complemented with improvements in social and human capital through training, technical



Po.ject Appraisal Document                                                             Page 47
Country: Mexico                                        Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
assistance, organization and better access to project financial, marketing and technological services.
About 62% of project resources are likely to be channeled to productive investment demanded by
beneficiaries, while an additional 31% would be allocated to technical assistance and training of the
target population and to applied research. The combination of improved provision of production-
related support seriices, and the assistance to decentralized management and administration of rural
services is expected to ir.crease the effectiveness and efficiency of public expenditure.
Total project cost, including farmers' contribution, has been estimated at about US$835 million, of
which beneficiaries' contribution would be about US$284 million, or about 34%, with the federal and
state governments contributing about US$359 million (43%) and US$192 million (23%)
respectively. The World Bank loan would be about US$440 million.
B: Economic Analysis
Given the demand-driven nature of investments to be made by project beneficiaries, it is not possible to
determine a priori the exact composition of the investment program to be financed under the project.
Some working hypotheses were developed to estimate the internal economic rate of return of the
project's productive investment component. As only activities identified and presented by potential
beneficiaries would be considered, an ex-ante determination of costs and benefits of productive
investments would not be feasible. Consequently, economic return estimates were based on a sample of
investment subprojects likely to be demanded by beneficiaries, following the experience of the last two
years under the Alianza. The impact of these investments on agricultural productivity and farmers'
income was analyzed with the help of farm models illustrative of typical farming situations in the main
agro-ecological zones. Assumptions regarding yield increases and herd expansion, where applicable, are
conservative to reflect the risk-minimizing production strategies that normally characterize small
farmers. A summary of the main characteristics and results of these farm models are presented in the
table below. All models representing improved dairy technology investments and most of the larger
models in irrigation and improved pastures reflect the situation of investment proposals submitted by
groups of 3 or more small farmers. The results obtained from each of the farm models were aggregated,
according to the relative importance of the various productive investment proposals as indicated by
historical demand patterns, to obtain an estimate of the projects likely overall rate of return.
Economic return calculations included the cost of incremental on-farm productive investment and
recurrent expenditure for the adoption of sustainable agricultural production systems promoted under the
project, incremental technical assistance to farmers, institutional strengthening, and the Project
Coordinating Team. The benefits considered included increased production and lower farm costs.
Excluded from the economic analysis were: (i) the costs and benefits of the poverty alleviation activities
of the Rural Development Program, as 85% of the resources received by poor farmers through this
program are expected to be too small, i.e., less than US$150, to merit an economic analysis; and (ii) the
applied research component as the benefits would be difficult to quantify and, in any case, would be
available not only to project beneficiaries, but to the farming community at large. Under these
assumptions, the internal economic rate of return is estimated at about 18.5 %. Regarding the project's
activities that would favor very poor farmers through basic infrastructure improvement and small
investments in tools and small livestock, no rate of return was calculated, as indicated above.
Nevertheless, an analysis of a small sample of this type of subprojects presented by groups of poor
farmers indicated that economic returns on investment are likely to be high (i.e. over35%).



Project Appra" Docunent                                                                Page 48
Couwntr: Mexico                                       Project Tle: Agicunural Productivity Improvement Project
Pricing Assumptions: Price contingencies were excluded and base costs plus physical contingencies less
taxes were used for the IERR. Given the policy reforms and the opening of the economy that have been
taking place in the last ten years, the rate of exchange of the Mexican Peso is currently determined in the
open market and trade restrictions have been gradually lowered and domestic prices tend to correspond
much closer to border economic values. For the purposes of economic analysis, border prices were
estimated for main tradable produced by the project, based on World Bank projections. A conversion
factor of 0.90 was used forthe rest oftradable and machinery and fertilizers. While the project would
increase on-farm and off-farm employment in the priority areas, unemployment and under-employment
would not be eliminated. Therefore, shadow prices for unskilled labor were estimated at 80% of the
market wage rate, while for skilled labor, the market rate was assumed to reflect its opportunity cost.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 49
Country: Mexico                                              Project Title: Agrcultural Productivity Improvement Project
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table A4.2 - Sample of Illustrative Models
Type of Model              Farm size  Investment  On-Farm Income    E.R.R.
w/o     w/project
project
(ha)       (US$)     (US$)    (US$)         (%/0)
Irrigation
Model I minisprinklers                    5            3,457      6,000      7,800     33.3
Model 2 minisprinklers                   11.5          6,840    28,980      31,395     23.8
Model 3 tubes                             28           5,149    22,918      37,729     57.0
Model 4 drip irrigation                   IS           6,204    20,400      36,900     25.7
Model 5 drip irrigation                   12           10,520    46,705     66,243     23.1
Model 6 canals                            25           15,027    16,160     39,800     21.9
Imrproved Pastures                   (# Animals)
Model I pasture establishment             9              671      5,980      8,786     28.4
Model 2 pasture establishment             10             765      1,981      3,350     25.4
Model 3 pastures and fences               10           2,901      4,451      7,883     15.9
Model 4 past., fences and infrastructure.  17          5,460    10,218      16,100     16.8
Model 5 past., fences and infrastructure.  22          5,400      2,899      7,798      19.5
Model 6 past., fences and infrastructure.  25           1,923     4,889      6,289      17.3
Model 7 pastures and fences               50           5,722    25,232      26,999     20.4
Model 8 past., fences and infrastructure.  60          6,584      8,853     14,884     15.1
Model 9 past., fences and infrastructure.  60          15,024     6,230     13,279     28.0
Model 10 pasture establishment            62           18,008     7,246     14,809     15.1
Model 11 pastures and fences              80           3,012    35,225      38,208     24.4
Model 13 pasture establishment            99           9,297    10,191      12,530     20.7
Model 14 infrastructure                   120          8,982    13,661      24,038     27.5
Model 15 fences                          125           18,580    30,694     46,931     19.2
Improved Dairy Technology            (#. Animals)
Model I infrastructure and milking equip.  13          7,945    10,549      19,795     14.7
Model 2 infrastructure               _     7           10,054     6,732     14,643     15.8
Model 3 infrastructure                    18           4,523      7,307     12,075     19.8
Model 4 infrastructure                    25           16,610    12,182     18,962     17.1
Model 5 infrastructure                    27           3,260    18,398      20,694     14.8
Model 6 infrastructure & cooling tank     32           4,565      9,842     14,156     17.7
Model 7 infrastructure & milking equip.   39          22,646    25,041      32,861     17.7
Sensitivity Analysis: Analyses performed to measure the sensitivity of the IERR to the estimated
benefits and costs of the natural resources management activities indicated that if benefits were to
fall by 10% from their expected estimates, the IERR would be 12.5%. Similarly, were costs to
exceed their expected values by 10%, the IERR would be 13.1%. Finally, if both situations were to
occur simultaneously, the IERR would fall to 6.4%. Were the stream of benefits to occur one year
later than expected, the IERR would be 12.0%. The-relatively high sensitivity of the returns to
investment of the project are a direct consequence of the quality of the subprojects financed so far
under the Alianza, which in turn is reflected in the results of the sample of farm models used for the
analysis. But, as one of the project's objective is to improve technical assistance to potential
beneficiaries in project preparation, the quality of the subprojects submitted for financing in future is



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 50
Counby: Mexico                                         Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
expected to be considerably higher than at present and, therefore, future retums to investnent are
also expected to be higher and more robust than the current analysis would indicate.
C: Financial Analysis
The financial analysis was carried out to assess the financial viability of the productive investments most
demanded by small farmers. The financial viability of these investments was analyzed within the
framework of the most common production systems used by small farmers using the same set of farm
models prepared for the economic analysis. As is to be expected, given the level of subsidy provided to
the various on-farm investments under the project, the selected farm model showed relatively high
financial rates of return. Increases in farmers' income, as a result of project-financed on-farm
investment, ranged from about 20% to 100% at full development. The results obtained from individual
farm models were aggregated, using the same aggregation criteria used for the economic analysis, to
calculate the overall financial rate of return of the project, which is estimated at 26.3%. These
calculations included the cost to the farmer of incremental on-farm investment and recurrent expenditure
plus the incremented cost of the project's technical assistance and institutional strengthening
components, including the project coordinating team. Input and output prices were assumed constant, as
was the real exchange rate, throughout the 20 year time horizon used in the financial analysis. The
discount rate was assumed to be 12 %.
D: Fiscal Impact
The project will be implemented under the Alianzapara el Campo Program, which has a total budget
for 1998 of about US$250 million equivalent at the federal level and an estimated budget of about
US$140 at the state level. The federal financial resources allocated to the Alianza Program in 1998
represent about 14% of SAGAR's budget for that same year. The total cost of the Project, excluding
farmers' contribution, is estimated at about US$550 million, or about US$1 10 million per annum, of
which roughly close to two-thirds would come from federal sources and the remaining one-third from
state governments. The proposed project would support ongoing SAGAR programs and would operate
within the existing budget allocation of SAGAR and the state governments, and will not generate
additional budgetary financial requirements for the Federal Government beyond the US$90 million per
annum in matching-grants already foreseen in SAGAR's budget for these programs. Moreover, for the
purpose of estimating total project cost, it has been assumed conservatively that the 1998 level of
budgetary resources will be kept throughout the project life, i.e., that there will be budget increases.
Productive investment and expenditure directly benefiting small farmers (i.e., technical assistance and
training) account for nearly 84% of total project cost. Incremental tax revenues accrued to the Federal
Government as a result of project activities would be negligible as sales of goods and services in the
agricultural sector are exempt from the Value Added Tax (IVA). Income tax revenues from incremental
profitability of on-farm production would be negligible given the level of income of the target
population. Consequently, the fiscal impact of the project would also be negative, but it would be at the
level ofthe currentAlianza Programs. State governments derive the bulk of their budgetary resources
from federal transfers as they cannot retain tax revenues. Consequently, financial sustainability of the
states' contribution to project-financed activities would depend on the resource allocation criteria
applied by various state governments rather than on their budget allocation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 51
Country: Mexico                                        Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Annex 5
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(US$ Million)
Implementation Period
1999    2000   2001    2002       2003
Project Costs
Investment Costs          131.9    131.8   136.2    97.3    42.8
Recurrent Costs             2.7       2.7     2.8     2.0     0.9
Total                  134.6    134.5   139.0    99.3    43.7
Financing Sources (% of
total project costs)
IBRD                      108.4    108.0   111.7    79.7    32.1
(80.5)    (80.3)  (80.4)  (80.3)  (80.3)
Government
Central                 16.0      16.2    16.7    12.0      5.3
(11.9)    (12.0)  (12.0)  (12.1)  (12.1)
State                   10.1      10.3    10.6     7.6      3.3
(7.6)    (7.7)   (7.6)   (7.6)   (7.6)
Total                  134.5    134.5   139.0    99.3    43.7
_  (100)    (100)   (100)   (100)   (100)



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 52
Country: Mexico                                    Project Tdle: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Annex 6
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement of aoods and small works financed by the project would be carried out in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines/for Procutrement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January, 1995).
All consulting services to provide technical assistance and training would be selected in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, January 1997 and revised in the September
1997 edition.
Subprojects. Most of the goods, small works and services to be procured under this project
would be carried out with direct participation and financial contribution of the beneficiaries, and
implemented as part of the Productive Investment Component. Procurement would be carried out
by the beneficiaries, and payments made through the State Fideicomiso. Eligibility criteria and
operational procedures would be included in the Project Implementation Manual. Given the
remote and scattered locationi of many rural communities and in order to encourage community
participation in project execution, simplified procurement and disbursement procedures, including
the utilization of local shopping and direct contracting, will be applied to project costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent in federal and state contribution. Individual subprojects with a total cost
exceeding US$50,000 equivalent would be procured through local bidding.
The implementation of these procedures would require a strong supervision and place a substantial
demand on the national staff in SAGAR and its regional branches. At the national level, SAGAR
would have a qualified procurement officer familiar with Bank procurement rules that would be
responsible for organizing the supervision and monitoring of procurement activities at the state
level. In the states, there would be an Accounts Clerk, trained in handing the transfers of funds
and in reviewing bank statements, and a Procurement Clerk who will be able to advise and assist
the communities in their procurement operations.
At the Project Launching Workshop, special attention would be given to explain project concept
and the procedures for procurement and disbursement. The participants in the workshop would
include staff at various levels of project execution and not be limited to senior management. The
implementation manual would be reviewed at this workshop. Both national and regional staff,
however, will need to be trained in the steps necessary to prepare, execute and monitor the new
procurement and disbursement systems, and to recognize the differences and linkages between the
new system and the previous procedures. In addition, local staff would be trained to assist the
beneficiaries in key elements of the subproject cycle, including the preparation of subproject
proposals.
Goods. As part of the institutional Development Component, SAGAR would procure training
materials and computer equipment for about US$890,000. The equipment to be financed by the
Bank consist of standard, conventional items which are available from a number of suppliers world-



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 53
Country: Mexico                                       Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
wide and will be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB); except for items costing
less than US$ 350,000 which will be procured under national competitive bidding (NCB). National
Shopping (NS) will be used to purchase some small items costing less that $10,000. Three
quotations will be required to buy under NS. The Bank's standard bidding documents will be used
for all ICB packages. For NCB will be used the agreed Standard Bidding Document for Mexico.
The bidding documents for ICB and NCB procurement will include the Bank's standard preference
for domestic manufacture of 15 percent or the value of the import duties and taxes whichever is less,
so that eligible and qualified Mexican manufacturers can benefit from the preference.
Consultants. About of US$3.7 million of consulting services would be procured by SAGAR
utilizing the Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) system. Advance procurement procedures
would be utilized to facilitate project implementation, in particular the use of standard terms of
reference for the contracting of assignments of similar nature and scope, i.e., technical assistance to
beneficiaries and annual evaluations of individual programs in each of the participating states. Draft
Standard TOR were agreed upon at negotiations and would be incorporated in the Project
Implementation Manual.
Bank Prior Review. Given the nature of most activities supported by the project, the prior review
to be undertaken for the Productive Investment Component would be limited to the approval of the
first five subprojects. However, this would be largely compensated by a significant effort to monitor
procurement procedures as part of project supervision, involving the work to be carried out by the
ECP, and the documentation and field reviews of a sample of subprojects to be conducted by the
Mexico-based Procurement Specialist participating in the supervision team. The threshold for Bank
prior review of goods would be $ 350,000. The Bank also would prior review the first two NCB
contracts. For individual consultants, the threshold for prior review of terms of reference and short
lists would be US$50,000 and US$ 100,00 for consultants firms. In addition, prior review of
evaluation reports and draft contracts would be required for contracts exceeding the above amounts,
amendments raising the value of contracts above the prior-review threshold, and for assignments of
a critical nature, including the design and establishment of the M&E system, Baseline studies,
impact evaluations, Mid-Term Review, project auditing, etc..
Procurement methods and prior review thresholds are summarized in Tables A and B,
respectively, while the Project Procurement Plan would be agreed upon during negotiations, and
the final version would be incorporated in the Project Implementation Manual to be submitted to
the Bank as a condition of Effectiveness.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 54
Country: Mexico                                    Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Disbursement
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs): SAGAR has begun to take steps to adapts it financial
management systems in line with Bank's new Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI), with
the intention of establishing the project as a pilot and model for LACI implementation in Mexico.
Conversion to LACI-style disbursements is expected following the second year of project
implementation. During the transition period, all disbursements would be made on the basis of
SOEs. Under LACI, use of SOEs would be replaced by a system whereby disbursements (including
the amount of the advance to the Special Account) would be granted to SAGAR on the basis of a set
of agreed-upon quarterly reports. Those reports will detail the financial, physical and procurement
activities (historical and planned) under the project.
During SOEs disbursement procedures the financial reporting would be carried out by the SAGAR
Delegation in each state including preparation of the Statement of Expenditures (SOE). SAGAR
and NAFIN would consolidate financial reports at the central level for transmission and review by
the Bank. The financial management, accounting system, and internal controls are already in place
as part of the Alianza program and are being utilized by the Rainfed Areas Project and the On-farm
and Minor Irrigation Project. They have been operating satisfactorily. SAGAR's financial
management system was reviewed at appraisal and found satisfactory. On the basis of this finding,
SAGAR agreed to take steps to adapt its financial system in accordance with Bank's Loan
Administration Change Initiative (LACI). Subsequent to LACI system agreement between GOM
and the Bank, SAGAR's goal will be the eventually converting disbursement arrangements under
the project to a LACI system.
An action plan would be developed during project implementation by SAGAR, in coordination with
Bank financial management staff, to adjust the current management information system and enable
the regular production of the new Financial Management Reports (FMRs). Once the Bank confirms
SAGAR's capacity to generate quarterly reports that are fully consistent with LACI principals, the
project would be considered by the Bank for full conversion to LACI-style disbursements.
Conversion would require a request by the Borrower and approval by Bank's Loan Department.
Resources and mechanisms that would permit financial monitoring and reporting of the project
activities would be in place prior to effectiveness.
Special account: In order to facilitate project implementation, the GOM would establish a special
account in US Dollars at the Central Bank with an authorized allocation and initial advance of
US$40,000,000, corresponding to the average of four months of expenditures that are expected to be
made from the account. The replenishment application will be supported by the required/agreed
documentation. The Special Account would be audited in conjunction with the annual financial
audit of the project. Retroactive financing would be provided up to US$44,000,000 equivalent for
eligible expenditures made after June 28, 1998 or a date twelve months before the signing of the
Loan Agreement, whichever is later.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 55
Country: Mexico                                                Project Title: Agricultural ProducWtv Improvement Project
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                    Procurement Method                     Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB      NCB        OTHER         Consultants
1. Works
78.5(*)                       78.5
(62.2)                        (62.0)
2. Goods
1.2     314.0(*)                      315.2
(1.0)   (249.5)                       (250.0)
3. Services
Technical Assistance to                                           115.8           115.8
Beneficiaries                                                     (92.0)          (92.0)
Studies & Evaluations                                              26.8            26.8
(26.8)          (26.8)
Training Services                                     3.7                           3.7
(3.7)                         (3.7)
4. Miscellaneous
Recurrent Costs                                      11.0                          11.0
(5.5)                        (5.5)
Total                                   1.2     407.2          142.6               551.0
(1.0)   (320.9)       (118.8)             (440.0)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
(*)Procurement to be carried out by beneficiaries



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 56
Country: Mexico                                             Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure           Contract Value            Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category             (Threshold in              Method                Prior Review
US$ thousands)
1. Beneficiary                <50,000             Direct Contracting         First 5 subprojects
Subprojects                                    (Reference Prices)
>50,000                   NCB                        All
2. Goods
<100,000              Local Shopping                None
100,000-350,000           NCB                 First 2 each year
>350,000                   ICB                        All
3. Services
(a) Individual             <50,000                 TOR, CV                    TOR'
>50,000                  QCBS                        All
(b) Firms                 <100,000                   QCBS                      TOR
>100,000                  QCBS                        All
Except for single source selection of consultant, assignments of a critical nature and amendments to contracts
raising the original contract value above the threshold.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Pop 57
Country: Mexico                                       Project Tide: A-    Prdtcivl Improwm_nt Proe
Annex 6, Table C: Afocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category              Amount in USS          Financing
Percentage
Beneficiary Subprojects                      255,000,000               80
Consultant Services, Extension, Training &   130,000,000               80
Research
Goods for Institutional Strengthening          1,000,000                80
Services for Inst. Strengthening              26,800,000               100
Training for Inst. Strengthening               3,700,000               100
Up-front fee                                   4,444,450
Unallocated                                   23,505,500
Total   444,450,000



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 58
Country: Mexico                                       Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Annex 7
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
126.0
B. Project Schedule                             Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)           07/23/1997           06/15/1997
Appraisal mission departure                   05/25/1998           09/14/1998
Negotiations                                  08/17/1998            11/16/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 03/31/1999
Prepared by: Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development (SAGAR)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Michael G. Carroll                Sr. Agriculturist/Task Team Leader
Ferenc Molnar                               Lawyer
Estanislao GacitCa-Mario                        Sociologist
Lea Braslavsky                        Procurement Specialist
Victor Ordoniez                         Financial Specialist
Ranjinee Rudran                           Team Assistant
Patricia Soto                       Team Assistant (Mexico)
Edgardo Floto                       Ag. Economist (FAO/CP)
Vittorio Silvestri                  Financial Analyst (FAO/CP)
Jorge Rinc6n                       Financial Analyst (FAO/CP)
Alvaro Soler                         Ag. Economist (Cons.)
Neil Thomas                           Agriculturist (Cons.)
Michael Nelson                    Environmental Specialist (Cons.)
Sergio Figueroa                    Institutional Specialist (Cons.)
Marcelo Gross                         Ag. Economist (Cons.)
Mark D. Wilson                            Peer Reviewer
Tom Wiens                               Peer Reviewer



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 59
Country: Mexico                                   Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Annex 8
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
SAGAR (1998), Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Productividad para el Campo
(ALCAMPO). Manual de Operaci6n del Proyecto
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Gross, Marcelo (July 1998). Technology Transfer Component. FAO/CP Doc. No. 98/065
MEX
Figueroa, Sergio (October 1998). Institutional Strengthening Component. FAO/CP Doc.
No. 98/065a MEX
Silvestri, Vittorio (October 1998). Detailed Project Costs. FAO/CP Doc. No. 98/065b MEX
Nelson, Michael (October 1998). Report to the World Bank on Environmental Issues and
Proposed Procedures
Soler, Alvaro (October 1998). Report about Management Information System, and
Monitoring and Evaluation Procedures and Indicators
Thomas, Neil (October 1998). Report to the World Bank on Support Services: Technical
Assistance in the Bank Project
World Bank (June 1998). Mexico Indigenous Peoples Profiles.
C. List of documents
Grupo Knode, S. A. (June 1997), Programa de Desarrollo Productivo Sustentable en
Zonas Indigenas - Opciones de Reinversi6n Local de Recursos.
OCDE (1997), Examen de las Politicas Agricola de Mexico
Red Ingenieria, S.A. de C. V (August 1997), Sistemas de Comercializacion y Formaciones
Microempresariales en las Huastecas Potosina, Hidalguense y Veracruzana.
SAGAR (1998). Anexos Tecnicos de la Alianza para el Campo
SAGAR (1998), Mejoramiento de la Productividad para el Campo (ALCAMPO).
Proyecto (Versi6n Preliminar)
SAGAR/FIRCO (1998), Evaluaci6n de Medio Termino del Proyecto de Desarrollo de
Areas de Temporal. Prestamo 3778 - ME (Documento de Trabajo - Borrador)
SAGAR (1997), Programa de Desarrollo Productivo Sustentable en Zonas Indigenas.
Manual de Operaci6n



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page 60
Country: Mexico                                  Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
SAGAR (1997), Desarrollo Rural: Politica y Lineas de Acci6n
SAGAR (1997), Programas de Desarrollo Rural, 1997
SAGAR (1997), Diagn6stico Nacional
SAGAR (1997), Sintesis Metodol6gica para Iniciar la Operaci6n del Sistema Nacional de
Capacitaci6n y Extensi6n Rural Integral SINDER
SAGAR/ALL4NZA PARA EL CAMPOIINCA RURAL/SINDER (1997), Manual de
Operaci6n del Programa Elemental de Asistencia Tecnica para Apoyar la Producci6n
de Granos Basicos 1997 (PEAT 97)
SAGARIALIANZA PARA EL CAMPO/INCA RURAL/SINDER (1997), Manual Informativo
para el Representante de Productores (PEAT-97)
SAGARIALIANZA PARA EL CAMPO/INCA RURAL/SINDER (1997), Guia Tecnica para el
Control y Seguimiento del Programa Elemental de Asistencia Tecnica para Apoyar la
Producci6n de Granos Basicos (PEAT 97)
SAGAR/ALLINZA PARA EL CAMPO/INCA RURAL/SINDER (1997), Programa Elemental
de Asistencia Tecnica para Apoyar la Producci6n de Granos Basicos en el Ciclo P.V.
96/96 (PEAT 96) (Programa General)
SAGARIALIANZA PARA EL CAMPOIINCA RURAL/SINDER (1997), Programa Elemental
de Asistencia Tecnica para Apoyar la Produccion de Granos Baisicos en el Ciclo P.V.
96/96 (PEAT 96) (Guia T&enica)
SAGAR/ALIANZA PARA EL CAMPO/INCA RURAL/SINDER (1997), Programas
Estrategicos. Capacitaci6n y Extensi6n
SAGAR (1996), Sistema de Evaluaci6n de los Programas de Alianza
SAGAR (1996), Alianza para El Campo. Produce Capitaliza
SAGAR (1996), Alianza para El Campo. Produce Capitaliza. Programa de Ferti-
Irrigaci6n. (Documento Preliminar)
SAGAR (1996), Programa de Producci6n de Leche y de Sustituci6n de las Importaciones
SAGAR/ALIANZA PARA EL CAMPO/ASERCA/INCA RURAL (1996), Cesi6n de Derechos
al Cobro del Apoyo de PROCAMPO
SAGAR (1995), Programa Nacional del Hule (Consejo Mexicano del Hule, a.C.)
World Bank (1992), Mexico: Agricultural Technology Sector Review
World Bank (June 1998), Mexico, Indigenous Peoples Profile
World Bank (December 1997), Mexico: Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project.
Report No: 17263-ME
*Including electronic files.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                              Page 61
Country: Mexico                                                                            :PrOjecA Title: Agricultural Productivity improvement Project
Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Mexico
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                        disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit       Year               Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                              IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 254
Active Loans
MX-PE-7612    IBRD3752A             BANOBRAS                         SOLID WASTE II                    1.71       0.00            0.00           1.71      -4.23       0.00
MX-PE-7648    IBRD3559A             BANOBRAS                         MEDIUM CITIES TRANSP            134.12       0.00            0.00        131.76      123.03       1.46
MX-PE-7707    IBRD3751A             BANOBRAS                         WATER/SANIT II                  176.18    0.00 0             0.00        176.18      176.16       0.00
MX-PE-7710    IBRD3750A             BANOBRAS                         N. BORDER I ENVIRONM             65.36       0.00            0.00         65.36      274.33      26.54
MX-PE-7723    IBRD3628A             BANOBRAS                         HWY RHB & SAFETY                187.70       0.00            0.00        174.94       30.94       0.00
MX-PE-40199   IBRD43330    1998   MEXICAN GOVERNMENT                 BASIC EDC. DEV.                 115.00       0.00            0.00        115.00        0.00       0.00
MX-PE-44531   IBRD43490    1998   GOM                                KNOWLEDGE & INNOV.              300.00       0.00            0.00        300.00        0.00       0.00
MX-PE-46006   IBRD43430    1998   BANOBRAS                           CONTRACT. SAVINGS II            400.00       0.00            0.00        400.00        0.00       0.00
MX-PE-49895   IBRD43320    1998   MINISTRY OF FINANCE                HIGHER ED. FINANCING            180.20       0.00            0.00        180.20        0.00       0.00
MX-PE-55061   IBRD43670    1998   BANOBRAS                           HLTH.SYSTEM REF. TA              25.00       0.00            0.00         25.00        0.00       0.00
MX-PE-7711    IBRD42760    1998   NAFIN                              RURAL DEV. MARG.AREA             47.00       0.00            0.00         47.00        7.67       0.00
b&X-PE-7720    IBRD43640   1996   BRNOBRASX                          IEALTN SYSTEM REFORM           '700.00      0.00             0.00        700.00      116.67       0.00
MX-PE-43163   IBRD42060    1997   BANOBRAS                           FEDERAL ROADS MODZTN            475.00       0.00            0.00        475.00       55.00       0.00
MX-PE-7700    IBRD41370    1997   GOVT OF MEXICO                     COMMUNITY FORESTRY               15.00       0.00            0.00         14.50        2.75       0.00
MX-PE-7726    IBRD41520   1997   GOVERNMENT                         .AQUACULTURE   -                  40.00       0.00            0.00           .00        3.50       0.00
MX-PE-7732    IBRD41010   1997   GOVERNMENT                          RURAL FIN. MKTS T.A.             30.00       0.00            0.00         29.19       18.09       3.49
MX-PE-40685  IBRD39370    1996   NACIONAL FINANCIERA (NAFI          INFRA. PRIVATZTN TA              30.00       0.00            0.00         20.25       20.25       0.00
MX-PE-7689    IBRD39430    1996   NAFIN                              BASIC HLTH II                   310.00       0.00            0.00        222.73       31.23      22.53
MX-PE-7713    IBRD40500    1996   GOM                                WATER RESOURCES MANA            186.50       0.00            0.00        172.74       13.89       0.00
MX-PE-34161   IBRD3838B    1995   NAFINSA                            FINANCIAL SEC T.A.               13.80       0.00            0.00         11.66       -2.13      11.67
MX-PE-34490   IBRD3805A   1995   NAFIN                               TECH EDU/TRAING                 187.49       0.00            0.00        174.87    '133.67       68.54
MX-PE-7607    IBRD3778A    1995   GOVERNMENT                         RAINFED AREAS DEVELO             41.96       0.00            0.00         18.05        5.37      -5.24
MX-PE-7702    IBRD3790A   1995   SEDESOL                             SECOND DECENTRALZTN             303.39        0.00            0.00       204.78      146.49      54.07
MX-PE-7701    IBRD3704A   1994   NAFIN                               ON-FARM & MINOR IRRI            119.36        0.00           0.00         99.47       86.96       2.80
MX-PE-7725    IBRD3722A    1994   NAFIN                              PRIM.EDUC.II                    254.36        0.00            0.00       210.63      207.32      31.04
MX-PE-7694    IBRD3543A    1993   NAFIN                              TRNSPRT AIR POLL CON             79.96        0.00            0.00        79.96      123.08      50.00
MX-PE-7667    IBRD3419A   1992   NAFINSA                             IRRIG SCTR                      100.63        0.00           0.00         85.32      135.28      -7.18
MX-PE-7704    IBRD3358A    1991   NAFIN                              VOC TRNG SCTR                    18.99        0.00           0.00         10.95       25.97      10.97
Total                                                                                              4,538.71        0.00           0.00      4,187.25   1,731.29    270.69
Active Loans         Closed Loans           Total
TotallDisbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 351.45          22,125.32           22,476.77
,of which has been repaid:                  0.00          11,276.49           11,276.49
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              4,538.71           10,914.55           15,453.26
Amount sold                                       0.00               92.34              92.34
Of which repaid              :                0.00               92.34               92.34
Total Undisbursed               :            4,187.25               49.51            4,236.76
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



00  00   '0 0 0 00 - O         300 0 0                                                                               
10 1 10  0 1     ~  ~~   '0 '                                                      0fi  ' g   3 i  B  00
10 10 10          00          410                   tJ,'  .
8S880888E88 i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z                       2 5                                            CD88888RB88so8sooow^^6 lai
'0~~~~~
'0~~~~~
o  o0soooo              0'~oooo80~ooooooo   ,o
0
0
to                                                                                     C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
0                 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
00  oo  Woo      ooo><sooooooooo    oooO oloo   1-  a 
~~~.to    ~ ~ ~ ~       H0. PEh
02~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~
00  000    00        UX  OOOOOOOOgggggOOggggggOO,OOOOOOOO )U)U   00 011  .))00   000utC0
t  NoWoooogKogggggggAgt4_StogoOoOOgOEAgs>tOggOgSgg  i;                            aIzo
U) -                              0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a-



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                          Page 63
Country: Mexico                                                    Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
:                  ~~~Annex 10
Country at a Glance
Mexico at a glance                                                                911(98
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America   middle-
Mexico   & Carlb;  Income       Development dlamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                      94.8       494       571                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  3,680     3,880     4,520
GNP (Atlas method, US$b1ilions)                    348.9      1,917    2,584
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (h)                                       1.8        .7       1.5
Laborforce(%)                                         2.8        2.3       1.9     GNP                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate t(atest year available, 199147)                               capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below natfonal pove tyline)
Urban population (4 of tota population)!              74        74        73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       72        70        70                       t
Infant mortalityf(per 1,000 ivebirths)                 30        32        30
Child malnutrition (% oftchildren under5)              14         ..       -.               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 83        73        79
Illiteracy ((% of population age 15+)                  10        13        15          -
Gross primary enrollment (% of schoolaepopuln):       115       1 t1      107            Mexico
Male                                                116        ..        ..              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                              113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG4FRM TRENDS-
1976    1986ls     1996      1997T
Econominc ratice
GDP (US$ birlions)                          95.3    128.8     329.5    403.0
Gross domestic investment/GbP               2t.0      8.1:      23.3     26.4                     Trade
Exports ofgoods&and servicesDP           : 7.0:    17.4         32.5     302
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   18.8    22.01      25.4     26.4
Gross national savings/GOP                  16.5      17.4      22.7     24.5.
Current account balance/GOP                  -3.7     -1.1     -06        -1.~8    Domestic
Interest paymentslGDP                        IA:      6.0        2.5      22                                  Investment
Total debt/GDP                              26.1     78.3       477      37.3       avings
Totail debt servicelexports                 4.5       0 50.3    35A       28.4
Present value of debt/GDP                    .2         ..     45.1
Present value.of debt/xports                  i.        .    :128.9
Indebtedness
197646  187-970    199600      1997  1998-02
(average annual growth):
GP    :3.8                                    2.8     5.2        7.0      4.9              Mexico
GNP per capita                      0.9     06.6      4          6.2       2.9              Upper-middle-incomegroup 
Exports of goods' andrsericesi     10.3     ii       ]18.2      13.0      7.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996-    1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  10.2     9.0        6.1       5.8    40
Industry                                    29.8    33.9        28.4     28.3    20
Manufacturing                              21.6    24.7       21.5      21.7    o0 
Services                                    60.0    57.1        65.5     65.9    -20      9 2   :3   94 \9/  96   97
Private consumption                         71 3     68.8      64.9      65.3    .40                     V
General government consumption               9.9      9.1        9.7       8.4
Imports of goods and services                9.2     13.5      30.3      30.2               -    GDI    -0..-GDP
(averag annual owth)  1976-86  1987-97  1996  1997'    Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(averee anniual growthR).
Agriculture                                  2.7       1.6       3.8       1.0    40
Industry                                     3.6      3.3       10.2      9.3
Manufacturing                               3.2      3.7      10.9       9.8    20
Services                                     4.0      2.9        3.3      6.6
Private consumption                          3.0      2.7       2.2       6 .3 3                                9    9 7
General government consumption               5.8      2.0       -0.7  -    1.8           52   93
Gross domestic investment                    -0.2     4.1      25.7      22.8    20
Imports of goods and services                0.1    13.3       22.8      22.0            -_rEpors   -          I.mports
Gross national product                       3.4      2.5       5.8       8.0
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. if data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                       Page 64
Country: Mexico                                                  Project Title: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project
Mexico
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Dom i p1976    1986       1996     1997      Inflaton (%)
Domestic ptikes                                                                4
(% change)                                                                     40
Consumer prices                               ..   86.2       34A      17.5    30
Implicit GDP delator                       19.6    73.3       29.6     19.0    20
Government finance                                                             10
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                             0 I
Current revenue                               ..   31.8       23.2     22.9           92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                        ..   -10.1       3.7      2.7             -GDP deflator         C
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..  -15.0        0.0      -0.8
TRADE
- 1976    1986     1996     1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                           ..  17,452    96,000  110,379    150000
Oil                                         ..   6,307    11,654   11,320
Agriculture                                 ..   2,098     3,592    3,828
Manufactures                                :.   8,537    80,305   94,753
Total imports (cif)                          ..  12,432    89,469  109,807
Consumer goods                              ..    846      6,657    9,326      90.000
Intermediate goods                          ..  8,632    71,890   85,366
Capital goods                                   - 2,954    10,922   15,116        0._   _ _ _ _ _ 
91  92  93  94  95  96i  97
Export price index (1995=100)                ..      84       102      101
Import price index (1995=100)                ..      76       101      101               *E-Votrts    *lmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..    112       101       100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    1986      1996     1997      Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services             6,840   22,024   106,779  121,701     0 _              _    _     __
Imports of goods and services             8,289   17,454    99,700  121,608        _                        MP
Resource balance                         -1,449   4,571      7,079      94    -2
Net income                               -2,115   -7,519   -13,532  -12,790                  E U
Net current transfers                       73    1,575      4,531    5,247    4 "
Current account balance                  -3,492   -1,374    -1,922   -7,448    4 
Financing items (net)                     2,632    1,976     3,690   17,942
Changes in net reserves                     860    -603    -1,768  -10,494
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)       ..   5,780    19,456   28,815
Conversion rate (DEC, localUS$)            0.02     0.61      7.60     7.91
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986      1996     1997
(USS millions)                                                                  Composltion of total debt, 1997 (U# milion
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     23,967  100,891   157,125  150,381
IBRD                                    1,222    5,566    12,568   11,36                         A 11,355
IDA                                        0        0         0        0            G: 28,507          C9,08
Total debt service                        3,346   12,944    40,786   37,190
IBRD                                     132      819     2,372    2,102                                  0, 5 142
IDA                                        0        0         0        0                                   I
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            6       77        30
Official creditors                       301    1,480    -7,793   -4,566
Private creditors                       4,203    -926    12,107    6,715
Foreign direct investment                628    1,523     9,186   12.478
Portfolio equity                           0        0     2,801    3,215                     F 09,
World Bank program
Commitments                              410    1,272       187      485     A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             142    1,016     1,051     995    B-IDA      D-Other multilateral   F-Private
Principal repayments                      42      424      1,409    1,311    c - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                 99      592      -359     -316
Interest payments                         89      396       962    - 791
Nettransfers                              10      197.   -1,321.  -1,107
Development Economics                                                                                           9/1198



