                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                            Report No: 29439

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                          (SCL-44280)

                                              ON A

                                             LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                  UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                           FOR AN

                AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                          June 24, 2004




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Colombia, Mexico, Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective )

                  Currency Unit = Mexican Peso (Mex$)
                         Mex$1 = US$
                         US$ 1 = Mex$

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1     December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



                 Vice President:   David De Ferranti
              Country Director     Isabel M. Guerrero
               Sector Manager      Mark Cackler
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Michael G. Carroll

                                           MEXICO
                        Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8. Borrower ICR                                                            30

Project ID: P048505                                                  Project Name: Agricultural Productivity Improvement
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Michael G. Carroll                                      TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 25, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project            L/C/TF Number: SCL-44280
   Country/Department: MEXICO                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (60%); Agricultural
                            extension and research (32%); Central government administration
                            (4%); Sub-national government administration (4%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Rural markets (P); Civic
                            engagement, participation and community driven development (S);
                            Decentralization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/24/1997                                     Effective: 03/31/1999                06/23/1999
     Appraisal: 09/11/1998                                         MTR: 03/31/2001
      Approval: 12/22/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Nacional Financiera S.N. C. (NAFIN)/Ministry of Agriculture; Nacional
                                           Financiera S.N. C. (NAFIN)/Livestock and Rural Development (SAGAR)
                      Other Partners:      State governments

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:                 Mark E. Cackler                                Maritta Koch-Weser
Team Leader at ICR:             Michael G. Carroll                             Michael G. Carroll
ICR Primary Author:             Juan Morelli with input from
                                Edgardo Floto; Elsie Garfield
                                and Jeannette Ramirez


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
As defined at appraisal, the Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project (ALCAMPO) development objective is
to improve the productivity and income of small farmers by increasing their assets and promoting the adoption of
sustainable agricultural production systems. In order to achieve this objective, technical and financial assistance
would be provided to eligible beneficiaries (as matching grants) within the framework of selected programs being
implemented under the Programa Alianza para el Campo (Alliance for the Rural Areas, referred to as Alianza in
the rest of the text)1, which initiated operations in 1996. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) adds more
details, indicating that the development objective would be achieved through: (i) the improvement of access of
small and poor farmers to the activities, including those at that time being supported by the three programs of the
Bank-financed Rainfed Areas Development Project (PRODAT), the On-Farm and Minor Irrigation Project
(PRODEP), as well as the Rural Development Program, that were being executed under Alianza; (ii) promotion of
a better integration of the various activities of Alianza aimed at the development of irrigated and rain-fed
agriculture; (iii) support to generation, validation and transfer of technologies suited to small farmer production
conditions implemented under an innovative producer administered competitive funding scheme (Agricultural
Research Foundations, or Fundaciones PRODUCE); (iv) strengthening production support services for small
farmers; and (v) support of the Mexican government (GOM) promoted decentralization process by strengthening
the planning and implementation capacity of the State institutions and producers' organizations. The PAD states
that the cornerstone of the Alianza program is its decentralized approach, with a delegation of administration and
decision-making to the States, as well as a substantive contribution of the States to the program's budget. It
concludes that the program offers the opportunity and the operational mechanism to implement a decentralized,
demand-driven approach to channel technical and financial assistance directly to small farmers.

The objectives and design of ALCAMPO need to be assessed in the context of following historical factors. In the
late 1980s and first half of the 1990s, the GOM carried out major policy and institutional reforms, including in the
agricultural sector, aimed at improving economic efficiency by replacing existing non-market mechanisms by
market ones2. While a key objective of these reforms was to increase the growth rate of the agricultural sector, they
failed to induce a supply response and output did not increase. Concerned about the impact of NAFTA on
Mexican producers, the government designed an income support scheme PROCAMPO3 for producers of certain
crops which was started up in a few months before the NAFTA agreement took effect in 1993-1994. In response to
the serious financial crisis which began in December 1994 and continued into 1995, the federal government took
drastic steps to restore macro-economic stability which included a sharp reduction in public expenditures. That
year the Zedillo administration announced the new Alianza program for agricultural and rural development.

The convergence of fundamental changes in the national and sectoral policy and institutional landscape,
recognition of the new challenges facing the poorly performing agricultural sector, the imperative of restoring
macro-economic stability changed the frame of reference for agriculture and rural development. This required
adjustments to the Bank's assistance program, including the early closing and cancellation of the loan balance for
the Agricultural Technology project. The Rainfed Areas Development Project (Ln. 3778-ME approved July 1994)
was essentially inoperative due to lack of funds, until it was redesigned in 1996 to fit into and support the Alianza
program. In the next two years, the Bank agreed that several new operations, including the Rural Development in
Marginal Areas and ALCAMPO projects, would be carried out as part of the Alianza program, the change in
government administration in 2000 - with a new party in office after more than seventy years of the Partido
Revolucionario Institucional (PRI) administrations - together with the renewed Fox administration's priorities and
authorities, improved even more, the environment for the agricultural sector. The Alianza program became the
Alianza Contigo.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:



                                                           - 2 -

The project had the following three components:

        Component 1: Productive Investment (US$343.3 million about 62% of total project cost). Under this
component, the project would finance small grants for demand-driven broad range of investments, some of which
at that time were being financed under the ongoing Bank-financed Rainfed Areas Development Project
(PRODAT). These activities promoted at small irrigation development and modernization, improved pasture
establishment and management, improved dairy production technology and marketing, as well as subprojects
(under the Alianza's rural development program: PADER) providing small-scale on-farm infrastructure and minor
equipment and supplies to poor farmers.

        Component 2: Production Support Services (US$172.9 million about 32% of total project cost). This
component would include financial support for applied research and technology transfer (training, demonstration
units, publications, etc.) as well as demand-driven extension, technical assistance and training to small farmers.
Technology Transfer and Adaptive Research would be implemented by the existing foundaciones PRODUCE in
each state, which would award contracts on a competitive basis both within the National Institute of Forestry,
Agricultural and Livestock Research (INIFAP) and between specialized institutions, including INIFAP, State
research agencies, Universities and private sector organizations. Delivery of demand-driven Support Services
would be based on direct contracts from beneficiary organizations or groups to private sector individuals or small
firms, within the ongoing National Extension System (SINDER) and Elemental Technical Assistance (PEAT)
programs for poor farmers and the recently established programs for small commercial livestock (Integrated
Projects, PAI) and irrigation producers.

        Component 3: Institutional Strengthening and Project Administration. (US$34.9 million about 6% of
total project cost). This component would support: training and technical assistance to staff with implementation
responsibilities at the central and state levels, with particular emphasis on subproject preparation and selection
mechanisms and procedures; the development and implementation of a comprehensive monitoring and impact
evaluation system; and the establishment and operation of a Project Coordination Team (ECP). Table 1 show cost
by component and the summary of ratings assigned by this report.

           Table 1: Cost by components, appraisal estimate and actual (in US$ million), and ratings

                Component                   Appraisal      Actual estimate    Actual/Appraisal       Ratings
                                            estimate *                               (%)
     1. Productive Investment                 343.3             378.3                110                S
     2. Production Support Services           172.9             172.9                100                S
    3. Institutional strengthening
    and Project Administration                 34.9                -                  16                S
             Front Loan Fee                      -                4.4                 -
     Total Project Cost                       551.1             555.6                101                S
* Includes physical and price contingencies.


3.4 Revised Components:
Operational adjustments were made during the life of the project to fit into the evolving characteristics of the
Alianza program such as changes in the names, or the integration of certain sub-programs. The Bank considered
these adjustments to be consistent with the project objective and within the scope of the activities to be supported
by each of the project's components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's overall quality at entry is considered satisfactory. The project's development objective was ambitious
and clear. In effect, this was an opportunity to co-finance a program loan covering a selected sub-set of programs
to ensure access to a sub-group of beneficiaries (smaller and poorer farmers) within the Government's overall
Alianza program which is national in scope (covering all 32 states and consisting of more than 25 sub-programs in
1998). The objectives were highly relevant and consistent with the government's priorities for agriculture and



                                                           - 3 -

rural development, and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)4. They reflected a shared concern of the
GOM and the Bank about the weak performance of the sector: lagging growth, the widening gap between
commercial producers and the rest, and the increase in rural poverty. The project would contribute to the CAS's
three core interrelated objectives of: (i) sustainable growth through improving the productivity of small farmers
and expanding their opportunities to access financial assistance for investment; (ii) social development through its
targeting of the poor under the rural development program; and (iii) modernization of the state by assisting the
GOM in its decentralization efforts, bringing beneficiaries into the decision making process, and fostering closer
cooperation between public services and the private sector. The Bank's most recent CAS (Rpt No. 23849-ME,
April 2002) foresaw continued support to rural development through the Alianza program which had just been
restructured.

The design of the project components was satisfactory and linked to the achievement of the development objective.
The project design was underpinned by analytical work and experience which identified factors such as lack of
access to financing in rural areas, lack of technology transfer, and poor access to the benefits of government
programs as barriers to agricultural growth in the small farmer sector in Mexico. The project components included
concrete actions to overcome these barriers and showed the advantages of entering into an on-going GOM program
to improve its impact and avoid the extended disbursement problems shown in other projects of Mexico's portfolio.
The project's operational approach was largely determined by the government's Alianza strategy: (i)
strengthening the decentralization process and progressive delegation of decision-making responsibilities to the
state and local levels; and (ii) introduction of demand-driven and participatory approaches as the core of a capacity
building process in which beneficiaries and farmer's organizations would become partners and clients in the
provision of support services. The demanding nature of the project in terms of complexity, institutional capacity
and risks appears to have been recognized, but it might have underestimated the non-additional nature of IBRD
project funding in Mexico. This issue makes implementing agencies increasingly reluctant to justify disbursements
from loan proceeds, as their budget does not depend on the sometimes cumbersome process of documenting
expenses as required by Bank procedures. For example, the PAD acknowledges that the project design posed a
considerable institutional challenge due to the decentralized nature of implementation by the States, but presents a
relatively optimistic assessment that initial difficulties of the Alianza programs had been overcome and that all
participating agencies had gained considerable experience in managing them. In conclusion, the project's quality
at entry was satisfactory.

Footnotes:

1. Alianza's main objective is to increase agricultural productivity and to capitalize farmers by participating with funds in
farmer's investment and sanitary projects leading to integrate farmers with food chain and promote efficiency through crop
substitution (mainly from basic crops to fruits and vegetables). Other important features of this program are its decentralized
character with state level control and contribution to the funding by participating farmers.

2. Bank supported for this process included two sector adjustment operations: AGSAL I (US$300 million, approved in June
1989 and completed the following March) and AGSALII (approved in January 1991 and completed in December 1993). They
supported reforms in prices, trade, public investment, poverty alleviation, fiscal transfers, and the role of parastatals. The
outcome of the AGSALs was rated as satisfactory by the Bank, since the objectives were relevant and mayor objectives were
achieved and likely to be sustainable. OED, Project Performance Assessment Report No. 15794.

3. The Bank helped the government prepare PROCAMPO which replaced subsidies provided via guaranteed and administered
prices. Rather than pay a subsidy to farmers based on what they produced, PROCAMPO provides an income support grant
based on the amount of land that they had previously cultivated for specific crops (barley, beans, maize, cotton, rice, sorghum,
soy, sunflower and wheat) for a maximum phase-out period established as part of the NAFTA negotiations.

4. CAS document number: R96-207 and CAS Program Report R98.49 discussed March 26,1998.




                                                               - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

As defined at appraisal, the project's development objective is to improve the productivity and income of small
farmers by promoting the adoption of sustainable agricultural production systems and by increasing their assets. In
order to achieve this objective, technical and financial assistance would be provided to eligible beneficiaries (as
matching grants) within the framework of selected programs being implemented under the on-going Alianza
program. The project was classified as a poverty targeted program. Its activities, although nationwide in scope,
were targeted to groups of eligible beneficiaries including indigenous people, women and rural youth located
mostly in the Center and Southern States of the country, i.e., the areas with the largest concentration of small and
poor farmers. Fitting into the Alianza program had many positive aspects (particularly considering the
Government's evolving programs), but it proved difficult to monitor and evaluate achievements for this sub-group
of project beneficiaries and programs; it was extremely difficult to separate out the project impact from the overall
impact of the specific programs financed by the project and from the Alianza as a whole.

Based on the available information, the project is considered to have satisfactorily achieved its development
objectives. Due to the delays to put in place an effective monitoring and evaluation system, and a change in
project management arrangements, the major source of information, particularly for 2000 and 2001, are the
external evaluations of Alianza programs prepared by an independent FAO-SAGARPA team. This information
combined with data from FIRCO's field offices served as the basis for the economic and financial analysis which
resulted in an ERR estimated at about 15.5% and an aggregate financial return estimated at 27.8%. This positive
outcome is also supported by findings of the FAO-SAGARPA annual evaluations that positive benefits in terms of
productivity and income were perceived by beneficiaries for the main programs supported by the project.

While beneficiaries were reached that often do not get access to government programs, a number of analysts
consider the Alianza program as a whole to be regressive (borne out by FAO-SAGARPA data on amount per
beneficiary for rural development program vs. others) as compared to the Procampo income supports. The main
contribution of ALCAMPO was to support a selection of programs targeted towards poverty alleviation
mitigating the alleged regressive character of the overall program. Poverty numbers in Mexico are still high, even
though Mexico is making solid progress in combating poverty, recovering from the devastating social effects of the
1994-95 financial crises: extreme and moderate poverty declined from 1996 to 2000 from 62% to 46% of the
population, and in rural areas, from 85% to 73%. Although the advancements, Mexico continues to have a large
part of its population under poverty and the Bank's assistance continues to prioritize support to fight poverty and
reduce inequality.

Important changes have been made in the execution arrangements of the overall Alianza, consistent and inspired
with project objectives and strategies, aiming to increase participation of small farmers and improve technical
assistance in terms of coverage and coordination with the investment support subprojects. The number of
programs was reduced from more than forty to three so they will have better chances to allow greater capture of
synergies through production links on behalf of the small farmers. The Capacities Development Program for Rural
Areas (PRODESCA) established in 2002, has a new focus and a wider coverage working within different
programs. In terms of management the decision and operational process was decentralized to the State
governments, coordinating operational and administrative matters on a highly participative process. Although it
was expected that the new arrangements would improve flow in supporting documents and up to date information,
at closing there were still doubts about those improvements. However, the new information system under
implementation (SISER) is expected to provide valuable updated information for management improvement in the
future.




                                                          - 5 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory Overall

The project's achievement of outputs is rated satisfactory overall, though weak for the third component. The
project evolved in accordance with the federal government's annual adjustments to the Alianza program and the
particular situation in each state. However, the main thrust of each component in terms of outputs was preserved
(biggest changes in 2000/2001). The project provided technical and financial assistance for: a) productive
investments to small commercial farmers to improve their productivity and competitiveness in an increasingly
open economy; b) subprojects providing small-scale on-farm infrastructure and minor equipment and supplies for
poor farmers; and c) demand-driven technical assistance, training and extension activities to poor and small
farmers to improve their level of income and standard of living. Building on Alianza, the ALCAMPO project
focused on four existing investment sub-programs and four support services (technical assistance and adaptive
research activities) addressing all 32 states of the nation.

Component 1. Productive Investment (69% of project cost, actual 110% of appraisal estimate due to
reallocation). ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The productive investment component was implemented at a highly satisfactory level of coverage, in line with the
original plan. It was the central component, both in terms of the allocation of funding and the strategic focus that
considered that "lack of capital for productive investments was a key constraint to unleash the development
potential of small farmer agriculture." Actual investment was US$377.5 million, exceeding by 10% the original
amount.

Investments were financed through a matching grant system under which beneficiary's contribution - either in cash
or in kind - was at least 50% for the 3 programs aimed at small farmers and at least 30% for the poverty targeted
rural development program. Each program had specific criteria for eligibility and financial ceilings on grant size
per beneficiary, hectare, and/or group. Four types of subprojects were considered under the four of Alianza's
on-going sub-programs: (i) small irrigation development and modernization (US$86.9 million, 23% of
component costs); (ii) improved pasture establishment and management (US$61.2 million, 16% of component
costs); (iii) improved dairy production technology and marketing (US$45.6 million, 12% of component costs);
and (iv) subprojects providing small-scale on-farm infrastructure and minor equipment and supplies under the
PADER: Rural Development Program (US$183.8 million, 49% of component costs). The first three programs
were implemented under the technical orientation and leadership of FIRCO through their state units and showed
satisfactory results. The last one with 49% of the cost of the component was under SAGARPA responsibility, and
limited information is available about the type of investments and results.

Under the small irrigation program, about 9,500 new modern irrigation systems benefiting 25,000 families
(against an estimate of 33,000 in the PAD) were developed and implemented, including rehabilitation of wells,
pumping equipment, new ferti-irrigation equipment, etc., aiming to reduce over-exploitation of aquifers, improve
water use efficiency, reduce cost of energy and fertilizers, and increase yields and farmer's incomes. The project
financed about 80% of 1998-2001 program's investments specifically those benefiting the smaller farmers, of
which almost 40% was sprinkler irrigation systems. Localized irrigation absorbed also about 40% of investments,
including micro sprinkler and drip irrigation; and low pressure systems represented about 15% of investments.
Farmers financed 60 to 65% of these improvement costs while Alianza (Federal and State funds) covered the other
35 to 40%. Results are considered satisfactory based on information in the FAO-SAGARPA annual evaluations:
beneficiaries of this sub-program indicated that they had increased production due to higher yields (by 21%) and
crop mix (by another 21%); quality of products and household income (by about 50%), contributing to a reduction
in over exploitation of underground aquifers. The economic and financial analysis of the sub-projects supported by
this program indicated positive returns for farmers, the program and the economy as a whole.




                                                          - 6 -

The improved pasture program aims to enhance the productive infrastructure including transformation of
products and pasture improvement among meat, milk and wool producers. Demand under the portion of this
program financed by the project included about 36,000 subprojects financing investments in new or rehabilitation
of pastures (68%) and several types of productive infrastructure (32%). More than 80% of subprojects were
individually operated and 95% were related to cattle producers. According to the FAO-SAGARPA's evaluation,
results are satisfactory based on beneficiaries' reports that improved production capacity and the adoption of new
practices and technologies generated - in about 65% of the cases - positive results in productivity and incomes
inducing additional investment by beneficiaries (97% over government contributions). However, impact could
have been greater if there had been better coordination of the Alianza programs, and complementary technical
assistance had existed. As an example, TA was provided to only 7.2% of the improved pasture beneficiaries
limiting the synergies needed to obtain the potential impact of the individual small investments provided by this
program.

The dairy production program also shows highly satisfactory results. This sub-component has significantly
contributed to capitalize production units through about 18,000 subprojects benefiting about 55,000 small rural
households, exceeding PAD targets (10,000 groups and 51,000 producers). Almost all beneficiaries surveyed by
the annual evaluations expressed their satisfaction for the quality of support received and 73% considered
program's support arrived in time. Demand-driven investments went to improve milk production infrastructure
and equipment in the production units leading to greater productivity and end-product value-added. Direct positive
impacts obtained by beneficiaries included: (i) 24% increase mechanized equipment for milking cows; (ii) 11%
increase in milking cows; (iii) 13% increase in milk production per cow; (iv) 22% increase in refrigerated milk
(with only 5% of investment funds financing refrigerated tanks and collection centers); and (vi) forage reserves
(silo, etc.) increased by 32%. For each dollar invested by the Alianza public funds, under this program farmers are
investing an average of US$2.89.

The rural development (PADER) sub-component accounted for 34% of all ALCAMPO project costs and nearly
half of the funds invested in the productive investment component. Its objective aimed to improve the assets and
incomes of about 750,000 poor and small producers on less than 20 ha of rainfed land or 5 ha irrigated land,
and/or whose animal production is based on less than 20 head of cattle, or 100 sheep or goats. The PAD indicates
that the Federal government would provide up to US$2,220 per beneficiary per annum to finance approved
investment proposals on a non reimbursable basis, and higher ceilings in case of proposals submitted by groups.
Delivery of demand-driven support services (TA, extension and training) were based on direct contracts from
beneficiaries organizations or groups of private sector individuals or small firms, within the on-going SINDER,
PEAT and PAI programs for poorer farmers and the implementation of the technology transfer and applied
research under the Fundaciones PRODUCE umbrella in each State. The GOM has been increasing the amount
invested under this program, preferring to expand the number of beneficiaries which for the period 1999-2001
reached about 2.3 million farmers, and reduce the average amount per farmer to about US$150 to US$260 per
family.

Even though most of the resources applied to poor farmers represented scattered and very small incentives, results
are considered satisfactory based on the high level of satisfaction indicated by surveyed beneficiaries of the 2001
FAO annual evaluation of the program (73% of the very poor and poor peasants; and 82% of peasants, transitional
farmers and small entrepreneurs). Cases with higher impact reported were subprojects to finance machinery and
equipment for transitional farmers and small entrepreneurs, and well defined subprojects of small farmer
associations. FAO-SAGARPA's evaluation concluded that the program was successful in: (i) mobilizing farmer
funded additional investments; (ii) the sustainability of supported investments; and (iii) in changing some
production aspects. Results were considered only satisfactory in production, productivity and quality; and as
limited for income and employment, technical assistance and organizational strengthening. Results would have
been better if TA provided would be more integrated with the investment components. They are consistently better
in the case of better off farmers (with more assets) as the transitional or small entrepreneur types, and are expected
to improve under the new more integrated arrangements set for the whole alianza program since 2002.




                                                         - 7 -

Component 2. Production Support Services (at appraisal 32% of project costs, actual 31% of costs).
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The second component has financed adaptive research, technology transfer and support services (technical
assistance, extension and training ). The ALCAMPO project had an important effect in the relative increase of
the federal budget of the research and technology transfer programs (R&TT). More than U$S172 million
were invested from 1998 to 2002: SINDER program received U$S64 million, PEAT U$S 40 million5, PAI U$S 12
million and the amount managed through Foundations PRODUCE6 was U$S56 million. From year 1996 to 2002
there has been an important increase in the total budget of the R&TT. Figures at the beginning of the period were
Mx$200 million per year (2002 value) and in year 2002 they went up to Mx$350 million. Most of the
improvement took place in the last two years and was the result of a very important increase in the federal budget.
Provision of money from the states increased only 11% while federal contribution increased 109% in that period.
Farmers made a formal commitment in year 2002 to contribute with 30% of the total budget for the R&TT
programs but could contribute only with 18% of it.

FAO ­ SAGARPA evaluation of the R&TT programs for year 2002, emphasizes the negative incentives which
affected the participation of states and farmers in the financing of agricultural research, technology transfer,
assistance and training. Among others, they refer to the lack of adequate recognition of the importance of
agricultural research in rural development at the administrative state level; the institutional limitations of the
Foundations PRODUCE, related mainly to the high proportion of research under INIFAP; and the limited
information available for farmers concerning the results and the impact of research projects on productivity,
income generation and rural population welfare. Various research evaluation reports highlight important
discrepancies between what is considered of high priority from the standpoint of the suppliers of research and
transfer of technology, and the way farmers set their demand priorities for them. Discrepancies are especially wide
in certain items. What is considered very important by suppliers but far less important by farmers are issues on
animal nutrition, education, extension and information, and natural resources and environment. On the other side,
what are considered very important by farmers and much less important by suppliers are items related with product
processing, production economics, development and sociology, machinery and engineering, management skills and
legislation. Farmers association's main awareness in 58% to 62% cases studied were on the field of agricultural
management and marketing.

A limitation of Foundations PRODUCE has been the high weight of INIFAP in their overall budget for research,
technology transfer, extension, technical assistance and training. In terms of number of projects INIFAP was
responsible for 66% of the budget for 2001 and 55% in year 2002. In terms of amounts of money, INIFAP
accounted for 69% of the budget for year 2001 and 52% in year 2002. This higher weight for INIFAP is due to the
fact that it is well provided of professionals and facilities for research on matters other than management,
marketing and other segments far from the farm production level. About 93% of research and transfer projects
were oriented to the primary sector segment (64% on cropping, 25% on livestock and 11% on other items). Only
4% of projects referred to processing aspects and just 1% involved marketing issues. IEIS7 are generally better
organized for tackling processing, marketing and management issues than INIFAP but they prefer to present their
projects to other funds like CONACYT because they authorize larger amounts of money and they provide better
support on certainties, evaluation processes and other issues which are highly appreciated by the academic
communities.

By supporting Fundaciones PRODUCE the project was instrumental for supporting the new R&TT model in
Mexico, promoting better linkages between producers, end-users of agricultural products and agricultural research
and education institutions, as a means of fostering the transfer and farm-level adoption of appropriate
technological innovations. It also helped the consolidation of COFUPRO - the national coordinating organization
for the 31 Fundaciones PRODUCE - created in 1997, and in obtaining recognition at the GOM levels, supporting
their strengthening efforts towards their constituents to attain their common goals at higher levels of efficiency.




                                                           - 8 -

Component 3. Institutional Strengthening, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Project Administration (at
appraisal 16%, actual 0%). ICR Rating: Marginally satisfactory

Based on the available information, this component's results are considered marginally satisfactory. This
component was designed to strengthen the institutional capacity to carry out effectively a decentralized program for
small farmers. This included: (i) improving the operational capacity of the Ministry (SAGARPA) and, in
particular, state agencies involved in the management and implementation of the Alianza; (ii) establishment and
operation of a comprehensive monitoring and impact evaluation system; (iii) analysis of how to strengthen and
evaluate technical assistance services for small farmers; and (iv) the establishment and operation of the project
coordination team (PCT) in the Ministry. There were no disbursements from the Bank loan for supporting the
project's original institutional strengthening activities, although the government allocated the resources required
from its own budget to support most of the activities originally planned. The resources allocated to Institutional
Strengthening within the Alianza programs during the project's implementation period are estimated to be about
4% of its total budget, far above the proposed project budget, but directly implemented by the states.

Even though many of the activities were implemented, the amount of funding and the scope of the activities was
considerably less than required to produce the expected outputs, particularly in view of the rapid increase in the
program's size (both in number of beneficiaries and amount of funding) and the annual changes in the Alianza's
sub-programs and norms. None of the foreseen PAD studies were done. The PCT in the Ministry was established,
but had inadequate human and financial resources to carry out its functions effectively and negligence by the
technical secretariat in SAGARPA who were directly responsible for specific sub-program definition. The state
government's had no additional resources for their work. SAGARPA carried out some activities including
technical assistance support and training for their production and institutional capacity services and for the
execution agencies in all the 32 states contributing to enhance the capacity of new decentralized rural development
approach. After FIRCO took command of project activities, the Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público (SHCP)
has not allocated funds for institutional strengthening from the PCT. Concerning the institutional strengthening
aspects, the project's emphasis was placed on improving capacity for preparing subprojects, selecting mechanisms
and procedures, and for the economic evaluation of larger investment sub-projects. In regard to the latter, several
courses and training seminars were organized, and training on the use of FARMOD software in order to help to
improve the quality of investments and the evaluation techniques applied nation wide.

Monitoring and evaluation of the project and Alianza programs is unsatisfactory. The PAD presented a detailed
conceptual and operational framework for the monitoring and evaluation of the project including a clear distinction
between monitoring of physical and financial indicators (Management Information System), and evaluation of
outcomes and impact. A long list of indicators broken down by type was defined and a sub-set included in the
Implementation Letter signed by the Government. While the detailed arrangements for the M&E system were
spelled out by the time of project effectiveness, very little was accomplished during the life of the project.
However, non-computer based reporting was maintained by FIRCO which allowed for project physical and
financial monitoring for the main programs supported by ALCAMPO. After more than one year's work in the
development of the project's computer based Alianza's Integrated Information System (SIALC), SAGARPA
decided that the system was inadequate because it was designed to consider too many process indicators and a huge
non-standardized data base which made it too heavy and difficult to match with the states' M&E systems. An
outgrowth of the original work was a new, simpler System of Information for the Rural Sector (SISER) that started
to be implemented, and by September 2003 was functioning partially. However, timely information is still not
available because of insufficient informatics infrastructure and communications with the regionalized SAGARPA
offices: the Rural Development Districts (DDRs) and the Centros de Apoyo al Desarrollo Rural (CADERs).

Concerning continuous monitoring and impact evaluation, the baseline survey expected to be done at project
start-up was completed and formally submitted to the Bank in May 2001, rather late to be a benchmark for the
mid-term evaluation which had been originally scheduled for March 2001. Thus, the annual evaluation process
carried out by the FAO-SAGARPA evaluation team (for 2000 and 2001) provided important performance
information that was and continues to be useful to improve the Alianza programs. However, the national




                                                           - 9 -

evaluation relies on inputs and surveys carried out by the states which are of variable quality and reliability, and
are an evaluation of the entire set of Alianza programs and, until 2001, did not provide an evaluation by type of
beneficiary making it difficult to look at the specific target group of ALCAMPO. However, this does not detract
from the important conclusions and observations in these reports, nor their potential impact on the "federal" level.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The PAD estimated a 18.5% economic rate of return (ERR) for the project based on the extrapolation of expected
results of 28 representative farm models for the irrigation, improved pastures and improved dairy technology
programs. Thirty seven farm models were identified and budgeted for the ex post financial evaluation. The
benefits considered through the aggregation of farm models included increased production and lower farm costs.
Given the policy reforms and the opening of the Mexican economy, the rate of exchange of the Mexican Peso is
considered to be determined in the open market and domestic prices are considered in line with border economic
values. Border prices adjustments were assumed only for main tradable commodities produced by the project.
Conversion factors of 0.8 for maize and 0.9 for beans, sorghum and wheat on the product side and for investments
and inputs were applied for the economic evaluation. While the project increased on-farm and off-farm
employment in the project areas, unemployment and under-employment were not significantly altered. Therefore,
shadow prices for unskilled labor were estimated at 85% of the market costs, while for skilled labor, the market
values were assumed to reflect its opportunity cost.

Under these assumptions, the ERR was estimated at about 15.5 % and the NPV at US$95.7 million. Excluded
from the analysis were: (i) the costs and benefits of the poverty alleviation activities of the Rural Development
Program, as 85% of the resources received by poor farmers through this program were too small to merit an
economic analysis; (ii) 50% of the cost of the production support services and institutional strengthening
components, as they were directed to beneficiaries from the mentioned Rural Development Program; and (iii) the
applied research component as the benefits would be difficult to quantify and, in any case, would be available not
only to project beneficiaries, but to the farming community at large. Regarding the project's programs, those
dealing with improving dairy and irrigation technology resulted in higher ERR (17.9% and 16.8% respectively) as
can be seen in Annex 3. For productive investments that favored very poor farmers through basic infrastructure
improvement and small investments in tools and small livestock, no rate of return was calculated, as indicated
above.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial analysis was carried out to assess the actual results obtained by beneficiaries of productive investments
most demanded by farmers under the small irrigation, improved pastures and dairy production programs.
Thirty-seven farm models were considered, including 28 models for typical small irrigation projects (various
irrigation methods representing the states where most of those cases occurred), and three farm models for each of
the following type of production systems: improved technology in dairy farms, improved pastures for meat
production and pasture improvements for dairy and meat production systems. Assumptions regarding yield and
income increases, were cross-checked by reprocessing data obtained from surveys undertaken by the
FAO-SAGARPA 2002 annual evaluations of the Alianza programs. As expected, given the level of subsidy
provided to the various on-farm investments under the project, all selected farm models show relatively high
financial results as can be seen in Annex 3. Increases in farmers' income, as a result of project-financed on-farm
investment, would range from about 21% to 261% at full development. Full investment costs were included as
well as the amount of subsidy provided by the project, the latter entering into the models as grants. Annex 3
present the analyzed cases.

The overall financial rate of return was estimated at 27.8% and the net present value at US$246.9 million. For the
aggregated financial and economic evaluation, the mentioned 37 farm models were incorporated, according to the
relative importance of the various productive investments financed, as indicated by actual demand patterns during
implementation. Cost calculations included US$531 million of incremental on-farm investment and recurrent
expenditure involved in the three programs excluding subsidized investments costs.




                                                          - 10 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
There have been no disbursements from the Bank loan for supporting the project's original institutional
strengthening activities, although the government has allocated substantial resources from its own budget to
support some of the activities originally planned. However, the resources allocated to Institutional Strengthening
within the Alianza programs during the implementation period, are estimated at about 4% of its total budget
(earmarked for M&E and Training). The Institutional Strengthening and Project Administration Building
Component was thought to support with training and technical assistance to staff with management
implementation responsibilities at the central and state levels, with particular emphasis on subproject preparation
and selection mechanisms and procedures; the development and implementation of a comprehensive monitoring
and impact evaluation system and studies on relevant small farmer development issues; and the establishment and
operation of the Project Coordination Team. Even though the activities were implemented, several reasons
converged for the non-disbursing under these categories: (i) lack of incentives for the implementing agencies to
comply with the cumbersome administrative justification of expenses; (ii) government budgetary constraints
limiting funds available for these activities to be performed from the central level; (iii) a general GOM practice not
to utilize loan funds for technical assistance; (iv) SAGARPA proceeding to utilize its own budgetary funds for
many TA/institutional strengthening activities; and (v) increased flexibility in using their own consultant selection
procedures. Considering that many of the foreseen institutional strengthening activities were performed under
SAGARPA and states' counterpart financing, it was agreed to re-allocate the unused categories 3-5 loan funds to 1
and 2 categories.

During implementation, the project's induced modifications included the functioning of technical committees
strengthening the impact of decentralization of project activities including FIRCO's assessment of eligibility of
investments for Bank financing, more flexible rules on key administrative and technical aspects such as
maintenance of acceptable standards for the evaluation of proposals, record keeping procedures, and the
consideration of environmental and procurement guidelines. By 2001 some Alianza programs changed names and
merged to improve the focus on technical assistance under the Alianza: SINDER and PEAT became the "Programa
de Extensionismo y Servicios Profesionales" (PESPRO).

In summary, the institutional development impact of ALCAMPO project is considered as modest since a
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system and an adequate information system based on updated
performance indicators (including physical implementation figures) functioned in a very limited manner. Even
though data for three of the four productive investment programs existed, FIRCO's limited resources have
restricted their ability to obtain the necessary information from SAGARPA's M&E of the other ALCAMPO
supported programs and the overall Alianza programs. The Mid-Term Review originally scheduled to be carried
out by March 2001 was not done.

Footnotes:

5. In 2001 PEAT and SINDER activities were concentrated in one program called "Programa de Extensionismo y Servicios
Profesionales" (PESPRO).

6. The Fundaciones PRODUCE is an innovative participatory and demand-driven technology improvement model applied in
Mexico since 1997 to support R&TT. There is one Fundacion per State, and they are created, led and administered by farmers.

7. Instituciones de Enseñanza e Investigación Superior .

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Mexico's rural poverty is an endemic problem. The country's peculiar land-ownership system, which has
fragmented agricultural land and denied full property rights in more than half of Mexico's territory, seems to be
largely responsible for keeping Mexico's rural areas impoverished at a time when urban Mexico has prospered.




                                                          - 11 -

Farms of five hectares and less are unable to produce maize and other grains at competitive prices. Subsidies for
the production of maize generates a pervasive incentive for families to continue cultivating it regardless of the
dearth of productivity.

Many of the problems affecting public interventions in the rural sector are either beyond the control of government
or under its control, but politically difficult to handle due to heavily ingrained alleged cultural values, fed through
decades of mismanagement. Some of these problems include persistent decline of international prices of
commodities, regional or cultural differences, poorly functioning markets, nonconductive foreign exchange
regimes and counterproductive government interventions in rural financial markets. There are still structural
limitations in the capacity of small farmers to access assets, to participate in better functioning factor and goods
markets (land, financial services, labor and technology, marketing facilities) and to add value in the post harvest
chain, constraining their development and contribution to the growth process. This situation constitutes a major
policy challenge because the NAFTA agreement will put the sector in open competition with Canada and the
U.S.A. as of 2008.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Even though the most drastic structural reforms have been carried out over the last decade on the rural sector
(GATT and NAFTA's driven trade liberalization, elimination of price interventions, constitutional reform of land
tenure) the results have been disappointing (stagnation growth in agriculture, lack of competitiveness, increased
rural poverty) in spite of much public support (PROCAMPO, PROCEDE, Alianza, CONASUPO, ASERCA, etc.).
ASERCA grain subsidies have nearly replaced the previous CONASUPO subsidies, maintaining artificially high
returns on traditional crops and slowing the process from cereals to other higher value added crops like fruits and
vegetables. Additionally, implementation was slowed down during 1999 and part of 2000 due to disagreements
with the auditing methodology proposed by the Secretaria de Contraloria y Desarrollo Administratvo
(SECODAM) resulting in delays in presenting the audit reports, and by the long transition period of government
administration both before and after the July 2000 presidential election. SHCP's policy to restrict disbursements
for certain categories (i.e. institutional strengthening) and the non-aditionallity character of loan funded project
activities also affected implementation and ALCAMPO's overall impact.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
During the last years of implementation, the need for further decentralization to States as executing agencies
resulted in SAGARPA's reduced control over the use of transfer resources to the States. According to the
FAO-SAGARPA 2002 evaluation, farmers' requests have to go through several repetitive federal and state stages
before its approval with little value added in many instances. Many of the requisites are simple bureaucratic steps
and when modifications are introduced they are only over formalities with no consequence in improving the use of
the resources or the adequacy of the proposal. The loan funds could have further contributed to this strategic
aspect by financing the enhancement of states' institutional capacity and effectiveness in formulating and
implementing the Alianza programs, building over and expanding the evaluation work being carried out by the
FAO evaluation team.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At the original closing date, 100% of the loans budget was completely disbursed. However, the productive
investments and the production support services components accounted for overall disbursements, while the
original institutional building/project management component was totally financed by the government who
allocated substantial resources from its own budget. According to FAO's Alianza program evaluation team, there
were numerous regular institutional expenditures undertaken which would have been eligible for Bank funding.
Project financial management rating was downgraded to unsatisfactory due to constant delays in the submission of
the audit reports due to: (i) delays by SECODAM in designating the auditing firms; (ii) delays by SAGARPA in
securing the required budgetary funds for contracting the auditing firms; and (iii) methodological, contractual and
economic issues arisen between SAGARPA and the auditing firms, due to the lack of a complete set of data at the
initiation of the work and the subsequent need to expand the sample of subprojects audited in order to achieve the
required level of confidence.




                                                           - 12 -

In terms of disbursements the project was among the best performers in the Mexico portfolio, achieving 100% of
the foreseen budget before the original closing date. The non-additionality of IBRD project funding has been
affecting disbursements in some projects, since sectoral ministries including SAGARPA and the sub national State
governments, are increasingly reluctant to justify disbursements from loan proceeds under most projects. This
attitude is the result of the fact that their budget does not depend on the sometimes cumbersome process of
documenting expenses as required by Bank procedures. In the case of ALCAMPO this problem only affected
disbursements under categories 3, 4 and 5 but funds were reallocated and investments justified under categories 1
and 2. The difference with ALCAMPO was mainly because the UCP under SAGARPA (up to year 2000) and
FIRCO thereafter, had performed a satisfactory technical and administrative role.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of project benefits is expected to be highly likely, even though the increase in physical assets was not
adequately complemented with sufficient improvements in social and human capital through training, technical
assistance, organization and better access to project financial, marketing and technological services. According to
the 2001 annual evaluation of the FAO-SAGARPA team, the Alianza has demonstrated that the program
constituted an adequate strategy for increasing farmers' income and agricultural production in spite of several
inefficiencies in its implementation. Its federalized implementation constitutes a successful example within the
context of the country's policies and the cost-sharing mechanism of investments that has mobilized funds from the
states and beneficiaries toward capitalization of the sector. The focus on productive change and improvement of
competitiveness of farms is allowing for sustainable structural changes.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Alianza Contigo program continues to be implemented and improved every year and is at the center of the Fox
administration's sector policy in its efforts to prepare farmers to full integration in NAFTA by 2008. The current
combination of improved provision of production-related support services, and the assistance to decentralized
management and administration of rural services is expected to continue to improve the past limited effectiveness
and efficiency of public interventions and expenditures. On-going decentralization has still to advance further to
the municipal level to comply with the current government policies under the new Sector Program 2001 ­ 2006
and the Sustainable Rural Development Law. The process will continue to enhance participation and the
demand-driven nature of the assistance.

Transition should be measured within the context of the on going Alianza Contigo program, the decentralization
process being implemented and the limited implementation capacity and the highly politicized environment of the
State governments and institutions. During implementation, sustained beneficiary demand for support proceeded
smoothly. The technical and operational focus of the total Alianza programs evolved adopting many
improvements towards a more integrated strategy and incorporated many of the elements included in ALCAMPO's
technical and operational philosophy, including program synergies and increased provision of improved quality
technical assistance. With the on-going restructuring and decentralization of the programs for enhanced
integration and relevance, the government also pursued several parallel initiatives that will further improve the
Alianza programs: (i) it enacted a new Rural Development Law that provides the framework for future policy and
institutional intervention in the sector; (ii) it approved a Sector Development Plan emphasizing competitiveness,
on-farm and off-farm employment generation, promotion of rural enterprises, rural finance and regional
development; and (iii) it enacted the Capitalization Law that disconnects the PROCAMPO8 payments from
planting and permits "cashing-out" the discounted value of the whole of those payments against viable investment
projects.

The Alianza Contigo program in year 2002 fully incorporated the integrated approach under a rural development
perspective following ALCAMPO's philosophy. All previous disconnected programs were conceptually and
operationally grouped into three basic thematic areas: (i) physical capital development (investments); (ii) human
capital strengthening (training); and (iii) social capital building through enhanced organizational linkages.




                                                           - 13 -

According to the 2002 Operational Manual9, the new strategy is based on the promotion of capitalization of the
family production units; a sustainable use of natural resources; adding value through post-harvest transformation
processes, capacity building in rural activities; and the promotion of higher levels of participation especially
through farmers' organizations. Three new basic programs operated nationally and through the federation; and
two specific programs, one national and the second one implemented federally were defined. Basic programs
incluye: Programa de Apoyos a los Proyectos de Inversión Rural (PAPIR), Programa de Desarrollo de
Capacitaciones en el Medio Rural (PRODESCA) and Programa de Fortalecimiento de Empresas y Organización
Rural (PROFEMOR). The specific programs are: Programa del Fondo Especial de Apoyo a la Formulación de
Estudios y Proyectos para el Desarrollo Rural y al Desarrollo del Capital Humano (PROFEDER), and Otros
Programas para Productores de Bajos Ingresos (OPBI).

The new approach had no negative effect over the implementation of ALCAMPO and the project continued to be
financed under the renewed Alianza Contigo, enhancing the effectiveness of the previous poorly coordinated
programs. For the first time the Alianza favored requests articulating actions that would link the allocation of farm
investments under PAPIR with the efficient identification of adequate production and marketing needs of
beneficiaries under a capacity building process through PRODESCA. Under PROFEMOR beneficiaries' active
participation is being channeled by the new Sustainable Rural Municipal and District Councils to be formed
according to the recently enacted Rural Development Law.

Footnotes:

8. PROCAMPO is a decoupled program that substituted previous direct price supports. It aims to support domestic producers
of basic staples to face competition from the U. S. and Canadian farmers granted by NAFTA, and to help Mexicans producers
to switch to more competitive crops under a liberalized context. Beneficiaries are those that cultivated (or continue to
cultivate) these crops during the three years before its implementation; being planned to last until 2008, when full trade
liberalization under NAFTA will be attained.

9. Operational Rules 2002. Diario Oficial, March 15, 2002, p. 161.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's lending performance is considered satisfactory. Although the Bank failed in 1994 to respond to the
Government's initial invitation for dialogue on the new Alianza program, with the Bank decentralized
arrangements implemented later, it responded positively and quickly to the Government's request to support the
existing program's efforts to improve the productivity of the agricultural sector by initiating preparation of new
lending operation in mid-1997. The preparation and appraisal team worked effectively with the GOM team,
evaluated the lessons of experience, and maintained a constructive dialogue throughout aiming to improve the
on-going Alianza program. The project design was adequate, though risks could have been underestimated
concerning the functioning of some of the program's procedure at the state level and the availability of good
technical assistance to support productive investments of poor farmers. Value added of the Bank during project
preparation was important especially because: (i) focus on improving small and poor farmer access to Alianza
programs through targeting mechanisms for the four investment programs being supported, and targeted training
and technical assistance programs; (ii) focus on an integrated approach to channel financial and technical
assistance in order to ensure impact at the sub-project and program level; (iii) focus on strengthening decentralized
operation-state level; and (iv) insistence on the need for monitoring and, particularly, evaluation as a critical
element of the process.

For the decentralization issue - a major challenge for the Alianza - the third component provided resources to
further strengthen and consolidate this process, but they were never utilized. It was recognized that adequate
technical assistance to small farmers had been a serious problem and the project design improved on the existing
approach by integrating the technical assistance with the investment projects. In spite of some advances, it is clear
that linking good TA to productive sub-projects targeting poor farmers remains to be a problem to be improved.



                                                              - 14 -

Monitoring and evaluation was also seen as weak and critical for this kind of decentralized program. Despite
putting considerable attention on the design of a comprehensive system and incorporating details in the Project
Implementation Manual, there was no effective M&E system operating during the project. This was a particularly
serious deficiency for impact evaluation. Perhaps because the project was fitting into the on-going Alianza and the
PRODAT project disbursements speeded up after it was restructured under Alianza, it was assumed that the project
could be implemented effectively with limited risks and consistent with the Alianza's guiding principals referred to
above.

In summary, most of the strategies initially introduced in the original project design were sooner or later adopted,
or is in the process for its adoption, by the overall Alianza program. The Bank has continuously provided its
considerable experience on policy dialogue and operations dealing with rural investment funds and facilitated
access to information and advisory capacity on design issues and lessons learned with comparable projects and
subsequent incorporation of the lessons of these experiences. The project design drew on relevant lessons from
decentralized rural development investment programs in Mexico and elsewhere. The Bank team and internal
reviewers identified most of the key issues and challenges, although some risks were underestimated and some
aspects of the design proved more difficult than envisaged. For example, the transparency of the decision-making
process was considered to be adequate, because producers would request assistance, the targeting mechanisms were
clear and simple, the list of beneficiaries and subprojects would be published, persons and institutions applying
them would be trained, and M&E would provide early warning when issues arose. The importance of the M&E
system was recognized and a detailed design was presented, but was so overly demanding and complex that had to
be changed. Even if it had been simpler, the complexity and time required to develop and put in place a new
integrated, uniform and computerized MIS and evaluation system to operate in all the states and at the central level
was underestimated.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank's supervision performance is considered satisfactory. The Bank team moved quickly to support achievement
of the effectiveness conditions (project's implementation and operational manuals) and to process an amendment to
increase retroactive financing. The Bank was flexible and supportive giving quick responses under the Borrower's
changing conditions (new government administration, evolving sector policy and Alianza programs, auditing
requirements, etc.) and providing proven quality advice to improve and better target the existing programs. During
supervision the Bank missions supported the strengthening of SAGARPA, FIRCO and state agencies'
decentralized capacity for the preparation, assessment and selection of investment proposals to be financed under
the ALCAMPO project and training in the use of the software FARMOD as modeling tool for project evaluation.
The Bank also supported the development and adjustment of monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, and the
Government's effort for decentralizing agricultural support services and the promotion of markets for private-sector
delivery of technical assistance and training.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is considered satisfactory since it managed to re-establish the dialogue process
and committed itself at high standards to assist the decentralization process with the best efforts from preparation
and implementation assigning top expertise, adequate resources, and intensive supervision and proactive dialogue.
With its experience in poverty alleviation and decentralized, demand driven projects in Mexico and other Latin
America countries often under matching grant arrangement, the Bank was highly proactive to support the GOM in
its efforts to reduce rural poverty by improving access to physical and technological production inputs, stimulating
decentralization and higher levels of participation to improve the rural economy and promoting sustainable
agricultural production and agro-enterprises.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The government was committed to its aim to develop and further improve the Alianza program responding rapidly
to the project preparation requirements with increased focus on strengthening the decentralization process and
progressive delegation of decision-making responsibilities at the state and local levels. A detailed Project
Implementation Manual was timely prepared incorporating several innovative mechanisms to the on-going
programs and SAGARPA adapted its financial management system in line with the Bank's requirements.


                                                          - 15 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Project management was satisfactory during the implementation period, and appropriate federal funds were
assigned to cover project costs in a timely manner for the different programs supported by the project during the
4.5 years implementation period. Initial key requirements were rapidly met and regular disbursements started
before effectiveness as foreseen. Budget allocations to the project were adequate to ensure continuity and
disbursements went as expected except for some months in year 2000 due to a disagreement with the audit
methodology promoted by SECODAM endorsed by the Bank. It was argued that a complete audit of all
subprojects supported should be carried out instead of using a sampling procedure. The proposed methodology
would result in unacceptable audit costs of about US$1 million but it was finally discarded and after several months
normal disbursements reassumed. NAFIN was highly helpful and maintained a continuous dialogue and proactive
partnership with the Bank, responding in a diligent manner. However, the SHCP's decision not to support budget
assignments to institutional strengthening activities affected the full attainment of expected results.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
During the first two years a small Project Coordination Team within SAGARPA was in charge of implementation.
Since March 2001, under the new government administration, FIRCO (a technical agency within SAGARPA) was
commissioned to coordinate the project and established a Coordination Group with representation from numerous
institutions involved in its implementation. The Coordination Unit was integrated at a central level as responsible
for procurement, audits, and M&E, decentralizing operational aspects to the state agencies for the coordination and
evaluation of the programs supported by the project. FIRCO trained the state agencies in various project activities
diminishing their administrative responsibilities but maintaining an efficient disbursement processing procedure.

Although SAGARPA with FAO assistance made good progress in carrying out a comprehensive annual evaluation
of the Alianza Program, the borrower failed to maintain and update a set of relevant performance indicators
including physical implementation figures and to put in place a monitoring and evaluation system for ALCAMPO,
which is still functioning in a very limited manner. Even though the data existed, FIRCO's limited resources
restricted their ability to obtain the information from SAGARPA's overall M&E system of the Alianza program.
Additionally, the mid-term review scheduled to be carried out by March 2001 has never been carried out.
However, the ALIANZA had a minimum manual M&E system that allowed the Bank to supervise implementation
and monitor ALCAMPO's performance.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is assessed as satisfactory. In spite of some limitations outlined before,
its commitment to the project was permanent and clear; and the limitations observed had marginal impact on the
achievement of project objectives.

8. Lessons Learned

FIRCO has proven to be an excellent Bank partner in project coordination and decentralized management, in spite
of the fact that decentralization was introduced by the entering GOM administration with lack of state's ownership
and the budget agencies' non-additionality problem. The latter results in other agencies being reluctant to comply
with the time consuming paperwork required to justify disbursements and reporting.

Project co-financing of existing government integrated programs provides an excellent opportunity to improve
sector policies, target public investment and concentrate joint efforts towards poverty alleviation. It can also result
in quick disbursement loan operations.

Some flexible incremental financing for recurrent costs and minimum staffing might motivate the interest of States
to follow Bank procurement and justification of expenditure procedures. Otherwise they will continue to be
indifferent on justifying disbursements even though investments and actions are properly done.




                                                         - 16 -

Programs should include an effective process of participative, decentralized planning process and support should
be part of strategic projects articulated within medium term regional or sectorial programs. Decentralization
should include municipalities and should be part of the selection of the demand driven requests.

Efforts should accelerate the process of articulation of mid term regional and sectorial programs into integrated
actions (micro catchments areas, communities, product-value chains) with adequate technical assistance and
supervision, reducing the number of beneficiaries as trade-off for significant impact on transforming production
systems, increased productivity, production, income and employment.

Emphasis of future projects should be placed on technical assistance, training and institutional building at the
States and regional levels based on existing local institutions (government agencies, municipalities, farmer's
organizations, NGOs). Their capacity building should be a fundamental ingredient for success.

Combining demand-led decisions with a strong participatory planning approach to the various project components
or lines of activities should have a bigger impact.

Local institutions and organizations should be able to: (i) decide priorities under a regional development plan
taking the territory as the planning unit (micro basins); (ii) appraise and approve subprojects; (iii) decide on
prioritized areas for the use of project funds rather than a completely free demand driven approach; and (iv)
organize extension, training, upstream technical assistance, and participatory planning activities.

Adaptive research, technology transfer and support services (technical assistance, extension and training) should
have a strategic and relevant role on all rural development projects targeting small farmers in order to provide the
required public goods for orienting the process and compensating their chronic limited access to adapted improved
technologies and information about their availability.

It is important that access to resources for productive investments be accompanied by the required technical
support for technology validation and community organization.

Poor timing and lengthy budgetary and bureaucratic processes are likely to jeopardize the implementation of
programs particularly in agriculture where natural cycles impose rigid time constraints.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                         - 17 -

                                                         México, D.F. a 24 de junio de 2004.

                                                         Oficio No. 100.330.01.00/    /2004


SR. MICHAEL CARROLL
GERENTE DEL PROYECTO ALCAMPO
BANCO MUNDIAL
P R E S E N T E


Con relación al Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Productividad Agropecuaria

(ALCAMPO), suscrito con el Banco Mundial con el préstamo 4428-ME, me permito

notificar a usted, que de acuerdo a su solicitud, hemos procedido a revisar el

Informe de Cierre del Proyecto.


Al respecto, y como resultado de lo anterior, consideramos, que en términos

generales, estamos de acuerdo en el contenido del informe de referencia.


Sin más por el momento, aprovecho la ocasión para enviarle un cordial saludo.



                                         A T E N T A M E N T E
                               DIRECTOR GENERAL Y DELEGADO
                                        FIDUCIARIO ESPECIAL




                          ING. JOSÉ ANTONIO MENDOZA ZAZUETA


c.c.p. Ing. Arturo Aguilar Rosete.- Gerente de Supervisión Técnica.- Presente.



(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no other co financers to this project

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                   - 18 -

No other partners in implementing this project.

10. Additional Information




                                                - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                        1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in PAD                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Beneficiaries household income increases 25%                                 60%
Beneficiaries productivity increases     25%                                 20%
Improved irrigation systems              on 300,000 ha                       198,000 ha
Pastures established                     on 2 million ha                     4.1 million ha
milk production established or improved  on 10,000 production units          50,000 production units
rural support activities                 reach 750,000 beneficiaries         763,000 beneficiaries
TA integrated to investment projects     in 50% of participating states      50% of participating states




Output Indicators:
                                                                        1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in PAD                 Actual/Latest Estimate
BENEFICIARIES OF TA PROGRAMS
- Research projects address beneficiary
needs                                    more than 50%
- SINDER                                 350,000                             540,000 (SINDER)
- PEAT                                   1.2 million                         197,000 (PEAT)
- PAI                                    15,000                              N/A (PAI)

ALLOCATIONS FOR TA PROGRAMS              US$172.9 million                    172.0 million
- Research and Technology Transfer
- SINDER
- PEAT
- PAI
BENEFICIARIES OF PRODUCTIVE              US$990,000
INVESTMENTS
Small irrigation Program                 33,000                              25,815
Improved Pastures Program                110,000                             106,417
Dairy Production Program                 51,000                              60,467
Rural Development Program (PADER)        750,000
ALLOCATIONS FOR PRODUCTIVE               US$343 million
INVESTMENTS
Small Irrigation Program                                                     41 million
Improved Pastures Program                                                    72 million
Dairy Production Program                                                     47 million
Rural Development Program (PADER)


Loan Disbursements                       US$444.5 million                    US$444.5 million


1End of project




                                                           - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       Appraisal        Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                       Estimate            Estimate           Appraisal
                          Component                                   US$ million        US$ million
1. Productive Investment                                                328.50                377.50                 115
2. Production Support Services                                          165.50                172.50                 104
3. Institutional Strengthening and Project Administration                 30.50                  0.00                  0

Total Baseline Cost                                                     524.50                550.00
  Physical Contingencies                                                                         5.60
  Price Contingencies                                                     26.70
                             Total Project Costs                        551.20                555.60
                                              Front-end fee                4.40                  4.40
                      Total Financing Required                          555.60                560.00




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                       Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                      1           N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                                              Other
1. Works                                0.00                0.00              78.50               0.00            78.50
                                       (0.00)              (0.00)             (62.20)            (0.00)          (62.20)
2. Goods                                0.00                1.20              314.00              0.00            315.20
                                       (0.00)              (1.00)            (249.50)            (0.00)         (250.50)
3. Services                             0.00                0.00              115.80              0.00            115.80
TA to Beneficiaries                    (0.00)              (0.00)             (92.00)            (0.00)          (92.00)
4. Services                             0.00                0.00              26.80               0.00            26.80
Studies & Evaluations                  (0.00)              (0.00)             (26.80)            (0.00)          (26.80)
5. Services-Training                    0.00                0.00               3.70               0.00             3.70
                                       (0.00)              (0.00)             (3.70)             (0.00)           (3.70)
6. Miscellaneous                        0.00                11.00              0.00               0.00            11.00
   Recurrent Costs                     (0.00)              (5.50)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (5.50)
   Total                                0.00                12.20             538.80              0.00            551.00
                                       (0.00)              (6.50)            (434.20)            (0.00)         (440.70)
1/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operationg costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                        - 21 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.00            195.00             0.00             195.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)          (125.00)            (0.00)          (125.00)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00            222.00             0.00             222.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)          (177.00)            (0.00)          (177.00)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00            138.00             0.00             138.00
   TA to Beneficiaries                     (0.00)             (0.00)          (138.00)            (0.00)          (138.00)
   4. Services                              0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
   Studies & Evaluations                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Services-Training                     0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
       Recurrent Costs                     (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.00               0.00            555.00             0.00             555.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)          (440.00)            (0.00)          (440.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Productive Investment          274.60       68.70       343.30       314.10        63.50     377.60      114.4     92.4    110.0
Production Services            138.30       34.60       172.90       126.00        46.70     172.50      91.1     135.0     99.8
Institutional Strengthening    28.00         7.00        34.90        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Project Administration
Total Baseline Cost            440.90       110.20      551.10       440.10       110.20     550.10      99.8     100.0     99.8
Front End Fee                                                         4.40         0.00       4.40
Contingencies                   3.60         0.90         4.50                                            0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs            444.50       111.20      555.60       444.50       111.30     555.60      100.0    100.1    100.0




                                                           - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


                          Table 3.1 - Summary of Economic and Financial Analysis



                                             Expected at Appraisal'            Estimated at Completion2
                                           Economic         Financial         Economic            Financial
                                           Analysis          Analysis          Analysis           Analysis
         Benefits         (Mx$ M)          21,044.0          23,381.5           10,145.3          10,595.0
                          (US$ .M)          2,104.4          2,338.2            1,014.5            1,059.5
         Costs            (Mx$ M)          18,787.9          19,163.4           9,188.1            8,125.6
                          (US$ M)           1,878.8          1,916.3             918.8              812.6
         Net Benefits:    (Mx$ M)           2,256.0          4,218.1             957.2             2,469.4
                          (US$ M)            225.6            421.8              95.7               246.9
         IRR:                                18.5%            26.3%              15.5%             27.8%
        ' Base 1998 =0
        2 Base 2002=0



Summary of Benefits and Costs

According to the PAD the project was designed to provide technical and financial assistance to some 240,000 small
commercial producers to develop productive investments and to improve their competitiveness in an increasingly
open economy. It would implement a program aimed at providing small-scale on-farm infrastructure and minor
equipment and supplies as well as technical assistance and training to some 750,000 poor farmers to improve their
level of income and standard of living. Within the Alianza programs, project activities would be concentrated
mostly on groups of eligible beneficiaries, including indigenous people, women and rural youth in the areas with
the largest concentration of small and poor farmers. Economic benefits would be the result of increased agricultural
production and farmers' income. From an analysis of a sample of eighteen farm models the PAD concluded that
small commercial farmers would have a significant increase in the on-farm income as a result of productive
investment financed under the proposed project and also resulting in an improvement in food security for these
households.

For this ICR ex post evaluation, similar criteria were applied as those used for the PAD original assessment. Thirty
seven farm models were identified and budgeted for the productive investments financed under the small irrigation,
improved pastures and dairy production programs were included. Within the three mentioned programs on-farm
total investments and incremental recurrent costs were equivalent to US$656.4 million of which US$119.2 million
were financed under a non reimbursable basis by the project. Farmers contributed to the other 82% of the co
financed costs (about US$241 covering 67% of those investments and the rest, US$296 million, spent in other
related additional investment or recurrent costs). It was assumed that the project also provided US$87 million
through technical assistance and training of these farmers, costs directly related to the development of the
estimated benefits through the support programs, including their share on the assistance to decentralized
management and administration of rural services.

Excluded from the analysis were: (i) the costs and benefits of the poverty alleviation activities of the Rural
Development Program, as 85% of the resources received by poor farmers through this program were too small to
merit an economic analysis; (ii) 50% of the cost of the production support services and institutional strengthening
components, as they were directed to beneficiaries from the mentioned Rural Development Program; and (iii) the
applied research component as the benefits would be difficult to quantify and, in any case, would be available not
only to project beneficiaries, but to the farming community at large.




                                                        - 23 -

Financial Analysis

After completion new financial and economic estimates were calculated based on actual representative cases
financed under the productive investment component. A summary of the main characteristics and results of these
farm models are presented in the table below. The detailed financial tables are available in the project files. The
models representing improved dairy technology investments and those in irrigation and improved pastures reflect
the situation of actual representative investment proposals financed to individual and groups of small farmers and a
conservative estimation of the benefits being obtained.

The financial analysis was carried out to assess the actual results obtained by beneficiaries of the productive
investments most demanded by small farmers under the small irrigation, improved pastures and dairy production
programs. The results of those investments were analyzed within the framework of the most common production
systems used by beneficiaries. Thirty seven farm models were considered, including 28 models for typical small
irrigation projects (various irrigation methods representing the states where most of those cases occurred), and
three farm models for each of the following type of production systems: improved technology in dairy farms,
improved pastures for meat production and pasture improvements for dairy and meat production systems.
Assumptions regarding yield and income increases, were cross-checked by reprocessing data obtained from surveys
undertaken by the FAO-SAGARPA annual evaluations of the Alianza programs.

As expected, given the level of subsidy provided to the various on-farm investments under the project, all selected
farm model show relatively high financial results as can be seen in Table 3.2. Increases in farmers' income, as a
result of project-financed on-farm investment, would range from about 21% to 261% at full development. Full
investment costs were included as well as the amount of subsidy provided by the project which entered into the
models as grants.




                                                        - 24 -

                                 Table 3.2 ­ Financial Results over Representative Farm Models


                                       Farm                 Investment               On-Farm Income
          Type of Model                  size       Total cost      ALCAMPO           w/o        with   F.R.R.
       (private and social                                           incentive      project     project
               sectors)                  (ha)                 (US$ 000)                    (US$)          (%)
    Drip irrigation- private BC          20.0          130.0           45.6          154.9       233.4    42.8
    Drip irrigation- social BC           10.0          123.8           27.5           77.7       99.0     29.5
    Tape irrigation - private BC         30.0          239.0           84.0          193.1       359.7    129
    Tape irrigation - social BC          38.0          195.7           92.7           29.6       89.9     23.1
    Sprinkling irrig-. Private SIN       25.0          187.5           64.8          222.6       553.5    298
    Drip irrigation- private SIN         22.0          220.0           65.0           86.8       248.3    139
    Drip irrigation- social SIN           7.0          172.0           23.7            6.1       39.8     65.9
    Tape irrigation- private SON         15.0          158.0           45.0           88.9       167.3    62.5
    Low pressure- private SON             8.0           17.3            8.6           25.2       36.6     58.9
    Micro sprinkling- social TAM          4.0           35.5           10.4           30.4       38.9     48.9
    Micro sprinkling- private TAM        17.0          175.5           48.2          104.4       141.5    51.5
    Sprinkling- private TAM              35.0          436.5           96.3          108.4       176.7    43.5
    Central Pivot- private TAM            6.0           43.3           19.4           11.5       41.7     178
    Drip irrigation- private TAM          8.3          127.3           35.5           85.8       124.8    87.4
    Low pressure- private Other          20.0           58.9           26.5           66.7       95.9     27.5
    Central pivot- private Other         13.3          133.0           87.3           42.0       61.0     13.5
    Sprinkling irrig- private Other      19.0          189.0           85.0           63.5       91.7     36.7
    Micro sprinkling- private CHIH       22.0          189.0           77.8           63.3       112.0    52.4
    Micro sprinkling- social CHIH         5.0           43.5           18.0           22.4       31.3     37.9
    Low pressure- private CHIH           12.0           89.7           34.7           -3.7       13.6     109
    Low pressure- social CHIH            55.0          411.9           185.4          -31.3      50.6     110
    Central Pivot- private CHIH          17.0           57.2           25.0           40.8       96.9     107
    Conduction- social LAG                2.0           14.3            6.9            5.7        9.2     141
    Combined irrigat- private LAG        25.0          200.0           88.0           82.1       135.3    66.8
    Low pressure- private LAG             3.0           19.4            8.9           38.4       59.1     669
    Low pressure- social LAG             25.0          127.4           57.0          240.0       409.4    647
    Low pressure- GUA/MICH/JAL           12.0           75.0           37.5           75.1       103.2    76.2
    Conduction- private LAG              12.0          150.0           42.3           32.6       64.2     257
    Dairy Technology impr. TAM            5.0          120.0           48.0           45.4       72.5     45.7
    Dairy Technology impr. QTO            4.0           69.0           19.0           27.8       41.5     22.4
    Dairy Technology CHIAPAS             25.0           91.2           45.6           56.7       78.9     23.3
    Dairy Technology/pasture NL          127.0         230.0           80.0           40.2       86.9     13.4
    Dairy Technology/Pasture GUE         40.0           30.0           10.0           75.2       91.0     31.2
    Dairy technology/Pasture MICH        81.0           98.3           57.5           25.4       35.2     8.4
    Pasture Improvement BC               200.0         250.0           76.0           55.2       119.5    30.9
    Pasture Improvement PUEBLA            4.0           19.9            6.0            9.7       17.1     21.9
    Pasture Improvement OAX               4.0           37.5           12.0           22.5       33.4     31.6




The overall financial rate of return was estimated at 27.8% and the net present value at US$246.9 million. For the
aggregated evaluation, the mentioned 37 farm models were incorporated, according to the relative importance of
the various productive investments financed as indicated by actual demand patterns during implementation. Each
model was weighted by its relative importance within the portion of the Alianza program financed by the project,
considering the type of project (irrigation system involved: dairy farms; improved pastures; and dairy-pasture
improvements combined) and the different regions or states where investments occurred. Cost calculations
included US$531 million incremental on-farm investment and recurrent expenditure involved, net of subsidized
investments, in the three programs.

Input and output prices were assumed at 2002 constant values, as was the real exchange rate, throughout the 20
year time horizon used in the analysis (1999 ­ 2018). The discount rate for NPV calculations was assumed to be
12%.




                                                             - 25 -

Economic Analysis

The PAD estimated an 18.5% economic rate of return (ERR) for the project based on the extrapolation of expected
results of 28 representative farm models for the irrigation, improved pastures and improved dairy technology
programs. As in the financial evaluation, for the ex post evaluation, the benefits considered through the
aggregation of farm models included increased production and lower farm costs. Given the policy reforms and the
opening of the Mexican economy, the rate of exchange of the Mexican Peso is considered to be determined in the
open market and domestic prices are considered in line with economic values. Border prices adjustments were
considered only for main tradable commodities produced by the project, including conversion factors of 0.8 for
maize, and 0.9 for beans, sorghum and wheat on the product side. For investments and inputs, a standard
conversion factor of 0.9 was applied for the economic evaluation. While the project increased on-farm and off-farm
employment in the project areas, unemployment and under-employment were not significantly altered. Therefore,
shadow prices for unskilled labor were estimated at 85% of the market costs, while for skilled labor, the market
values were assumed to reflect its opportunity cost. Under these assumptions, the ERR was estimated at about 15.5
% and the NPV at US$95.7 million.

Regarding the project's programs, those dealing with improving dairy and irrigation technology resulted in higher
ERR (17.9% and 16.8%) as can be seen in Table 3.3. For productive investments that favored very poor farmers
through basic infrastructure improvement and small investments in tools and small livestock, no rate of return was
calculated, as indicated above.

                Table 3.3 ­ Economic Results of Productive Investments per Supported Program


                     Programs                ERR             NPV               Investments (US$ million)
                                              %         US$ million       On-farm            TA           Total
                                                                                          support
            Irrigation Technology            16.8            75.3            183.7           25.0          208.7
            Dairy technology                 17.9            13.9             40.5           8.5            49.0
            Dairy-pasture improvements       14.0             5.8             43.8           9.5            53.3
            Pasture Improvements             15.8            20.2             85.1           14.0           99.1
            Project Administration             -             - 19.5             -            30.0           30.0
            Total ALCAMPO Project            15.5            95.7            353.1           87.0          440.1



Fiscal Impact

As expected the fiscal impact of the project was negative, as it was at the whole on-going Alianza Programs. State
governments derived the bulk of their budgetary resources from federal transfers as they cannot retain tax revenues.
The total cost of the Project, excluding farmers' contribution, was about US$555 million, of which roughly close to
two-thirds came from federal sources and the remaining one-third from state governments. The project supported
ongoing SAGARPA programs and operated within the existing budget allocation of SAGARPA and the state
governments, thus did not generate additional budgetary financial requirements for the Federal Government.
Incremental tax revenues as a result of project activities are negligible as sales of goods and services in the
agricultural sector are exempt from the Value Added Tax (IVA) and income tax revenues from incremental
profitability of on-farm production are also negligible given the level of income of the benefited population.




                                                         - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/24/1997


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              09/11/1998                6    INSTITUTIONAL SPEC
                                             (1); AG ECONOMIST (1);
                                             SOC SCIENTIST (1); AG
                                             EXTENSIONIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)


 Supervision

              03/12/1999                5    SR. AGRICULTURIST (1);           S               S
                                             SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1); AG.
                                             ECONOMIST (2); FINANCIAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              03/12/1999                3    SR. AGRICULTURIST (1);           S               S
                                             M&E SPECIALIST (1); SR. AG.
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              05/04/2001                3    SR. AGRICUTURIST (1); AG.        S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); OPEATIONS
                                             ANALYST (1)
              11/02/2001                2    SR. AGRICULTURIST (1);           S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              11/02/2001                3    AG. ECONOMIST (1); SR.           S               S
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
              11/02/2001                3    SR. AGRICULTURIST (1);           S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             CONSUL/RURAL DEV. SPEC
                                             (1)
              03/21/2003                2    SENIOR AGRICULTURIST (1);        S               S
                                             OPERATIONAL ANALIST (1)


 ICR
              05/17/2004                2     SR. AG. ECONOMIST (1);
                                              ECONOMIST (1)




                                              - 27 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               37                    343,233.00
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    14                     60,808.00
  Supervision                           30.8                     163,418.00
  ICR                                       7                     29,773.00
  Total                                 88.8                     597,232.00




                                            - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


FAO, Castro Flores. Gasto Publico para el Desarrollo Rural en Mexico: 1994 - 2000.
FAO-SAGARPA. Desarrollo de Proyectos Agropecuarios Integrales 2001.
FAO-SAGARPA. Evaluacion de la Alianza para el Campo 2001. Conclusiones y Recomendaciones Generales.
FAO-SAGARPA. Evaluacion de la Alianza para el Campo 2001. Informe de Evaluacion Nacional Apoyo al Desarrollo Rural.
FAO-SAGARPA. Evaluacion de la Alianza para el Campo 2001. Informe de Evaluacion Nacional Programa Lechero.
FAO-SAGARPA. Evaluacion de la Alianza para el Campo 2001. Informe de Evaluacion Nacional Programa Lechero.
FAO-SAGARPA. Evaluacion de la Alianza para el Campo 2001. Informe de Evaluacion Nacional Programa Lechero.
FAO-SAGARPA. Evaluacion de la Alianza para el Campo 2001. Informe de Evaluacion Nacional Programa Lechero.
FAO-SAGARPA. Evaluacion de la Alianza para el Campo 2001. Informe de Evaluacion Nacional Programa Lechero.
FAO-SAGARPA. Evaluacion de la Alianza para el Campo 2001. Informe de Evaluacion Nacional Programa Lechero.
FAO-SAGARPA. Evaluacion de la Alianza para el Campo 2001. Informe de Evaluacion Nacional Recuperacion de Tierras de
Pastoreo.
FAO-SAGARPA. Evaluacion de la Alianza para el Campo 2001. Informe de Evaluacion Nacional Tecnificacion del Riego.
FAO-SAGARPA. Evaluacion de la Alianza para el Campo 2001. Programa de Desarrollo Rural.
FAO-SAGARPA. Evaluacion de la Alianza para el Campo 2001. Programa de Extensionismo y Servicios Profesionales.
FAO-SAGARPA. Evaluacion de la Alianza para el Campo 2001. Programa de Fomento Ganadero y Salud Animal.
FAO-SAGARPA. Evaluacion de la Alianza para el Campo 2001. Programas de Fomento Agricola y Sanidad Vegetal.
FAO-SAGARPA. Evaluacion de la Alianza para el Campo 2001. Resultados de la Evaluacion por Procesos.
FAO-SAGARPA. Evaluacion de la Alianza para el Campo 2002. Informe de Evaluacion Nacional Fomento Agricola.
FAO-SAGARPA. Evaluacion de la Alianza para el Campo 2002. Informe de Evaluacion Nacional. Desarrollo Rural.
FAO-SAGARPA. Evaluacion de la Alianza para el Campo 2002. Informe de Evaluacion Nacional. Fomento Ganadero.
FAO-SAGARPA. Evaluacion de la Alianza para el Campo 2002. Investigacion y Transferencia de Tecnologia.
FAO-SAGARPA. Evaluacion Lechero 2001.
FAO-SAGARPA. Evaluacion Tecnificacion del Riego 2001.
FAO-SAGARPA. Investigacion y Transferencia de Tecnologia 2001.
FAO-SAGARPA. Proyecto de Promocion de Exportaciones 2001.
FIRCO. Agricultural Productivity Project. Various Semester Project Reports.
FIRCO. Estudio de Línea de Base. Proyecto ALCAMPO. Informe Ejecutivo.
FIRCO. Evaluacion Alianza para el Campo 2001. Tedcnificacion del Riego.
FIRCO. Evaluacion Nacional y Estatal 2001. Fomento Lechero.
Giuagle, M. M., Lafourcade, O., and Nguyen V. H., (eds.) 2001. Mexico: A Comprehensive Development Agenda for the New
Era. The World Bank.
The World Bank. 2002. Country Assistance Strategy. Report No. 23849-ME.
The World Bank. Implementation Completion Report. Irrigation & Drainage Sector Project. Report No. 22165.
The World Bank. Implementation Completion Report. On-Farm & Minor Irrigation Networks Improvement Project. Report No.
24603
The World Bank. OED. Evaluation Memorandum Report No 13157 Agricultural Technology Project.
The World Bank. OED. Project Completion Report No 13157 Agricultural Extension Project.
The World Bank. OED. Project Performance Assessment Report No 15794 Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan.
The World Bank. OED. Project Performance Assessment Report No 17975 Second TropicaL Agriculture and Decentralization
and Regional Development Project.
The World Bank. Project Appraisal Document. Agricultural Productivity Improvewment Project, November 30, 1998, Report
No. 18640-ME.
The World Bank.Several Aide Memoire, Back to Office Reports and PSR.
Yuñez Naude, Antonio. Lessons from NAFTA: The Case of Mexico's Agricultural Sector, Dec. 2002.




                                                           - 31 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower ICR

1.      INTRODUCTION

1.1     The Shared Risks Trust Fund (FIRCO) has prepared this Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project (ALCAMPO), to comply
with commitments with the World Bank regarding program evaluation, stemming from the
execution of Loan 4428-ME through which the ALCAMPO Project was partially financed.

1.2     Based on agreements between FIRCO and the World Bank, this report contains the
Project's results during the period 1999 ­ 2003.

1.3     This document's contents include the analysis of aspects considered in the terms of
reference for the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) agreed with the
World Bank and are based on the Bank's guidelines for preparation of ICRs, adapted to the
unique features of ALCAMPO. In addition, the report includes as annexes, data on the program's
execution and related documents.

2.      PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND OBJECTIVES

2.1     The ALCAMPO Project's overall objective is to improve the productivity and income of
small farmers through the adoption of sustainable production systems.

With this purpose, support will be given to actions which, under the framework of Alianza para el
Campo, are carried out to improve small farmers' access to investment support and production
support programs, allowing them to move forward in capitalizing their productive units and
expand their access to technology suited to their production characteristics and systems.

The Project proposed the following specific objectives:

   l To improve the productivity and profitability levels of agricultural activities.
   l To promote investment in and capitalization of the rural sector.
   l To expand technological development and accelerate the adoption of agricultural and
        livestock best practices.
   l To develop a market for private services that support production.
   l To consolidate and strengthen the processes of federalization and decentralization in the
        operation of governmental support programs.
   l To contribute to the development of more active participation by producers in the
        processes of planning, administration, execution and evaluation of development programs.

In this regard, the project's resources will contribute towards supporting those actions by Alianza
para el Campo aimed at improving productivity, directly through productive investments, and
indirectly through a set of production support services such as the development of research,
technology transfer, technical assistance and extension.




                                                - 32 -

2.2     This operation was approved on May 11, 1999 under Loan 4428-ME, and became
effective on June 23, 1999, for the original amount of US$444.45 million, to finance a project
with a total cost of US$551.0 million, and with an original closing date of December 31, 2002.

2.3     The Executor was the Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural Development, Fisheries
and Food (SAGARPA); coordination for the period from May 11, 1999 to February 27, 2001 was
the responsibility of SAGAR's General Bureau of Agricultural Development, and from February
28, 2001 to June 30, 2003 this function was assigned to and carried out by the Shared Risks Trust
Fund (FIRCO); the Borrower is Nacional Financiera; and the Government of Mexico is the
Guarantor.

2.4     The Project's principal objective consists of improving the productivity and income of
small farmers through the adoption of sustainable agricultural production systems, financed under
selected programs and supported by Alianza para el Campo.
The specific objectives contractually assigned to the program are: (a) improvement of low-income
small farmers' access to activities related to ferti-irrigation and dairy development programs and
to the establishment of lands for grazing; (b) promotion of better integration of Alianza para el
Campo's activities focused on the development of rainfed and irrigated agriculture; (c) generation,
validation and transfer of technologies suited to small-scale agricultural production conditions; (d)
strengthening of production support services; and (f) support to the process promoted by the
Government for decentralization by means of strengthening the planning and execution capacity
of state institutions and farmers' organizations.

2.5     The Program's principal components are: (a) investments; (b) Production Support
Services; and (c) Institutional Strengthening.

2.6     Investment Component. This component supports producers' demands for the technical
improvement of their productive units, contributing to the improvement of competitiveness of
agricultural supply and the sustainable development of small-scale agriculture, through the
financing of investments in irrigation technology, materials and equipment for dairy development,
establishment of pastures, and investments needed to adopt and execute sustainable practices
and/or production systems in small-scale agriculture and for the rehabilitation and improvement of
small farmers' infrastructure.

2.7     Production Support Services Component. This component considers the actions that
strengthen economic agents' ability to enable technical change through technical and institutional
monitoring. This component includes the research and technology transfer activities carried out
by the Alianza para el Campo Program through the Produce Foundations and extension, technical
assistance and training activities carried out under the framework of the following programs:
National System of Integrated Training and Rural Extension, National Extension System
(SINDER) and Elemental Technical Assistance (PEAT) programs (SINDER), Development of
Integrated Agricultural Projects (PAI).




                                                - 33 -

2.8     Institutional Strengthening Component·. This component seeks to support and strengthen
actions related to the operation and evaluation of the ALCAMPO Project's programs within an
institutional framework.

Modifications to the Original Program

2.9     The implementation rate of the Project's annual operation was affected for 10 months
(April 2000 to February 2001); during this period no investments were presented for
disbursement, especially due to the fact that during fiscal 1999 and part of 2000 the audit review
process was not performed, which caused a halt in the withdrawal of funds; moreover, the change
in the Federal Public Administration caused the coordination of ALCAMPO Project execution to
move from SAGAR's General Bureau of Agricultural Development to the Shared Risks Trust
Fund.

The main problems faced by FIRCO's Project Control Unit were to document the investments
that had been disbursed by the General Bureau of Agricultural Development, without overseeing
the proper integration of supports that protected eligible investments under the loan, and to
reactivate project disbursements.

2.10. The project did not undergo any cancellations of the original loan amount. The most
significant change took place during the final part of loan execution when a re-categorization was
made of the amounts allocated to investment categories 3, 4 and 5, which had no disbursements,
to a large extent because the actions contemplated for their financing were executed directly by
state governments and, when project coordination was transferred to FIRCO, the Secretariat of
Finance and Public Credit did not allocate budget resources to FIRCO to carry out institutional
strengthening activities.

2.11    During Project execution, PEAT and SINDER disappeared in 2000; their efforts are
concentrated in a single program entitled the Extension and Professional Services Program
(PESPRO), whose efforts are compatible with ALCAMPO's objectives under the Production
Support Services Component.

3.      COMPLIANCE WITH OBJECTIVES

Principal objectives

3.1.    Progress in compliance with the program's physical targets, as of December 2002, is
generally satisfactory, although during the second year of operation disbursement problems
occurred and the coordination for execution was replaced.

This situation was resolved through the timely intervention of the Bank, SAGARPA and NAFIN
which took measures leading to the normalization of the pace of project operations from February
28, 2001 until the project closed.




                                               - 34 -

3.2.    Financial targets.- As of 2003 the budget allocation for ALCAMPO's annual investment
operations plan for the 1998-2002 period was $PM 9.165 billion, of which 59.1% was exercised
as of 2003, totaling $PM 5.417 billion, thus satisfactorily complying with financial targets in
correlation with the highly satisfactory compliance with its physical targets. Of all the operational
programs for Alianza para el Campo's 1998-2001 fiscal years, one should take into account that
there is are eligibility criteria to carry out disbursements, and therefore the percentage of progress
was considered to be quite good. As regards fiscal 2002, in light of Alianza para el Campo's
phase-out, at the time of the Project Closing Date only the amount needed for such purpose was
disbursed.

   ALCAMPO Budget Allocated and Executed $PM Billion
   Budget       1998        1999       2000      2001     2002      TOTAL
   Allocated 1,052.9 1,646.0 1,600.9 2,442.7 2,422.5 9,165.0
   Executed     1,052.9 1,205.4 1,153.0 1,554.0 452.2               5,417.5
   %            100%        73.2%      72%       63.6%    18.7%     59.1%


3.3.    Disbursements. As of June 1, 2003, accumulated disbursements totaled US$444.5 million,
corresponding to 100% of Loan 4428-ME (Annex 6). The special account in the amount of
US$30.0 million is totally closed. The following table shows disbursement performance during
the period of project execution:

Disbursements (US$ million)

          DISBURSEMENTS 1999                2000     2001  2002     2003 TOTAL
          Program                  71.1     120.9 124.6 87.5        40.4 444.5
          Real                     114.5    63.7     101.1 93.1     72.2 444.5
          %                        160.9% 52.7% 81.1% 106.1% 178.9 100%


3.4     The annual evolution of disbursements under the World Bank loan was higher in the first
year of effectiveness. In 1999 160.9% of the scheduled amount was disbursed. During fiscal
2000 there was a delay in disbursement because the World Bank halted its execution due to
irregularities resulting from that year's audit. Beginning in 2001, SAGARPA designated FIRCO
as the agency responsible for project execution. That year, disbursements made in 2000 were
documented and the project was reactivated with a disbursement of US$101.1 million. In 2002
and 2003, 106.1% and 178.9% were disbursed, respectively.




                                                   - 35 -

                                       Evolución de Desembolsos

                          150.00
                          140.00
                          130.00
                          120.00
                          110.00
                          100.00                                              Programa
                           90.00
               Millones    80.00                                              Real
                           70.00
                       US$ 60.00
                           50.00
                           40.00
                           30.00

                                   1999    2000    2001       2002    2003




4.      PRINCIPAL FACTORS THAT AFFECTED THE PROJECT

Factors not subject to governmental control

4.1.    By not granting rural financing in recent years, the country's banking systems considerably
hindered farmers' access to credit, and therefore their inability to obtain resources to cover their
counterpart contributions under Alianza para el Campo's programs directly impacted the carrying
out of authorized actions which in some cases kept farmers from obtaining support, especially in
investment projects for irrigation technology improvement, dairy and pasture establishment
programs in which the products contributed approximately 50% of the total cost.

4.2.    Another negative factor was the release of funds to SAGARPA which normally took place
after July for each year, in which given the crop cycle made it impossible for farmers to obtain
support prior to planting dates.

4.3.    A positive factor for the project was the Bank's technical and administrative support to
authorizations of eligible expenses, without being governed by the Mexican Government's fiscal
year, and recognizing as financiable those expenses authorized in one fiscal year and paid in the
next.

Factors subject to governmental control

4.4     The joint participation of federal, state and producers' resources under the framework of
Alianza para el Campo made it possible to achieve the Project's objectives and targets, generating
the investments needed so that later, through the recovery of foreign credit, fresh foreign currency
could enter the country. In this regard, it is worthwhile to note the favorable willingness of
producers to participate in project cofinancing operations.

4.5     The transformation and crisis of Mexico's financial system negatively affected the level of
producers benefiting from eligible programs under the ALCAMPO Project, especially due to the
drastic decrease in commercial and development bank loans for agricultural production. No less



                                                       - 36 -

important was the effect of trade opening and the overall decrease in the prices of agricultural
products.

4.6     The late publication of Alianza para el Campo's Rules of Operation really shortened the
time to commit all of the program's resources (three months), causing the selection and approval
of projects to be done practically by direct demand of producers and lacking strategic and activity
planning to select sustainable projects based upon a financially and technically viable evaluation.

4.7     One negative aspect was that the obtaining of supports charged to eligible programs,
according to Alianza's Rules of Operation, happened only once, which made it impossible to
support projects by stages and to carry out in the short and medium term resource mixes for
investments, technical assistance and technology transfer, thereby generating incomplete and/or
partially developed projects.

Factors subject to the control of the Shared Risks Trust Fund

4.8     One factor that negatively affected the administration of the ALCAMPO project was that
the project was assigned to FIRCO for administration two years after the start-up of operations
and without the budget support from SHCP and SAGARPA required to carry out the institutional
strengthening efforts demanded by integrated project administration, timely audit reviews and the
lack of a computerized system for project control and monitoring, thus greatly limiting the
generation of project progress indicators.

4.9     The experience of FIRCO's Project Control Unit staff, acquired as a result of the
integrated administration of Farm Development and Rainfed Area Development Projects, financed
by the World Bank under Loans 3704-ME and 3778-ME, made it possible to carry out the actions
needed to make the ALCAMPO Project's execution more efficient, carrying out with limited
budget resources the training of technical staff in each of the country's states, for the
implementation of registration procedures, documentary support of actions, processing of
investments for disbursement, and attention to audit reviews, which are basic elements for
properly carrying out operations financed by World Bank resources.

4.10    One factor of great importance was the presence and acknowledgement of FIRCO as a
solid entity with great technical capability, by state governments and by SAGARPA's State
Delegations, which facilitated the streamlined, integrated administration of the Project in a short
period of time, bringing about the Project's reactivation.

5.      EXPECTED SUSTAINABILITY

5.1     The ALCAMPO Project, which was executed originally recognizing 8 programs under
Alianza para el Campo which is one of the main instruments of agricultural and rural development
policy in Mexico and the most important in terms of promoting production and to which is
allocated an annual budget of over 10 billion pesos, considering the Federal Government's total
contributions and those of state governments and produces, allowed the Project, financed by the
World Bank under Loan 4428-ME, to contribute directly to the strategy to progressively increase
producers' incomes, increase agricultural production at a higher rate than that of demographic
growth, produce sufficient food for the population and promote the exportation of rural products.



                                                - 37 -

To achieve these objects, the need was established to increase productivity, for which it was
proposed to facilitate access to new technologies, promote rural capitalization and promote the
quality of human resources through training.

5.2     In addition, the objectives of the ALCAMPO Project sought to impact production and
productivity, especially in the areas of low-income farmers with high productive potential,
through the capitalization of their productive units, technological innovation and training with the
implementation of agricultural development, livestock development and rural development
programs. Research and technology transfer programs were also established, with the intention of
increasing the technological level of productive activities.

5.3     To date, the results obtained under programs financed by the Projects have made it
possible to carry out exhaustive analyses with the objective of outlining the strategy of Alianza's
programs which, since 2003, are based on productive system chains, enabling the linkage of
production, distribution and marketing stages through strategic planning.


6.      BANK'S PERFORMANCE

6.1     The World Bank carried out two annual supervision missions jointly with SHCP and
NAFIN, with the objective of inspecting the program's progress, analyzing operational
contingencies and their respective solutions within the program's regulatory framework, as well as
reviewing and agreeing upon the investment program for the next year.

6.2     As part of the joint mission, field visits were made to several participating states to review
the general progress of the program's components and subcomponents and to annually define
eligible projects.

6.3     During the past three supervision missions the Bank reiterated its concern over the lack of
movement in investment categories 3, 4 and 5, aimed at supporting technical assistance and
training activities and expenditures for the production support and institutional strengthening
services of SAGARPA and the executing agencies in the Project's 32 states.

6.4     The World Bank participated actively in these missions, providing information and
technical advice, and proposing solutions to improve the program's operational progress. In
some cases it decided to make more flexible the operational guidelines of programs executed
under the framework of Alianza para el Campo, so as to facilitate the program's execution. The
ongoing dialogue among the World Bank and authorities of the Executor and Borrower and
Technical Operation Agents was a key factor in overcoming difficulties related to disbursements.

6.5     Moreover, the World Bank, through a Procurement Specialist from the Bank's Mexico
office, carried out a review of procurement procedures for disbursed activities, checking to see if
they were executed in




                                                 - 38 -

accordance with provisions in the Project's legal documents and especially reviewing relevant
documents at central level and in a sampling of states (Jalisco, Hidalgo, Quintana Roo, Yucatán,
Sonora and Chihuahua).



7.      BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE

7.1     NAFIN's performance was effective during project implementation, especially in terms of
its timely intervention to propose solutions that led to FIRCO's incorporation as Project
coordinator.   In operational terms, through the monitoring of operations, there has been a
significant improvement in the controls, records, disbursements and targets achieved.

7.2     NAFIN as the Borrower efficiently carried out its role of providing institutional support to
FIRCO and as a liaison and negotiator with the Bank. NAFIN's broad institutional experience
makes it an important player in the execution of externally-financed programs. Stemming from its
ongoing monitoring and evaluation of loan operations, the following are noteworthy: negotiations
to restructure the program, acknowledgement of expenditures made, FIRCO's incorporation in
the program, and adjustments in the category of Project audits.



8.      RESULTS ASSESSMENT


8.1     Financial Progress

On June 30, 2003, the Project's official Closing Date, 100% of all disbursements had been made,
totaling US$444.45 million.

Disbursements for each program were as follows: Irrigation Technology Improvement, US$69.5
million, equivalent to 15.8% of the total project amount; Dairy Development, US$36.5 million,
corresponding to 8.3%; Pasture Recovery, US$48.9 million, equivalent to 11.1%; Rural
Development, US$147.0 million, equivalent to 33.4%; Rural Skills Development (PRODESCA),
US$51.3 million, 11.7%; Elemental Technical Assistance, US$32.2 million, 7.3%; Development
of Integrated Agricultural Projects, US$9.8 million, 2.2%; and Research and Technology
Transfer, US$44.8 million, 10.2%.

From the above, one can deduce that 68.6% of the total project amount was disbursed under
Category 1: Goods, Works and Services, totaling US$302.0 million, and 31.4% under Category
2: Consulting Services, Training and Research, US$138.0 million.




                                              - 39 -

These percentages are in line with those of the financial structure under which the Project was
designed.

                                        PROJECT COST
                      COMPONENT                            AMOUNTS         PERCENTAGE
                                                           US$ Dollars

    Productive Investment                                            272         62

    Production Support Services                                      137         32

    Institutional Strengthening; Project Monitoring,                  31         6
    Evaluation and Administration
    TOTAL                                                          444.5        100


                          Total includes 1% initial payment


8.2.   Physical Progress

Irrigation Technology Improvement

The results achieved by this Program show that farmers' requests for support have leaned
primarily towards the installation of sprinkler irrigation systems (49%), followed by low-pressure
systems (27%), and finally by localized irrigation systems (24%).




                                                - 40 -

                                            Tipo de Sistemas de Riego




                                                        Presión
                               Aspersión
                                                               Baja             Localizado

                           49%                      27%                       24%


                    Side Roll            1%   Hidrántes             1% Cintilla             4%

                    Pivote Central 2%         Conducción            1% Microaspersión 5%

                    Cañon                6%   Compuertas 25%           Goteo               15%

                    Aspersión            40%



The area benefited totaled 197,962 hectares, with the following percentages corresponding to
each type of irrigation system:




With the installation of these irrigation systems, the area benefited includes the following cropping
pattern: vegetables (25%), fodder (24%), basic foodstuffs (23%), fruits (19%), and finally
industrial crops (9%), showing a slight trend in farmers' decisions to plant crops with higher
economic profitability.

The number of farmers who benefited from these projects was 48,024, of whom 78% are
ejidatarios, 16% small farmers and 6% communal farmers. Under this program, 4,158,248
hectares were benefited.



                                                    - 41 -

                                      Productores Beneficiados
                                              27,729
                                              112,547

                                                                Pequeños
                                                                Propietarios
                                                                  28 %




                        Ejidatarios
                           71 %                                   Comuneros
                                                                      2 %




The farmers who received support from this program totaled 112,547, of whom 71% are
ejidatarios, 28% small farmers and 2% communal farmers.

Recovery of Grazing Land
Using as the base the type of projects presented by the producers, about 45% of support was
principaly solicited for the establishment of prairies, 23% for conventional fences, 12% for the
construction of watering troughs, 7% for the installation of fences, and 3% for the adquisition of
electric fences.


                         Tipo de apoyos solicitados por los productores


                                           Otro tipo de
                                             apoyos
                  Cercos eléctricos           10%
                         3%


               Instalación de                                         Establecimiento
                  corrales                                               de praderas
                    7%                                                      45%

            Construcción de
              abrevaderos
                  12%
                                     Cercos
                                 Convencionales
                                      23%

With this program 4,158,248 hectares benefited.




                                               - 42 -

The producers supported under this program were 112,547 of which 71% are ejidatarios, 28%
small proprietors and 2% communal farmers.



                                      Productores Beneficiados
                                                27,729
                                                112,547

                                                               Pequeños
                                                               Propietarios
                                                                 28 %




                        Ejidatarios
                          71 %                                   Comuneros
                                                                     2 %




Dairy Development

This Program's objectives were basically aimed at achieving an increase in dairy production and
improving productivity levels through the use of available technological resources. The types of
support requested by beneficiaries were classified in two categories: equipment for their
productive units, and infrastructure, as indicated below:




In this way, 50,001 producers benefited, i.e., 51% were ejidatarios, 42% small farmers, and 6%



                                                 - 43 -

communal farmers.




Rural Development Support Program

This Program mainly assisted farmers with relatively lower levels of development, living in highly
disadvantaged municipalities and localities, through support for the purchase and implementation
of goods and technologies appropriate for their productive potential and economic and
organizational capacity.

Eligible beneficiaries under this program have fewer than 20 hectares for dryland farming or 5 for
irrigated farming, and fewer than 20 head of large cattle or 100 of small cattle.

The support provided includes farming implements, conservation-oriented tillage equipment,
backyard cattle-raising, pasture establishment, fruit orchards and vegetable gardens, rustic
installations, etc.

The benefits obtained under this program are indicated in the table below:




                                               - 44 -

                                              Productores Beneficiados

                                                           739,919
                                                           763,814


                                                Proyectos Apoyados
                      PADER                               12,658
                                                          19,376


                                               Superficie Beneficiada

                                                          739,919
                                                          794,595




Research and Technology Transfer

This Program's objective is to develop and/or bring available technologies to farmers.

With the support provided under this Program, a large number of farmers benefited and can make
use of the technologies generated.

540,068 farmers benefited directly in some way from the Program's actions, as shown in the
following table:

                                           Proyectos de investigación

                                             Proyectos de validación

                                           Proyectos de demostración
                   Investigación
                         y                                               Productores
                                                 Capacitación
             Transferencia de Tecnología                                 Beneficiados
                                                                           423,722
                                                                           540,068
                                              Giras de intercambio

                                                Videos técnicos

                                                    Boletines




Integrated Agricultural and Livestock Program

This Program supported and promoted regional development programs that encourage the
formation of productive areas in which technology can be applied, through Agricultural and
Livestock Development Promoters who are preferably assigned to Agricultural Technology
Offices.

Government support was granted to cover the components of hiring, training, skills improvement,
and payment of technical exchange travel for Development Promoters who are preferably assigned
to Agricultural Technology Offices.

Farmers' groups organized in production areas benefit from the following types of actions, among



                                              - 45 -

others: organization of farmers in GGAVATTs or similar entities, preparation of diagnostics of
projects for cattle-farm development; guidance for the management of support from Alianza para
el Campo and from financial instruments; technical advice at all stages of a farm's productive
process, with preference given to Pasture Establishment and Dairy Programs.

This program granted the following support:

                                      Promotores contratados

                                          Despachoscontratados


                Proyectos Agropecuarios        Cuencas atendidas         Productores
                                                                         Beneficiados
                       Integrales               Talleres técnicos          16,523
                                                                           35,719


                                                 GGAVATT


                                        Municipiosatendidos



Basic Technical Assistance Program

This Program channeled the implementation of appropriate technologies suited to areas with
productive potential that are used for agricultural and livestock production, through support to
eligible farmers for the hiring and payment of technical assistance services, with free exercise of
their profession, in an integrated, intensive and coordinated manner throughout all phases of the
productive process, from planning to production, implementation of appropriate technologies,
conservation of the physical environment, purchase and application of technological inputs,
harvesting, storage, marketing of products, and promotion of grassroots economic organization.

Under this Program, 197,107 farmers benefited, consisting of 124,162 ejidatarios, 46,561
communal farmers and 26,384 small farmers who, through 60,097 authorized requests, received
technical assistance to apply technologies that are suited to their conditions and that allow them to
increase production, based on the concepts shown in the following graph:



                                  CursosTécnicos
                      P        Parcelas demostrativas
                      E                                           Productores

                      A     Coordinadorescontratados              Beneficiados
                                                                    155,202
                                                                    197,107
                      T         Técnicoscontratados

                               Despachos contratados


With this support, 511,566 hectares of basic crops received assistance, chiefly:

    CROP          SURFACE Ha.




                                                  - 46 -

 Corn (maize)         351,031
    Beans              29,842
    Wheat              5,682
     Rice              3,473
   Sorghum             29,538
    Barley             18,949
     Oats               782
 Other Crops          72,259


Training and Extension Program

This Program's actions were aimed at the strengthening of production systems through support to
Productive Projects, Community Development Projects, Technical Assistance and Training, in
regions of relatively lower development, and of the technicians at their service.




                                              - 47 -

Through this Program's actions, the following benefits were obtained:




         Productores                Comuneros
         Beneficiados
           197,647

           Técnicos
          contratados
           12,351                                                            Ejidatarios
                               Pequeños
          Cursos de           Propietarios
         Capacitación
           35,253




Environmental Impact

Although any productive activity implies the use of environmental resources and generates waste
that is dumped in the environment, Mexico's Environmental Policy, which is concerned with
maintaining proper control of this aspect, contains a series of Laws and Regulations that must be
complied with so that projects do not have a negative impact on the environment.

The four subprograms (Irrigation Technology Improvement, Pasture Recovery, Dairy Program,
and Support to Rural Development) under Alianza para el Campo which participated in Project
execution, under the Investment component, report no projects with negative impacts on the
environment.

The technical agent in charge of projects eligible projects under the Irrigation Technology
Improvement subcomponent has made sure that the provisions of the corresponding government
agency (or agencies) in each State are carefully observed, as well as the restrictions indicated by
the World Bank, in order to ensure compliance with the environmental portion of the Project.




                                               - 48 -

The following are examples of actions taken to avoid negative environmental impacts:


Over-exploitation of groundwater             Requests for support in over-exploited areas include
                                             projects with a high degree of technology, in order to
                                             use water efficiently, and invariably present the water
                                             use concession title granted by the National Water
                                             Commission, which issues it based on its knowledge of
                                             the status of the aquifer to be used.
                                             These actions have, in some cases, allowed the aquifer
                                             to be recharged.
Application of banned or restricted          SAGARPA makes inspection visits to distributors to
agrochemicals.                               verify their non-existence; in addition, farmers adjust
                                             to plant health specifications since many of them
                                             produce crops for the fruit and vegetable export
                                             market.

With regard to the Pasture Recovery subcomponent, some of the measures taken to avoid
negative environmental impacts include:

Soil erosion                                Determine the pasture's coefficient in terms of existing
                                            species. To avoid over-exploitation of pastureland.
                                            Land clearing is not authorized.
                                            An agrostological studied [pertaining to grasses] is
                                            requested so that the project can be approved.
Contamination of ground or surface water    Confined cattle farms are requested to present permits
                                            for waste water dumping that are issued by CNA as
                                            well as environmental impact studies if needed by the
                                            project.




                                              - 49 -

For the case of projects under the Dairy Program, some of the measures taken to protect the
environment include:

Contamination of surface water              Implement a design for waste water treatment. This is
                                            applied in the case of herds with more than 100
                                            breeding animals. For barns with more than 100
                                            breeding animals, permission is requested to dump
                                            waste water.
Contamination     from      solid     waste Technology for the process of solid waste collection
accumulation                                and management.
                                            Processing of such waste to be used for energy (gas)
                                            or organic fertilizers in accordance with
                                            NOM-OO1-ECOL/1996. This is applied in the case of
                                            herds of more than 100 breeding animals.
                                            For barns with more than 100 breeding animals,
                                            C.N.A. support is requested for the design of a
                                            sedimentation tank.
Contamination from cattle waste             Program for management and temporary storage of
                                            hazardous waste in accordance with
                                            NOM-087-ECOL/1995. This is applied in the case of
                                            herds with more than 100 breeding animals.

It is worth mentioning that projects supported by investments under the four subprograms above
comply with the restrictions agreed with the World Bank and none of them presents a negative
environmental impact nor required any corrective or mitigating measure.




                                              - 50 -

- 51 -

