Report No. PID7127
Project Name                     Mexico-Agricultural Productivity Project (+)
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Environmentally and Socially Sustainable
Development
Project ID                       MXPE48505
Borrower                         Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. with   the
guarantee of the United Mexican States
Implementation Agency            Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and
Rural Development (SAGAR)
Date this PID prepared           October 28, 1998
Appraisal date                   September 14, 1998
Board date                       December 22, 1998
Background
Agriculture remains a weak sector of the Mexican economy. In 1996,
agricultural Gross Domestic Product (GDP) accounted for about 6t of total GDP,
down from 199 in 1960.   The sector's slow growth coupled with stagnating
productivity and wages, has resulted in a decline in the sector's employment
from 50t to 25t of the total labor force during the same period.
Nevertheless, agriculture could remain an important economic sector provided,
on the one hand, its commercial sector continues to be competitive through the
permanent use of modern technologies and increased yields and on the other,
the productive potential of the small farmer agriculture, especially in
rainfed areas, can be tapped.
During the late 1980s and early 1990s, the Government of Mexico implemented an
important set of reforms in the agricultural sector including liberalization
of prices and marketing, trade reforms, and privatizations. Additionally, it
also revised the regulatory and legal framework of land tenure as well as of
the water and forestry sectors. The Government also promoted a greater role
of the private sector in the provision of support services. Following these
reforms, Government support switched from commodity price subsidies to non-
distortionary direct income transfer to producers through the PROCAMPO program
and has established the bases for a gradual exposure of the Mexican economy to
international trade and globalization, mainly to the North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA).
Besides PROCAMPO, in 1996 the Government launched a national agricultural and
rural development program (Programa Alianza para el Campo) to increase
capitalization in the agricultural sector with the aim of promoting improved
agricultural productivity and production and increased income of farmers. The
program fosters agricultural productivity by promoting productive investment
(under a matching-grant scheme) and providing more effective support services
(research, extension, information, training) for a wide range of agricultural
sub-programs. The cornerstone of Alianza is its decentralized approach, with
a delegation of administration and decision-making to the States. The program
offers the opportunity and the operational mechanism to implement a
decentralized, demand-driven approach to channel technical and financial



assistance directly to small farmers.
Past performance and Issues
Despite the reforms and policy changes, the performance of the agricultural
sector has been lagging and for most of the 1990s its growth has stagnated.
Sector performance has remained relatively isolated from recent macro-economic
events such as the major financial crisis and devaluation at the end of 1994,
the impressive recovery in 1996-1997, and the economic crisis that afflicted
the country at the end of last year. However, agricultural exports are
expanding and some diversification of production is taking place. But the
impact of the reforms and the production response seems to have been mostly
limited to the commercial sector. Furthermore, rural poverty has been
widening in recent years and the limited options available to small producers
to cope with income and consumption fluctuations, have induced farmers into
risk-averse investment strategies, thus underpinning the gap with the modern
commercial sector competing in the international markets.
Improving the delivery of financial services to the rural population remains
one of the main constraints to the agricultural sector development. The
Government has started a process of liberalization of interest rates, phasing
out government support to state-owned financial institutions, while providing
incentives for the private financial sector to increase its presence in the
rural areas. Penetration of financial services, in general, in the rural areas
remains deficient, although some schemes of savings and loans and micro-
finance activities have developed. However, access to financial resources for
productive investment continues to be rather limited, especially for small
farmers.
The Government's sector development strategy, which would be supported by the
Bank, includes the following main lines of action:
maintaining the policy framework and strengthening the market economy;
pursuing second generation type of reforms in factor and output markets
(financial services, access to output markets, land and water markets; labor
markets);
increasing agricultural productivity of small and medium-sized farmers;
promoting the integration of small farmers in the economic growth process; and
strengthening institutional development and decentralization and better
integrating social and gender perspectives.
Project Description
a. Project development objective:
Project's main development objectives are to increase capitalization of small
farmers and to improve their productivity and income by promoting the adoption
of sustainable agricultural production systems, within the framework of
selected programs currently being executed under the ongoing Alianza para el
Campo program . This objective would be achieved through: (i) the
improvement of access of small farmers to the activities currently supported
by the three programs of the Bank-financed PRODAT Project as well as the Rural
Development Program that is being executed under the Alianza; (ii) promotion
of a better integration of the various activities of the Alianza aimed at the
development of irrigated and rainfed agriculture; (iii) generation, validation
and transfer of technologies suited to small farmer production conditions;
(iv) strengthening production support services for small farmers; and (v)
-2 -



support of the Government-promoted decentralization process by strengthening
the planning and implementation capacity of State institutions and producers'
organizations.
b. Project components and costs:
Component                                Category         Cost         'of
(US$M)       Total
1.- Productive Investment
Under this component, the project would   Physical        343.3         62
finance small grants for demand-driven
sub-projects currently financed under
the ongoing Bank-financed PRODAT
Project, aimed at small irrigation
development and modernization, improved
pasture establishment and management,
improved dairy production technology and
marketing, as well as sub-projects
providing small-scale on-farm
infrastructure and minor equipment and
supplies.
2.- Production Support Services            Capacity       172.9           32
This component would include financial     Building
support for applied research and
technology transfer as well as demand
driven extension, technical assistance
and training to small farmers.
3.- Institutional strengthening and        Institutional    34.9          6
Project Administration                     Building/
This component would support training      Project
and technical assistance to staff with     Management
implementation responsibilities at the
central and state levels, with
particular emphasis on sub-project
preparation and selection mechanisms and
procedures; the development and
implementation of a comprehensive
monitoring and impact evaluation system;
and the establishment and operation of a
project coordination unit (PCU)
Total       551.1        100
Project implementation
The project would be implemented over a period by the Secretariat of
Agriculture Livestock and Rural Development (SAGAR). Implementation of the
Productive Investment Component would be highly decentralized, utilizing the
institutional structure established by the Government for the administration
of the ongoing PAC. Formal agreements (Convenios) would be signed annually
between SAGAR and each state, which include Technical Annexes describing
proposed project activities and the annual budget, with the respective
-3 -



financial commitments of the federal and state governments. Beneficiaries,
either individually or organized in groups, would be responsible for sub-
project implementation, consistent with a highly participatory demand-driven
approach to sub-project identification, design and selection. Delivery of
demand-driven Support Services (technical assistance, extension and training)
would be based on direct contracts from beneficiary organizations or groups to
private sector individuals or small firms, following the ongoing SINDER and
PEAT programs for poor farmers and the recently established programs for small
commercial livestock and irrigation producers. Definition and delivery of
services, and any necessary in-service training of TA providers, would be
supervised by coordinators operating from the offices of the PAC at the State
and municipal level. Technology Transfer and Adaptive Research would be
implemented by the existing PRODUCE Foundations in each state, who would award
contracts on a competitive basis to specialized institutions, including
INIFAP, State research agencies, Universities and the private sector. The
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), would be established and located in the
General Directorate of Agricultural and Livestock Development (DGDA) of SAGAR.
Project Sustainability
The project is expected to be sustainable, as it would increase the long-term
viability and impact of the Government's existing matching grant program.
This would be achieved by improving the quality of proposed productive
investments, through strengthening small farmer participation in project
selection, and by addressing a series of technical, institutional and
financial aspects directly linked to the sustainability of project activities,
including the development and adoption of improved technologies, the
incorporation of financial criteria for the evaluation and selection of
subproject proposals, the promotion of decentralized delivery mechanisms, and
the establishment of adequate monitoring and impact evaluation systems.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations
The proposed project builds on the experience of decentralized, rural
development investment programs. In general, they indicate that flexibility
and grass-root demand-driven approaches are key in building ownership,
defining local priorities, and setting the ground for better implementation
and sustainability. The Bank's record of financing this type of programs in
Mexico and elsewhere is on the whole satisfactory, and there is consensus on
continuing this line of financial assistance. In Mexico, positive experiences
can be drawn from the first and second Decentralization and Rural Development
projects (DRD I and II) as well as the Rainfed Areas Development Project
(PRODAT). Over time, however, some shortcomings in the implementation of
these programs have emerged:
a)      Past municipality demand-driven approaches in Mexico (DRD I and II) have
been globally successful in the promotion of rural infrastructure and social
investments. However, little has been achieved in triggering production-
oriented activities and tapping the productive potential of existing
resources;
b)      Notwithstanding their intrinsic merits, micro-investments tend to form a
disparate collection of interventions, and may not reach the critical
development mass required to attract the private sector, generate buyers
competition, facilitate access to markets, and foster the establishment of
support services;
c)      It is important that access to resources for productive investments be
accompanied by the required technical support for technology adoption and
community organization; and
-4-



d)      Poor timing and lengthy budgetary and bureaucratic processes are likely
to jeopardize the implementation of this type of programs.
The proposed project would take up the challenge of trying to overcome these
limiting factors by: (i) promoting decentralized and agile mechanisms for
sub-projects approval and disbursement at the state level; (ii) providing a
broad range of technical assistance and training to small producers to improve
the quality of project design and implementation, thus strengthening the
demand-driven nature of proposed productive investments; and (iii) fostering
more integration between investment projects and technical assistance to small
farmers.
Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable Development
Environmental Aspects
The proposed project has been rated "B" for environmental purposes. The
project is designed to improve the efficiency and sustainability of
agriculture in the small-farm sector. The investment component supports
small-scale subprojects aimed at improvement and diversification of existing
irrigation systems where increased exploitation of groundwater will not be
financed; sustainable intensification of cropping and livestock operations;
diversification of income and employment opportunities through small-scale
rural enterprises; and, use of renewable energy sources for power generation
in marginal rural areas outside the national grid. Overall the project is
expected to have no negative environmental impacts. In order to achieve this,
rigorous environmental procedures will be applied.
The Operations Manual would include screening criteria and procedures oriented
primarily to mitigation of potential contamination arising from selected types
of sub-project. The Manual contains a list of these sub-projects, the
environmental checklist to be applied, and the procedures to be used at the
state level with participation state delegations of federal agencies
responsible for environmental issues (SEMARNAP and the National Water
Commission [CNAI).
Due to the specific resource management focus adopted, all potential impacts
in other types of sub-project should be positive or insignificant. A list of
activities which would not be eligible for project financing has been
established in the Operations Manual including : deforestation, road
construction, resettlement, restrictions on use of agro-chemicals and
encroachment on natural habitats, wetlands, parks and reserves.
Contact Points:                  The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Michael Carroll (Task Manager)
The World Bank
1850 I Street N.W. "I Building"
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-9528
Fax: (202) 522-3132
- 5 -



Lic. Maria de los
AngelesPeralta
Project Coordinator
Dir. Gral. De Desarrollo Agropecuario
Telephone: (52-5) 574-5908
Fax: (52-5) 584-0985
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 4, 1998.
- 6 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-7-



