Page  1
CONFORMED COPY       
LOAN NUMBER 4428-ME
Loan Agreement
(Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
Dated May 11, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4428-ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  May 11, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
WHEREAS  (A) United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
Page  2
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Alianza para el Campo” means the Guarantor’s agricultural production and 
rural development program established on the basis of the Guarantor’s 1995-2000 
National Development Plan and subsequent coordination with agricultural producers’ 
organizations;
(b)
“Beneficiaries” means small farmers or groups thereof that receive 
Guarantor support to carry out a Subproject (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
“CEA” means a Consejo Estatal Agropecuario (State Agricultural Council) 
referred to in Section 3.02 (d) of the Guarantee Agreement;
(d)
“DGDA” means SAGAR’s (as hereinafter defined) Dirección General de 
Desarrollo Agropecuario (General Directorate of Agriculture and Livestock 
Development);
(e)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(f)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(g)
“FIRCO” means the Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido (Trust Fund for Shared 
Risk), a trust established by the Guarantor with Banco Nacional de Crédito Rural as 
trustee and governed by the Convenio Modificatorio al Contrato de Fideicomiso de 
Riesgo Compartido (Agreement Amending the Shared Risk Trust Fund Contract) dated 
November 30, 1992;
(h)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith, from the 
Guarantor to the Bank, containing indicators to be used in monitoring and evaluating 
implementation of the Project;
(i)
“INI” means the Guarantor’s Instituto Nacional Indigenista (National 
Indigenous Affairs Institute);
(j)
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of 
the Guarantee Agreement;
(k)
“Participating State” means any of the Guarantor’s states;
(l)
“Participation Agreement” means an agreement or other written instrument 
referred to in Section 3.02 (f) of the Guarantee Agreement;
(m)
“PCU” means the unit or team referred to in Section 3.02 (c) of the 
Guarantee Agreement;
(n)
“PA” means the annual plan for implementation of the Project referred to 
in Section 3.06 (e) of the Guarantee Agreement;
(o)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 3.05 (d) of the Guarantee Agreement;
(p)
“SAGAR” means the Guarantor’s Secretaría de Agricultura, Ganadería y 
Desarrollo Rural (Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development Secretariat);
(q)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(r)
“Subproject” means any of the sets of productive investment activities 
referred to in Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to SAGAR.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to four 
hundred forty-four million four hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($444,450,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as well as in respect of 
the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1.0%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three\1efourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into, and comply with the terms of, 
contractual arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, 
inter alia, for:  (a) the transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan; and 
(b) the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as the Borrower shall 
be required to pay to the Bank on account of principal, interest and other charges on 
the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or 
fail to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.  The Borrower shall 
exercise its rights under such contractual arrangements in such a manner as to protect 
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) shall be carried out, or caused 
to be carried out, by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.04 of the Guarantee 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, 
the operations, resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of the 
Project.
Page  4
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, 
and the records and accounts for the Special Account, for 
each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with generally accepted 
auditing standards and 
procedures consistently applied, by 
independent and qualified auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank each month certified statements of the Special 
Account; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(b)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall provide to the Guarantor any information that may be 
required by the Guarantor to comply with the Guarantor’s obligations under Section 
3.05 (a), (b) and (c) of the Guarantee Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement have been entered into;
(b)
that the Operational Manual has been issued by SAGAR and put into effect;
(c)
that the PCU has been established and is fully operational; and
(d)
that the PA for the first year of the Project has been prepared by SAGAR 
and is satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the contractual arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and the Guarantor, have been duly executed by them, and are legally 
binding upon the Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance with their terms.
Section 5.03. The date August 16, 1999, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
Page  5
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Dirección Internacional
Torre IV, piso 8
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
01020 México, D.F.
México
Cable address: 
Telex:
NAFIN
NAFIME 383-1775765
Mexico City
Mexico City
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
By /s/ Carlos Sales Gutiérrez
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in
   to be
Category
   Dollars)
  Financed
(1)
Amounts disbursed by
255,000,000
80%
the Guarantor and 
Participating States for
goods, works and services
for Subprojects under
Part A of the Project
Page  6
(2)
Consultants’ services,
130,000,000
80% 
training and research
under Part B of the
Project
(3)
Goods, including training
  1,000,000
80%
materials, under Part C of
the Project
(4)
Consultants’ services
 26,800,000
100%
under Part C of the
Project (except as
covered by Category
(5) below)
(5)
Training under Part C
  3,700,000
100%
of the Project (except as
covered by Category
(3) above)
(6)
Fee
  4,444,500
Amount due
under Section
2.04 of this
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
 23,505,500
___________
TOTAL
444,450,000
===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “training” in Category (5) above 
includes reasonable costs for trainee travel and per diem expenses and for training 
facility and equipment rentals.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $44,000,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within the twelve months prior 
to the date of this Agreement but after June 28, 1998.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for all expenditures not covered by Part D.2 of Section I 
of Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement, for all training expenditures, and for 
expenditures under consultant contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent (in the 
case of consulting firms) and less than $50,000 equivalent (in the case of individual 
consultants), all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in 
Banco de México on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 3.05 (d) of the Guarantee Agreement and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 3.05 (d) of the Guarantee Agreement, accompanied by a request from the 
Page  7
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this 
Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 3.05 (d) of 
the Guarantee Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower or the Guarantor shall have failed to furnish to the Bank 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.02 (a) (ii) of this Agreement and 
Section 3.05 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Sections in respect of the audit of: (A) the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of 
Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not Made  
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
Page  8
$30,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan  minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $60,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the productivity and income of small 
farmers through their adoption of sustainable agricultural production systems financed 
under selected programs supported by the Alianza para el Campo.
Page  9
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Productive Investments
Financing on a matching-grant basis and carrying out of the following sets of 
productive investment activities:
1.
purchase, installation, rehabilitation and/or construction by Beneficiaries of 
irrigation materials, equipment, systems and/or small-scale infrastructure, as well as 
provision to Beneficiaries of related technical assistance, all pursuant to the 
Ferti-irrigación (Irrigation Development) or similar successor program of the Alianza 
para el Campo;
2.
purchase, installation, rehabilitation and/or construction by Beneficiaries of 
materials, equipment, systems and/or small-scale infrastructure to improve milk 
production, as well as provision to Beneficiaries of related technical assistance, all 
pursuant to the Fomento Lechero (Dairy Development) or similar successor program of 
the Alianza para el Campo;
3.
purchase, installation, rehabilitation and/or construction by Beneficiaries of 
materials, equipment, systems and/or small-scale infrastructure to improve pastures 
for meat, milk or wool production, as well as provision to Beneficiaries of related 
technical assistance, all pursuant to the Establecimiento de Praderas (Pasture 
Establishment) or similar successor program of the Alianza para el Campo; and
4.
purchase, installation, rehabilitation and/or construction by Beneficiaries of 
materials, equipment, systems and/or small-scale infrastructure to achieve general 
improvement in their agricultural productivity, as well as provision to Beneficiaries 
of related technical assistance, all pursuant to the Apoyo al Desarrollo Rural (Rural 
Development Support) or similar successor program of the Alianza para el Campo.
Part B:
Production Support Services
1.
Carrying out of agricultural research and technology transfer with respect to 
techniques for improving productivity of small farms, pursuant to SAGAR’s Programa de 
Transferencia de Tecnología (Technology Transfer Program) or similar successor 
program.
2.
Provision of agricultural training and extension services to small farmers 
pursuant to SAGAR’s Sistema Nacional de Capacitación y Extensión Rural Integral 
(National System for Integrated Rural Training and Extension) or similar successor 
program.
3.
Provision of technical assistance to small farmers to improve their crop 
production pursuant to SAGAR’s Programa Elemental de Asistencia Técnica para Apoyar la 
Producción de Granos Básicos y Otros Cultivos (Elemental Technical Assistance Program 
to Support Production of Basic Grains and Other Crops) or similar successor program.
4.
Provision of technical assistance to small farmers to improve their livestock 
production pursuant to SAGAR’s Proyectos Agropecuarios Integrados (Integrated 
Agriculture and Livestock Projects) or similar successor program.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening and Project Administration
Provision of technical assistance, training, equipment and incremental operating 
cost support as required to:
1.
train Guarantor and Participating State staff in Project implementation and 
Subproject preparation and selection procedures;
2.
install and operate a computerized communications and data processing network to 
link SAGAR headquarters with SAGAR delegations in each Participating State;
3.
implement a comprehensive Project monitoring and evaluation system;
Page  10
4.
carry out studies on issues related to improving and evaluating mechanisms for 
the delivery of technical assistance to small farmers; and
5.
operate the PCU.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts. 
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
Page  11
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
(iii)
the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total 
Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, 
promptly upon the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor of the new basis.  The new basis shall become effective on the 
expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower or the Guarantor notifies the Bank 
during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not 
apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12th) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after October 15, 2014, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
Page  12
date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed 
Amount.
