Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4428-ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 11, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4428-ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 11, 1999, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES (the Guarantor) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower), having 
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 
2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in the amount of four 
hundred forty-four million four hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($444,450,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the 
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan 
and to undertake such other obligations as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally 
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment 
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if 
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all the other 
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement and, except as the Bank may 
otherwise agree, shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of such contractual 
arrangements. The Guarantor shall exercise its rights under such contractual 
arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Guarantor and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
Section 2.03. The Guarantor shall provide or cause to be provided, in a timely 
manner as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee 
Agreement, shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be carried out, with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate environmental, 
technical, financial and administrative standards and practices.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall, through SAGAR:
(a)
issue a manual, amendable from time to time and in any case satisfactory 
to the Bank, which sets forth the rules and procedures for carrying out the Project 
and consists of the Guarantor’s Normas de Operación de la Alianza para el Campo 
(Operational Norms for the Alianza para el Campo) published in the Guarantor’s Diario 
Oficial de la Federación (Official Gazette) on June 3, 1998, as supplemented by a 
Guarantor Project-specific operational manual;
(b)
cause the Project to be carried out in coordination with the 
Participating States within the framework of the Alianza para el Campo, through the 
use of Participation Agreements and in compliance with the terms of the Operational 
Manual;
(c)
establish, and thereafter maintain throughout the course of Project 
implementation, a unit or team within DGDA, with equipment, staff and a structure and 
organization all satisfactory to the Bank, which unit or team shall coordinate Project 
implementation at the national level in collaboration with FIRCO;
(d)
ensure that a Consejo Estatal Agropecuario (State Agricultural Council): 
(i) is operational in each Participating State; (ii) is composed of SAGAR 
representatives, Participating State representatives and farmer representatives; (iii) 
includes INI representatives (in the case of those Participating States where INI 
representation in the CEA existed as of November 1, 1998); and (iv) coordinates 
Project implementation at the level of each CEA’s Participating State;
Page  3
(e)
ensure that Beneficiaries and Subprojects meet the eligibility criteria 
for Project support set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(f)
not allow any Participating State or Beneficiaries therein to participate 
in the Project unless:  (i) there is in effect for that Participating State an 
agreement (between the Participating State and the Guarantor) or any other written 
instrument, whereby the Participating State commits to participate in the Project 
under terms and conditions which include compliance with the Operational Manual and 
timely provision of Participating State counterpart funds for the Project; and (ii) 
the Participating State is in compliance with its obligations under such agreement or 
instrument; and
(g)
maintain or cause to be maintained a cadre of agricultural extensionists 
who can provide services to small farmers under the Project in the languages of the 
major indigenous groups whose members are potentially eligible to participate in the 
Project, as well as prepare or cause to be prepared agricultural extension 
publications in such languages for use by such groups.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) with regard to the 
Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Guarantor shall, through SAGAR, maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in connection with 
the execution of the Project.
(b)
The Guarantor shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with generally 
accepted auditing 
standards and procedures consistently applied, 
by independent and qualified 
auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Guarantor shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records;
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
Page  4
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
(d)
(i)
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.05 (a), (b) 
and (c) of 
this Agreement, the Guarantor shall carry out a 
time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of its financial management 
system for the 
Project in order to enable the Guarantor, not later than 
December 15, 2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of 
which:
(A) (I) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for 
the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and projected 
sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by 
said report; and (II) shows separately 
expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan during the period 
covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(B) (I) describes physical progress in Project implementation, 
both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report; and (II) explains 
variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(C) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as 
at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(ii)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph 
(d) (i) of 
this Section, the Guarantor shall prepare, in 
accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
(e)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made from the 
Special Account, the Guarantor shall provide to the Borrower any information that may 
be required by the Borrower to comply with the Borrower’s obligations under Section 
4.01 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.06. Throughout the course of Project implementation, and without 
limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the 
Guarantor, through SAGAR, shall:
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained procedures adequate to enable 
monitoring and evaluation on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set 
forth in the Implementation Letter, of the carrying out of the Project and of the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
furnish to the Bank, by no later than each March 31 and September 30 
during Project implementation (beginning no later than September 30, 1999), semestral 
progress reports on Project implementation, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, 
which reports shall be based on the indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter;
(c)
participate with the Bank, by no later than each March 31 during Project 
implementation (beginning no later than March 31, 2000), in an annual review of 
Project implementation based on the semestral reports referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section;
(d)
participate with the Bank, during the annual review to be held in 2001, 
in a midterm review of Project implementation, based on the semestral reports referred 
Page  5
to in paragraph (b) of this Section and on terms of reference, satisfactory to the 
Bank and prepared by SAGAR, which midterm review shall aim to identify any changes in 
Project structure that need be considered by the Bank and the Guarantor in light of 
project implementation experience up to the time of said midterm review;
(e)
no later than each January 15 during Project implementation (beginning 
with the annual plan prepared in satisfaction of the condition set forth in Section 
5.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement), prepare an annual plan amendable from time to time 
and in any case satisfactory to the Bank, which annual plan shall be complied with in 
implementing the Project during the twelve months immediately subsequent to its 
preparation; and
(f)
systematically solicit periodic Beneficiary assessments of Project 
implementation as indicated in the Implementation Letter, and publish the results of 
such assessments.
Section 3.07. In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational 
Manual and those of this Agreement and of the Loan Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement and of the Loan Agreement shall prevail.
ARTICLE IV
Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Director General de Crédito Público of the Guarantor is 
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Dirección General de Crédito Público
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur 826 (piso 9)
Colonia del Valle
03100 México, D.F.
México
Telex:
1777313-SHOCME
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Mexico City, Mexico as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ José Angel Gurría Treviño
Authorized Representative
Page  6
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works 
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
 The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods for Part C of the Project, estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods for Part C of the Project, estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part A of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank, which procedures may include:
(a)
direct contracting (with the proviso that, for goods and works for which 
SAGAR maintains reference price lists, such goods or works shall be procured at prices 
at or below those set forth in such lists);
Page  7
(b)
procurement of goods under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines; and
(c)
procurement of works under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to 
a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to:  (i) each contract procured under Part B of 
this Section I; and (ii) the first two contracts for the Project procured under Part 
C.1 of this Section I.
(b)
With respect to each contract procured under Part C.3 of this Section I 
for the first five Subprojects for which Loan proceeds are to be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account or the Special Account, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the 
Guarantor shall provide to the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation 
of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or 
shopping procedures, the Guarantor shall provide to 
the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; 
and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. 
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Specific Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Except as otherwise provided in this Part B, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
Page  8
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and 
cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
To award contracts below the thresholds set forth in paragraphs 2 (a) and 
(b) of this Part, prior review and approval by the Bank of short lists (where 
pertinent) and terms of reference shall be required.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraphs 2 (a) and (b) of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects and Beneficiaries
A.
Beneficiaries
To participate in the Project, Beneficiaries must, without limitation to any 
other eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual:
1.
as individuals or unincorporated groups of individuals, own and cultivate 
property of no more than 30 hectares per individual (for Subprojects under Part A.1 of 
the Project);
2.
as individuals or unincorporated groups of individuals, have no more than 70 
cows for milk production per individual (for Subprojects under Part A.2 of the Project 
and for participation in Part B.4 of the Project);
3.
as individuals or unincorporated groups of individuals, have no more than 70 
cows or their equivalent in minor species per individual (for Subprojects under Part 
A.3 of the Project); and
4.
as individuals or unincorporated groups of individuals, own and cultivate no 
more than 20 hectares of rainfed land or 5 hectares of irrigated land and/or base 
their animal production on no more than 20 cows or 100 sheep or goats, all per 
individual (for Subprojects under Part A.4 of the Project and for participation in 
Page  9
Part B.2 of the Project).
B.
Subprojects
To be eligible for financing under the Project, Subprojects must, without 
limitation to any other eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual:
1.
be proposed by Beneficiaries and approved by the relevant CEA;
2.
pass the environmental screening criteria set forth in the Operational Manual 
and thus present no environmental threat and be consistent with sustainable natural 
resource use;
3.
be sustainable in light of the local cropping patterns and socio-economic 
setting;
4.
not involve:  (a) financing of mere consumption or transfer of ownership; (b) 
financing of debts and liabilities; (c) purchase or rental of land; (d) welfare or 
other social assistance; (e) reconversion out of shaded coffee; (f) extensive 
livestock use in medium- or high-altitude areas; (g) deforestation; (h) road 
construction or rehabilitation; (i) resettlement of people; (j) encroachment or 
modification of natural reserves, wildlands or wetlands of special concern; and (h) 
financing of operating expenses that would have been incurred even in the absence of 
the Subproject;
5.
not involve use of pesticides that are formulated products within classes IA and 
IB of the World Health Organization’s Recommended Classification of Pesticides by 
Hazard and Guidelines to Classification (Geneva:  WHO, 1994-95; hereinafter WHO 
Guidelines), or are formulations of products in Class II of the WHO Guidelines;
6.
require an up-front cash or in-kind contribution from its Beneficiaries to the 
extent required by the Operational Manual; and
7.
not cost more than the monetary ceilings set forth in the Operational Manual and 
not require more than $50,000 equivalent in financing from the public sector.
