Report No. 106sa-PE                 FILE   COPY                             CIRCUUTNG COPY
R t-BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
Appraisal of the Urban Sites and Services
Development Project Penr
RETURN TO
REPORTS D:ESK
May 24, 1976                                                                 WITHIN
Transportation and Urban Projects                                         ONE  WEEPK--
Urban I
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          Sol de Oro (SI.)
1 US$                  S/. 45.0
S/.1              =    US$ 0.0222
S/.1 ,000              US$ 22.22
S/.1,000,000      =   US$ 22,222.22
US$1,000=   S/. 45,ooo
US$1,000,000      =    S/  45,0Oc,o0o
UNITS AND MEASURES
mm              millimeter (0.03937 inches)
cm         =    centimeter (0.3937 inches)
m               meter (39.37 inches)
km         =    kilometer (0.62 miles)
cm2        =    square centimeter (0.1550 square inches)
m2         =    square meter (10.764 square feet)
ha         =   hectare (2.471 acres)
km2        =    square kilometer (0.386 square miles)
I3         =    cubic meter (264 US gallons)
1          =    liter (0.264 US gallons)
1/cd       =    liters per capita per day
l/sec      =   liters per sec. (15.833 US gallon per min)
m3/sec     =    cubic meters per sec. (86,400 m /day)
m3/day     =    cubic meters per day (264 US gallons per day)
W          =   watt
V          =   volt
He         =   hertz
kW              kilowatt
kWh        =    kilowatt hour
kV         =    kilovolt
kVA        =   kilovolt-ampere
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AID                  Agency for International Development
BVP             5    Banco de la Vivienda del Peru
COFIDE          =    Corporacion Financiera del Desarrollo
CONAPS          =   Comision Nacional de Propiedad Social
DGC                  Direccion General de Construcciones (MVC)
DGOS            =   Direccion General de Obras Sanitarias (MVC)
DG PROG.        =   Direccion General de Programacion (MVC)
DG PROY.             Direccion General de Proyectos (MVC)
DOS                  Direccion de Obras Sanitarias
EEA             =   Empresas Slectricas Asociadas (also EKEAA)
ELECTROLIMA     =    Electricidad de Lima (EX-EEA)
ELECTROPERU     =   Electricidad del Peru
EMA.DI          =   Epresa de Adinistracion de Inmuebles (MVC)
ESAL            =   Empresa de Saneamiento de Lima



FM OFFCL Uti  ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND JCRONYMS
(continued)
ESAR            =    Empresa de Saneamiento de Arequipa
IDB                  Interamerican Development Bank
INIE            =   Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Energeticas
INCOSUR         =    Industrias del Cono Sur
INP             =    Instituto Nacional de Planificacion
MEF             =   Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
MEM             =   Ministerio de Ehergia y Minas
MIT                  Ministerio de Industria y Turismo
MS                   Ministerio de Salud
MVC             =   Ministerio de Vivienda y Construccicin
CNDEPJOV        =   Oficina Nacional de Pueblos Jovenes
ORAMS           =    Oficina iiegional de Apoyo a la Movilizacion Social
OSP                  Oficina Sectorial de Planificacion
OZAMS           =    Oficina Zonal de Apoyo a la Movilizacion Social
PLANDEMET       =    Plan de Desarrollo de Lima Metropolitana
SEAL            =   Sociedad Electrica de Arequipa, Ltda.
SENATI          =    Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje y Trabajo Industrial
Fiscal Year
Biennial Period, January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PERU
APPRAISAL OF THE URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ....... . . .    ...................  ........ ..      i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ...........................   ..... . ... ...*..                      1
II.    BACKGROUND  .. * * ...................... .....................                      2
III.    THE PROJECT  ...........                 ...................* ............           7
A.    Project Description  ... .... . . . . . .   .............     ............    7
B.    Detailed  Features  ............ ...             .............*...            9
IV.    COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING, COST RECOVERY AND PRICING...                             16
A.    Cost Estimates                         .........   ..... ...... ... ,        16
B.    Financial  Arrangements  .......               ............ o..             17
C.    Cost Recovery and Pricing  ...               .....................          19
D.    Procurement  * ...........               ..........................         20
E.    Disbursements  . .......   ............. ....              ........ .       20
F.    Accounts and Audits  .                  ......      ..............          21
G.    Supervision  o............................... o...            ..o...  ...   21
Vo    THE BORROWER  . . ..... ..... ....... ... . . .  ......... ...o... .... .          21
Ao    BVP Functions  ...  ..... .. .......... ...   . .  ....... .                22
B.    Lending  Program and  Procedures  ...................                       22
C.    Financial Aspects  . ......... .... ... .                           .       24
D.    Project Execution  ......o. . . . . . . ....... . . ......o...              25
VI.    ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL JUSTIFICATION  .... o                  .............. o         25
VII.    RECOMMENDATIONS  ........... o   .... .oo..o. .......o                              27
This report was prepared by Messrs. R. A. Sison, M. F. Rothchild and J. Freed-
man of the Bank; and R. Chavez and K. Strong (Consultants).



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
1  Urban Development Plans
2   Project Cost t,stimate Tables
3   Subprojects - Detailed Features
4   Banco de la Vivienda del Peru
5   Financial Arrangements
6   Cost Recovery and Pricing
7   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8   Technical Assistance
9   Economic and Social Justification
CHARTS
World Bank 15488    Consolidated Implementation Schedule
World Bank 15489    Organization Chart of the Banco de la Vivienda dnI
Peru
MAPS
11714  Peru, Lima      -  Pueblos Jovenes and Subproject Location
11715  Peru, Arequipa -  Pueblos Jovenes and Subproject Location
11716 Peru



PERU
APPRAISAL OF THE URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        By 1980, one out of every two Peruvians (in a population of 19.3
million) will live in urban areas. Of these, 35% will be classified as urban
poor. Most of the urban poor now live in low-income areas called pueblos
jovenes (young settlements), where they lack adequate levels of water supply,
electricity, transport, sewerage, health and, above all, jobs. Government has
acted positively to work with the urban poor in solving their problems. It
has legalized the tenure of pueblos jovenes residents, and has supported the
creation of community organizations within pueblos jovenes to identify needs
and provide a structure through which self-help activities can be organized
and demands for public infrastructure can be expressed.
ii.       The Government's ability to respond has not kept pace with recent
and expected increases (at the rate of 13.7% a year) in pueblos jovenes
population and in the expected number of labor force entrants. Government
efforts in developing job training centers, in suppplying water and other
basic necessities are still hampered by the lack of a defined and efficient
system for delivering urban services to these areas.
iii.      Consequently this project focuses on institutional development.  By
providing assistance initially in Lima and Arequipa it will help to strengthen
Government's program to work with the urban poor to achieve basic services and
employment opportunities, and increased productivity.
iv.       The project's components are outlined below:
(a) Basic and productive support infrastructure in pueblos jovenes
in Lima and Arequipa: water, sewerage, electrification, upgraded
existing roads and new access roads, and health and nutrition
centers.
(b) Directly productive investments in Lima and Arequipa: industrial,
commercial, and residential sites and services and supervised
credit.
(c) Technical assistance:
(1) to establish a technical assistance unit in the Ministry of
Housing and Construction to assist settlers primarily in
the construction of dwelling and shop/stores;



- ii -
(2) to provide advisory assistance for the planning, manage-
ment and monitoring of the industrial sites and services
in Lima;
(3) to assist in the review of plans and in the preparation
of a water supply and sewerage project in Arequipa;
(4) to provide advisory assistance as well as vehicles and
equipment for the development of a training program for
community health and nutrition in pueblos jovenes; and
(5) to assist the Banco de la Vivienda del Peru (BVP) in
overall project implementation, financial planning
and related studies for the mobilization of additional
resources for urban development programs and future
projects.
v.        The proposed loan of US$21.6 million would cover 50% of the total
project cost (US$43.2 million) of the three-year project. The balance of the
project cost would be provided by the Banco de la Vivienda del Peru (US$19.1
million) and down payments from project beneficiaries (US$2.5 million). The
foreign exchange component reflecting both direct and indirect costs repre-
sents 35% of total project cost.
vi.       The Banco de la Vivienda del Peru would be the borrower and as
executing agency would be responsible for the overall implementation of the
project.  The loan would be guaranteed by the Government of Peru.  BVP would
work through existing agencies, relending loan funds to participating agencies
and to individuals for carrying out the purposes of the project.  Subsidiary
loan agreements, which would be subject to Bank approval, would be entered
into between BVP and participating agencies. BVP would also have a loan
contract with individual households who are the beneficiaries of the loan.
The borrower is experienced in the variety of techniques that have been used
in providing housing and construction for the urban poor and has the capabil-
ity to expand its lending program. Through financial control and technical
supervision of project design and execution, BVP would be an effective agent
in the delivery of urban services insuring appropriate pricing and efficient
implementation.
vii.      Contracts for civil works and for the supply of equipment would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank guidelines.  Self-help and mutual aid techniques are incorporated wherever
possible, to reduce costs and increase community participation. Disbursements
of the Bank loan would be against: 1007 of the CIF cost of imported vehicles
and equipment plus installation or 10(7i,' of ex-factory price of domestically
rmanufactured goods; 48% of the cost of civil works and standard buildings; 50%
of disoursements against the credit program; 7502 of consultants' services for
studies, detailed engineering and design and supervision; and 50% of technical
assistance.



- iii -
viii.     Recovery of costs for the project would come mainly from charges
and sales to final users except in the case of access roads, health and
nutrition centers, and technical assistance where costs would be recovered
from general tax revenues. The Government would directly recover about 65%
of original investments.
ix.       The overall rate of return on the quantifiable elements of the pro-
ject is about 30%. The project would result in direct permanent employment
for about 6,000 persons and generate about 13,000 man-months of temporary jobs
during the construction period.  About 200,000 residents in pueblos jovenes
would directly benefit from improved services. In addition, there would be
important non-quantifiable project benefits. The project would help institu-
tionalize an efficient delivery system for urban services to low-income areas
by establishing effective working arrangements between BVP and other govern-
mental agencies.  The project would encourage the active participation of the
communities served in the various phases of planning and construction. In the
case of the provision of health services over 900 health promoters would be
trained who would significantly assist the Government's program of preventive
medicine and community nutrition. The electrification of the pueblos jovenes
would permit the use of electrical machinery in small artisan shops and the
use of refrigeration in local food stores and restaurants. The improvement
of roads would facilitate the delivery of merchandise, thereby encouraging the
establishment of retail businesses. The project would thus stimulate a form
of "import substitution" by which neighborhood enterprises would capture the
business that would otherwise be transacted outside the pueblos jovenes.  It
is estimated that the jobs created in this manner might increase total employ-
ment in the pueblos jovenes by 5%. Finally, training would also be provided
to the management and work force in industrial sites to increase their produc-
tivity.
X.        Subject to the agreements in paras 7.01 and 7.02, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$21.6 million to the Banco de la Vivienda del
Peru for a term of 20 years including a grace period of 3 years.






PERU
APPRAISAL OF THE URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Peru, in pursuance of its stated objective to
achieve a more equitable distribution of wealth and economic opportunity, has
requested Bank assistance in implementing a program of urban sites and serv-
ices development. The program has as its major objectives the establishment
of an institutional capability for the delivery of basic services to the urban
poor, generation of employment opportunities for low-income workers, and
improvement of the productive capacity of a growing segment of residents in
pueblos jovenes (young settlement).
1.02      A Bank mission to Peru in November 1974 reviewed the Government's
urban development program and found that its objectives and strategies for
developing urban areas were basically consistent with Bank policies. This
finding was reaffirmed by a preappraisal mission in July-August 1975, which
agreed with the Government's own emphasis on increasing its capability both
to provide employment and to make essential services and facilities available
to low-income groups in urban areas on a replicable basis.
1.03        The program calls for financing of improvements in public water
supply, sewage disposal, electrification and transportation to give the
residents of low-income settlements the basic necessities of urban life.
Self-help by residents in pueblos jovenes is expected to make an important
contribution to the program, not only by reducing costs, but as a source of
employment for the high proportion of pueblos jovenes residents who are now
unemployed or underemployed.
1.04      The emphasis of the Government on improvement of pueblos jovenes is
based on its experience with these communities. From this experience has come
knowledge of how households and communities perceive their needs, how they
assign priority to needs, and how they can help themselves. Policies and
procedures for regularization of land tenure, provision of basic services on
a replicable basis, training and assistance to expand job opportunities have
developed from Government dealings with pueblos jovenes. Along with this has
come mutual recognition by Government and pueblos jovenes residents of the
necessity for affordable standards, mobilization of joint public-private-
individual efforts in comprehensive programs for physical, social and economic
improvement. The fact that a formal socio-political structure exists in all
pueblos jovenes makes it possible for residents to deal with Government, to
make commitments for the services they need and the work or financing they
will contribute.



- 9- 
1.05      The diverse needs of pueblos jovenes are presently being dealt with
by appropriate branches of Government with special competence in the fields
be it water and sewage, electrification, transport, health, credit or some
other specific task. A comprehensive and coordinated approach which would
insure affordable standards and replicability needs to be established. The
Banco de la Vivienda del Peru (BVP), which has expertise in many aspects of
urban development both in pueblos jovenes and in Peru as a whole, could per-
form this valuable function.
1.06      The proposed Bank assistance would initially support programs in
Lima and Arequipa, partly because of Government's priorities for meeting
existing needs and partly because institutional capability in both cities is
much more organized. Project components were selected on the basis of Govern-
ment's urban development priorities, the pueblos jovenes felt needs, and the
readiness of projects in terms of physical preparation and institutional
arrangements. Additional projects involving transport improvements, indus-
trial sites, markets, planning assistance and utility services would be
prepared during the course of the implementation of this project and should
form a suitable basis for a follow-up project.
1.07      The project is based on government-sponsored plans and feasibility
studies aided in part by foreign private consultants. Project preparation
was coordinated through the Ministry of Housing and Construction and the BVP.
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprised of
Messrs. R. A. Sison (Chief of Mission), M. Rothchild and J. Freedman of the
Bank; and R. Chavez and K. Strong (Consultants) which visited Peru from
November 3 to 21, 1975.
II. BACKGROUND
Urbanization Trends
2.01      By 1970, after a decade of rapid urbanization, 31% of Peru's city
dwellers (1.5 million of the 4.7 million population in major cities) were
living in pueblos jovenes on the outskirts of cities. While the national
population (14.1 million in 1972) has increased at an average rate of 3.1% a
year, the urban population has increased at 5.1%, and the pueblos jovenes
population had increased at 13.7% a year. Estimates are that Peru's popula-
tion will increase from 14.1 million in 1972 to 27.2 million in 1990. The
urban population as a whole is projected to increase to 18 million and Lima's
population alone to 8.1 million over the same period. The increase in urban
population has been related, in large part, to government policies of rapid
industrialization.
2.02      Migration into areas of large urban concentration and industrial
activity, located principally along the coastal region have surpassed pre-
vious migrations to mining areas located in the interior. The extreme topo-
graphy in much of Peru gives the coastal urban centers, Piura, Lima, Arequipa,
Trujillo, Chiclayo, Chimbote and Ica locational and distributional advantages



for industrial development (Map WB 11716).  Cuzco and Huancavo, and the
interior river port Iquitos experienced rapid growth based on agriculture and
petroleum. Population increase from migration has almost matched the average
natural increase in major cities of Peru over the past five years.
2.03      Employment opportunities, higher income (the average labor produc-
tivity in agriculture was less than one-fourth of that for all other sectors)
and greater access to basic services and facilities have drawn increasing
numbers of rural poor into Lima and other major cities. In 1971, secondary
and tertiary sectors of employment, for the most part in urban areas, account-
ed for half of the country's 4.4 million employed: 14.7% in manufacturing,
3.2% in construction, 11.1% in commerce and 21.5% in services. Estimated
effective unemployment (mainly under-employment) in these sectors was 15% in
manufacturing, 9% in construction, 21% in commerce and 22% in services. The
greatest numbers of unemployed and under-employed were found in pueblos
jovenes.
National Urban Programs
2.04      National urban development programs and related infrastructure in-
vestments are coordinated through the Ministry of Housing and Construction
(MVC). MVC is responsible for the formulation of policy, preparation of urban
plans, coordination of public and private housing investments as well as for
government investments in general construction, water and sewerage, and infra-
structure for low-income areas, particularly pueblos jovenes. One of the
urgent problems for which the Government proposes solutions in its program is
geographic. To deal with this imbalance, the Government has approved a National
Urban Development Plan to establish 13 urban industrial centers throughout the
country, both through public investment projects and through cooperation with
the private sector (Annex 1).
2.05      Private and public investment in housing totalled US$150 million in
1974, and provided for the construction of roughly 50,000 dwelling units--half
of the demand for housing calculated on the basis of total household popula-
tion and estimated required housing replacements. Public sector investment in
housing accounts for 11% of total housing investment in the country. The Banco
de la Vivienda del Peru (BVP) accounted for about 40% of total housing invest-
ments made by financial institutions in 1974. BVP also carries out a housing
program through 17 savings and loan associations under its supervision. In
addition, BVP has had experience with contracting foreign loans including a
1969 IDB loan of US$12.8 million for housing and sites and services, a USAID
housing investment guaranty loan of US$28.2 million for housing reconstruction
following the 1970 earthquake, and another AID direct loan of US$15 million
for housing construction, rehabilitation and utility services in the earth-
quake zone. 1/
I/   The earthquake reconstruction programs were undertaken with foreign
assistance, and were located in Tumbes, Piura, and Puno-Juliaca.



- 4 -
The housing provided under the above programs, however, has been moderate, not
low, in cost. Of the 3,371 houses constructed in 1974 through savings and loa.
associations, two-thirds cost US$7,400 or more, a price which can only be
afforded by middle-income families. BVP has also been active in programs to
upgrade tugurios (city slums) and to provide basic infrastructure and services
to pueblos jovenes.
2.06      The Government's housing program for 1975-76 accords a high priority
to developing a housing and finance system for low-income families. Increased
credit availability and rationalization of construction activities involving
greater use of local materials and labor intensive methods of construction are
designed to narrow the gap between purchasing power and housing costs. About
SI. 116 million is proposed in the next two years for credit and assistance
programs for the construction of housing and for procurement of materials for
upgrading housing in pueblos jovenes. Programs for providing water and waste
disposal services are also to be coordinated and integrated into the total
housing investment plan.
Metropolitan Lima
2.07      With the exception of housing reconstruction and of rehabilitation
of earthquake zones to the north, Government urban development programs in the
past have favored the Lima metropolitan area where exceptionally high concen-
trations of urban poor and exceptionally great disparities in conditions have
attracted priority.  The Plan (called Plan de Metropolitano Lima--Callao a
1980) estimates an increase of 1.4 million people in pueblos jovenes around
Lima by 1980. Within the metropolitan area the urban poor are clustered in
either pueblos jovenes or tugurios. Tugurios are generally temporary rental
quarters and makeshift dwellings which, in Lima, offer about 400,000 persons
only the advantages of short distances to work and wider choices of casual
employment. Migrants to the cities, and to Lima in particular, often find
their way first to the tugurios with the hope that at a later stage they may
move to pueblos jovenes. Although advantages to be found in Lima exist to a
markedly lesser degree in other major urban industrial areas, the advantages
of any such urban area attract the rural 43% of the total population, who for
the most part have no access to basic services and who are dependent on
dwindling agricultural incomes. 1/ Within Lima and other cities, there is a
wide difference in income between rich and poor. In Lima, in 1970, for
example, 40% of "the economic labor force" received only 5.4% of total income,
while a mere 8% received 43.1%.
1/   Value added per worker in agriculture, fell from SI. 21,000 in 1961 to
S/. 20,000 in 1971.  IBRD Report No. 136-PE, May 10, 1973, page 8.



-5-
Pueblos Jovenes
2.08      The population of pueblos jovenes is largely made up of families
with young children. Living conditions in them are poor compared to those
obtained in Metropolitan Lima and other urban centers around which they are
located. They reflect their origin as settlements by organized squatter
invasion of public land. In a decade the number of cities above 5,000 popu-
lation with substantial pueblos jovens populations increased from 10 to 23.
Their location, generally on the outskirts of the city, complicates the
provision of services. Although public transportation is usually available,
it is irregularly scheduled, overcrowded and slow. Because both access and
internal roads in many pueblos jovenes are in disrepair, being sandy and hard
to maintain, buses stop at the entrance to the settlement and riders generally
have to walk 1 km to catch a bus. In Villa el Salvador, a relatively recently
established pueblo joven about 30 km south of Lima, there is no industry.
This means about 80% of the working force, or about 20,000 people, must travel
between three and four hours a day to their places of work. Only 43% of the
households have running water. The rest must buy from vendors through truck
delivery at a cost of up to 25 times the piped-in rate. Electricity supply
available to over 80% of Lima metropolitan area dwellings cover only about 40%
of pueblos jovenes dwellings. Health facilities, available in Lima at a far
greater rate than elsewhere in Peru are in short supply in pueblos jovenes
where the incidence of respiratory disease is exceptionally high. Schooling
and school facilities are strained to capacity by the pueblos jovenes popula-
tion, 50% of whom are under 15 years of age. In like manner, because they are
outside established commercial areas, residents of pueblos jovenes must pay
more than city residents for food, cooking equipment, clothing and for other
consumption goods.
2.09      The Government began a program to legalize land tenure of pueblos
jovenes residents in 1963, and the present Government has accelerated the
effort. The legalization of ownership has fostered a sense of community and,
encouraged the planning efforts of the residents. A local self-government
system has evolved over several years, focusing in successive stages on
(a) organized land invasion, (b) economic development through the creation
of cooperatives, (c) urban community social development, and (d) self-managed
communal social, economic, and administrative development. The structure of
self-government within the pueblos jovenes has been formalized, and the Peru-
vian Government has given credence, promotion and direction to the pueblos
jovenes institutions and programs through the establishment, in April 1972,
of the Sistema Nacional de Apoyo a la Movilizacion Social (SINAMOS) an agency
for support of social mobilization. Through SINAMOS, the pueblos jovenes have
made their priorities known to the Government, among them the need for jobs
above the need for housing, and more recently, the need for establishment of
socially owned industrial enterprises within pueblos jovenes. Other basic
requirements urgently called for at this time include the upgrading of serv-
ices, particularly water supply.



- 6 -
2.10      The form of government assistance in urban development is much in-
fluenced by the critical importance of job creation. Employment opportunities
for pueblos jovenes residents have limited income potential. While income per
capita in the cities is higher than the average for the country, the distribu-
tion of urban income is badly distorted. In Lima, for instance, average per
capita income in 1973 was estimated at US$117 compared to US$87 for the country
as a whole. But within pueblos jovenes average per capita income was US$78. 1/
2.11      The age distribution in Peru's cities makes the problem of employment
increasingly difficult due to growing numbers of labor force entrants (46,000
in 1971). In 1970, 27.7% of the total urban population in Peru was less than 15
years of age while, in pueblos jovenes, half of the population was under that
age and three quarters were under 25 years of age. Unemployment is greatest
among the young; in 1969, 35% of the unemployed (omitting the large category of
underemployed) was between 15 and 30 years of age.
2.12      A 1973 survey of one pueblo joven in Lima shows that less than 1% of
the "economic labor force" had received any technical or higher education and
only 16% had received secondary education; one-third considered themselves
"workers" (mainly in handicrafts, commerce, construction); 47% had "independent"
occupations and only 1% were professionals. 2/ Underemployment in that pueblo
joven was estimated at 26%, a typical situation in such communities.
2.13      Because they are relative newcomers, workers living in pueblos jovenes
are forced to compete for jobs with workers who are already established. Also,
the fact that pueblos jovenes populations have more young workers in their
number than do the populations of urban areas as a whole tends to reduce still
further their chances of getting well-paying jobs.
2.14      The Government is committed to the difficult task of generating income
and employment opportunities especially in pueblos jovenes both in and outside
of Lima. National industrial plans calls for creation of industrial zones
within selected pueblos jovenes as well as establishment of employment training
sectors. The National Service for Training in Industry (SENATI) under the
Ministry of Industry and Tourism has already set up three regional vocational
training centers--in Lima, Arequipa and Chiclayo. Plans are now approved to
establish training facilities and programs similar to SENATI designed specifi-
cally to support the needs of those small- and medium-sized industries best
suited to pueblos jovenes.
1/   Peru, Ministerio de Trabajo, Oficina Technica de Estudios de Mano de Obra,
Tabulaciones de Algunos Aspectos Socio Economicos de la Poblacion en el Peru,
Encuesta Regional Urbana Rural de Mano de Obra (August-October 1973), Lima
April 1973.
2/   Of the remaining employed, 5% worked at home, 11% were employees, and 4%
were retired.



-7-
2.15      The industries proposed for pueblos jovenes are designed to have
major employment-creating effects, and are to be worker-owned enterprises.
In Lima, plans include the development of five new industrial zones which will
provide an estimated 275,000 new jobs in manufacturing by 1980. Industrial
parks are planned in 13 different cities identified by industrial type in
national urban plans. Further public investments projected in the national
urban development plan are intended to provide employment for about 16% of
the additional economically active population, creating a total of 680,000
new jobs.
Bank-Assisted Projects
2.16      Over the past five years, the Bank has financed projects in agricul-
ture, transportation and education sectors in support of government efforts to
expand production and broaden popular participation in growth benefits. These
projects, especially those for education and transport, have had important
urban impacts. The Bank has also approved a loan for power distribution for
the Metropolitan Lima area which would quadruple the number of service connec-
tions in pueblos jovenes.
2.17      The proposed project is designed to support Government's efforts
towards developing viable solutions in meeting the problems of large segments
of the urban poor particularly those in pueblos jovenes. It initiates a
process for dealing with the problems of access to basic services and provi-
sion of jobs that would affect the present population as well as the antici-
pated increases in population. In affording such support, the project would
be complementary to Bank activities in other sectors. Through assistance to
enlarged programs outside the Lima area, and intensified efforts within that
area, the project would help develop Government capability for increasing the
ability of cities to effectively execute approved programs to benefit the
urban poor.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
3.01      The project is an integral part of the Government's program aimed at
providing the urban poor with basic facilities and employment opportunities to
increase their capacity to be productively absorbed in the urban economy. The
project focuses on three areas of assistance--basic and productive support in-
frastructure, directly productive investments, and technical assistance--and
institutionalizes a delivery system for urban services to low-income areas.
The project, details of which are listed in Annexes 2 and 3, and shown in Maps
WB 11714 and 11715, consists of:



-8-
(a) Basic and productive support infrastructure:
(i)  water and sewerage for pueblos jovenes in Lima and
Arequipa providing about 7,200 water and 11,300 sewer
household connections;
(ii)  electrification of 16,300 households in pueblos jovenes
in Lima and Arequipa;
(iii) access roads of 86.1 km to connect pueblos jovenes to
main roads and upgrade existing roads in these settle-
ments; and
(iv)  health and nutrition centers in pueblos jovenes in Lima.
(b) Directly productive investments:
(i) industrial sites and services (about 63.5 ha) in Lima and
Arequipa;
(ii) housing and commercial sites and services in Lima; and
(iii) supervised credit in Arequipa.
(c) Technical assistance:
(i)  to establish a technical assistance unit in the Ministry
of Housing and Construction to assist settlers primarily
in self-help construction;
(ii)  to provide advisory assistance for the planning, manage-
ment and monitoring of the industrial sites and services
in Lima;
(iii) to assist in the review of plans and in the preparation
of a water supply and sewerage project in Arequipa;
(iv)  to provide advisory assistance as well as vehicles and
equipment for the development of a training program for
community health and nutrition in pueblos jovenes; and
(v)  to assist the Banco de la Vivienda de Peru (BVP) in over-
all project implementation, financial planning and related
studies for the mobilization of additional resources for
urban development program and future projects.



- 9 -
B. Detailed Features
Water Supply and Sewerage
3.02      The water supply and sewerage subprojects in Lima and Arequipa are
both designed to extend the distribution system, provide individual connec-
tions and improve the effective use of the service to pueblos jovenes. The
project consists of the extension of water trunk lines, on-site water and
sewerage reticulation and individual dwelling connections benefitting resi-
dents in pueblos jovenes. Presently communities in pueblos jovenes rely on
water vendors for their water needs, paying as much as 25 times higher than
those who obtain water from metered connections. The subprojects provide the
basis for supplying water and sewerage services at an economic cost. It
facilitates differential pricing that benefits the urban poor through a block
tariff structure.
3.03      In Lima, the project component forms an integral part of the
Empresa de Saneamiento de Lima's (ESAL) water supply and sewerage program for
Metropolitan Lima covering the period 1974-1980 of which investments of about
S/. 3,500 million are planned. The works proposed for Bank financing would
substantially benefit about 116,000 persons in pueblos jovenes through direct
connection to the system and improvements in the level of service. The water
demand for pueblos jovenis to be served by this project component is ex-
pected to be about 3.4 m /sec which would be met from the ESAL's syst m.  By
1980, overall demand for the metropolitan area is estimated at 17.6 m /sec
which would be supplied from the expansion of existing treatment plant, addi-
tional grountwater sources, and infiltration galleries that is expected to
produce 19 m /sec. In addition, ESAL has instituted a program to install water
meters and adjust tariffs in order to reduce water losses and improve its
operations. Beyond 1980, studies by ESAL have concluded that the least costly
source for the augmentation of water supply for Lima would be the diversion
of water from the Mantaro river. Feasibility studies have been completed by
the consultants Binnie and Partners and the Bank has scheduled a project
preparation mission to consider the proposals.
3.04      The water supply component in Lima would include the construction of
two trunk mains (Annex 3). The Atarjea-Rimac trunk main would conduct water
from the treatment plant to the Rimac and San Martin districts and the pueblos
jovenes in the north zone of Lima (Chart WB 11714). The main would be 13.7 km
in length, and 600 mm to 1,400 mm in diameter. The other main, Monterrico
Surquillo, which would strengthen the distribution network in the south zone
of Lima would be 19.4 km in length, 500 mm to 1,000 mm in diameter, and have
two pressure reducing stations. Four pueblos jovenes would receive new water
and sewerage services. Approximately 6,000 metered water and 10,500 sewer
connections would be installed. In Arequipa, the water and sewerage component
is also part of the Empresa de Saneamiento de Arequipa (ESAR) program and is
designed to extend services to eight pueblos jovenes. Approximately 1,200
water and 1,400 sewer connections would be installed.



- 10 -
3.05      Detailed engineering of the water supply and sewerage subprojects
are virtually complete. Design standards for the water supply and sewerage
facilities were prepared by ESAL for Lima and by the Empresa de Saneamiento
de Arequipa (ESAR) for Arequipa. The Lima design was based on average per
capita consumption of 300 I/day for city residential areas and 200 1/day for
pueblos jovenes. The minimum size for distribution lines is 75 mm. Similarly,
designs for the sewer collection and transmission network and facilities in-
cluding minimum and maximum velocities, manhole location and accessory struc-
tures have been completed. In the Arequipa subproject, the water and sewer-
age design is based on an average per capita consumption of 150 1/day and
210 1/day depending on the characteristics of the particular zone in pueblos
jovenes. The sewer system design follows the accepted practice of minimum and
maximum velocities. The design standards are appropriate and acceptable. Both
implementing agencies for the project components, ESAL in Lima and ESAR in
Arequipa are competent and experienced. The technical supervision and control
for the execution of the proposed works are adequate. Upon completion, the
works are to be operated and maintained by ESAL and ESAR. Both agencies have
had previous experience with works involving the extension of water and
sewerage facilities to pueblos jovenes and have encouraged the participation
of local community labor in carrying out civil works. Specific aspects of
ESAL's management would require strengthening and its collection record needs
improvement. In particular, ESAL's leak detection program, installation of
meters and improvements of its accounting, billing and collection practices
deserve immediate attention. In its subsidiary loan agreement with ESAL,
which is subject to approval by the Bank, BVP would require ESAL to accelerate
its leak detection program and the installation of meters, complete its tariff
studies and undertake studies to improve its collection record. This was
confirmed during negotiations. In spite of apparent weaknesses in some areas
of operation, ESAL has improved its service considerably over the past five
years. It has recruited suitably qualified engineers and has been able to
retain good technicians from predecessor agencies. Water and sewerage block
tariffs were increased by about 40% during 1975 and a further increase of 20%
in 1977 is proposed. These increases in the water and sewerage rates would
greatly improve ESAL's ability to finance its projected investments.
Electrification of Pueblos Jovenes
3.06      In over 30 of the pueblos jovenes in Lima and Arequipa over 60% of
the homes do not have electrical services.  The Government's inability to
provide this essential service has led many of the pueblos jovenes to seek
financing at relatively high costs. In Lima, the project consists of provid-
ing 220 V low tension electrical service including distribution networks and
individual dwelling connections (underground wiring, ducts at street cross-
ings, meters, etc.), and primary 10 kV networks, where necessary, to about
12,400 lots in the pueblos jovenes in Lima. In the case of Arequipa, similar
works would be undertaken for nine pueblos jovenes benefitting about 3,900
lots. Details of both subprojects are described in Annex 3. One of the
salient features of this subproject would be the participation of the com-
munity in providing non-specialized labor for carrying out portions of the
civil works.



- 11 -
3.07      The subprojects for both Lima and Arequipa have detailed engineer-
ing which have been approved along with design standards, by the Ministry of
Energy and Mines as required by government regulations. The design for the
systems are considered adequate. The subproject would be implemented by
Electricidad del Peru (ELECTROPERU) and Electricidad de Lima (ELECTROLIMA)
in the case of Lima, and by Sociedad Electrica de Arequipa, Ltd. (SEAL) and
SINAMOS in the case of Arequipa. In both cases, SINAMOS would be responsi-
ble for organizing the communities and would provide technical assistance to
families.
Access Roads
3.08      Access roads in the pueblos jovenes are crucial in linking these
settlements to the main roads and in providing efficient public and private
bus and minibus services within the pueblos jovenes. The subproject involves
construction and improvement of about 86 km of existing secondary road net-
works in eight pueblos jovenes located in south Lima and one in the north.
It consists of: (i) access roads in the Cono Sur: this component provides
improved access roads to five pueblos jovenes on either side of the via
Pachacutec, the main road between the Cono Sur and downtown Lima. The pro-
posal involves improvement of internal roads designed to provide adequate
vehicular access to the settlements; and (ii) upgrading of internal road
network: this component provides for the upgrading and paving of internal
roads in four older pueblos jovenes (Annex 3).
3.09      Detailed engineering of the proposed access roads was prepared by
MVC. Design criteria for speed, critical grade length, minimum vertical
curves, and minimum horizontal radii were adopted from the Ministry of Trans-
portation and Communications' standards. The access roads will have a 7.2 m
wide asphalt surface with a variable width shoulder depending on the right
of way. The thickness of the granular base is on the average 15 cm with an
asphalt surface of 5 cm. On the internal road network the width will vary
from 5.0 m to 6.6 m. The granular base for these types of roads is 15 cm with
a 5 cm asphaltic surface. The implementation of civil works would be the
responsibility of the Direccion General de Construccion under MVC. The DGC
has ample experience in the supervision of works of this type and they would
be assisted by the Technical Department of BVP in the review of documents,
specifications, and procurement.
Health and Nutrition Centers
3.10      The proposed subproject consists of the construction of three new
health centers and the expansion of two existing ones to assist in the Govern-
ment's health development plan for 1975-1980. These centers will primarily
serve the areas in south Lima where the newer pueblos jovenes are concen-
trated. The centers will provide training, preventive medicine and nutri-
tion services.  Two existing health centers in the pueblos jovenes of lueva
Esper2nza and Villa Maria del Triunfo would be expanded by about 390 m and
430 m , respectively. In the case of Villa Mfaria del Triunfo the demand for
health services by 1980 are expected to involve 134,000 consultations, 1,400



- 12 -
hospitalizations, the distribution of 19,400 nutrition rations, 71,000 immun-
izations and about 5,000 actions related to environmental health activities.
New health centers which will be built in Ciudad de Dios (890 m ) and Villa el
Salvador (1,490 m ) are designed to cater to the needs for health and nutri-
tion services of about 150,000 people. One of the centers to be constructed
in Villa el Salvador is particularly innovative in that it is closely coor-
dinated with the needs and priorities of the community as defined by the
people themselves. Starting from its design, through construction and actual
operations, the center will enlist maximum feasible participation from the
community served. Over 900 health promoters will receive paramedical training
in this center to work for the improvement of health and nutrition standards
in Villa el Salvador.
Industrial Sites and Services
3.11      The proposed subproject consists of the development of 50 ha (out
of a total 420 ha which would be developed in stages) on an industrial site
in Lima and another 13.5 ha in Arequipa which forms an integral part of an
existing industrial zone. Both projects are expected to generate direct
employment opportunities for 6,000 persons. The subproject is designed to
benefit residents in pueblos jovenes by making industrial sites accesible
as places of employment and in the case of the Villa el Salvador industrial
site in Lima enable the "organized informal" sector to participate in the
development of plants and factories within a framework of Social Property. 11
The development of enterprises categorized as Social Property have been given
the highest priority by the Government.
3.12      In the proposed Villa el Salvador site sufficient demand exists
that would ensure the viability of the industrial site. All of the planned
first stage covering an area of 50 ha, has been reserved for industries which
already have discussed interest in acquiring serviced land. Among these in-
dustries are: manufacture of typewriters, bicycles, electrical components,
mimeographic machines, and a plant to produce electrical poles. Additional
enterprises considered for the first stage include the manufacture of build-
ing and construction materials (bricks, sanitary appliances, light aggregates)
1/   Social Property is defined under Peruvian law as any autonomous, self-
contained and self-sustaining enterprise operated for profit by the
workers in the enterprise itself. Under this scheme, initial capital
is provided by the National Social Property Fund and subsequently re-
paid to the Fund. Enterprises under the social property system are a
novel form of industrial ownership system developed by Peru's Revolu-
tionary Government. It is largely in an incipient and experimental
phase; the longer term intention is that it is to coexist with private
and public ownership in manufacturing, agriculture and the service in-
dustries. It is basically an attempt to create worker managed and
owned enterprises.



- 13 -
as well as food processing, glass and textile. The Government has agreed
that although Social Property enterprises would be given preference in the
industrial area it would permit the sale of land to other industrial enter-
prises (private or cooperative). Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations.
3.13      In Arequipa the industrial sites and services essentially forms a
third stage (the first two stages consisted of the development of 52 ha of
industrial land) located adjacent to an existing industrial site and easily
accesible to pueblos jovenes. The project consists of the financing of infra-
structure, water, sewerage, electricity, roads, land preparation and related
facilities. All of the proposed sites are already in demand. From the private
sector nine firms have applied for 44% of the saleable land. Firms considered
as Social Property have solicited 36% of the saleable land. SENATI--a quasi-
government training center for industrial workers--would occupy about 20% of
the land.
3.14      Implementation responsibility for the subproject rests with the
Empresa de Administracion de Inmuebles del Peru (EMADI). Construction of
civil works which would be carried out through qualified contractors would
be supervised by DGC. The Technical Department of the BVP would assist DGC
in the review of documents, specifications and overall procurement. Upon
completion of the sites, EMADI would manage sale of industrial land and pro-
vide overall management and maintenance of common facilities in the site.
Housing and Commercial Sites and Services in Lima
3.15      The proposed subproject is a pilot scheme consisting of 867 serviced
plots, supervised credit for the construction of dwelling units (initially
of low cost straw mat material) on self-help basis and the construction of
core shops or stores. The proposed subproject, located in Fundo Vasquez in
Lima, supports the Government's efforts to expand low-income housing stock
and generate employment opportunities by integrating small commercial ven-
tures in housing sites. A first stage development initiated by MVC has com-
pleted 200 serviced plots and the construction of 43 shop-dwellings. Site
development would permit the maximum utilization of self-help efforts.
3.16      The proposed layout is efficient.  A single through road provides
access to all residential areas and community facilities. The emphasis with-
in the settlement is on pedestrian circulation which combines recreational
and green areas. Community facilities are grouped to permit multiple use of
buildings.  Proposed plot sizes of 120 m  and 200 m  were judged as appropri-
ate after considering the spatial patterns in Fundo Vasquez and adjacent land
subdivisions.  Of the total number of plots 706 would be 120 m  and 161 would
be 200 m . The larger plots have been reserved for c Ire shops or stores which
would be built at one end of the double fronted 200 m plots. The larger
plots would be suitable for the development of a nucleus of commercial and re-
tail services that would serve the community. Out of the 161 sites allocated



- 14 -
for this purpose about half would be devoted to the establishment of repair
shops for automobiles, radio, household appliances and the supply of spare
parts. The other half of the lots would be used for retail and services
functions. As there is an existing industrial site with about 20 factories
located adjacent to Fundo Vasquez, the provision of retail and business
services would have sufficient customers. Details of the site layout and
design standards are shown in Annex 3.
3.17      A technical assistance unit would be established by MVC which would
be responsible. for the selection of settlers and to assist them in the con-
struction of dwelling units or for shops/stores. The Unit would also assist
BVP in supervising the provision of credit to settlers. The establishment
and staffing of the Unit with suitably qualified and experienced personnel
was discussed and agreement was reached during negotiations that it would
be a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
3.18      Community facilities such as schools, health posts and community
centers are designed to serve the needs of the population at full develop-
ment. The market and recreational facilities which would be commercially
operated would serve the needs of 1,000 families in the settlement plus an
additional 1,200 families in neighboring areas adjacent to the project area.
3.19      Unit costs for serviced plots of 120 m2 would be about S/. 54,529
(US$1,212) which includes allowances for contingencies. Credits for core
shelter would range from SI. 7,296 (US$162) to S/. 51,072 (US$1,135). With a
20-year mortgage at 12% interest and with a 10% downpayment, the monthly
payments for amortization and for water, sewerage and electricity would
range between SI. 740 (US$16) to S/. 1,200 (US$27). With these monthly
payments about 90% of Lima's population could afford units with core dwellings
and about 75% could afford to build a core dwelling plus a shop or store. 1/
Supervised Credit in Arequipa
3.20      In Arequipa, the subproject involves the provision of 1,000 indi-
vidually supervised credits for the construction of core ho2sing units which
would permit future expansions from an initial core of 45 m . These units
will be built through mutual aid by groups of about 20 participants wherein
the group as a whole would build the foundation and roof of all units while
each participant builds the walls and the necessary finishing work. Of the
total, 500 individual supervised credits would be earmarked for poorer resi-
dents o5 pueblos jovenes who are expected to build core units of approximately
10-15 m and improve them in stages as their incomes permit. The project
component will be reaching the poorest 10% in the income distribution scale.
SINAMOS working with BVP would be responsible for the implementation of this
project component.
1/   Based on 1973 Ministry of Labor Income and Expenditure data adjusted
by the Mission for 1976 estimates.



- 15 -
Technical Assistance
3.21      The Government has requested about 95 man-months of technical
assistance to five key institutions associated in the implementation of the
project. Advisory assistance would be required for training, project plan-
ning and preparation, project management, financial planning and for monitor-
ing and evaluation. The general scope of work for consultants is shown in
Annex 4.
3.22      Consultants' services would be employed by MVC in the establishment
and operation of a Technical Assistance Unit within six months from the date
of the loan agreement. The Unit would be responsible in assisting settlers in
Fundo Vasquez in the construction of core dwellings, shops and stores based on
self-help efforts.
3.23      Assistance would be provided to EMADI for the planning, management
and monitoring of the Villa el Salvador industrial site in Lima. Consultants
would be employed within twelve months from the date of the Loan Agreement.
Likewise, consulting assistance would be employed by ESAR within six months of
the Loan Agreement to review future water supply and sewerage needs for
Arequipa's metropolitan area as well as for the preparation of a project.
3.24      Advisory assistance would be extended to the BVP--the borrower, for
overall project implementation and related studies concerned with the mobil-
ization of additional resources to expand its urban development program and
for future projects. Consultants would be employed within twelve months from
the date of the Loan Agreement.
3.25      Assistance for training, including a small physical facility and
appropriate equipment, is proposed for the Ministry of Health to carry out
the purposes of the health and nutrition centers subproject. Consultants
would be employed within six months from the date of the Loan Agreement for
this purpose.
3.26      Consultants would be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank and that their qualifications are acceptable to the Bank. These
arrangements were agreed upon during negotiations.



- 16 -
IV. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING, COST RECOVERY AND PRICING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01         The estimated  total cost of the project,  inclusive of land cost,  is
S/. 1,943.8 million (US$43.20 million). The direct and indirect foreign ex-
change costs will be equivalent to US$15.24 million (35%). The cost estimates
are detailed  in Annex 2 and summarized below:
in S/. Millions                In US$ Millions
Subprojects                            Local  Foreign  Total          Local  Foreign  Total
A.  Water & Sewerage in Lima           255.7   239.3   495.o           5.68    5.32   11.00
B. Water & Sewerage in Arequipa         34.6    22.9    57.5           0.77    0.51    1.28
C.  Electrification in Lima             90.1   24.7   11h.8             2.00    0.55    2.55
D .  Electrification in Arequipa        22.9      8.6    31.5           0.51    0.19    0.70
E.  Acs. Rds.to pueblos jovenes inLira130.6    50.7   181.3             2.90    1.13    4.03
F.  Health & Nutr. Centers in Lima      41.8   20.3    62.1             0.93    0.45    1.38
G.  Industrial Site in Lima            155.5    50.0  205.5            3.45    1.11    4.56
H.  Industrial Site in Arequipa         26.3     4.6    30.9            0.59    0.10    0.69
I.  Commercial & Housing Sites and
Services in Lina                   114.5    36.0   150.5           2.54    0.80    3.34
G.  Supervised Credit in Arequipa       54.3     5.o    59.3            1.21    0.11    1.32
H.  Technical Assistance                 6.3    25.2    31.5           0.14    0.56    0.70
Subtotal             932.6   487.3  1419.9           20.72   10.83   31.55
Professional Services
(a)  Detailed Engineering               23.9    11.2    35.1           o.53    0.25    0.78
(b)  Supervision                        31.8    14.3    46.1           0.71    0.32    1.03
Subtotal              55.7    25.5    81.2            1.24    0.57    1.81
Contingencies
(a)  Physical                           99.7    61.5  161.2            2.22    1.37    3.59
(b)  Price Escalation 1/               170.2   111.3   281.5            3.78    2.47    6.25
Subtotal              269.9   172.8   442.7           6.oo    3.84    9.84
Total Cost of Project 2/
Including Land Cost                 1258.2   685.6  1943.8          27.96   15.24   43.20
1/  Price escalation is compounded annually on base construction cost and physical
as follows:
1976    1977    1978-80
(a)  Civil Works               16%     14%      12% p.a.
(b)  Equipment                 114%    16%      12% p.a.
2/  Land acquisition cost for subprojects F, G, H and I above amount to S/. 8.2 million.



- 17 -
4.02      The overall cost estimates are based on detailed engineering for a
number of the subprojects (i.e. water supply and sewerage, access roads, in-
dustrial site in Arequipa) and advanced preliminary engineering on the rest
of the subprojects. Unit prices and local construction costs were based on
information on most recent projects and quotations as of December 1975. The
cost estimates are considered realistic.
4.03      Physical and price contingencies together comprise about 23% of
estimated total cost. This is considered adequate because of the advanced
stage of designs, the short period required for implementation of civil works,
and because most of the land is owned by the Government. Allowances for
physical contingencies range from 15% to 20%. Price contingencies have been
compounded annually (ranging from 12% to 16%) on base construction costs plus
physical contingencies. These estimates are considered appropriate and real-
istic. Annex 2 provides details on the assumptions and notes on the cost
estimates.
B. Financial Arrangements
4.04      The overall financing plan for the project, details of which are
described in Annex 5, is shown below:
Cost               Financing
Down
S/. Millions   IBRD      BVP    Payment
A. Water Supply and Sewerage for
Pueblos Jovenes in Lima                 657.7      328.9   295.6       33.2
B. Water Supply and Sewerage for
Pueblos Jovenes in Arequipa              75.5       37.8    30.1         7.6
C. Electrification of Pueblos Jovenes
in Lima                                 189.3       94.7    75.7       18.9
D. Electrification of Pueblos Jovenes
in Arequipa                              46.2       23.1    18.5        4.6
E. Access Roads in Lima                      246.3       123.2    98.5       24.6
F. Health and Nutrition Centers               93.8        46.9    46.9         -
in Lima
G. Industrial Sites and Services
in Villa Salvador                       288.2      144.1   144.1         -
H. Industrial Sites and Services in           47.4        23.7    23.7         -
Arequipa
I. Housing and Commercial Sites and
Services in Lima                        187.1       93.6    79.9       13.6
J. Supervised Credit in Arequipa              80.8        40.4    32.3        8.1
K. Technical Assistance                       31.5        15.8    15.7         -
S/. Total             1,943.8      972.2   861.0       110.6
US$ Total                43.2        21.6    19.1        2.5
Percentage              100%         50%     44%         6%



- 18 -
4.05      The Bank loan to the Banco de la Vivienda del Peru (guaranteed by
the Government of Peru) would be SI. 972.2 million (US$21.6 million) or 50%
of total project costs. BVP would provide S/. 861.0 million (US$19.1 million)
or about 44.0% of the total project cost. Downpayments from project benefici-
aries would amount to SI. 110.6 million (US$2.5 million) or about 6.0% of the
total project cost. The exchange risk would be borne by the Government. The
Government would contribute to BVP's share capital an aggregate amount equiva-
lent to US$19.1 million in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the
Bank. This was confirmed during negotiations. BVP would relend, at the same
terms as the Bank loan, part of the proceeds of the loan to ESAL, ESAR, EMADI,
the Ministry of Housing and Construction, and Ministry of Health to carry out
their respective shares of the project.
4.06      BVP, with the agreement of the Government of Peru, will establish
a revolving fuiiu for the purposes of the project.  It is estimated that the
revolving fund could be started with US$500,000. One of the purposes of the
revolving fund is to insure that BVP has adequate flexibility in providing
the required funds in the execution of the various elements of the project.
Likewise, in the case of small-scale works (e.g., laying of trenches for
water pipes), the participating agencies will utilize local contractors who
will employ a large percentage of underemployed residents in pueblos jovenes.
The establishment of a revolving fund with an initial deposit would be a con-
dition of effectiveness of the loan. This was agreed during negotiations.
As project expenditures are made out of the revolving fund, the Government re-
plenishment through BVP would be made according to an agreed schedule that
would be satisfactory to the Bank. During negotiations, details for the estab-
lishment and operation of the revolving fund and the respective roles of the
Government and BVP were spelled out and agreed.
4.07      Water Supply and Sewerage Subprojects:  Funds for the construction
of facilities will come from BVP. ESAL and ESAR would be responsible for
civil works construction. Financing of trunk mains would be provided by BVP
and repaid by ESAL. For the reticulation system and house connections in
pueblos jovenes, the household would have a loan contract with BVP directly.
The terms would be for 20 years with a 10% downpayment and an interest rate
of 12% on the unpaid balance. These financial terms would insure that at
least one basic service (e.g. water) can be afforded by the lowest income
groups. BVP has established these terms based on household income and ex-
penditure surveys. ESAL and ESAR would collect on behalf of BVP monthly
payments from households which would reflect both the capital costs for the
construction of facilities as well as costs of water consumed.
4.08      Electrification of Pueblos Jovenes:  BVP will finance the capital
costs for the low voltage distribution network, individual connections and
part of the cost of the high tension networks. The rest of the high voltage
distribution network would be financed by ELECTROLIMA in Lima and SEAL in
Arequipa. As in the case of water supply and sewerage subprojects, BVP would
have loan contracts with households. Civil works would be carried out by parti-
cipating agencies, ELECTROPERU and ELECTROLIMA in Lima and SINAMOS and SEAL
in Arequipa. Upon completion of the works, both ELECTROLIMA and SEAL would



- 19 -
collect on behalf of BVP from individual households a single monthly payment,
covering amortization of household connections and the secondary network as
well as the charge for electricity consumption. Installation loans to indi-
vidual households would be for 10 years at an annual interest of 12% with a
10% downpayment.
4.09      Access Roads:  BVP would finance the access roads subproject through
lIiVC. The communities benefited would contribute about 10% of the total cost of
the subproject to be deposited with the BVP prior to the start of construction.
The Government will reimburse BVP 90% of the cost Of construction.
4.10      Health and Nutrition Centers:  The financing arrangements for this
subproject would be made by BVP. Given the nature of this subproject, only
a very small percentage of the operating cost could be recovered through con-
tributions by the beneficiaries. Presently, payments for medical consulta-
tions and pharmaceuticals only cover 5% of operating cost. The Government
would reimburse BVP for expenditures incurred on this subproject.
4.11      Industrial Sites and Services: BVP would provide funds to EMADI
(which is under the Ministry of Housing and Construction) for the construc-
tion, operation and sale of industrial sites in Lima and Arequipa. The
Direccion General de Construccion (DGC) would be responsible for the construc-
tion and supervision of both subprojects. EWADI would repay BVP for all ex-
penditures according to an agreed schedule which would be stipulated in a
subsidiary loan agreement between BVP and EMADI.
4.12      Housing and Commercial Sites and Services in Lima:  BVP would
finance the construction and development of sites and services as well as
credits for construction of core dwelling units and for core shop/stores.
BVP would provide funds to MVC for the development of the site, infrastruc-
ture, and community facilities. The Government would reimburse BVP for parts
of the cost of land acquisition, infrastructure development and for the full
cost of some on-site and off-site infrastructure. Each household would enter
into a loan contract with BVP for the repayment of allocated costs including
land, infrastructure and credits for construction of dwelling units or core
shops/stores. The terms for individual households would be for 20 years at
an interest of 12% with a 10% downpayment.
4.13      Supervised Credit in Arequipa:  BVP would extend properly super-
vised credit to individual households who are members of a group organized by
SINAIIOS. Each household participant would enter into a loan contract with
BVP. Disbursement of the credit would be made in installments to individual
households first with an initial amount corresponding to 10-15% of the total
loan and succeeding installments depending on work (e.g. foundation, floors
and walls) progress as it is completed and certified by SINAMIOS. BVP loans
would be for a term of 20 years at an interest of 12%.
C. Cost Recovery and Pricing
4.14      In general, utility services in Peru are under tariff policy direc-
tive from Government to recover capital, operating and maintenance costs,
plus debt service. Although this policy is not always carried out, upward



- 20 -
revision in the tariff structures for water, sewerage and electricity combined
with a closer examination of financial data indicates a direction towards full
cost recovery. 1/ Already there are salient features in both water and electri-
city tariffs in the manner in which differential pricing is reflected (e.g. for
water, the block tariff gives preference to the low volume user and for electri-
city, an 8% discount is given pueblos jovenes and lower rates for those who use
off-peak and higher voltage service).
4.15      Recovery of costs for the project would come mainly from charges and
sales to final users with the exception of subprojects on access roads and
health and nutrition centers in Lima, and technical assistance which would be
recovered from general tax revenues. The Government would recover about 65%
of original investments and the remaining would be recovered indirectly from
general tax revenues. Annex 6 shows the details of the cost recovery and
pricing for each of the subprojects.
D. Procurement
4.16      Contracts for civil works and equipment would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank
guidelines, except for up to $80,000 worth of locally manufactured equip-
ment (mainly water and electrical meters for Lima), and up to $160,000
worth of locally manufactured electrical facilities for Arequipa, because
Peruvian legislation effectively prevents international competitive bidding
for industrial products manufactured in Peru, but also because of reasons
of efficiency, standardization and availability of repair facilities; build-
ing materials provided by BVP to individuals to upgrade or erect modest shel-
ter units through a program of mutual aid will also be procured on the basis
of domestic competitive bidding for obvious reasons.
E. Disbursements
4.17      Disbursements of the proposed Bank loan would be made against the
following items:
1/   Technical assistance funds is provided in the Fifth Power Project for
tariff structure studies designed to determine incremental cost of
providing service to various customer classes.



- 21 -
(a)  100% of the CIF cost of imported vehicles and equipment or 100%
of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods;
(b)  48% of the cost of civil works and buildings;
(c)  50% of amounts disbursed by BVP to individuals participating in
the supervised credit program;
(d)  50% of consultants' services for studies, detailed engineering
and design, and supervision; and
(e)  50% of technical assistance.
4.18      Savings in any category under the allocation of proceeds would be
made available for cost overruns in any other category. In the event, how-
ever, the expenditure should exceed the present estimated cost of S/. 1,943.8
million (US$43.20 million) such excess would be met by the Government. A
schedule of estimated Bank disbursements appears in Annex 7. In order to
facilitate project implementation and insure a reasonable schedule of con-
struction, retroactive financing mainly for detailed engineering of proposed
works of up to US$100,000 is recommended after December 1975. Documentation
for disbursements under the credit programs will not be submitted to the Bank
but retained by BVP for periodic review by Bank project supervision missions.
F. Accounts and Audits
4.19      A separate project account would be maintained by BVP.  As facil-
ities are completed the participating agencies would submit to BVP quarterly
financial reports on pertinent subprojects. During negotiations, agreement
was reached that an annual audited record of BVP and for the project account
should be made available to the Bank no later than six months following the
close of the Borrower's fiscal year, until the completion of project implemen-
tation.
G. Supervision
4.20      About 80 man-weeks of Bank staff time is scheduled for supervision
work during the three-year implementation period (Chart WB 15488).
V. THE BORROWER
5.01      The Banco de la Vivienda del Peru (BVP) will be the Borrower of
the Bank loan and act as executing agency for the implementation of the
project. The Government would guarantee the loan. BVP would relend loan
funds to participating agencies and to individuals for carrying out the
purposes of the project. Subsidiary loan agreements, which would be subject



- 22 -
to Bank approval, will be entered into between BVP and participating agen-
cies. The substance of individual contracts between BVP and households would
likewise be subject to Bank approval. The Borrower is experienced in the
variety of techniques that have been used in providing housing and construc-
tion for the urban poor and has the capability to expand its lending program.
Through financial control and technical supervision of project design and
execution, BVP will be an effective agent in the delivery of urban services
ensuring appropriate pricing and efficient implementation.
A. BVP Functions
5.02      BVP is a semi-autonomous agency under the supervision of the Ministry
of Economy and Finance. It was created in 1962 to establish and administer
savings and loan associations. In 1969, it received authority to mobilize
funds (through issuance of mutual development bonds) and to extend credits for
housing and construction. Since then it has participated in programs to pro-
vide basic services to ten pueblos jovenes in Lima. A total of about 37,500
lots are currently being provided with basic infrastructure. BVP has also had
experience in lending for urban renewal and housing reconstruction, rehabil-
itation and utility services (following a major earthquake in 1970), for the
development of construction industries and for special projects such as PREVI--
an experimental program initiated with the assistance of the United Nations
for the study of sites and services, building materials and rehabilitation
of central city slums. BVP actively promotes public, private and foreign
investment for housing and construction.
5.03      BVP is managed by an eight-member Board (four members representing
the Ministry of Economy and Finance, four representing the Ministry of Housing
and Construction) headed by a president, who also acts as Chairman of the
Board (Chart WB 15489). The present chairman is Dr. Raymundo Morales Ureste, a
respected banker with more than 25 years of experience and prior to being
named to his new post was vice chairman of the Industrial Bank of Peru. The
senior staff and middle management personnel are suitably qualified and
experienced. Operations are directed by a General Manager, working through
four Central Managers: administration, commercial credit, operations (medium-
and long-term credit) and supervision. In addition, each of the departments
may draw as needed on the services of four advisory departments (economic,
legal, management and technical) for specific expertise in special situations
as they arise. Of particular importance at this time is the technical depart-
ment. It needs strengthening both in numbers and technical capability if it
is to fulfill the demands that will be put upon it as BVP expands its activi-
ties in large-scale program of low-cost housing and related infrastructure.
The savings and loan system has 17 associations with US$172 million (1973) in
savings. The system has been one of the most successful in Latin America.
B. Lending Programs and Procedures
5.04      BVP accounts for about 40% of total housing investment by housing
finance institutions. It carries out six basic types of lending programs:



- 23 -
lending to the savings and loan associations, lending to housing coopera-
tives (which borrow for the purchase of land), lending to public and private
developers for large-scale programs of land development and housing construc-
tion, lending for direct programs of urban renovation and redevelopment in
low-income settlement areas (tugurios and pueblos jovenes), lending for special
experimental projects in building materials and lending for development of
construction industries (Annex 8).
5.05       BVP loans to savings and loan associations and to cooperatives have
been at an interest rate ranging from 6% to 8% with the latter rate being
charged for loans obtained from foreign sources. By law, the associations
have a maximum relending rate to their clients of 14% p.a. Loans to govern-
ment agencies for public housing have been at 8.5% p.a. Similar loans for
pueblos jovenes for the provision of electrification, water and sewerage
services carried an interest rate of 8.5% p.a. for a term of 5 to 7 years.
Housing loans were made at an interest rate ranging from 10% to 12% over a
period of 20 years. BVP lending procedures for pueblos jovenes projects are
well established. BVP lends directly to the authority that is providing the
services to the project area, for example to ESAL, a regional water company or
to MVC. A contract is also signed between BVP and the beneficiary house-
hold. The authority collects from individual beneficiaries of the project for
repayment of the loan. BVP makes a loan on the basis of a plan which SINAMOS,
a government agency which acts as an intermediate agent between pueblos
jovenes organizations and public authorities and for which SINAMOS has gained
inter-ministerial support. The plan submitted to BVP by SINAMOS contains the
names of at least 70% of the families who will participate in the project, as
well as the name of the authority (ministry or regional agency) that will
execute the plan and be responsible for collections. After BVP's technical
department reviews the plan and evaluates its feasibility, BVP signs a con-
tract with the authority which becomes the supervisor, executor and collector
for the loan. BVP provides a model of the contract to be signed by individual
family for the receipt of services and burden of debt. The authority, ESAL,
for example, ensures collection by including the amortized installment for
the loan in the monthly payment for service. In the event of default, the
service is cut off.
5.06      During implementation, BVP makes disbursements to the authority or
for certain small items directly to the supplier on the basis of invoices. The
authority is responsible for selection of the contractor, and for reviewing
with SINAMOS and with BVP's technical department the contractor's estimate of
the works. Disbursements are made on work in progress. All projects are in-
sured against natural disasters by private companies; the cost is charged to
the project. Two independent external auditors are normally employed
to examine BVP's financial statements. One is appointed by the Government's
auditing office following an invitation from qualified firms and the other is
selected by BVP's board of directors.



- 24 -
C. Financial Aspects
5.07      BVP's recovery record with respect to its loans has been reasonably
good. Of the loans made as of December 1974 of SI. 3,464 million, about SI.
17.5 million or 5% represent loans in arrears of which the amount in arrears
is about SI. 6.5 million. Annex 8 describes in detail BVP's financial perform-
ance and prospects. During the period 1971 to 1974, BVP's total assets
doubled from SI. 2,907 million to SI. 5,743 million, while long-term loans
increased 3-1/2 times from S/. 987 million to SI. 3,465 million. This growth
in assets was financed from three main sources: deposits, long-term debt and
capital and reserves. Of these sources, long-term debt was the most important,
increasing three times from SI. 1,007 million in 1971 to S/. 3,063 million in
1974. At December 31, 1974, BVP had the following debt equity position:
SI. million         %
Deposits                           1,294            24
Long-term debt                     3,063            57
Capital and reserves               1,017            19
5,374           100
5.08      From 1971 to 1974 BVP's revenue doubled from S/. 191 million to
S/. 370 million (Annex 8, Table 1), However, operating income for the same
period decreased from S/. 48 million to S/. 16 million. This decrease in
operating results can be attributed to a greater use of long-term debt rather
than deposits, which has resulted in an increased borrowing rate. Administra-
tion expenses as a percentage of average total assets has remained low --
ranging from 2% to 2.7% between 1972 to 1974. At the same time the average
income on lendings has remained constant at about 10%. BVP's net lendings are
forecast to increase from SI. 3,455 million in 1974 to S/. 8,326 million in
1980 and operating results will improve through a better interest spread on
these lendings (Annex 8, Table 2). Interest earnings are forecast to increase
from an average of 9.9% on loans in 1974 to 10.7% in 1980 while the average
cost of borrowings is forecast to remain constant at 8.2%.  In addition, the
interest spread between the Bank loan and BVP's relending rate (estimated to
be 3.5%) would be sufficient to cover administrative costs for the project,
defaults and generate a surplus.
5.09      Because the repayment terms of the Bank loan are longer than the
terms to be extended by BVP to individuals or participating agencies, it is
expected that surpluses would be generated which could be utilized for further
loans. During negotiations assurances were obtained that surplus funds arising
from BVP's loans being paid before the Bank loan payments are required should be
relent for projects, similar to those being financed, to pueblos jovenes.
5.10      During the years 1976 to 1978 BVP will contribute S/. 300 million
from internal cash generation while the Government will contribute S/. 578
million through share capital for lending purposes. Cash available balances
are forecast to increase from SI. 368 million in 1974 to S/. 1,302 million in



- 25 -
1980. This would enable BVP to expand its urban development program especially
into pueblos jovenes. BVP's expansion into low-income settlement development
is an appropriate policy direction. New resources, including those generated
from external sources, would be increasingly utilized for projects designed to
improve facilities in pueblos jovenes and other low-income settlements through-
out Peru.
D. Project Execution
5.11      As executing agency for the project, BVP would discharge overall
management for the implementation of the project. The responsibilities of
participating agencies in the execution of individual subprojects would form
an essential part of the subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between
BVP and these agencies. The implementation responsibilities as well as mainte-
nance obligations are described in Annex 3. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from BVP that subsidiary loan agreements would be subject to the
Bank's approval.
5.12      Within BVP, the technical department would be responsible for the
overall coordination during project execution, monitor progress of works,
supervise the selection of consultants and contractors as well as procure-
ment. It will also be responsible for the preparation of other urban pro-
jects designed to extend services and credit to the pueblos jovenes. In
view of this added responsibility and the complexity of the work involved
it would be necessary, as a condition of loan effectiveness, to expand the
technical department with at least four professionally qualified and experi-
enced staff. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from BVP to this
effect.
VI. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The primary objective of the project is to contribute to the econ-
omic and social well-being and mobility of the residents of pueblos jovenes
in two of the largest cities of Peru, Lima and Arequipa. This project has
been designed as part of the Government's efforts to extend essential services,
provide basic employment and training, and increase the productivity of the
urban poor. In order to achieve these goals, the project concentrates on
components that have a direct effect on economic performance, while strength-
ening the social conditions that are a prerequisite for the success of this
objective. Thus, the project integrates components such as the provision of
water and sewerage, electrification, access roads and health services, with
other measures such as training facilities and new industrial areas which are
designed to increase technical skills and provide additional employment oppor-
tunities.



- 26 -
terms of employment opportunities, the project would make a direct contribu-
tion of about 6,000 new permanent jobs. 1/ During implementation about 13,000
man-months of work would be generated for the construction of various elements
in the project. Many more jobs are expected to be generated through the
multiplying effects of the subprojects.
6.03      An innovative feature of this project is the active participation of
the communities served, both in the design and construction of the individual
components. Such participation not only reduces to a significant degree the
cost of the proposed works, and thus makes these services available to a much
larger number of people, but it also has an important social effect in the
resulting community cohesion.
6.04      The overall economic rate of return on the quantifiable elements
has been estimated to be about 30.0%. Because the target population for the
project is in the lowest income levels, the social rate of return would be
substantially higher.  For the individual subprojects, the economic rates of
return calculation is shown in Annex 9 and the results are tabulated below:
Water and Sewerage in Lima and Arequipa         17.0%
Electrification in Lima and Arequipa            23.7%
Access Roads in Lima                            29.2%
Industrial Sites in Lima and Arequipa           34.4%
Sites and Services in Lima and
Supervised Credit in Arequipa                 32.2%
Total for all Project components shown          29.7%
6.05      The sensitivity of the total project's rate of return to assumptions
on cost and benefit variations is shown below.
Under                15%                 15%             25%
Present           Increase in         Decrease         Increase
Project           Construction            in              in
Assumptions             Cost             Benefits        Benefits
Project Total       29.7%                26.6%             26.1%           36.1%
6.06      In estimating the rates of return on the Water and Sewerage sub-
projects, the benefits were valued in terms partly on the differential price
and partly on the average rate of the volume of water consumed as a result of
the project, while the costs were based on detailed construction and main-
tenance cost estimates made during appraisal plus physical contingencies.
1/   5,000 in Lima's and 1,000 in Arequipa's industrial sites and services
subprojects.



- 27 -
The calculation of benefits in the electrification subproject was based on
the estimated savings in the costs of alternatives to electric power for
lighting. 1/ Costs were computed in a similar manner to the procedure used
in the water and sewerage subproject. Benefits in the access roads subproject
were derived by estimating the savings in the operating costs of vehicles as a
result of better roads. The corresponding costs refer again to detailed con-
struction and maintenance cost estimates plus physical contingencies. For the
industrial sites and services subproject, benefits were estimated on the basis
of increased land values, while costs were measured by adding the opportunity
cost of land to the capital investments needed to develop the required infra-
structure and complementary civil works plus physical contingencies. Finally,
benefits for the housing sites and services and supervised credit subprojects
were calculated on the basis of imputed rental value of completed housing
units. The corresponding cost streams refer to the opportunity cost of land,
detailed construction cost and maintenance estimates, both for the initial
core units and for the planned expansions plus physical contingencies.
6.07      It is to be recognized, however, that the rate of return calcula-
tions of some of the above components represent only rough orders of magni-
tude since they are based on the assumption that prices currently paid by
consumers and to be paid for services to be provided under the project re-
flect their long-term marginal cost and substantial uncertainties exists
regarding those costs.
6.08      One of the important non-quantifiable benefits of the project is
the development of an effective delivery system for urban services to low in-
come areas. Through the Banco de la Vivienda del Peru, which would exercise
financial control and technical supervision on project design and execution,
basic services wouldbe provided for the urban poor which would insure appro-
priate pricing and efficient implementation.
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances from BVP and the Government were
obtained that:
(a) the Government would permit the sale of industrial land to other
sectors (e.g. comunidad industrial, cooperatives) in addition
to enterprises in the Social Property Sector in order to ensure
its economic viability (para 3.12);
1/   In pueblos jovenes the use of candles for lighting purposes is common.
The computed benefits do not include additional non-quantifiable advan-
tages made possible through the use of electric power such as ironing,
cooking, refrigeration, sewing, small-scale manufacturing, etc.



- 28 -
(b)  the Government and BVP would employ consultants on terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.26);
(c)  the Government would contribute to BVP's share capital an aggregate
amount equivalent to nineteen million one hundred thousand dollars
(US$19.1 million) in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the
Bank (para 4.05);
(d)  the Government and the BVP would establish and operate a revolving
fund for the project on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, the details of which were spelled out and agreed upon, defin-
ing respective roles for the Government and BVP (para 4.06);
(e)  the Government would define in specific terms the role of the BVP
in procurement and that the Bank's approval would be sought for
the proposed equipment and vehicle lists to be used in the project
(para 4.16);
(f)  a separate account would be maintained by BVP for the project
and the annual audited record of BVP and the project account
would be available to the Bank not later than six months after
the end of the Government's fiscal year (para 4.19);
(g)  subsidiary loan agreement between BVP and participating agencies and
the substance of proposed contracts between the Bank and individual
households would be subject to the Bank's approval (paras 5.01 and
5.11);
(h)  surplus funds arising from BVP's loans being paid before the Bank
loan payments are required should be relent for projects, similar
to those financed under the loan, to pueblos jovenes (para 5.09);
7.02      As conditions for loan effectiveness, (i) the Government would
establish a technical assistance unit within the Ministry of Housing and Con-
struction to assist settlers in the Lima site in the construction of self-help
housing, shops and related activities (para 3.17); (ii) BVP will establish a
Revolving Fund with an initial deposit of the equivalent in soles of US$500,000
(para 4.06); and (iii) BVP will employ, in its technical department not less
than four additional technicians whose qualifications and experience shall be
satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.12).
7.03      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$21.6 million equivalent to the Banco de la Vivienda del
Peru, which would be for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of 3
years.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
PERU
APPRAISAL OF THE URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Urban Development Plans
A. National Urban Development Plan
1.        Since 1968 the Government of Peru has made an effort to encourage
the decentralization of economic activities in order to stem the flow of
migrants into the coastal region in general and into the Lima metropolitan
area in particular. One of the instruments for effectuating such a program
is the National Urban Development Plan which was prepared under the auspices
of the Ministry of Housing and Construction. The National Urban Development
Plan (NUDP) is essentially derived from Peru's more general national economic
and social development plan which assigns to the housing sector the following
objectives: (a) establish norms for the development of urban population
centers; (b) formulate, analyze and approve urban development plans; (c) for-
mulate, analyze and/or execute projects and integrate housing and facilities'
programs; and (d) promote and/or execute infrastructure works. The plan
establishes targets for the period 1980-2000.
2.        In trying to understand the dynamics of demographic shifts in Peru
it is convenient to start with the 1950's. During this period, and aided
by a relatively strong economic growth, the population from rural areas and
small towns began to shift into economically active regions. Most of these
migrants were attracted to the coastal region in Peru although some of them
also settled in a few large centers in the sierra (mountains). The region
with the highest migration loss was the sierra itself (Cuzco 43.8%, Huancayo
43.7%, Abancay 42.4%, Yauli 41.3%, Huaraz 37.7%, Huancavelica 31.7%). On the
other hand, the centers of attraction were Lima-Callao (35.9%), the larger
cities in the sierra (33.5%), other coastal cities (23%) and smaller cities
in the selva (7.6%). By 1972, urban concentrations along the coastal strip
(Metropolitan Lima, Piura, Trujillo, Chiclayo and Chimbote) as well as in
cities in the sierra like Arequipa, Huancayo and Cuzco accounted for the bulk
of urban population.
3.        The total population of Peru is expected to reach 27.2 million
inhabitants by 1990. The urban and rural populations will number 18.8 and
8.4 million respectively. The urban population will be concentrated in
301 urban centers with more than 2,000 inhabitants, 225 of which will have
populations above 5,000. Lima alone is expected to have about 8.1 million
inhabitants by 1990. The distribution, past, present and expected, of these
centers by geographic area is given in the following table:



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 7
Urban Centers with 2,000 or More Inhabitants
Region               1961      1971     1980      1990
North                    128      127       117      113
Center                  122       117       111      111
South                    63        69        56       56
East                     21        21        21       21
Total           334      334       305       301
4.        The Plan has carved the country into four geographic regions and
assumes that specific regional development policy actions will be taken.
In the North, 1/ these actions will include:
(a) acceleration and conclusion of the agrarian reform;
(b) development of new cultivated areas;
(c) establishment of automobile-related industries; and
(d) consolidation of the population in the Chiclayo-
Trujillo-Chimbote axis.
In the Center, 2/ efforts are planned to create the conditions that
will decentralize economic activity and thereby promote migration flows away
from the Lima metropolitan region. The main actions considered refer to the
strengthening of other urban centers in the region, specifically by providing
these alternative centers with high levels of infrastructure and job oppor-
tunities.
In the South, 3/ the main elements of development include:
(a) strengthening Arequipa as a major urban center;
(b) create propitious conditions for the development of
Cuzco into a second major urban center; and
1/   Includes the departments of Tumbes, Piura, Lambayeque, La Libertad,
(part of) Ancash, Cajamarca and San Martin.
2/   Departments of Lima-Callao, Ica, Junin, Pasco, Huanuco, Huancavelica,
Ayacucho and Ancash (the last without the provinces of Santa and Casma).
3/   Departments of Arequipa, Moquegua, Tacna, Puno, Cuzco, Apurimac and
Madre de Dios.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 7
(c) strengthening of two main development axes, one along the
coast (Arequipa-Ilo-Moquegua-Tacna), and the second in the
sierra (Cuzco-Juliaca-Puno) .
In the East, 1/ the development plans call for the following actions:
(a)  changing the economy of the region from its agrarian-extractive
base towards industrialization;
(b)  increasing the population of the region by a mass program of
colonization; and
(c)  linking the region effectively to the rest of the country.
5.        A major role in helping to achieve these regional goals is assigned
to the pattern of public investments over the coming years. These invest-
ments are intended to provide employment for about 16% of the additional
economically active population expected by 1990. The Government intends to
participate in 125 large public investment projects. These investments are
expected to provide around 680,000 new jobs, of which 64% would be in the
rural sector (435,000), and 36% (245,000) in urban areas.
6.        Based on the results expected from these investments as well as
the other policies enacted by the Government, the Ministry of Housing and
Construction has revised the population projections as follows:
Summary of Total (Normative) Expected Population (in Thousands)
(1980-1990)
1980                               1990
Region    Urban    Rural    Total   Urb.    Urban    Rural    Total   Urb.
North      2,978   2,437    5,416    55        4,747   3,155    7,902    60
Center 2/  6,794   3,706   10,500    67       11,469   3,486   14,955    77
South      1,314   1,349    2,663    49        1,853   1,419    3,272    57
East         445      298      742    60         776      305    1,081    72
Total   11,531   7,791   19,322    61       18,844   8,365   27,210    69
1/   Most of the Department of Loreto.
2/   In this classification, the Center includes the Lima Region.



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 7
7.        In its efforts to organize the implementation of its urban policies
systematically, the MVC has divided the country's territory into five urban
macro-systems each containing a major urban center. These five macro-systems
with their respective centers: North (Trujillo), Center (Huancayo), South
(Arequipa); East (Iquitos), and Lima (Lima).
8.        The National Urban Development Plan has also ranked all urban
centers by degree of importance to the national economy. Each city would
be assigned economic, social and administrative roles according to its
ranking.
The 1st Rank (Metropoli Nacional) is reserved for Metropolitan Lima which
is assumed to reach 8.0 million people by 1990. In order to accomplish this
goal and avoid reaching the population of over 9.5 million projected origin-
ally, the rate of population growth will have to be reduced from the 5.9 rate
of the 1961-1971 period to a rate not above 4.2.
The 2nd Rank (Principal Centers of Urban Macro-Systems) will be composed
of the cities with populations ranging from 400,000 to 1,200,000 inhabitants. 1/
These are to become the site for the establishment of "Heavy" and most "Large"
industries.
The 3rd Rank (Principal Centers of Urban Systems) will consist of cities
between 100,000 and 500,000 inhabitants. They will be the seat of "Large"
and most "Light" industries. The cities in this group will be:
in the North: Piura, Chiclayo, Bagua, Cajamarca and
Tarapoto;
in the South: Cuzco and Puno;
in the Center: Ica, Huaraz and Huanuco;
in the East:   Pucallpa
The 4th Rank (Principal Centers of Urban Subsystems) will receive "Light",
"Elemental" and "Complementary" industries. They will be cities that will vary
in size from 50,000 to 100,000 inhabitants. There are four additional ranks
of urban areas, each rank defining cities with a specific role and size
range. The smallest urban center (8th Rank) identifies concentration with
at least 500 inhabitants.
I/   These ate Trujillo, Huancayo, Arequipa and Iquitos which were earlier
defined as major urban centers.



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 7
B. Lima Metropolitan Development Plan
9.        The development of Metropolitan Lima 1/ has been formally defined
in the Plan de Desarrollo Metropolitano Lima-Callao a 1980 (PLANDEMET), a set
of official documents designed to guide the future growth of the city. This
plan has been developed in close coordination with the National Urban Develop-
ment Plan and assumes that the growth of the city, and, in particular, migra-
tion related growth, will slow down in the future. 2/ Based on this assump-
tion, by 1980 the population of the city should reach 5.7 million people, and
an employment figure of over 1.7 million. 3/ The city would then extend over
an area of 32,700 ha 4/ and contain 1.2 million housing units and 410,000
private cars.
10.       In practical terms, the plan serves as a development framework
enforced through very detailed normative guidelines that are meant to control
all building activities in Metropolitan Lima. The plan has been developed
to perform the following functions:
(a) consolidate and increase the density of the already built-up
areas of the city core;
(b) concentrate further urban growth along "preferable" development
axes, and within these, establish additional concentrations of
population on the periphery of the metropolitan area; and
(c) establish a consolidated administrative unit to regulate the
development of the greater Metropolitan Lima area.
11.       The low density of Lima's built-up areas is a product of both
of the fact that the city has often been affected by earthquakes, and of
lenient property tax laws and other fiscal rules regulating land use. Plans
to increase the density in the city's core assume that better construction
techniques and changes in the property tax laws will be established. If all
the changes to fill up existing vacancies in the city as well as the plans
to increase densities as envisaged in PLANDEMET are carried out, it would
add approximately 592,000 new dwelling units.5/
1/   Which includes Callao.
2/   To an annual rate of growth of approximately 4.2%.
3/   310,000 in manufacturing, 798,000 in services, and 628,000 in "other"
(residual).
4/   24,360 ha for residential use, 3,092 ha for industry, and 5,257 for
other uses.
5/   107,000 in the consolidation of empty areas in Maranga and Limatombo,
and 485,000 through increases in density all across the city's core.



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 7
12.       The plans to concentrate additional future growth along preferable
development axes establish the following locations:
(a) highway to Ventanilla (north);
(b) Panamericana Norte and highway to Canta (north/east);
(c) Canto Grande - Collique (north-northeast);
(d) Carretera Central (east); and
(e) Panamericana Sur and highway to Acocongo (south/south-east).
PLANDEMET estimates that these developments could add another
2,953,000 people to the city. Altogether, a total of 3,545,000 additional
people could be accommodated through the consolidated and expansion measures
envisaged in the plan.
13.       In terms of industrial employment, PLANDEMET estimates that by
1980 the city will have over 3,500 ha of industrial areas which should by
then provide a total of approximately 275,000 jobs. The location of these
industrial zones, their area and potential total employment figures are:
Location                Area (in has.)       Potential Employment
(a)  Highway to Ventanilla         1,510                 121,000
(b)  Panamericana Norte              540                  43,000
(c)  Canto Grande                    230                  18,000
(d)  Carretera Central               810                  65,000
(e)  Panamericana Sur                420                  28,000
Total             3,510                 275,000
Additional industrial employment is, and will in the future be, provided by
smaller enterprises located in areas not expressly allocated to industry.
A large portion of new industrial areas is located near the new residential
areas in the periphery o' the city, a fact that should improve the accessi-
bility ol these laige ccncentrations of people to new sources of employment.
14.       Efforts to establish a consolidated development agency for all
Metropolitan Lima are currentLy under way, although no definitive solution
has been found to this issue.



ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 7
C. Urban Development in Arequipa
15.       The urban growth of Arequipa is formally controlled by means of
an appropriate set of official documents 1/ which envisages that by 1980 the
city will have a population of approximately 500,000 people. The rapid in-
crease of population in Arequipa 2/ has been, and is expected to continue to
be, mainly the result of migration from the interior of the country. The
newcomers have predominantly settled in pueblos jovenes in the eastern peri-
phic areas along the main highway from Puno into the city. It is estimated
that about 60% of the city's population lives and will continue to live, in
pueblos jovenes, of which there were 93 by 1975. 3/
16.       One of the main goals of the urban development plans is to improve
the accessibility of available employment opportunities located in the west
of the city, to the residents of the pueblos jovenes concentrated in the
eastern sections. To achieve this, the proposed highways systems is based
on a new East-West axis complemented by additional traffic-diverting roads.
17.       New areas of urban expansion have been tentatively identified to
the north of the city at Ciudad de Chachani (or Nueva Arequipa), and to the
south on the Pampas de Chuco in Characato. Because these are relatively
distant and isolated areas, new sources of employment would be developed
simultaneously with the creation of new residential neighborhoods.
1/   This is the Plan Director, approved in 1974, and which includes a Plan
de Expansion Urbana (Urban Expansion), Plan Vial (Highways System), Plan
de Equipamiento (Public Facilities), and a Plan General de Zonificacion
(Zoning Code).
2/   The yearly growth rate between 1961 and 1971 was 5.4%.
3/   With a population of over 200,000 people.



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 12
PERU
APPRAISAL OF THE URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOMPENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate Tables
-    Summary Project Costs
-    Water and Sewerage for Pueblos Jovenes in Lima
-    Water and Sewerage for Pueblos Jovenes in Arequipa
-    Electrification of Pueblos Jovenes in Lima
-    Electrification of Puebos Jovenes in Arequipa
-    Access Roads in Lima
-    Health and Nutrition Centers in Lima
-    Industrial Sites and Services in Lima
-    Industrial Sites and Services in Arequipa
-    Supervised Credits for Sites and Services
-    Supervised Credit in Arequipa



ANNEX 2
Page 2 cf 12
SUMMARY PROJECT COSTS
in SI. Millions                In US$ Millions
Subprojects                            Local  Foreign  Total           Local  Foreign  Total
A.  Water & Sewerage in Lima           255.7   239.3   495.0            5.68    5.32  ill.00
B.  Water & Sewerage in Arequipa        34.6    22.9    57.5            0.77    0.51    1.28
C.  Electrification in Lima              90.1    24.7   114.8           2.00    0.55    2.55
D.  Electrification in Arequipa          22.9     8.6    31.5           0.51    0.19    0.70
E.  Acs. Rds.to pueblos jovenes  nLirva130.6    50.7   181.3            2.90    1.13    4.03
F.  Health & Nutr. Centers in Lima       41.8    20.3    62.1           0.93    o.45    1.38
G.  Industrial Site in Lima             155.5    50.0   205.5           3.45    1.11    4.56
H.  Industrial Site in Arequipa          26.3     4.6    30.9           0.59    0.10    0.69
I. Commercial & Housing Sites and
Services in Lima                   114.5    36.0   150.5            2.54    o.80    3.34
G.  Supervised Credit in Arequipa        54.3     5.o    59.3           1.21    0.11    1.32
H.  Technical Assistance                  6.3    25.2    31.5           0.14    0.56    0.70
Subtotal              932.6   487.3  1419.9          20.72   10.83   31.55
Professional Services
(a)  Detailed Engineering               23.9    11.2    35.1            0.53    0.25    0.78
(b)  Supervision                        31.8    14.3    46.1            0.71    0.32    1.03
Subtotal               55.7    25.5    81.2           1.24    0.57    1.81
Contingencies
(a)  Physical                           99.7    61.5  161.2             2.22    1.37    3.59
(b)  Price Escalation 1/               170.2   111.3   281.5            3.78    2.47    6.25
Subtotal              269.9   172.8   442.7           6.oo    3.84    9.84
Total Cost of Project 2/
Including Land Cost                 1258.2   685.6  1943.8           27.96   15.24   43.20
1/  Price escalation is compounded annually on base construction cost and physical
as follows:
1976    1977    1978-80
(a)  Civil Works               16%     14%      12% p.a.
(b)  Equipment                 14W,    16%      12% p.a.
2/  Land acquisition cost for subprojects F, G, H and I above amount to S/. 8.2 million.



WATER AND SEERAWGE FOR PUEBLOS JOVENES IN LIMA
In S/. Millions                        In US$ Millions
Project Component                      Local     Foreign      Total           Local      Foreign     Total
A. Civil Works
1. Trunk Mains - Atarjea to Rimac
and Surquillo                            126.4    118.6         245.0            2.81        2.64        5.4h
2. Distribution -
a. Reticulation & Collector Systems    102.8       96.0         198.8            2.28        2.13        4.42
b. Individual Connections                 26.5     24.7          51.2            0.59        0.55        1.14
Subtotal                            255.7    239.3         h95.0            5.68        5.32      11.00
B. Professional Services
1. Detailed Engineering                       7.1      4.8          11.9            0.16       0.11        0.26
2. Supervision                            - 10-.7      7.1          t7.-8-          0.24       0.15        0 -4:
Subtotal                            17.8      11.9          29.7           0.40        0.26        0.66
Direct acsts Before Contingencies          273.5    251.2         524.7            6.08        5.58       11.66
C. Contingencies
1. Physical 15% /a                           23.8     20.8          4h.6            0.53       0.46        0.99
2. Price EscalatTon /b                       47.1     41.3          88.4            1.05        0.92       1.96
Subtotal                            70.9      62.1         133.0           1.58        1.38        2.95
Subproject Cost with Contingencies             344.4    313.3         657.7            7.66        6.96       14.61
/a  Materials are estimated to constitute 60% of civil works.
7   Price escalation is compounded annually on base construction cost and physical as
follows:
1976          1977           1978-80
(a)  Civil Works            16%            14%             12%  p.a.
(b)  Equipment              1)4            16%             12%  p.a.                                               'I
0



IATER AND SEWERAGE FOR PUEBLOS JOVENES IN AREQUIPA
In S/. Millions                      In US$ Millions*
Project Component                      Local     Foreign     Total           Local     Foreign     Total
A. Civil Works
1. Zona "A" Hunter                            4.0       2.6         6.6            0.09       0.06       o.15
2. Ampliacion Paucarpata                      6.1       h.o        10.1            0.14       0.09       0.23
3. Apurimac                                   3.1       2.1         5.2            0.07       o.o5       0.12
4. Manco Capac                                3.9       2.6         6.5            0.09       0.06       0.15
5. La Tomilla, Acequia Alta y Fco Bolognesi   6.1       4.o        10.1            o.14       0.OS       0.23
6. California.                                3.9       2.6         6.5            0.09       0.06       0.15
7. San Juan de Dios, Hunter                   6.5       4.4        10.9           o.l4        0.10       o.24
8. E1 Penon, Alfonso Ugarte                   1.0       o.6         1.6            0.02       0.01       0.03
Subtotal                           34.6      22.9        57.5            0.77       0.51       1.28
B. Professional Services
1. Detailed Engineering                       0.9       0.5         1.4            0.02       0.01       0.03
2. Supervision                                1.3       0.9         2.2            0.03       0.02       o.o5
Subtotal                            2.2       1.4         3.6            0.05       0.03       0.08
Direct Cost Before Contingencies                36.8      24.3        61.1            0.82       o.54        1.36
Contingencies
1. Physical 15%  /a                              3.8       2.3         6.1            0.09       0.05       o.14
2. Price Escalation  /b                          5.4       2.9         8.3            0.12       0.06       0.18
Subtotal                            9.2       5.2        14.4            0.20       0.12       0.32
Subproject Cost with Contingencies              46.o      29.5        75.5            1.02       o.66        1.68
/a  Materials are estimated to constitute 70% of civil works.
/b Price escalation is compounded annually on base construction cost and physical as follows:
1976          1977          1978-80
(a) Civil Wvorks     16%           14%            12% p.a.
(b) Equipment        14%           16%            12% p.a.                                                    CD
*  Details may not add up cdue to rounding off.                                                                    0 N
F'J



aLECTAIFICATION OF PUEBLOS JOVNEN1 IN LIMA
In S/. Millions                       In US$ Millions
Project Component                     Local     Foreign      Total           Local     Foreign      Total
A. Civil Works
1. Post, Cables, etc.                       42.6       18.2        60.8            0.94       0.4i        1.35
2. Labor (Specialized)                      26.0         -         26.0            0.58         -         0.58
3. Labor (Unskilled)                         6.4         -          6.4            o.14         -         0.14
4. Expansion Fund /a                         2.1        0.9         3.0            0.05        0.02       0.07
5. Connection to Dwellings                  13.0        5.6        18.6            0.29       0.12        0.41
Subtotal                            90.1       24.7       114.8            2.00       0.55        2.55
B. Professional Services
1. Detailed Elhigineering                    2.3         -          2.3            0.05         -         0.05
2. Supervision                               3.4        _           3.4            0.08         -         o.08
Subtotal                             5.7         -          5.7            0.13        -          0.13
Direct Costs Before Contingencies               95.8      24.7       120.5            2.13        0.55       2.68
Contingencies
1. Physical 20%                                 11.5       5.0        16.5            0.26        0.11       0.37
2. Price Escalation /b                         36.6       15.7        52.3            0.81        0.35       1.16
Subtotal                            48.1      20.7         68.8            1.07       o.46        1.53
Subproject Cost with Contingencies             143.9      45.4        189.3           3.20        1.01       4.21
/a   In lieu of required high tension works.
/b   Price escalation is compounded annually on base construction cost and physical as follows:
1976          1977           1978-80
(a) Civil Works         1             1               12   p.a.
(b) Equipment           14h;          16g             12%   p.a.
0
ro



ELECTRIFIGATION OF PUEBLOS JOVENES IN AREQUIPA
In S/. Millions                       In US$ Millions*
Project Component                         Local     Foreign     Total           Local     Foreign     Total
A. Civil Works
1. Posts, Gables, etc.                      12.2       5.3         17.5           0.27       0.12        0.39
2. Labor (Specialized)                       3.7         -          3.7           0.08         -         0.08
3. Labor (Unskilled)                         1.8         -          1.8           o.o4          -        0.04
4. Expansion Fund /a                         0.7       0.3          1.0           0.02       0.01        0.02
5. Connection to Dwellings (3,912 lots)      4.1        1.8         5.9           0.09       0.04        0.13
Subtotal                            22.5        7.4        29.9           0.50       o.16        o.66
B. Equipment                                     -         1.2         1.2            -          0.03       0.03
C. Promotion of Community Groups                0.4         -          0.4           0.01          -        0.01
D. Professional Services
1. Detailed Engineering                      0.6         -          o.6           0.01          -        0.01
2. Supervision                               0.9         -          0.9           0.02          -        0.02
Subtotal                              1.5                   1.5           0.03          -        0.03
Direct Cost Before Contingencies               24.4        8.6        33.0           0,54        0.19       0.73
Contingencies
1. Physical 20%                              3.4        1.5         lj. 9         0.08        0.03       0.11
2. Price Escajation /b                       5.8        2.5         8.3           0.13        0.6        0.19
Subtotal                             9.2       4-.o        13.2           0.21        0.09       0.30
Subpro.ject Cost withi Continigencies          33.6       12.6        4~6.2           0.75       0.28       1.03
/a In lieu o+' required high tension works.
Price escalaticn is compounded annually on base construction cost and physical as follows:
1976          1977          1978-80
(a) Civil Works         16e           14%             1 2%  p.a.                                                (D
(b) Equipment           ih%           16%             12,  p.a.                                                  a 
4*  Details may not add up due to rounding off.



ACCE6iS ROADS IN LII4A
In S/. Millions                      In US$ Millions
Project Component                   Local     Foreign     Total          Local      Foreign     Total
A. Civil Works
1. Earthwork                               58.1      24.9        83.0           1.29        0.55       1.84
2. Paving                                  45.7      19.6        65.3            1.02       o.43       1.45
3. Sidewalks and Parking                    9.5       1.7        11.2           0.21        o.o4       0.25
4. Footpaths                                2.3       o.5         2.8            0.05       0.01       0.06
5. Berms (sardineles)                       4.6       o.8         5.4           0.10        0.02       0.12
6. Water & Sewer Reconditioning             7.6       3.2        10.8           0.17        0.07       0.24
7. Repair of Connections (Estimate)         2.8        -          2.8           0.06         -          .6
Subtotal                          130.6      50.7       181.3            2.90       1.13       4.03
B. Professional Services
1. Detailed Engineering                     1.6       o.6         2.2           0.03        0.02       0.05
2. Supervision                              2.2       1.0         3.2            0.05       0.02       0.07
Subtotal                            3.8       1.6         5.4            0.08       0.o4       0.12
Direct Costs Before Contingencies            134.4      52.3       186.7            2.98       1.17       4.15
Contingencies
1. Physical 20% Ia                            18.7       8.o        26.7           0.42        0.18       0.60
2. Price Escalation /b                        23.7       9.2        32.9           0.53        0.20       0.73
Subtotal                           42.4      17.2        59.6            o.95       0.38       1.32
Subproject Cost with Contingencies           176.8      69.5       246.3            3.92       1.55       5.47
/a   Materials are estimated to constitute 74% of civil works.
/b  Price escalation is compounded annually on base construction cost and physical as follows:
1976          1977          1978-80
(a) Civil Works            167           14S            12%   p.a.
(b) Equipment              14%           16%            12%   p.a.                                          0
H-



HEALTH AID NUTRITION CITaIUS IN LIMh
In SI. Millions                      In US$ Millions*
Project Component                    Local     Foreign    Total           Local     Foreign     Total
A. Land Acquisition                            1.3        -          1.3           0.03        -         0.03
B. Construction of Centers
1. Ciudad de Dios                           6.1       1.1         7.2           0.13       0.02       0.16
2. Nueva Esperanza                          2.6       o.5         3.1          o.o6        0.01       0.07
3. Villa Maria del Triunfo                  4.6       0.9         5-5           0.10       0.02       0.12
4. Villa Salvador I                         6.1       1.1         7.2           0.13       0.03       o.16
5. Villa Salvador II                        2.8       o.5         3.3          0.07        0.01       0.07
Subtotal                           22.2       4.1        26.3           0.49        .o09      0.58
C. Infrastructure                              5.1       0.9         6.0          0.11        0.02       0.13
D. Equipment                                  13.2       8.8        22.0           0.30       0.20       0.5O
E. Vehicles                                     -        6.5         6.5            -         0.14       0.14
Subtotal (Civil 'Works, Squipment
and Vehicles, B-B)                  40.5      20.3        60.8            .045                 1.35
F. Professional Services
1. Detailed Eigineering                     1.5       o.5         2.0           0.03       0.01       o.o4
2. Supervision                              1.2       o.5         1.7           0.03       0.01       0.04
Subtotal                            2.7       1.0         3.7           0.06       0.02       0.08
Direct Cost Before Contingencies
(Excluding Land Cost)                         43.2      21.3        64.5           0.96       071.143
Contingencies
1. Physical 20,0                               4.8       3.2         8.o           0.11       0.07       0.18
2. Price Escalation /a                        12.0       8.0        20.0           0.26       0.18       0.44
Subtotal                           16.8      11.2        28.0           0.37       0.25       0.62
Subproject Cost with Contingencies                                                                                  cc
6P.p      32.5        93.8           L.16       0.72       2.013      o
/a  Price escalation is compounded annually on base construction cost and physical as follows:
1976          1977          1978-80
(a)  Civil Works            16%           14h            12% p.a.
(b)  Equipment              14%           16%            12% p.a.
* Details may not add. up due to rounding off.



INDUSTRIAL SITES AND 6ERVICES IN LIMA
In S/. Millions                        In US$ Millions
Project Component                      Local      Foreign      Total           Local      Foreign      Total
A. Land Acquisition                               0.5         -          0.5            0.01          -         0.01
B. Civil Works
1. Wdater Supply                             42.2       14.1         56.3            0.94        0.31        1.25
2. Sewerage                                    6.7       2.3          9.0            0.15        0.05        0.20
3. Electric Power and Public Lighting        32.3       10.8         43.1            0.72        0.24        0.96
4. Road Construction                         31.9       10.8         42.7            0.71        0.24        0.95
5. Green Areas                                5.9         -           5.9            0.13         -          0.13
6. Common Services                             6.o       2.0          8.o            0.13        0.04        0.17
7. Standard Factories                        30.0       10.0         40.0            o.66        0.23        0.89
Subtotal                            155.0       50.0        205.0           3.44        1.11        4.55
C. Professional Services
1. Detailed Engineering                        5.2       3.7          8.9            0.12        o.o8        0.20
2. Supervision                                 7.0       3.5         10.5            0.16        o.o8        0.24
Subtotal                             12.2        7.2         19.4            0.28        0.16       0.44
Direct Cost Before Contingencies
(Excluding Land Cost)                          167.2       57.2        224.4            3.72        1.27       14.99
Contingencies
1. Physical 20% /a                               20.0       6.7         26.7            o.44        0.15        0.59
2. Price Escalation /b                           27.5       9.1         36.6            0.61        0.20        0.81
Subtotal                             47.5       15.8        63.3             1.06       0.35        1.41
Subproject Cost with Contingencies              215.2      73.0        288.2            4.78        1.62        6.40
/   Materials were considered to constitute 65% of civil works.                                                            \
Price escalation is compounded annually on base construction cost and physical as follows:                             0
1976          1977           1978-80
(a) Civil Works                           116%            12%   p.a.
(b) Equipnent              114%           16%             12%   p.a.



INDUSTRIAL SITES AND SERVICES IN AREQUIPA
In S/. Millions                      In US$ Millions
Project Component                 Local      Foreign    Total          Local      Foreign     Total
A. Land Aquisition                        4.8          -        4.8            0.10         -         0.10
B. Civil Works                           13.9        1.4       15.3            0.31       0.03        0.34
C. Complementary Works                     7.6        3.2      10.8            0.17       0.07        0.24
Subtotal                      2.3                   30.9            O.5U       0.10       TM
D. Professional Services
1. Detailed Engineering                0.5        o.6        1.1             0.01      0.01        0.02
2. Supervision                         o.8        o.8         1.6            0.02       0.02       0.04
Subtotal                        1.3        1.4        2.7            0.03       0.03       o.o6
Direct Costs Before Contingencies
(Excluding Land Cost)                    22.8         6.o      28.8             o.61       0.13       0.74
Contingencies
1. Physical 20%                           4.1        1.2        5.3             0.09      0.03        0.12
2. Price Escalation /a                    6.8        1.7         8.5           o.15        o.o4       0.19
Subtotal                       10.9        2.9       13.8            0.24       0.07       0.31
Subproject Cost with Contingencies        38.5        8.9       47.4            o.85       0.20       1.05
/a Price escalation is compounded annually on base construction cost and physical as follows;
1976         1977           1978-80
(a)  Civil Works               16%            14%            12%   p.a.
(b)  Equipment                  14%          16%             12%   p.a.



HOUSING AND COMMERCIAL SITES AND SERVICES IN LIMA
In S/. Millions                     In US$ Millions
Project Component                       Local    Foreign      Total          Local     Foreign       Total
A.  Land Acquisition                           1.6        -         1.6            .4          -          0.04
B.  Site Preparation                          4.6        .5         5.1           0.10      0.01          0.11
C. Infrastructure
1. Water                                  6.7       2.2         8.9           0.15      0.05         0.20
2. Sewerage                               5.5        1.8         7.3          0.12      0.04         0.16
3. Electricity                           11.0        3.7       14.7           0.25      0.08          0.33
4. Roads                                  8.3        2.8       11.1           0.19      o.o6          0.25
D.  Green Areas                                 .5       .2          .7           0.01      0.01          0.02
E.  Other On-Site Costs (Relating to Future    2.9      1.0         3.9           0.07      0.02         0.09
Expansions)
F.  Off-Site Costs                             2.6       6.1        8.7            0.05      0.14         0.19
G.  Community Facilities                     53.2       17.8        71.0           1.18      o.40         1.58
H.  Supervised Credits                        13.2       4.3        17.5           0.29      0.10         0.39
Total Civil Works (B-H)                1o8.5      40.4        148.9          2.41       0.90         3.31
I. Professional Services
1. Detailed Engineering                   3.4        -          3.4           0.07        -           0.07
2. Supervision                            3.5         -         3.5           0.08         -          o.o8
Subtotal                                  6.9        -          6.9           0.15        -          0.15
Direct Costs Before Contingencies
(Excluding Land Cost)                       115.4      40.4       155.8           2.56      0.90          3.46
Contingencies
1. Physical 20% /a                            9.5       4.2        13.7           0.21      0.09          0.30
2. Price Escalatlon /b                        11.2       4.8       16.o            0.25      0.11         0.36
Subproject Cost with Contingencies           137.7      49.4       187.1           3.06      1.10         4.16
0
/a Materials are estimated to constitute 50% of civil works.
/b Price escalation is compounded annually on base construction cost and physical as follows:
1976       1977         1978-80
(a)  Civil Works             16        _Tu                 p.a.
(b)  Equipment               14%        16%           12%  p.a.



SUPERVISED CREDIT IN AREQUIPA
In SI. Millions                  In US$ Millions
Project Component                     Local    Foreign       Total      Local     Foreign      Total
I.  500 Units "Ayuda Mutua"
A. Civil Works                            44.5         1.9       46.4       0.99        0.04       1.03
B. Vehicles and Equipment                  1.6         3.1        4.7       0.03       0.07        0.10
C. Professional Services
1. Detailed Engineering                1.0          -         1.0       0.02         -         0.02
2. Supervision                         1.7          -         1.7       0.04         -         0.04
Subtotal       48.8        5.0       53.8        1.08       0.11       1.19
II.  500 Units "Material Fund''
A. Construction Materials                   7.5         -         7.5       0.17         -         0.17
B. Professional Services
1. Detailed Engineering                0.3          -         0.3       0.01         -         0.01
2. Supervision                         0.3          -         0.3       0.01         -         0.01
Subtotal        8.1         -         8.1        0.19        -         0.19
Direct Cost before Contingencies                56.9        5.0       61.9        1.27       0.11       1.38
Contingencies
1. Physical 20%                        7.6        1.1        8.7       0.17        0.03       0.20
2. Price Escalation_b_ 9.2                        1.0       10.2       0.20        0.02       0.22
Subtotal       16.8        2.1        18.9       0.37       0.05        0.42
Subproject Cost with Contingencies              73.5        7.1       80.8        1.64       0.16       1.80   0i
/a  Materials were estimated to constitute 80% of civil works.                                                    l
f  Price escalation is compounded annually on base construction cost and physical as follows:
1976           1977           1978-80
(a)  Civil Works               1                4                     p.a.
(b)  Equipment                 14%             16%              12%   p.a.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 39
PERU
APPRAISAL OF THE URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Subprojects - Detailed Features
A.  Water Supply and Sewerage in Pueblos Jovenes
in Lima and Arequipa
Background
1.        The Direccion General de Obras Sanitarias (DGOS), under the
Ministry of Housing, has overall responsibility for urban water supply and
sewerage throughout the country. Its duties and functions are to promote,
design, build and administer water supply and sewerage programs as well as
provide technical assistance. It is presently administering 140 systems.
2.        The DGOS was formed from the Bureau of Sanitary Works (DOS) of
the Ministry of Development and Public Works. In 1969, DOS was incorporated
in the newly formed Ministry of Housing. The water supply and sewerage
systems of Arequipa and Lima are administered by local autonomous agencies
under the general supervision of DGOS.
Lima Subproject
3.        During the 1960's, organized low-income groups began to settle on
the outskirts of Lima, far from the possibility of the immediate provision
of water supply and sewer facilities. The growth of these marginal settle-
ments known as pueblos jovenes has been very rapid and they have now a pop-
ulation of over a million inhabitants. The morbidity and mortality rates
from waterborne diseases are very high because of a lack of adequate water
supply and sewerage. In many cases, the water to cover the most basic needs
is purchased from vendors with trucks in small quantities of doubtful quality
and at high prices. In some areas wells have been drilled, but having small
yields provide a limited amount of water at best.
4.        The expansion of the water and sewer systems within Lima itself
was carried out in a haphazard fashion and did not keep pace with the growth
of new urban areas. These areas were either incorporated into the city's
water and sewer systems, aggravating the general service condition or were
served with separate local systems. The local systems were not placed under
the administration of the Empresa de Saneamiento de Lima (ESAL), but were
operated by the individual developers.
5.        By 1970, when ESAL began operating, the situation had become very
serious. The rapid growth of the city, of new pueblos jovenes, and of other
areas with private water and sewer systems created a condition under which
ESAL was only serving about two-thirds of the population. In some areas of



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 39
the city, especially the low-income areas, the supply of water became
unreliable and poor. Because of this, it was decided to take action to attain
the following objectives:
-    the provision of adequate water and sewer facilities
to the pueblos jovenes;
-    the improvement and expansion of the existing water and
sewerage facilities in the low-income districts; and
-    the transfer of the administration and operation of the
private local water and sewer systems to ESAL.
6.        To meet these objectives, the Planning Office of ESAL prepared
a "Program of Water and Sewer Works for Metropolitan Lima--1971". The pro-
gram which was originally estimated at S/. 2,000 million is now estimated at
S/. 3,500 million as more detailed cost estimates have become available,
material and labor costs have increased, and more pueblos jovenes and
works added.
7.        Financing for an initial part of the program (Program with Local
Resources) was obtained through a loan of S/. 550 million from the Banco de la
Vivienda del Peru (BVP). Following this, a loan from the Government of
Federal Republic of Germany was requested for another part of the program
(Complementary Program). In 1974, an updated program was prepared, "Feasi-
bility Study, Program of Water Supply and Sewer Works for Metropolitan Lima--
1971", which covers the estimated requirements for the 1974-1980 period and
has been approved by the National Planning Institute and other government
agencies. This subproject is a part of this program and is intended to
improve and extend water and sewerage services to low-income groups within
Lima and the neighboring pueblos jovenes. The program complies with the
growing needs of the city and appears to be adequate.
Water Supply - Existing Facilities
8.        The metropolitan area of Lima is supplied by water obtained from
the Rio Rimac, infiltration galleries, and wells throughout the area. ESAL
operates the major installations and a few private developers operate small
well systems. The major source is the Rio Rimac. The Rio Rimac is regulated
by the power company and has a minimum flow of 13 m3/sec. The water pro-
duction facilities consist of a diversion dam, intake works, desilting basins,
storage reservoir of 500,000 m3 capacity to supply the treatment plant during
periods of excessive turbidites in the river, a rapid sand filter plant, and
chlorinators. From the plant the water flows into the system by gravity.
The plant has been producing 7.8 m3/sec but is being modified and expanded to
have a capacity of 10 m3/sec. The work is scheduled to be completed by
March 1976.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 39
9.        Additional water is obtained from infiltration galleries, 3,000 m
in length, located near the plant. The water from the galleries is conducted
by an old canal to a reservoir in the distribution system where it is mixed
with chlorinated water from the treatment plant. The present production
of the galleries is 0.4 m3/sec and construction work is planned to extend
them and increase the production to 1 m3/sec. A considerable amount of water
is also obtained from more than 150 wells scattered throughout the area.
These wells feed directly into the distribution systems. The majority have
yields of 20-50 1/sec but some yield as little as 5 1/sec or are out of ser-
vice. The average yield of the wells in operation is 3.9 m3/sec. There are
also private systems supplying water to about 224,000 people. These systems
consist of wells, elevated tanks, local distribution systems with pipes of
100 mm to 300 mm diameter. ESAL is gradually taking over these local sys-
tems, and within two years plans to have a unified water supply system. The
ESAL system has 247,000 connections through which it serves an estimated
2,700,000 consumers. Of these connections approximately 85% are metered.
lhe distribution network of Lima has trunk mains ranging in size from 250 mm
to 1,800 mm and secondary lines with a minimum diameter of 75 mm. A trans-
mission main 700 mm in diameter connects the Lima network with that of Callao.
Lima has 6 reservoirs with a total capacity of 117,600 m3 and Callao, 2
reservoirs with a total capacity of 15,000 m3. Because of the topography
the Lima system is divided into five pressure zones controlled by 29 pres-
sure reducing stations.
Demand
10.       The low-income areas in Lima and the pueblos jovenes to be benefitted
by the project are expected to require a water supply of 3.4 m3/sec by 1980
which would be met from the water system operated by ESAL. The average per
capita water requirements for Metropolitan Lima are expected to continue to
decline to about 350 1/day in 1980 because of ESAL's (a) program to install
meters on the remaining 15% unmetered connections; (b) leak detection and
control program; and (c) new tariff implemented in August 1975. By 1980 ESAL
estimates that it will be serving 3,800,000 people who under the most favor-
able conditions would require 17.6 m3/sec. The water needs until 1980 would
be supplied from the Atarjea Plant and groundwater sources, whose combined
production would be increased to about 19 m3/sec. The Atarjea Plant would be
expanded to produce 10 m3/sec, private system wells would be incorporated
into the ESAL system and existing wells improved and re-equipped raising the
capacity to 7.8 m3/sec, and a new infiltration gallery would be built in-
creasing this capacity to 1.4 m3/sec.
Future Source of Water
11.       The present sources - groundwater and the Rio Rimac - will be able
to supply the needs of Metropolitan Lima until 1980. The treatment plant is
being expanded and financing has been obtained to extend the infiltration
galleries to help meet these needs. After that date, based on studies of



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 39
various alternatives, it has been concluded that the least costly source
would be the diversion of water from the Mantaro River on the Atlantic side
of the Andes, to the Rio Rimac on the Pacific side.
12.       In the headwaters of the Rio Rimac and the Rio Santa Eulalia, there
are a series of lakes whose discharge is controlled to regulate the flow in
the rivers. Since 1958 water has also been diverted from the Mantaro River
on the Atlantic slope to the Pacific, averaging 3.6 m3/sec to augment the
flows in the dry season. As a result, the Rio Rimac at the Atarjea Treat-
ment Plant has a minimum flow of 13 m3/sec. Together with 5 m3/sec from the
groundwater this can provide 18 m3/sec which will satisfy the needs in 1980.
After 1980 additional water would be obtained from the Mantaro Basin by build-
ing two large pumping stations, canals and related works, and enlarging the
tunnels which now carry the water in the dry season. The water would also
be used to produce electricity in the Sheque hydroelectric plant which would
require 8 m3/sec in 1981 for a first stage, and an additional 8 m3/sec in
1983 for a second stage. The power produced would meet the needs of the
capital and the interconnected system of the central region of the country
until 1985.
13.       Feasibility studies are being completed by Binnie and Partners
under financing by the British Government. ESAL and ELECTROPERU are paying
the local costs. The studies are being done under the supervision of a multi-
sectoral commission headed by a representative of INP with delegates from
ESAL, ELECTROPERU, INIE, and the Ministries of Housing, Health, Energy and
Mines, and Agriculture. The secretary of the commission is the ESAL delegate.
14.       Augmentation of the Lima water supply is assured with the comple-
tion of these works which are estimated to cost US$120 million.
Sewerage - Existing Facilities
15.       In 1945, a basic scheme for the main sewers of the city covered
a triangular area bounded by the Rio Rimac, the coast and the foothills
of the mountains to the east. The scheme has been slowly developed and is
now nearly complete. There are two main discharge points, one north of the
Rio Rimac and the other at the south beach at Punta Conchan. The trunk
sewers (main collectors) are 0.60 m to 1.80 m in diameter; the secondary
collectors are 0.30 m to 0.60 m in diameter and the street sewers are of
0.20 m to 0.25 m in diameter. The sewers serve about 2,500,000 people or
76% of the total population in the area.
16.       There are two drainage systems for Lima and Callao.  The south
system drains the eastern part of the city by means of the Surco interceptor
sewer. This area has developed at a higher density than originally planned,
so that it has become necessary to modify and improve the sewer system.
Studies have been made, and in order to relieve the load on the Surco inter-
ceptor a new collector sewer, Collector Circunvalacion, has been planned
and is included in the program. The north system covers a large part of
the city of Lima, extending from the Rio Rimac, to the sea, to the Callao
sewer limits, and to the area served by the Surco interceptor. There are



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 39
three trunk lines draining the center of the city. Two of these (Nos. 6
and 19) are along each bank of the river and discharge near its mouth,
the other (Interceptor Avenida Argentina) runs along the coast of the
southwest part of the city and discharges into the sea in the San Miguel
district. There is another trunk main, the Colector Comas which serves
the pueblos jovenes and urban development of the north zone and discharges
into the sea. The Callao system consists of a series of trunk sewers which
drain to a pumping station which discharges the sewage to the sea through
an ocean outfall.
Demand
17.       The sewer capacity required to meet the present needs of the
2,300,000 inhabitants served by ESAL and the pueblos jovenes included in the
project is 20.85 m3/sec. In 1980, the population to be served would be
3,902,000 and the sewage flows would amount to 29.79 m3/sec. Accordingly,
additional trunk sewer capacity of 4.69 m3/sec would be needed for 1980.
An addition to the secondary collection networks would be required in the
pueblos jovenes to serve a present population of 216,000 inhabitants expected
to grow to 395,000 in 1980. This has been provided for in the overall pro-
gram and engineering is well advanced.
Description of the Subprojects
18.       The subproject would provide for the improvement of water supply
in low-income areas of Lima and the extension of water and sewerage services
into the presently unserved pueblos jovenes. In all pueblos jovenes about
116,000 residents would be benefitted directly.
19.       The water supply component would include the construction of two
trunk mains. The Atarjea-Rimac trunk main would conduct water from the
treatment plant to the Rimac and San Martin districts and the pueblos jovenes
in the north zone of Lima. The main would be 13.7 km in length, and 600 mm
to 1,400 mm in diameter and a reservoir of 35,000 m3 capacity. The zone has
low-income residents and service is very deficient and is limited to part of
the area. The other main, Monterrico Surquillo, will strengthen the distri-
bution network in the south zone of Lima where there are also low-income
residents. The main would be 19.4 km in length, 500 mm to 1,000 mm in dia-
meter, and have two pressure reducing stations. The population growth in
this zone has exceeded the capacity of the existing mains and prevented
providing service to the pueblos jovenes there.
20.       Four pueblos jovenes will receive new water and sewerage services.
Pamplona Alta will be supplied with water from the Atarjea--Villa Maria del
Triunfo trunk main which will feed a new local reservoir of 4,000 m3 capacity.
Distribution lines, 52 km in length, and 75 mm to 350 mm in diameter will
be installed and approximately 6,000 metered water and 10,000 sewer connec-
tions will be made:



ANN EX -
Page 6 of 39
(a) Jose Carlos Mariategui (1lth and 12th Sector) will be
provided with water from the Atarjea--Villa Matia del
Triunfo trunk main. A 10" force main, 3.9 km in length and
booster station, from reservoir R-1 in Villa Maria del
Triunfo to a new local reservoir with a capacity of 1,200 m3
will be constructed. A distribution network with 3,300
metered house connections will be built. This will replace
the present public faucet system supplied from the wells.
A sewer collection network and 3,300 sewer connections to
serve this area will also be built. These sewers will
discharge into the main collector from Villa Maria del
Triunfo which is part of the Lima sewer system;
(b) Villa Poeta Jose Galvez (llth and 12th Sector) and Villa el
Salvador (5th Sector) will be supplied by a pipeline
connected to the Atarjea-Villa Maria del Triunfo trunk
main. Water distribution lines and sewer collection
lines with 2,200 house connections will be installed. The
Villa Poeta Jose Galvez sewers will discharge through a 14"
diameter pipeline into sewage stabilization ponds for the
upper south zone. The Villa el Salvador sewers will also
discharge into these ponds through a 600 mm and 700 mm
diameter outfall line;
(c) The 7th and 8th sectors of Villa Maria del Triunfo will be
supplied with water from the Atarjea-Villa Maria del Triunfo
trunk main. A 12" force main will be built from reservoir
5A to conduct the water to a new reservoir 7A from which
it will be pumped into the distribution network. The
distribution network will include 14" to 8" diameter
trunk mains, smaller diameter lines and 2,700 metered house
connections. A sewer collection network will be installed.
This sewer network will discharge into the trunk sewer,
Collector Villa Maria; and
(d) Pamplona Alta (lst and 2nd stages) will be provided with
5,000 house connections, laterals and 12" trunk sewers
that will drain through a 16" line into the Villa Maria
Collector sewer.
Design Standards
21.       ESAL has prepared design standards for water supply and sewerage
facilities, based on good engineering practice and the local conditions.
For the city residential areas the per capita consumption used is 300 1/day
and for the pueblos jovenes 200 1/day. The variation in consumption and
storage requirements has been studied and the results applied in practice.
The minimum size for distribution lines is 75 mm. Fire protection require-
ments are also established. Similarly, standards have been set for the
sewer collection and transmission network and facilities. These include



ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 39
minimum and maximum velocities, manhole location, and accessory structure
design. Location of pipelines is also specified. The design standards
cover the various aspects of the works to be included in the project and
are acceptable.
Implementation Responsibilities
22.       ESAL has successfully completed the construction of similar works
and of a greater magnitude. It has been gaining experience and improving
its procurement and construction experience since 1970. The works will be
done by private contracts awarded through public biddings in accordance with
the local regulations.
23.       For each bidding ESAL prepared a set of documents which include a
description of the bid, the general conditions, pro-forma of the contract,
detailed breakdown and description of the work items and quantities, techni-
cal specifications, and the special conditions for each bid. The procedure
and documents represent good practice and are acceptable.
Supervision and Control
24.       ESAL has established the "Oficina del Programa de Obras de
Ampliacion" to supervise and control the construction of the works presently
under way and those that will be carried out under the project. This office
has a total staff of 100 and provision has been made to expand it by about
20. The staff includes 10 engineers and administrators as well as surveyors,
inspectors, and auxiliary personnel. Field offices are maintained at the
construction sites and inspection is carefully exercised. Progress is
evaluated daily, and periodic orders for contractor payment are certified.
Cost records are prepared on site and reported to the main office at ESAL
headquarters. The staff is competent and capable of supervising the works
to be done under the project.
Operation and Maintenance
25.       The facilities to be built will form part of the water supply and
sewerage systems now operated by ESAL. The water facilities require the
operation and maintenance of large diameter trunk mains supplied by gravity
from the Atarjea Treatment Plant, pumping stations to lift the water to a
series of reservoirs in the Villa Maria del Triunfo area, and of secondary
distribution lines and house connections. The sewer facilities are gravity
lines, house connections and small stabilization ponds. ESAL can easily
operate and maintain such facilities with its present staff.
Cost Estimates
26.       The estimated total cost of this subproject is S/. 657.7 million,
the foreign exchange component is estimated to be about 48% of the total.
An allowance of 15% for physical contingencies is included. Price contin-
gency was calculated on the basis of 16% for 1976, 14% for 1977, and 12%



ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 39
for the period 1978-80 for civil works; and on the basis of 14% for 1976,
12% for 1977, and 12% for 1978-80 for equipment. Because detailed design is
available and the experience of ESAL in this type of work in these locations,
the above contingencies are considered adequate. The implementation schedule
is shown in Chart WB-15488.
Arequipa Subproject
27.       The water and sewer systems of Arequipa are administered by the
Empresa de Saneamiento de Arequipa (ESAR). A master plan was prepared and the
services improved and expanded in 1969-73 under a multi-city loan from IDB to
the Government of Peru. The total cost of the works was US$2.7 million.
28.       Water is obtained from the Bedoya Springs with an average flow of
220 1/sec and the expanded La Tomilla Treatment Plant with a capacity of
750 1/sec. The treatment plant takes water from the Zamacola main irrigation
canal, derived from the Chili River, and ESAR has acquired rights to 1,000
1/sec guaranteeing an adequate supply for the city.
29.       The distribution network was expanded by additional reservoirs of
5,225 m capacity, 3 pumping stations and approximately 100 kms of 3" to 12"
pipe in the pueblos jovenes of Paucarpata, Saubandia, Zona 4, Zone C, Cerro
Julio, San Martin, Bolivar, Zamacola, Acequia Alta, La Tomilla and Francisco
Bolognesi. The sewer system was extended to the pueblos jovenes of Paucar-
pata, Sabandia, Zona A, Zone C, Cerro Julio, San Martin, Bolivar, Zamacola
and Acequia Alta. The expansion included the installation of 82.7 kms of
collector lines of 6" to 12" in diameter, a main pumping station, and 8" and
10" outfalls for the Chilpina drainage basin. The sewer system has adequate
capacity to handle the load from the proposed sub-project. There are 32,300
connections to the water system and 29,070 connections to the sewer system.
Detailed Description
30.       The subproject would be in accordance with the master plan and
provide for the installation of water and sewer lines and house connections
in the pueblos jovenes of Ampliacion Paucarpata, Apurimac, La Tomilla, Ace-
quia Alta, Francisco Bolognesi, California and el Penon Ugarte; water lines
and house connections in Manco Capac and sewer lines and house connections
in Zone A Hunter, Sn. Juan de Dios and the rest of Hunter. It would benefit
about 12,000 people through 1,171 water and 1,396 sewer connections. The
water lines would be of asbestos cement pipe and range in size from 3" to 6".
Approximately 17 kilometers would be installed. The sewerage lines would
be of plain concrete with slip on joints, 8" in diameter and approximately
24 kilometers in length. Approximately 376 manholes would be included.
These extensions would be connected to the trunk mains and sewers in the
district or adjacent to it.



ANNEX -
Page 9 of 39
Design Standards and Engineering
31.       The water system design is based on an average per capita con-
sumption of 150 1/day and 210 1/day depending on the characteristics of
the particular zone. Because of the type of construction used in Arequipa,
there is an allowance for fires. The sewer system design follows the
accepted practice for minimum and maximum velocities with a minimum diameter
of 8". The materials and installation specifications are based on AWWA and
ISO standards. 1/ The standards used are reasonable and acceptable.
Operation and Maintenance
32.       Upon completion, the works are to be operated and maintained by
ESAR as part of the water and sewer systems it now operates. ESAR is a
competent organization that has been able to expand its services, establish
good customer relations and provide satisfactory service to its customers.
With its present staff and organization it is capable of operating these
small extensions.
Implementation Responsibilities
33.       The Technical Division of ESAR with the assistance of local con-
sultants has prepared the engineering plans and will supervise the execution
of the works. The acquisition of materials and construction of the works
will be done under contracts awarded through public bidding. The benefi-
ciaries are expected to provide labor for the installation of their house
connections. The implementation schedule is shown in Chart WB-15488. ESAR
is considered capable of carrying out the works in Arequipa, having success-
fully completed the system expansion under the IDB loan. In 1974-75 ESAR
carried out a S/. 15 million program for the installation of water, sewerage
and house connections in four pueblos jovenes.
Cost Estimates
34.       The estimated total cost of this subproject is S/. 75.5 million,
the foreign exchange component is estimated to be 39% of the total. Price
contingency was calculated for civil works on the basis of 16% for 1976,
14% for 1977 and 12% for 1978-80; and for equipment on the basis of 14% for
1976, 16% for 1977 and 12% for 1978-80. Because of the short construction
period and the experience of ESAR in a recent program in pueblos jovenes,
the above contingencies appear adequate. A detailed description of the
cost estimates is shown in Annex 2.
1/   AWWA, acronym for the American Water Works Association; ISO,
International Standards Organization.



ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 39
B. Electrification of Pueblos Jovenes in Lima
General
1.        In Metropolitan Lima, about 478,000 or 81% of the households had
public-service electricity supply in 1974. By comparison, of the 25% of
Lima's households located in pueblos jovenes, about 55,000 or just over
40% had electrical service in the same year. The Government's inability
to cope with the increasing demand for the service is leading many pueblos
jovenes to seek commercial financing 1/ at relatively high rates.
2.        The objectives of this subproject are to provide an essential
service at reasonable cost to the low and very low-income population of
Metropolitan Lima and to complement the impact of other subprojects in the
area being considered separately for financing by the Bank. This subproject
would benefit about 74,000 persons.
Detailed Description
3.        The project consists of providing 220V low tension electrical
service including distribution networks and individual dwelling connections
(underground wiring, ducts at street crossings, meters, etc.), and primary 10
kV networks where necessary, for 12,400 lots in the following pueblos jovenes
of Metropolitan Lima: Senor de los Milagros, Bernardo Alcedo, 5 de Mayo,
Micaela Bastidas, Inca Pachacutec, Cruz de Armatambo, Villa el Salvador (60
sector, Gr. 6 y 7), San Antonio del Pedregal Alto, Perla del Sol, Cerro del
Pino, Villa Hermosa, El Agustino (zona 1), Alfredo Palacios, San Rafael,
Anexo 40 Ciudadela Chalaca, Ramon Castilla-Callao, Porras Barrenchea-La Flor-
Vallecito, El Progreso (10, 20, 30 y 40 sector), Ramon Castilla-Alta, Deli-
cias de Villa, Ampliacion Arenal Alto, 7 de Octubre (3), or such pueblos
jovenes as: Pilares Azules, Santa Cruz-Collique, Collique V zona, 7 de
Octuber (lra, 4a, 5a, 6a zona).
4.        Although a total of 12,400 lots would be electrified under this
proposal, a reserve of 5,600 lots is being maintained as substitutes for any
of the settlements that may have resorted to commercial financing by the time
the loan is approved.
5.        The three line single phase (220V 60 Hz) systems are designed for
loads of 800 W per lot, 1 kV for community facilities and mixed 250 and 500 W
lamps for street lighting . These loads have been determined based on actual
1/   Between the Identification mission in May 1975 and the Evaluation mis-
sion six months later, 7 of 24 pueblos jovenes initially identified had
gone through this process.



ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 39
consumption levels over the past several years. The use of underground
wiring is required by regulations established by the Ministry of Energy and
Mines (MEM) for Lima, and has been used widely in the metropolitan area.
The components of the subproject have detailed engineering, approved by the
MEM.
Implementation Responsibilities
6.        The Banco de la Vivienda del Peru would provide funds for civil
works to ELECTROPERU and ELECTROLIMA for the execution of the low and high
tension components respectively. 1/ Two agreements would be drawn up: one
between the BVP, ELECTROPERU and the communities represented by SINAMOS, de-
termining the responsibility of each of the participants in the construction
of the low tension network; the second agreement between ELECTROPERU, ELECTRO-
LIMA and the beneficiaries represented by SINAMOS, would specify terms for
provision of the service and repayment of the individual loans.
7.        The role of SINAMOS is to carry out a household survey and a regis-
try on the basis of which individual contracts would be drawn up; to organize
the community to contribute voluntary non-specialized labor, and to coordinate
these activities with those of the other agencies. ELECTROLIMA is the con-
cessionaire who provides the service once a project is completed. The amor-
tization payments and the consumption charges are collected simultaneously
through a single bill by ELECTROLIMA, who in turn reimburses ELECTROPERU for
the amount that corresponds to the low tension network. The overall super-
vision of the civil works would be in the charge of ELECTROPERU's Unidad de
Construccion para Pueblos Jovenes No. 14, 2/ assisted by the BVP's technical
department. The implementation schedule for the subproject is shown in
Chart WB-15488.
Cost Estimates
8.        The cost estimates are based on the most recent project undertaken
by ELECTROPERU. Detailed cost estimates are shown in Annex 2. The estimated
cost of the project including construction of low tension and partially of
high tension networks, professional services, and physical and price con-
tingencies, amounts to S/. 189.3 million. Physical and price contingencies
are shown in Annex 2 and are considered adequate.
1/   The Banco only provides ELECTROLIMA with the contribution (a token
S/. 240 per lot) made by the settlers to the Fondo de Ampliaciones. The
Fondo de Ampliaciones, or fund for public domain installations, finances
the expansion of the primary 10 kV distribution networks. The contribu-
tion that the pueblo joven residents make is considerably lower than the
real cost of the 10 kV lines per lot. The subsidy is covered by
ELECTROLIMA and upper income levels that make larger-than-their-share
contributions to the fund.
2/   The Unidad No. 14 has ample experience in the execution and supervision
of this type of project. In recent months over 30 pueblos jovenes have
been electrified in coordination with ELECTROLIMA and SINAMOS.



ANNEX 3
Page 12 of 39
C. Electrification of Pueblos Jovenes in Arequipa
General
1.        Almost 60% of the 350,000 inhabitants in Arequipa are concentrated
in 93 pueblos jovenes located in the peripheries of this, Peru's second lar-
gest city. The provision of electrical services is one of the highest prior-
ities as defined by the pueblos jovenes, not only because of the obvious
benefits derived from these, but also because the alternatives used to com-
pensate for their omission are often much more expensive. Thus, for example,
the practice of using common wax candles for house lighting purposes has
been estimated to cost over two times more than electric current. 1/ Also,
the monthly burden of repaying the cost of the required networks is not
considered to be excessive and is well within the paying capacity of most
settlers.
2.        This subproject will promote a program to make electric supply
available to pueblos jovenes. The program will be limited to those settle-
ments that have projects already approved by the Ministry of Energy and
Mines. Taking advantage of the mutual-help feature in this subproject, it
is expected that this program will also promote the training of future
skilled workmen for this sector.
Project Description
3.        The present subproject will provide for the electrification of
3,912 lots distributed in nine pueblos jovenes of Arequipa. This is the
first stage in a program that will eventually include 7,469 lots in 21 settle-
ments of Arequipa and nearby towns. Specifically, the work to be carried out
consists of the construction of low voltage (380/220 V) distribution networks,
including public lighting and primary 10 kV segments wherever necessary, and
the extension of individual dwelling connections. The settlements included
in the subproject with the corresponding number of lots to be connected are
the following:
Ampliacion Simon Bolivar (138)
Miguel Grau - II Etapa (324)
Hunter Zona B (156)
Ciudad Blanca Zonas B, C y D (954)
Rio Seco - II Etapa (265)
Alto de la Libertad - Terminacion (1,024)
Tres de Octubre (278)
Victor Andres Belaunde - Terminacion (683)
Atalaya - II Etapa (90)
1/   Using only one candle per day, at SI. 8 per candle, for 30 days would
cost SI. 240. The average electric consumption in the pueblos jovenes
of Arequipa is estimated at less than S/. 100 per month.



ANNEX 3
Page 13 of 39
4.        The detailed design standards used in the construction of the
distribution networks are defined in the official document "Resolucion          -
Directorial No. 062-71-EM/DOE del 5/5/1971".
Implementation Responsibilities
5.        Organization of community groups for the project would be carried
out by SINAMOS. Besides organizing these groups, SINAMOS would prepare
the documentation and related information that will be necessary to approve
individual household application for credit. Among the most important do-
cuments to be prepared by SINAMOS is the list of participants (Padron)
subscribing to each electrification scheme. SINAMOS usually does not ini-
tiate a new project unless at least 90% of the perspective participants
have signed this Padron. SINAMOS has had experience with about ten pro-
jects over the past three years, and is well equipped, both in terms of
technical and managemen capacity to cover the present subproject. 1/.
6.        The responsibility for the execution of this subproject is also
with SINAMOS 2/ whose "Oficina de Infraestructura de la ORAMS IX" supervises
and coordinates the work of both the settlers that provide their labor for
this purpose, as well as the work performed by the necessary skilled staff.
The works are executed under the overall supervision of SEAL (Sociedad Elec-
trica del Arequipa Ltda.) which on completion does a final technical review
and then proceeds to connect the new installations to the main network. 3/
7.        On approval of the credit to finance a given component of an
electrification subproject, two contracts are normally signed between the
financing organization (BVP in this case), the community represented by
1/   The technical staff required for the execution of the subproject
includes one engineer and one technician (for all the subprojects),
plus two skilled electricians per group (i.e., pueblos joven). The
management capacity is given by the office staff presently employed
by SINAMOS.
2/   SINAMOS does this in place of the Unidad Catorce of ELECTROPERU which
does not operate in Arequipa's pueblos jovenes.
3/   Prior to the initiation of new installations, the project has to be
approved by the Direccion de Electrificacion del Ministerio de Energia
y Minas through a Resolucion Directorial. Simultaneously with such
approval, the Ministry establishes maximum electric consumption allowed
for each lot and for the project as a whole, as well as the amount to
be paid to the Fondo de Ampliacion (Expansion Fund of SEAL). This
payment has to be made before SEAL proceeds to connect the new instal-
lations. The Ministry also requires from SEAL as a precondition for
project approval proof that the installed high tension capacity is
sufficient to cover the new project.



ANNEX 3
Page 14 of 39
SINAMOS and SEAL. One of these contracts refers to the financing and
execution of the civil works, spelling out the responsibilities of each
participant, and the second to the repayment of the individual loans.
Cost Estimates
8.        SINAMOS 1/which is the promoting and executing agency in the
program, has estimated the cost of this subproect based on most recent
estimates of cost per lot. The elements to be paid by the individual house-
holds include the costs of the (low voltage) distribution network (including
public lighting), of the dwelling connections, and a share of the high voltage
network. The basic costs of these three elements are S/. 5,600, SI. 2,400 and
SI. 240 2/ respectively. If the amounts required for promotion of the sub-
project, professional services and contingencies are added, the total cost
of the subproject is approximately SI. 46.2 million or US$1.03 million. Of
this sum, US$280,000 (or 27%) is the foreign component. Further details of
these costs are described in Annex 2.
1/   Sistema Nacional de Apoyo a la Movilizacion Social.
2/   This amount is set according to a progressive key and is probably
below real average cost of providing electrification in pueblos
jovenes. The difference is financed by other consumers of electric
power, most notably the industrial sector. In the Fondo de Amplia-
cion (Expansion Fund) SEAL had by mid-1975 a balance of S/. 13.0
million and expected additional payments of S/. 9.0 million by the
end of the year, thus no problems were anticipated regarding ex-
pansion of the main networks.



ANNEX 3
Page 15 of 39
D. Access Roads
General
1.        The two major areas where pueblos jovenes are concentrated in Lima
lie to the north and to the south of the city with populations of about
290,000 and 460,000 inhabitants respectively. The areas are served by two
major roads which are used by most of the working population of these settle-
ments that commute to Lima every day. From Villa el Salvador alone (pop.
130,000), the Ministry of Transportation has calculated some 30,000 trips
are made daily into Lima. Public transportation is provided by the Munici-
pality only along the northern and southern highways; a number of small
companies usually owned and run cooperatively link the pueblos jovenes to the
municipal system, and go into the city as well. An important part of their
routes are within the settlements themselves, as illustrated again by the
case of Villa el Salvador: between 25% and 40% of the total distance covered
by eight companies is within the community itself.
2.        The deficient service provided by the bus and minibus cooperatives
is attributed largely to the very poor conditions of the roads in the pueblos
jovenes, and between them and the highways. This situation not only deter-
mines the very slow movement of traffic and the rapid deterioration of the
vehicle fleets, but affects the health of the communities where the dusty
environment is responsible for a high incidence of respiratory diseases.
The objective of this subproject is to improve the overall performance of
the combined internal and main road system.
Detailed Description
3.        This subproject attempts to deal with the problems outlined above
by upgrading 86.1 km of existing secondary road networks in eight low-income
settlements of the Cono Sur and one in the north. It consists of two compo-
nents which respond to the needs of pueblos jovenes at different levels of
development:
(a) Access roads in the Cono Sur: this component provides paved
access roads to five pueblos jovenes on either side of the
Via Pachacutec, the main road between the Cono Sur and down-
town Lima. The proposal consists of paving internal roads
designed to provide adequate vehicular access to the settle-
ments. The population of these communities directly benefitted
by the roads would be of approximately 165,000 inhabitants.
(b) Upgrading of internal road network: this component involves
the paving of internal roads in four older low-income settle-
ments or "urbanizacione populares", that already have access
roads but require expansion and improvement of their circula-
tion network. The population benefitted by this component is
of over 40,000 inhabitants.



ANNEX 3
Page 16 of 39
4.        The breakdown of network lengths for each pueblo joven is as
follows:
Access Roads                           Network Length (km)
Pamplona Alta                               7.126
Mariano Melgar
Micaela Bastidas                            2.138
Hogar Policial                              3.514
Villa el Salvador                          13.289
Upgrading of Internal Roads
Tahuantinsuyo                              38.035
Cd. de Dios,
Pamplona Baja & El Arenal               22.025
Total             86.127
Design criteria and standards are based on those prescribed by the Ministry
of Transportion and are suitable for these purposes.
Implementation Responsibilities
5.        The implementation of civil works would be under the responsibility
of the Direccion General de Construcciones 1/ of the Ministry of Housing
and Construction. The DGC would supervise the execution of detailed engineer-
ing, contract tendering, and of the construction itself. The organization
of the communities for cooperation on the subproject would be the responsibi-
lity of the ORAMS IV of SINAMOS. The implementation schedule for the sub-
project is shown in Chart WB-15488.
6.        The DGC has ample experience in the supervision of works of this
type and they would be assisted by the technical department of the BVP in
the review of documents, specifications, and overall procurement. The Lima-
based ORAMS IV of SINAMOS is one of the original promoters of this project
and probably the agency with the greatest experience in dealing with pueblos
jovenes on issues regarding community organization and project execution.
Cost Estimates
7.        The estimated total cost of the subproject is S/. 246.3 million,
with a foreign component of about 28%. Allowances for physical and price
contingencies are shown in Annex 2. These contingencies are judged adequate
considering the experience of the agencies involved and the relatively short
period of construction for most of the work. Due to the fact that the pro-
posal consists largely of upgrading existing networks, there are no land
acquisition costs.
1/   Certain reconditioning of the service networks required prior to project
execution would be coordinated by the DGC but under the direct respon-
sibility of the respective agencies.



ANNEX 3
Page 17 of 39
E. Health and Nutrition Centers in Lima
General
1.        The health and nutrition standards in Lima's pueblos jovenes are
considered to be below acceptable norms. One study, for example, shows
that 18.5% of the sampled children suffered from malnutrition. 1/ Respira-
tory diseases account for a large proportion of both morbidity and deaths.
Trauma and illness connected with pregnancies, deliveries and related aspects
of child birth are most frequent causes of medical consultation and hospita-
lization.
2.        In order to improve this situation, the Ministry of Health has
included a specific program for this region as part of its development plan
for 1975-80. This program envisages the expansion and/or construction of
seven new health centers for ambulatory services, as well as the construction
of two new hospitals. 2/
3.        This subproject has been designed to support the program of the
Ministry of Health for the pueblos jovenes of Lima's south by contributing
to the expansion of two existing health centers and to the construction of
three new health centers in this region. These centers are primarily dedi-
cated to preventive medicine and nutrition programs.
4.        A particularly innovative aspect of this subproject involves the
establishment of one new health center which in its design, construction and
operation reflects the active participation of the community it is to serve.
Upon its activation this center will become the first component of a new
approach to preventive medicine, an approach that will integrate the efforts
and aspirations of the participating communities in this area, while at the
same time alleviating the burden on one of the most expensive social services
provided by the Government.
Detailed Description
5.        The five health centers included in this subproject are all located
in the San Juan de Miraflores and the Villa Maria del Triunfo districts of
1/   Study conducted in 1971 and covering 2,287 children in Pamplona Alta.
2/   One maternity hospital ("Maria Auxiliadora") with 440 beds in San Juan
de Miraflores, and one 540-beds general hospital ("Hospital General de
Santiago") in Surco. In addition to these, the Peruvian Social Security
Service is about to initiate the construction of a new 400-bed general
hospital located between the two institutions mentioned above.



ANNEX 3
Page 18 ci 39
Lima's Cono Sur. Besides the construction of the necessary civil works,
the subproject will include the provision of necessary equipment and some
vehicles.
6.        Two existing health centers in the pueblos jovenes Nueva Esperanza
and Villa Maria del Triunfo will be expanded, while the three new centers
will be built, one in Ciudad de Dios and two in Villa el Salvador. The
location of each center has been clearly defined and the required areas
secured.
7.        All the centers are primarily concerned with activities related
to preventive medicine and nutrition programs, in addition to which the ex-
panded Villa Maria del Triunfo center also functions as a maternity ward.
The centers will provide services in the areas of general medicine, gynecology-
obstetrics, pediatrics, outpatient treatment, and odontology. Xray equipment
will be provided for use in programs associated with the prevention and con-
trol of respiratory diseases, of which a high incidence has been observed in
the region. Furthermore, in Villa Maria del Triunfo this equipment will be
essential in detecting potentially complicated child births, which in some
cases would have to be referred to a central hospital.
8.   2    The expanded 2center in Nueva Esperanza will have a total area of
451 m , of which 389 m will be new construction. It is the smallest com-
ponent of the subproject and the level of its anticipated operations for
1980 include about 40,000 consultations and approximately 15,000 immuniza-
tions per year. Of the planned consultations, approximately 25,000, 10,000
and 5,000 will be for medical, odontological and home visits respectively.
9.        The center in Villa Maria del Triunfo differs from the other com-
ponents of the subproject in that it also includes a 19-bed maternity ward.
When the2envisaged expansIon is completed the center will have a total area
of 830 m , of which 430 m will be new construction. The level of activities
expected by 1980 includes approximately 134,000 consultations, 1/ 1,400
hospitalizations, the distribution of 19,800 nutrition rations, and about
5,000 actions related to environmental health activities. In addition,
over 71,000 immunizations will be conducted annually from this center.
10.       The new health center in Ciudad de Dios is one of the two centers
of the same type that will be built as part of this subproject. 2/ This is
a standard type often established by the Ministry of Health. It has a
1/   50,000 are medical, 79,000 odontological, and 5,000 house consulta-
tions.
2/   The other center to be located in Villa el Salvador.



ANNEX 3
Page 19 of 39
building over an area of aproximately 890 m with an additional open inner
courtyard of about 70 m2. By 1980 the activities assigned to this center are
expected to include approximately 58,000 medical consultations, 40,000 odon-
tological cases, 8,250 home visits, the provision of 20,000 nutrition rations
and 7,500 environmental health activities. Furthermore, due to its location
along a very intensive traffic artery, the center has been planned to cope
with about 10,000 emergency cases annually. In terms of immunizations, this
facility will administer programs covering more than 130,000 cases.
11.       In Villa el Salvador, two new centers will be established as part
of the subproject. One of them is identical in its design and similar in the
distribution of activities to the previous facility described for Ciudad de
Dios, the second center has been conceived, and will be operated by the
community itself. Starting with its design, through its construction and up
to the actual operation completed, the center is based upon the active parti-
cipation of the served community. This involvement will be specifically
realized through the delivery of health care to patients of the center by over
900 "health promoters". The "promoters" will be volunteers from the community,
trained as paramedical personnel, not, as in other centers, paid professionals
from the Ministry of Health. It is expected that over time this program will
increasingly improve the hygienic conditions as well as the responsiveness of
the community to preventive health measures, diminishing through this process
the eventual need for much costlier curative medicine programs.
12.       The equipment that will be provided to the various centers includes
standard medical and office implements. In addition, in the three centers
Ciudad de Dios, Villa Maria del Triunfo, and in Villa el Salvador equipment
to be provided wil include Xrays.
13.       The vehicles provided in this subjproject are of three types.  Two
ambulances will be necessary to transfer those cases that require hospitaliza-
tion or specialized treatment to the appropriate institutions in Lima. Two
mini-buses will be used as transportation for the professional staff employed
in the centers, most of whom live at an hour's distance and more from these
centers. Finally, seven jeeps and small pick-up trucks 1/ will be partly
assigned to the centers and partly kept at the base hospital (Chorillos) to
support field work such as immunization campaigns and environmental health
programs.
1/   Two of these will be assigned to Villa el Salvador, one to Villa Maria
del Triunfo, and one to the center in Ciudad de Dios. The other three
vehicles will operate from the Chorillos hospital and serve the whole
area under its jurisdiction.



ANNEX 3
Page 20 of 39
Implementation Responsibilities
14.       The promotion of this subproject has been carried out by the
Ministry of Health through its Oficina Sectorial de Planificacion in
conjunction with the population in the pueblos jovenes where the new
centers will be located. The overall responsibility for each component
in this subproject rests with the Mistry of Health.
15.       The provision of necessary staff as well as the operation of
each and all centers will be the responsibility of the Ministry, which also
provides the resources for appropriate maintenance.
Cost Estimates 3/
16.       The total costs of this subproject (excluding land) amount to
S/. 93.8 million or US$2.08 million. Of this sum, S/. 32.5 million or
US$0.72 million correspond to the foreign component. The largest single cost
item (US$0.71) is for the construction of civil works (including complementary
infrastructure required), followed by an expenditure of US$0.50 million as-
signed for the provision of required equipment. The third main item of this
subproject, the provision of vehicles, will cost an estimated US$0.14 million.
Appropriate allowances have also been made for professional services and con-
tingencies, all costs are shown in detail in Annex 2.



ANNEX 3
Page 21 of 39
F. Villa el Salvador Industrial Site and Services
General
1.        In response to the Government's policy of decentralizing economic
activities, and in particular industrial enterprises away from Lima, the city
has allocated only a very few areas where new industrial firms can be estab-
lished. One of these areas is located close to the pueblos jovenes in the
south of Lima and is expected to become a primary source of new employment
in the Lima metropolitan region. When fully in operation it should provide
about 28,000 new jobs. 1/ This subproject has been designed to support the
establishment of this new industrial area by financing part of the required
infrastructure and a few complementary works. By doing so, it will both
help to improve the overall social and economic conditions which will result
from the additional income generated in the region, and also improve the
utilization of abundant labor in pueblos jovenes.
2.        A particularly innovative characteristic of this new industrial
area will be its inclusion of enterprises operating under the new framework
of Social Property (Propiedad Social). 2/ These types of enterprises have
been given highest priority by the Government and have gained substantial
support among the highest priority by the Government and have gained sub-
stantial support among the popular masses of the country. The proposed
industrial area will be one of the pioneering projects where the feasibility
and capacity of these types of enterprises will be analyzed and evaluated.
This subprojet will also become a training field for this new form of pro-
duction, a form in which the Peruvian people have invested substantial
resources. 3/
Detailed Description
3.        The subproject proposed here consists of the development of 50 ha
which constitutes an initial phase of a first 175 ha stage of the new in-
dustrial area to be established in the Cono Sur of Lima. This area will
1/   When completed, the industrial zone will have an extension of appro-
ximately 420 ha.
2/   This concept is similar to the Yugoslavian model of worker's-owned
enterprises and has been identified by the Government as an area of
highest priority. This decision is backed up by appropriate resource
appropriations, for example, by a S/. 2,500 million loan recently
allocated for Social Property enterprises.
3/   Because of the novelty of this new concept, the new industrial area
will not be exclusively reserved for Social Property firms, but due
provisions will also permit the establishment of other forms of in-
dustrial enterprises.



ANNEX 3
Page 22 of ^x
eventually cover 420 ha and has been selected and approved for this purpose
within the overall plans for Metropolitan Lima (PLANDEMET). 1/ Each stage
of the planned 420 ha area has been divided into four separate zones in which
different types of industries will be grouped, namely: 2/
(a) industries related to the construction sector;
(b) industries in the metal-mechanics sector;
(c) food-related industries; and
(d) other non-disturbing industries.
Each zone will, furthermore, be subdivided into lots of different sizes in
order to accommodate enterprises with differing plot requirements. 3/ The
most probable type of industries that will be established in the first phase
include the manufacture of typewriters, mimeographic machines, bicycles,
electric components, and a plant to produce electric poles.
4.        Besides financing the provision of necessary infrastructure such as
water and sewerage, electrification and public lighting, access roads and
green areas, the subproject envisages support for the construction of a few
standard factories, and the construction of a common services building. The
last two elements are considered crucial for the success of the subproject
in that they will facilitate the establishment of new Social Property enter-
prises and provide a proper framework to monitor and assist the operations
of the new industrial area as a whole.
5.        The water system that will be provided includes a 6.6 km trunk line,
the expansion of a pumping station, a reservoir and a network of approximately
5.6 km of distribution lines. 4/ The sewerage system will include some 4.4 km
of collector lines, approximately 2 km of trunk lines ("Emisores"), and
1/   Plan de Desarrollo Metropolitano Lima-Callao a 1980.
2/   In addition, each stage will be provided with an area for central
services and recreation facilities.
3/   These sizes can vary from approximately 90 m  to 25,000 m  or more
depending on the actual requirements.
4/   The envisaged infrastructure requirements for the first 50 ha were
estimated based on the needs of the already interested enterprises
as selected by the office in charge of promoting Social Property
firms. More than 27 firms had been suggested by November of 1975
with land requiremens which by far exceed the available land in
the first 50 ha. Most costs have been computed for an area of
50 ha, although some of the infrastructure works will actually be
constructed with capacities for 175 ha.



ANNEX 3
Page 23 of 39
stabilizing ponds. The electric power component will consist of approxi-
mately 6.3 km of low voltage networks, the expansion of a 60/10 kV trans-
formation station, the installation of appropriate 10,000/220 V substations
and individual connections for each enterprise. 1/ The road system will
include approximately 90,000 m2 of paved lanes, 27,000 m2 of sidewalks, and
appropriate ancillary works. The green areas are required to diminish the
potential polluting effects of the new industries, a measure which is es-
pecially needed in view of the already existing problems caused by the very
dry and dusty conditions in the region. The necessary works include soil
preparation and installations, as well as the establishment of a central
nursery for young plants.
6.        The covered area of the standard factories that will initially be
provided has been set at 2,000 m2, while the common services building will
be 1,000 m2 in size.
Implementation Responsibilities
7.        The general coordination and the promotion of the new industrial
area has been entrusted to EMADI, a government agency that depends on the
Ministry of Housing and Construction and is in charge of administrating all
government properties. The new serviced lots will be assigned subject to
previous approval by the Ministry of Industries and, in the case of Social
Property enterprises, also by CONAPS and COFIDE who are the respective sec-
torial and financing agencies responsible for this type of enterprise. The
implementation of civil works, including the preparation of detailed engineer-
ing and the supervision of both these studies and actual construction, will
be under the responsibility of the Ministry of Housing and Construction
through its Direccion General de Construccion. Upon completion of the
different works by the corresponding agencies, 2/ the site will be turned
over to EMADI for selling the serviced lots and to be in charge of managing
the new complex and the planned common services. EMADI will effectuate these
activities through one of its special offices in charge of industrial zones.
Both this agency as well as the Ministry of Housing and Constrauction will
be assisted in the implementation of this subproject by the technical depart-
ment of the BVP 3/ who will also review all relevant documents, work standards
and specifications, and procurement procedures. A detailed implementation
schedule is given in Chart WB-15488.
1/   It was estimated that 20 enterprises would fill the first 50 ha.
2/   ESAL for water and sewerage, ELECTROPERU and Empresas Electricas
Associadas (EEA) for electrification, the Ministry of Housing and
Construction for roads, green areas, and the various buildings con-
ceived for this subproject.
3/   Banco de la Vivienda del Peru.



ANNEX 3
Page 24 of 39
Cost Estimates
8.        The estimated total cost of this subproject is SI. 288.2 million
(or US$6.40 million), of which the foreign component is estimated to be 25%.
Physical contingencies have been set at 20%, while price escalation have been
estimated to be 16%, 14% and 12% for 1976, 1977 and the 1978-80 period
respectively. The detailed cost estimates by item are presented in Annex 2.



ANNEX 3
Page 25 of 39
G. Arequipa Industrial Sites and Services
General
1.        The proposed subproject is an integral part of the industrial
zone development in the city of Arequipa (population 350,000 in 1975). About
52 ha of industrial land have been earmarked for development in two stages.
Both stages have now been completed and construction of factories, are like-
wise, almost complete. The proposed subproject would cover an area of about
13.5 ha located adjacent to the existing industrial site. The demand for
sites is assured and the Government through EMADI (agency responsible for
industrial site developmet throughout Peru) is now initiating studies for
additional industrial land near Arequipa's airport. At the time of full
operation, the industrial site could generate direct employment of about
1,000 jobs.
2.        The proposed project would be located in a relatively flat area
and is well situated with respect to transport and communication as well as
other infrastructure. Land uses for the proposed sites are as follows:
Area to be developed for sale               11.4 ha
Common space and green areas                 0.1 ha
Roads and other access                       2.0 ha
Total                   13.5 ha
Detailed Description
3.        The project consists of the financing of infrastructure (water,
sewerage, electricity, roads), land preparation and related facilities.
EMADI is also reviewing the need for standard buildings for possible in-
clusion in the proposed financing. Land acquisition would be financed by
the Government.
4.        The saleable land area of Pbout 11.4 ha, would be subdivided into
13 lots ranging in size from 2,200 m to 9,000 m per lot.
5.        The demand for sites is quite strong.  From the private sector nine
firms have applied for 44% of the saleable land. Firms considered as Social
Property (EPS) have solicited about 36% of the saleable land. SENATI - a
quasi-government training center for industrial workers - would occupy 20%
of the land. A breakdown of the potential occupants of the site is shown
below:



ANNEX 3
Page 26 of 39
Private
Industry       SENATI         EPS
(m2)           (m2)         (m2)
Resortes S.A.                                4,700
Clavos de Acero                                                         3,000
Mayolicas                                                                8,000
Viguetas Pretensadas S.A.                    9,900
Condensadores Electricos Arequipa, S.A       5,900
SENATI                                                      23,100
MECAMIN                                      4,000
Peletera Sur Peruana S.A.                    4,000
Recup. de Art Plast. S.A.                    4,500
Motocicletas S.A.                            9,900
Soc. Quim. Indust. S.A.                      2,200
Compl. Elect.                                                          30,000
Alcoholes Hidratados                         4,200
49,300        23,100      41,200
44%            20%         36%
6.        Access roads to the park have been planned to take full advantage
of existing infrastructure already built for the sites in stages I and II.
The width of access roads range from 16 m to 25 m. Concrete pavement is
recommended by EMADI for these sites. Water supply requirements have been
calculated for 51,000 m  per year which would be supplied from the city's
water supply system. 3In addition it is proposed to construct an elevated
water tank of 1,400 m capacity which would be sufficient for insurance
for the whole industrial zone. The proposed water supply capacities appear
to be reasonable. The drainage system for the industrial site would take
advantage of existing infrastructure. The industrial site would be served
by the city's sewerage system. Special arrangements are being made for firms
that would be using highly toxic materials such as cyamide for electroplating.
Availability of electricity for power and street lighting from an existing
substation has been completed. The industrial site would utilize about
965 KW which is well within the capacity of the electricity company to pro-
vide. Telecommunication lines to the industrial site have been assured and
EMADI through the telephone company has conducted initial surveys of the numbr
of lines required for each of the potential firms locating in the industrial
site.



ANNEX 3
Page 27 of 39
Implementation Responsibilites
7.        The implementation of civil works would be under the respons-
ibility of the Direccion General de Construccion of the Ministry of Housing
and Construction. The DGC would supervise preparation of detailed engineer-
ing and construction and turn over the facilities to EMADI upon completion
of the works. The DGC has ample experience in the supervision of works of
this type and the BVP would also assist through its Technical Department in
the review of documents, specifications, and overall procurement. The sub-
project's implementation schedule is shown in Chart WB-15488.
Cost Estimates
8.        The estimated total cost of the project is SV. 47.4 million, the
foreign exchange component is estimated to be about 19%. An allowance of
20% for physical contingencies is included and price contingency was cal-
culated on the basis of 16% for 1976, 14% for 1977, and 12% for the period
1978-80. Because of the short construction period and the experience of
Stages I and II the above contingencies appear adequate. Details of the
cost estimates are shown in Annex 2.



ANNEX 3
Page 28 of 39
H. Housing and Commercial for Sites and Services in Lima
General
1.        The proposed subproject is a pilot scheme consisting of 867 plots
which would be provided with essential infrastructure. The subproject would
also include the provision of supervised credit for the construction of
dwelling (initially utilizing low cost straw mat) units and for shops or
stores. The subproject forms part of a program of the Ministry of Housing
and Construction aimed at increasing the housing stock for low income urban
dwellers at comparatively lower costs than in similar previous attempts,
largely through the use of self-help in the construction of dwellings. In
addition to this, the subproject explores an alternative in dealing with the
informal sector by providing a combination of shop-dwellings.
2.        The objectives of this subproject are to expand the low income
housing stock while generating employment through labor intensive construc-
tion methods and the creation of an infrastructure for small scale industrial
and commercial ventures. Experienced technical assistance would be provided
to facilitate implementation and insure the achievement of these objectives.
Project Description
3.        The subproject would be located in the southeast of Lima in a
relatively flat area known as Fundo Vazquez, across the road from the Santa
Rosa industrial site area and about 3.5 km from the central market of La
Parada. The first stages of the MVC's program, consisting of 200 serviced
lots and 43 shop-dwellings, have been completed on this site. The sub-
project would consist of the following componets:
(a) 867 serviced plots, consisting of 706 plots of 120 m 2and 161
plots of 200 m ;
(b) supervised credits for self-help construction of 161 shop cores;
(c) supervised credit for the construction by self-help of 867 core
dwellings; and
(d) 7 community facilities including schools, a health post, a
community center, a market and a recreational facility.
4.        The subproject has the following components:
(a) Serviced Plots: including land, site preparation and infra-
structure for 867 lots serviced with water, water borne
sewerage and electrical connections, street lighting and



ANNEX 3
Page 29 of 39
paved streets aed footpaths. 1/  The lots are divided  2
into 706, 120 m lots for dwellings only and 161, 200 m
lots for shop-dwellings;
(b) Supervised Credits for Core Shops: consiting of supervised
credits for the construction by self-help of 161 multipurpose
expandable co ered structures,2built at one end of the double
fronted 200 m lots. The 36 m area provided in conjunction
with a credit for a temporary shelter includes a small storage
room and water, sewerage and electrical connections;
(c) Supervised Credits for Dwellings: consisting of 867 supervised
credits for the construction largely by self-help of two types
of basic dwelling units, including materials, labor, equipment,
service connections, etc. The first type of dwelling provides
for the construction of a t2mporary shilter of local straw mat
material built on the 200 m and 120 m lots; there are 661
credits for this type.  The other unit provides for the
construction of a temporary sMelter plus a permanent core
dwelling, consisting of a 9 m room with concrete walls, a
provisional roof and cement floor, with doors, windows and
three electrical outles.  A contiguous bathroom unit of the
same material includes a shower, a sink and a flush toilet,
plus another laundry/kitchen sink outside.  There are 2062
credits for this type, to be built on the remaining 120 m
lots; and
(d)  Community Facilities:  including land, servi e infrastructures
and const5uction of 7 facilities:  a 2,000 m  covered market,
a 1,000 m  multipurpose recreational unit   2 initial education
schools-type CEI-3, with an area of 2P m each- a basic education
CEB-III-1080 type school with 2,700 m ; a 180 m  health post for
emergency treatment, minor medical and paramedical ittention;
and a community center with a covered area of 700 m end an open
public area, shared with other facilities, of 2,800 m
1/   Storm drainage is not required for Lima where rainfall is practically nil.



ANNEX 3
Page 30 of 39
5.        This combination, as well as the proportion of shops to dwellings,
appear to correspond adequately to the demand among the local low-income
population. The site is well suited for the small industrial and commer-
cial establishments (shoe and electrical repair, metal and woodworking,
mechanical and automotive, etc.) near the central market where such activi-
ties have been traditionally located, and across the street from over 70 in-
dustrial firms of wide variety. Community facilities, such as the schools,
have been designed for full capacity with the initial population and to expand
work to two shifts as specified by the educational reform upon full develop-
ment of the settlement. The market and recreational facility which will be
commercially operated, will serve not only the subproject population but that
of the neighboring residential areas as well. The other facilities are all
designed to serve multiple functions allowing a considerable degree of flexi-
bility for various activities. An experienced technical assistance team to
support the community in everything from building dwellings to organizing and
running the shops and the community center is necessary and will be provided
as part of the project.
Design Standards
6.        The layout and preliminary engineering for Fundo Vasquez have been
completed. The proposed layout achieves a favorable land-use ratio between
private and public land 1/ and the design characteristics are geared to
minimize construction and maintenance costs. A single through-road services
the community facilities and residential areas while all other vehicular
circulation is on the periphery. The emphasis within the settlement is on
pedestrian circulation which is combined with recreational and green areas,
while allowing emergency access to fire engines and ambulances. Community
facilities are grouped to take advantage of their interrelationships and
permit multiple use of buildings and surrounding areas. The proposed market
and multipurpose recreational unit as well as other community facilities are
1/   The layout compared favorably with proposed guidelines for efficient
land use developed in a study for the World Bank. The table below
shows land use percentages and number of lots per hectare for four
situations: a government supervised credit for sites and services,
sponsored by the UN (Fundo Bocanegra, PREVI); an existing low-income
settlement in the northern metropolitan area, one of the older pueblos
jovenes (El Ermitano); the Fundo Vasquez subproject, and a comparable
theoretically optimum model, as proposed in the study.
Fundo     Ermitano     Fundo        Model 120 m2
Bocanegra    Segment    Vasquez       r:  1/3
Private land            37.05%      42.50%      47.72%          54.43%
Public land            57.88%       41.19%      30.64%          29.31%
Semi-public            10.07%       16.31%      21.64%          16.28%
rNo. of lots/ha.        38.7        26.06       39.8            45.36



ANNEX 3
Page 31 of 39
are designed to serve not only the needs of 1,000 families in the project
area but an additional 1,200 low and middle income families in housing sites
(e.g. Urbanizacion Olimpo) adjacent to the project area.
7.        Being surrounded by major roads (via de Circunvalacion), the
Santa Rosa industrial estate and a residential area (Urbanizacion Olimpo),
there are only limited off-site costs.
8.        Infrastructure:  on-site service infrastructure and related
elements include the following:
(a) An adequate supply of water will be provided by two wells
perforated and equipped by ESAL. 1/ A feasibility study
carried out by ESAL in 1975 determined that there is
sufficient water to meet the community's future needs. The
distribution network would be built with asbestos cement
pipes. The cement pipe water borne sewerage network would
lead into surrounding collector lines at different points.
Dwelling connections for water (metered) and sewerage would
be executed by ESAL.
(b) The single through road in the subproject, as well as the
accesses and limited parking areas, would be constructed
of asphalt wearing surface. The footpaths which are
predominant in the subproject would consist of a compacted
base and an ashalt surface. Both roads and footpaths comply
with DGC standards and are adequate.
(c) The electrical distribution system is supplied from five
substations located on the outskirts of the subproject to
facilitate construction and servicing. The main elements of
the 220 V low tension distribution network are underground
wiring, concrete ducts at street crossings and individual meters.
The three line single phase system is designed for load of 800 W
per lot, 1 KV for community facilities and mixed 250 and 500 W
lamps for street lighting. These loads have been determined
based on actual consumption levels over the past several years.
ELECTROLIIIA would be responsible for the provision of the high
tension network up to the substations and for making the indi-
vidual dwelling connections.
(d) Other minor on-site costs 2/ involve the enlarged portions
of the service networks which are designed to serve not only
1/   This element has been defined as off-site in the cost computations
described in Annex 2.
2/   See other On-Site Costs in Annex 2.



ANNEX 3
Page 32 of 39
the subproject residents but also a future stage of deve-
lopment in the area involving low-income walk-up apartments.
The recovery of the corresponding cost is thus deferred and
would be covered for the time being by the Government.
Cost Estiamtes
9.        The estimated total cost of the subproject is S/. 187.1 million,
of which SI. 49.4 million or 26% is the foreign component. This figure
includes the provision of infrastructure, other on-site and off-site costs,
the cost of community facilities, and the provision of shops and various
dwelling solutions. Contingencies have been added that are judged appro-
priate considering the experience of the Ministry in this type of work and
the technical support that will be provided to the settlers. A detailed
description of costs is given in Annex 2, and the implementation schedule
is shown in Chart WB-15488.
10.       Of the total cost, the following items which include contingencies
have been allocated to the participants: land, site preparation, infra-
structure (i.e. water, sewerage, electricity, roads), green area and profes-
sional services. Each participant will enter into individual contract with
BVP for the allocated cost and for supervised credit. A detailed description
is given in the following table.
Development Costs (in SI. '000)
Directly
Total Cost      Chargeable Cost
1.   Land                                     1,662             1,356
2.   Site Preparation                         6,249             5,227
3.   Green Areas                                855               582
4.   Infrastructure  (a) Water               10,817             8,198
(b) Sewerage           8,962              7,545
(c) Electricity       17,967            15,790
(d) Roads             13,556             11,532
5.   Other On-site Costs                      3,900              -
6.   Off-site Costs                           8,676
7.   Community Facilities                    86,324              -
8.   Shop and Dwelling Cores
(Supervised Credits)                   21,217             21,217
9.   Professional Services                    6,915             2,156
Total                            187,100             73,603



ANNEX 3
Page 33 of 39
11.       Based on the chargeable costs to the participants, appropriate
loan obligations have been computed by type of proposed develoment.  It2
is assumed that each participant will be provided with at least a 120 m
serviced lot and a temporary shelter.  Other possibilities include the 2
option of a core dwelling instead of the temporary shelter on the 120 m2
lots, or the provision of a core shop plus a temporary shelter on 200 m
lots. Assuming a 10% down payment by each participant, the corresponding
loan obligations have been computed as described in the following table.
Unit Costs and Loan Obligations -/ (in S/.)
Area of lot                  120 m          120 m         200 m
Cost per serviced lot        54,570         54,570        86,085
Supervised credit for tem-
porary shelter              7,296           -            7,296
Supervised credit for core
dwelling                      -           51,072           -
Supervised credit for shop      -                         36,480
Chargeable cost of serviced
lot plus supervised
credit                     61,866        105,642       129,861
Down payment (10%)            6,187         10,564        12,986
Loan obligation per lot      55,679         95,078       116,875
Number of lots                   500            206          161
12.       Assuming that these obligations will be repaid in 20 years at
12% interest, the corresponding monthly payments for the three alternatives
are well within the paying capacities of most of the metropolitan popula-
tion.  Adding to these payments the monthly charges_for:wt":eCr'-'and electric
power consumption, about 90O% of Lima's population could afford to participate
in the temporary shelter or core dwelling, and about 75% in the shop plus
shelter alternatives. 2/  Monthly charges for a potential settler wishing
1/   Including physical and price contingencies.
2/   These estimates are based on information provided in "Tabulaciones de
Algunos Aspectos Socio Economicos de la Poblacion en el Peru, Encuesta
Regional Urbana Rural de Mano de Obra (Agosto-Octubre de 1972)", Lima,
Ministerio de Trabajo, April 1973.



ANNEX 3
Page 34 of 39
to participate in one of the three available options are shown in the
following table.
Monthly Charges (in S/.)
200 m2 lots plus
120 m  lots plus   120 m  lots plus  temporary shelter
temporary shelter   core dwelling        and core shop
Amortization
payments for serviced
lot and supervised
credit                   613              1,047                 1,288
Water and sewerage
payments                  63                 63                    63
Electricity payments        65                 65                    65
Total           741              1,175                  1,416
Implementation Responsibilities
12.       As the agency charged with the overall implementation of the sub-
project, the MVC divides the responsibility for different aspects of component
execution among its three main bureaus. Thus, the Direccion General de
Programacion is responsible for preliminary studies, identification of target
groups and general planning, while the Direccion General de Proyectos carries
out the detailed engineering for the project. The Direccion General de
Construcciones would be responsible for implementation of all non self-help
works, except individual water and electrical connections which are normally
carried out by the water company, ESAL itself, and by ELECTROPERU, the de-
centralized electrical company of the Ministry of Energy and Mines. The
technical assistance unit providing support for settlers in the project
would be the responsibility of the Direccion General de Construcciones, as
would supervision of all civil works being constructed.
I.   Supervised Credit in Arequipa
General
1.        The objective of this subproject is to provide long-term loans to
low-income individuals owning lots thereby enabling them to erect or upgrade
modest shelter units through a progrm of mutual aid. The units would be small,
intended only as cores around which the settlers could later add rooms as



ANNEX 3
Page 35 of 39
needed.  Families in these permanent cores would be able to connect their
dwellings with sewer, water and electricity networks and thus benefit from
existing services.
Project Description
2.        The subproject calls for provision of 1,000  individually supervised
credits for hotising units to be built within a framework of mutual aid. The
units have been especially designed to permit future expansions in a rela-
tively simple manner. Of the total, 500 credits would go to joint-effort
construction of. units consisting of one or two small ro 2ms, plus bathroom and
kitchen, the size of each unit being approximately 45 m .  SINOMOS, the agency
charged with developing and upgrading services in pueblos jovenes estimates
that 3,693 poor families are in need of this form of housing construction in
Arequipa at this time.
3.        The other 500 credits in the form of building materials rather than
cash would be available to even poorer residents of pueblos jovenes. Benefi-
ciaries of these credits would not necessarily be organized in groups (although
such an arrangement would be encouraged). They could work individually on
their sites in a manner and at a pace suited to individual requirements and
abilities.  The size of the units involved in loans of building materials
would be approximately 10-15 m
4.        The beneficiaries of these loans would have a choice between two
different types of housing units and, within each type, two choices related
to the level of finishing. 1/ The less expensive type would consist of
a large multi-purpose room of approximately 22 m to which a bathroom and
a kitchen were attached through a small hall. 2/ This unit would be provided
without plastering, paint, interior windows or doors. A second and less
expensive choice would be given by eliminating the provision of sanitary
facilities. This possibility would be a reasonable choice in plots that
have not yet been connected to the municipal water and sewerage networks. 3/
5.        The  second type considered would be slightly more expensive t an
the previous example and would consist of one multi-purpose room (17.2 m ),
1/   These types and choices were selected from a wider array of possibilities
prepared by SINAMOS and considered to be the best suited to the needs of
the target population.
2/   This unit 2can later be expanded to include two bedrooms, and a total area
of 55.0 m .
3/   Although only lots that will eventually enjoy such services are considered
under the loan.



ANNEX 3
Page 36 of 39
a separate 9 m2 bedroom, a bathroom and kitchen. This basic unit iould be
expanded by the addition of a further bedroom to a total of 53.0 m . The
two choices available for this type again refer to the option with or with-
out sanitary facilities. In both cases, the unit could be provided without
plastering, paint, interior doors or windows to reduce cost.
6.        The recipients of the smaller loans would be expected to use the
materials obtained to start construction of a core dwelling according to the
plans of one of the two described core units. Although they would initially
be able to build only one room or parts of it with the limited resources at
their disposal, with time they could be expected to expand and complete one
of the two housing types described above.
Implementation Responsibilities
7.        The promotion of the subproject would be done principally by SINAMOS,
although part of the preparatory work would, in some cases, be carried out by
other agnecies. 1/ SINAMOS would deal with the participants as groups, in
which each individual would have been selected according to financial capabi-
lity, technical know-how and adherence to the group and the mutual-aid objec-
tives of the program. SINAMOS would prepare the documentation necessary for
each individual and the group in their dealings with the financial institution
handling the credits.
8.        In addition, SINAMOS would furnish technical assistance and the
equipment necessary for the construction of the foundations and roof of each
house built by mutual aid. Actual work would be done by the group as a whole
over the weekends and in a sequence determined by drawing lots. The roof
would be completed two weeks after foundations were laid with the intervening
time used for construction of the necessary walls and preparation of scaf-
folding by the individual owner. Another two additional months would general-
ly be required to complete the interior finishing of each of these core units. 2/
9.        SINAMOS would supervise construction through a team consisting of
one head engineer, one assistant engineer, two workmen, one secretary, one
auxiliary technician and one social worker. 3/ In all activities realted to
1/   This refers in particular to the smaller credits for materials, where
INCASUR, a church affiliated organization, has been very active in
promoting mutual aid activities. Over 1,600 such units are currently
being promoted by this group.
2/   The construction of all units in a group is done simultaneously, thus,
a period of about 14 months is required to complete 24 units. (24 x 2
weeks for foundations and roof, plus another 2 months for completing
interior of last unit).
3/   This team is also responsible for the promotion of the groups and is
capable of operating up to 13 groups simultaneously.



ANNEX 3
Page 37 of 39
the implementation of the project, SINAMOS would be assisted by the technical
staff of BVP who would also review documents, specifications and overall
procurement.
Cost Estimates
10.       The total cost of the subproject is being estimated at S/I  80.8
million or US$1.8 million.  Of this, SI. 53.8 million has been assigned to
the (500) larger loans and includes equipment and vehicles neede by SINAMOS.
A sum of S/. 8.1 million has been assigned for the (500) smaller loans, and
the rest (S/. 18.9 million) has been allocated for contingencies. All the
subprojects costs have been allocated to the beneficiaries. They include
material, skilled labor, contingencies, promotion costs, and professional
services. Unskilled labor has not been charged to them as it would be
provided free by the participants. The vehicles and equipment envisaged
for the promoting agency (SINAMOS) includes two pickup trucks to transport
the mutual aid work-group, two mixed-concrete transporting trucks and five
smaller concrete mixers. The development costs of the subproject, as well
as the loan obligations to each participant are summarized in the table that
follows. Costs are further detailed in Annex 2.



ANNEX 3
Page 38 of 39
500 Larger        500 Smaller
Core Units        Core Units
(In Thousand Soles)
1.   Development Cost  1/
(a)  Housing construction 2/                62,900             9,900
(b)  Promotion of project (in-
cluding vehicles and equip-
ment for promoting agency)              4,700               -
(c)  Professional services                   2,700               600
Subtotal               70,300             10,500
Number of Lots                                 500                500
Cost per m2 to be built                         3.12 3/            2.10 4/
2.   Cost and Financial Obligations per Lot
(a)  Chargeable cost per lot to parti-
cipant                                   132.6  5/          21.0 6/
(b)  Down payment 7/                            19.9               2.1
(c)  Loan obligation per lot                   112.7              18.9
1/   Cost includes both price and physical contingencies.
2/   Includes contingencies.
4/   Asuming 10 m2 to be built per unit (500 x 10 m2/unit = 5,000 m2).
5/   Deducting 4 million soles assigned for unskilled labor, (703-4.0)/500 =
S/. 132,600/lot.
6/   All the cost of this component is allocated to the participants and it
includes cost of materials, contingencies and professional services.
7/   15% in the larger and 10% in the smaller loans.



ANNEX 3
Page 39 of 39
11.       Based on the estimated loan obligations for each of the two
supervised credit schemes in Arequipa, and assuming 20 year loans at 12%
interest the monthly payments would be S/. 1,240 and S/. 208 for the larger
and smaller units, respectively. Adding further charges of SI. 63 and SI. 65
for average water and electricity consumption, total monthly charges would be
S/. 1,396 and SI. 336. Assuming that households spend approximately 25% of
their income on housing plus utilities, this would mean that families with S/.
5,584 and SI. 1,344 monthly incomes could participate in the described schemes.
Based on these assumptions and on available information on income distribution
in Peru's urban centers, the smaller core units program would reach the lowest
10th percentile of Arequipa, while the larger units could still be afforded by
about 75% of the city's population.



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
PERU
APPRAISAL OF THE URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance
1.        In order to maximize the efficiency of the project, advisory
assistance of about 95 man-months would be required during implementation.
The main elements of such assistance have been identified in consultation
with the Government and they include the following support:
(i) to the Tehnical Assistance Unit to be established by the
Ministry of Housing and Construction (MVC) for assisting
settlers primarily in the execution of the sites and
services subproject in Lima;
(ii) to EMADI for the planning, operation and management of the
Villa el Salvador Industrial Sites and Services subproject
in Lima;
(iii) to the Banco de la Vivienda del Peru (BVP) for project
implementation, financial planning and related studies;
(iv) to ESAR in Arequipa for assistance in the review and prepa-
ration of a project that would meet the future needs for water
supply and sewerage in metropolitan Arequipa; and
(v) to the Ministry of Health for assistance in promoting the
training and execution of voluntary activities envisaged
in the Health and Nutrition Centers subproject.
2.        The Technical Assistance Unit for the Fundo Vasquez subproject
would operate under the Direccion General de Construccion of the MVC to
provide necessary support for all resident-related activities of the Sites
and Services subproject. The Unit would allocate full time staff to the
project during almost a year during which the residents would build their
dwellings and establish their shops. The Unit would consist of an architect
(Unit Director), an engineer, a secretary, two social workers, and two con-
struction foremen. The first stage of the Unit's activities would involve
the organization of the community, the supervision of materials provision,
and the construction of temporary straw mat shelters. The Unit would train
the settlers in the use of the services provided with their lots and in the
construction of temporary sanitary facilities. The Technical Assistance Unit
would then branch out into other activities. The greater part of their
efforts would be directed towards the supervision and administration of the
self-help dwelling construction process over a period of several months.
Another form of unit activity would consist of assisting in the establish-
ment and operation of the 161 shops planned for the site.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
3.        The support provided to EMADI would consist of helping to
strengthen the office in charge of the Industrial Sites and Services sub-
project in Villa el Salvador through technical assistance specifically
geared to the following aspects of this office's operation:
(a) decisions the office will be required to make in connection
with urban development issues;
(b) its activities related to the selection and coordination of
firms that will be established in the new industrial area;
and
(c) its actions concerning the management of the planned common
services and standard factories, as well as those affecting
the management of the new complex as a whole.
4.        The urban development issues that will need extensive treatment
refer to questions such as designing for the estimated infrastructure needs
and the corresponding traffic and roads systems; coordinating the installation
of these with other utility networks (e.g., water and sewerage, electrifica-
tion, communications, etc.); designing an efficient lay-out with appropriate
sites for the different types of industries, open public areas, and the
various public services that will be established; coordinating and integra-
ting the design of the new industrial area with the surrounding residential
neighborhoods, and, in particular, with respect to potential pollution and
other ecological considerations.
5.        In developing a strategy to select and coordinate the establish-
ment of individual firms, the proposed assistance will specifically deal
with issues such as: (a) the economic impact of the enterprise; (b) iden-
tification of the most appropriate combination of technologies and required
complementary services required; (c) the social and economic impact on
the surrounding settlements, particularly with respect to employment and
commercial demand aspects; (d) the limitations or advantages of enterprise
in the Andean Pact or other regional and international market systems; and
(e) the role and special requirements of Social Property enterprises, etc.
6.        With respect to the management of the new industrial area, includ-
ing the common services and standard factories, there would be assistance
for training the staff required for running these operations efficiently.
7.        The assistance to the Banco de la Vivienda is primarily intended
to strengthen its capacity to promote projects in the urban sector. As a
prerequisite to this, part of the technical assistance will be devoted to
help in mobilizing additional financial resources. In the process, assist-
ance will also be given in the area of financ_ial planning and related studies.



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
8.        The support to ESAR in Arequipa would include a review of actual
and expected water supply and sewerage needs in the city, plus assistance
in the preparation of a project for the anticipated expansion of the cor-
responding networks. This would involve three main issues, namely:
(a) reviewing the projection of anticipated needs based on
present and expected consumption;
(b) reviewing the engineering alternatives for potential new
sources of water, evaluating the design of projects for
these alternatives and assisting in the selection of an
appropriate system for the expansion of the required sewerage
network; and
(c) the evaluation of all engineering possibilities in terms of
their economic and management implications.
Specifically, the assistance is expected to help analyze issues such as:
the relative advantages of construction in a series of stages as compared
to single stage expansion of a facility; the effect of the various possible
schemes on the long term needs of the city as a whole and of specific social
groups in particular, and the exact financial effects of these alternatives
on ESAR and its customers.
9.        The assistance for the Health and Nutrition subproject is in-
tended to strengthen a community program that is part of this subproject
and is geared to promote availability and use of preventive medicine as a
prime public health service. This program is primarily based on the par-
ticipation of about 900 volunteers who require training in order to increase
the efficiency of their operations. Included in this assistance would be a
modest physical facility in which these operations could be planned and
coordinated, and in which training activities could be properly carried
out.



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
PERU
APPRAISAL OF THE URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Arrangements
Project Financing Plan
1.        The overall financing plan for the project is shown below:
Cost            Financing
S/. Millions   IBRD   BVP   Payment
A. Water Supply & Sewerage for Pueblos
Jovenes in Lima                             657.7       328.9  295.6   33.2
B. Water Supply & Sewerage for Pueblos
in Arequipa                                  75.5        37.8   30.1    7.6
C. Electrification of Pueblos Jovenes
in Lima                                     189.3        94.7   75.7   18.9
D. Electrification of Pueblos Jovenes in
Arequipa                                     46.2        23.1   18.5    4.6
E. Access Roads in Lima                         246.3      123.2   98.5   24.6
F. Health & Nutrition Centers in Lima           93.8        46.9   46.9    -
G. Industrial Sites & Services in
Villa Salvador                              288.2       144.1  144.1    -
H. Industrial Sites & Services in
Arequipa                                     47.4        23.7   23.7    -
I. Supervised Credit for Sites &
Services in Lima                            187.1        93.6   79.9   13.6
J. Supervised Credit for Mutual Help
in Arequipa                                  80.8        40.4   32.3    8.1
K. Technical Assistance                          31.5       15.8   15.7      -
S/. Total                       1,943.8      972.2  861.0  110.6
US$ Total                          43.2        21.6   19.1    2.5
Percentage                        100%        50%    55%      6%
2.        The Bank loan to the Banco de la Vivienda del Peru (Guaranteed by
the Government of Peru) would be S/. 972.2 million (US$21.6 million) of
50% of total project costs. BVP would provide S/. 861.0 million (US$19.1
million) or about 44.0% of the total project cost._ Down payments from proj-
ect beneficiaries would amount to S./. 110.6 million (US$2.9 million) or
about 6.0 of the total project cost. The Government would contribute to BVP's
share capital an aggregate amount equivalent to US$19.1 million in accordance
with a schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
3.        The Bank and BVP, with the agreement of the Government of Peru would
establish a revolving fund for the purposes of the project. It is estimated



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
that the revolving fund could be started initially with US$500,000. The
Government through BVP would provide replenishment of funds according to an
agreed schedule that would be satisfactory to the Bank.
Water Supply and Sewerage Subprojects
4.        The total cost of the two water supply and sewerage subprojects
is estimated to be S/. 733.2 million including contingencies. Funds for
the construction of facilities would come from BVP. ESAL and ESAR would
collect monthly payments from households on behalf of BVP which would reflect
both the capital costs for the construction of facilities as well as water
consumed.
5.        The past financial performance of ESAL, which is the largest bene-
ficiary of the Bank's loan, has been poor. In 1974 ESAL had a net loss of
S./. 93 million on total revenue of S/. 470 million (Table 1) while accounts
receivable at the end of 1974 were S/. 184 million which represents five
month's billings (Table 2).
6.        Water and sewerage tariffs were increased 40% during 1975 with the
results that ESAL should make a profit in 1976 of S/. 8.5 million and have a
financial rate of return of 1.7%. Assuming further tariff increases of 20%
in each of 1977, 1979 and 1981, ESAL will have net income of S/. 260 million
in 1982 and a rate of return of 5.5%. These projected tariff increases wil
greatly improve ESAL's cash flow (Table 3). If tariffs remain at the present
level, however, ESAL will have a cash requirement to 1982 of S/. 2,000 million.
7.        Apart from the expected increases in tariff ESAL also needs to
improve its management and collection record.
Electrification of Pueblos Jovenes
8.        The total cost of the subproject in electrification is estimated
to be S/. 2,355 million.
9.        BVP would finance the capital costs of the low voltage distribution
network, individual connections and part of the high tension network. The
other part of high voltage distribution network will be financed by ELECTRO-
LIMA in Lima and SEAL in Arequipa. As in the case of water supply and sewerage
subprojects, BVP would have individual contracts with households. Civil works
would be carried out by participating agencies, ELECTROPERU and ELECTROLIMA in
Lima and SINAMOS and SEAL in Arequipa. Upon completion of the works, both
ELECTROLIMA and SEAL would collect on behalf of BVP from households an
amortized payment covering household connections and for the secondary network
as well as the charge for electricity consumption.



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 4
10.       The projected cash flow for electrification (Table 4) shows that
after the initial funds for construction are provided, BVP will generate
funds from customer repayments which cover its debt service and also provide
annual balances for reinvestment. BVP's financial rate of return on this
subproject is 17%.
Access Roads
11.       Total cost for the access roads is estimated at S/. 246.3 million.
12.       BVP would finance through the Ministry of Housing and Construction
the access roads subproject. The communities benefited would contribute about
10% of the total cost of the subproject which would be deposited with the BVP
prior to the start of construction. The Government would reimburse BVP 90% of
the cost of construction.
Health and Nutrition Centers
13.       The total cost for the proposed health and nutrition centers is
SI. 93.8 million.
14.       The financing arrangements for this subproject would be made by
BVP. Given the nature of this subproject, only a very small percentage
of the operating cost will be recovered through contributions by the
beneficiaries. Presently, payments for medical consultations and phar-
maceuticals only cover 5% of operating cost. The Ministry of Health and the
beneficiaries would provide operations and maintenance funds for the facilities
constructed. The Government would reimburse
BVP for expenditures incurred on this subproject.
Industrial Sites and Services
15.       Total cost for the industrial sites and services subproject is
estimated at S/. 335.6 million.
16.       BVP would provide funds to EMADI (which is under the Ministry of
Housing and Construction) for the construction, operation and sale of indus-
trial sites in Lima and Arequipa. The Ministry of Housing and Construction
through the Direccion General de Construccion would be responsible for the
construction and supervision of both subprojects. EMADI would repay BVP for
all these expenditures according to an agreed schedule which would be sti-
pulated in a subsidiary loan agreement between BVP and EMADI.
17.       A projected cash flow is given in Table 5 for this subproject
which assumes that EMADI will repay over 5 years commencing in 1979. Although
the projections show that BVP will have a cash deficiency of SI. 2.3 million
by the year 2001, BVP will still earn a rate of return of 18% on the project
and have the full funds available for reinvestment by 1983.



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 4
Supervised Credits for Sites and Services
18.       The total cost of the two subprojects for supervised credits is
estimated at SI. 267.9 millon.
19.       BVP would finance the construction and development of sites and
services as well as credits for housing construction for the sites in these
subprojects. In the case of the Fundo Vasquez in Lima BVP would provide
funds to the Ministry of Housing and Construction for the development of
the site, infrastructure, and community facilities. The settlers would
enter into a contract with BVP for the repayment of land, infrastructure and
credits for housing construction. The cost of community facilities would be
repaid by the Government to BVP. With the exception of community facilities
and land cost, settlers in Arequipa would repay the same items to BVP.
20.       BVP's projected cash flow for this subproject (Table 6) shows that
revenue from customers will cover debt service commencing in 1978 and will
provide surplus funds for reinvestment commencing in 1982. The financial
rate of return earned by BVP on this subproject is 6%.



PERU                                                  AS1 5
Table 1
ERUsA DI SANEANIINI_ DE LIhk
INCOEI STATEIMETS
FOR TNE YEARS UNDFD DICDSU 31
(ml7lion 51.J
ActuaLi                                              Forecast
1973       1974          1975       1976   .1           1978      1979       1980       1981       1982
Number of Users ('000)                204        232           247       .288      308        328       338        348        360        380
Total Volume gf water -                                                                       3
million  N                            -          -          199.6      232.4   251.1       267.4    276.0       284.2      294.0      310.0
Revenue per M3~                          -          -            3.42        3.42    4.09        4.09      4.91       4.91       S.89       5.89
Revenue
Sale of watertnet)                390.0       444.4         682.6      794.3  1,027.4  1,093.7  1,354.6   1,395.2   1,731.8   1,826. 5
Bank interest~ and other
income                           24.0        25.7          28.0       30.0      32.0      34.0      36.0       38.0       40.0       42.0
Total Revenue                     414.0   ; 470.1           710.6      824.3  1,059.4  1,127.7  1,390.6   1,433.2   1,771.8   1,868.5
Expenses
Operating costs                   214.8       247.6         356.8      378.0    423.7    472.0    S29.3         598.4      682.7       8-.1
Administrative costs              172.6       210.1         242.9      257.3    288.4    321.2    360.3         407.3      464. 7      535.8
Depreciation                        77.7       94.9         105.7      125.1    146.2    160.2    172.8         185.5       19S.9     Zl1.5
Total Expenses                    465.1       552.6         705 .4     760.4    858.3    953.4  1,062.4   1,191.2   1,343.3   1,534.4
Operatin  Income(loss)
Before Interest                 (1.1)      (82.5)          5.2        63.9    201.1  - 174.3    328.2         242.0      428.s      334.1
Interest Expense                       12.5       10.4          42.0        55.4      52.7      64.1      82.9       85.7       79.3        3.7
Net Income                            (63.6)     (92.9)        (36.8)        8.5    148.4    110.2    245.3         156.3      349.2      260.4
Operating ratio                       112%    * 118%            9 9        92       81%        85%        761        831        761        828
Times interest covered                  -          -              .lx       1.2x    3.8x        2.7x       4.0x       2.8x       5.4x       4.sx
Financial return on average
net fixed assets                     -          -                       1.7%    4.61        3.61        6.31       4.41       7.4%       5 .S
January, 1976



PERU                                             Om
Table 2
ENPRESA DE SANEAMIENTO DE LIMA
BlALCE SHEETS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31
Actual                                                  Forecast
1973      1974      1975         1976    1977      1978       1979      1980      1981      1982
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                             78.2      46.7    127.7        190.5   154.8      300.1     285.7     397.9    858.7   1,092.7
Trade accounts receivable       176.5     184.4    273.0        317.7   411.0      437.4     541.8     558.1      692.7     730.6
Other current assets            213.6     146.0    153.2        153.2   158.2      158.2     163.2     163.2      168.2     168.2
Total current assets            468.3     377.1    553.9        661.4   724.0      895.7     990.7   1,119.2   1,719.6   1,991.S
Pixed Assets
Gross                         3,173.6   3,704.4  4,065.1      4,810.9  5,622.2  6,160.3   6,647.4   7,134.S   7,534.5   8,134.5
Accumulated depreciation        478.7      573.6    679.3       804.4    950.6  1,110.8   1,283.6   1,469.1   1,665.0   1,876.5
Net fixed assets              2,694.9   3,130.8  3,385.8      4,006.5  4,671.6  5,049.5   5,363.8   S,665.4   5,869.5   6,258.0
Other Assets                        19.0       20.0     20.0         20.0     20.0     20.0      20.0       20.0      20.0      20.0
Total Assets                  3,182.2   3,527.9  3,959.7      4,687.9  S,415.6  5,965.2   6,374.5   6,804.6   7,609.1   8,269.5
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities                124.6      137.9    151.7       166.8    183.5    201.9      222.1    344.3       368.7     395.6
LonR-term Debt
Existing                        417.2     568.0    681.9        554.8    393.3    231.8        70.3      11.9
German loan-proposed                                            377.2    496.0    496.0       496.0    496.0      496.0     496.0
BVP-proposed project                                            109.6    380.1    642.0       613.3    574.1      530.1     481.0
Employees' Indemnity Fund       142.3     172.4    189.6        208.6    229.5    252.4       277.6    305.4      335.9     370. 0
Total long-term debt            559. 5    740.4    871.5      1,250.2  1,499.6  1,622.2    1,457.2  1,387.4   1,362.0   1,347.0
Equity
S   e capital                  798.7     798.7    798.7        798.7    798.7    798.7      798.7      798.7     798.7     798.7
Ca.tomer contributions       1,237. 7   1,482.1  1,805.8     2,131.7  2,444.9  2,743.3   3,052.1   3,373.5   3,729.8   4,117.9
Revaluation reserve            525.2     525.2    525.2        525.2    525.2    525.2      525.2      525.2     525.2     525.2
Retained earnings              (63.5)   (156.4)  (193.2)      (184.7)   (36.3)    73.9      319.2      475.5     824.7   1,085.1
Total equity                 2,498.1   2,649.6  2,936.5      3,270.9  3,733.5  4,141.1   4,695.2   5,172.9   5,878.4   6,526.9
Total Liabilities            3,182.2   3,527.9  3,959 .7     4,687.9  5,415.6  S,96S.2   6,374.5   6,804.6   7,609.1   8,269.5
Average net fixed assets               -   2,912.8  3,258.3      3,696.2  4,339.0  4,860.6   5,206.6   5,514.6   5,767.4   6,063.8
Current ratio                        3.7        2.7      3.6          4.0      3.9      4.4        4.5       4.6       4.7       50
Debt/equity ratio                  18/82      22/78    23/77        28/72    29/71    28/72      24/76     21/79     19/81      17/83
January, 1976



Table 3
ESA DE SMWEIJID DE LIM4
CAN FLA SrATWS
RJ IHE YEAS ENED          31
Forecat
1975      1976     1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982
Net incU e bdore interest                       5.2      63.9    201.1     174.3     328.2     242.0    428.5    334.1
Depreciation                                  105.7     125.1    146.2     160.2     172.8     185.5    195.9    211.5
Bloyes' Indiity provision                      17.2      19.0     20.9      22.9      25.2      27.8      30.5      34.1
Inthnl cash geeration                      128.1     208.0    368.2     357.4     526.2     455.3    654.9      579.7
Qstmer contributions                          323.7     325.9    313.2     298.4    308.8    321.4    356.3    388.1
Borrow10p:
Excisting credits                          IS0. 0
Germ  loan                                           377.2    118.8
BWP                                          _       109.6    274.1      274.0
Total alnorigs                             150.0     486.8    392.9      274.0
TOM SOURCES                                      601.8   1,020.7  1,074.3     929.8    835.0      776.7   1,011.2     967.8
AMICATION6
Debt service:
Principial                                  36.1     127.1    164.4      174.3    190.2      97.6      SS.9      49.1
interest                                    42.0      55.4     52.7      64.1      82.9      85.7      79.3      73.7
Toal debt sevice                            78.1     182.5    217.1      238.4     273.1     183.3    135.2      122.8
Fixed asset additions                         360.7     745.8    811.3     538.1    487.1      487.1     400.0     600.0
Increese in net noncash arrent assets          82.0      29.6     81.6       8.0      89.2     ( 5.9)     15.2      11.0
TOAL APPLICATINS                                 520.8     957.9  1,110.0     784.S     849.4    664.5      550.4     733.8
Increase (decrees) in cash                        81.0      62.8    (35.7)    145.3    (14.-4     112.9     460.8    234.0
Cash, beginning of year                           46.7     127.7    190.5     154.8     300.1     285.7     397.9     858.7
Cash, aed of yeer                                127.7     190.5    154.8     300.1     285.7     397.9     858.7   1,092.7
Times debt service covered                         1.6x      l.lx     1.7x      1.Sx      L.S       2.Sx      4.8x      4.7x
January, 1976



PERU
APPRAISAL OF THE URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BVP Cashflow for Electrification of Pueblos Jovenes
(Million S/.)
1976     1977     1978     1979      1980     1981      1991     2001      TOTAL
Construction Costs:
Lima                                        9.5    153.3      26.5                                                    189.3
Arequipa                                    3.2      14.6     28.4                                                     46.2
12.7    167.9     54.9                                                    235.5
Funds Provided for Construction:
Down Payments /a                           23.5                                                                        23.5
IBRD Loan /b                                         90.3     27.5                                                    117.8
Government Equity Contribution /c                    45.4     16.8                                                     62.2
23.5    135.7     44.3                                                    203.5
Revenue from Customer Repayments /a                               18.3     36.5      36.5     36.5                        365.1
Less Expenses /d                                                     .5       .9       .9        .9                          9.1
Net Revenue                                                       17.8     35.6      35.6     35.6                        356.o
Debt Service - IBRD Loan /e                               2.0      9.2      10.0     10.0     11.2      12.3      6.1     282.2
Annual Cash Increase (Decrease)/f               10.8    (34.2)    (2.0)    25.6      25.6     24.4    (12.3)    (6.1)
Cumulative Cash                                 10.8    (23-4)   (25-4)       .2     25.8     50.2    158.6      41.8     41.8
/a  Customer terms:  10% down and the remainder in equal monthly installments over 10 years at 12% interest.
75  IBRD is financing 50% of the project costs.
7T  The Government is assumed to be contributing as equity 26% of the cost of the project.
7T Expenses have been calculated at 2.5% of gross revenue and cover default and administration costs.
7e  Terms:  Repayable in 40 semi-annual installments with five years grace at 8; interest.
7   BVP is contributing 14% of the cost of the project plus interest during the grace period on the
IBRD loan from its own resources.                                                                                         !Ji



PERU
APPRAISAL OF THE URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMET PROJECT
BVP Cashflow for Industrial Sites and Services
(Million S/.)
1976     1977     1978      1979     1980     1981      1991     2001     TOTAL
Construction Costs:
Lima                                        9.0    124.0   124.0       31.2                                           288.2
Arequipa                                    2.L      37.9      7.1                                                     47.4
11.4    161.9    131.1     31.2                                           335.6
Funds Provided for Construction:
IBRD Loan /a                                5.7      80.9     65.6     15.6                                           167.8
Government Equity Contribution /b           3.8      53.4    43.2      10.3                                           110.7
9.5    134.3    108.8      25.9                                          278.5
Revenue - EKADI Debt Service /c                                            91.2     91.2      91.2                        456.o
Debt Service - IBRD Loan /d                              -.i9     10.1     13.9    14.3    15.8        17.6       8.8     401.2
Annual Cash Increase (Decrease) /e             (1-9)   (31-5)   (32-4)    72.0       76.9     75.4    (17.6)    (8.8)
Cumulative Cash                                (1-9)   (33-4)   (65-8)      6.2     83.1    158.5    164.9      (2-3)    (2-3)
/a  IBRD is financing 50% of the project costs.
75  The Government is assumed to be contributing as equity 33% of the cost of the project.
7c Terms: Repayable over five years at 12% interest commencing in 1979.
7d  Terms:  Repayable in 40 semi-annual installments with five years grace at 81% interest.
7e BVP is contributing 17% of the cost of the project plus interest during the grace period
on the IBRD loan from its own resources.
WI



PERU
APPRAISAL OF THE URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
jvp Cashflow for Supervised Credits
(Million SI.)
1976     1977     1978      1979     1980      1981     1991      2001     TOTAL
Construction Costs:
Lima -
Housing Credits and Infrastructure        21.1     63.4      56.3                                                     140.8
Community Facilities                       4.6     41.7                                                               46.3
Arequipa -
Housing  Credits                           4.1     64.6       9.5      2.6                                            80.8
29.8    169.7     65.8       2.6                                           267.9
Funds Provided for Construction:
Down Payments /a                            15.4      6.2        .1                                                     21.7
IBRD Loan /b                               114.1     85.5      33.0      1.3                                           133.9
Government Equity Contribution /c                    51.8      21.5        .8                                            74.1
29.5    1143.5     54.6      2.1                                           229.7
Revenue from Customer Repayments /d                                12.3     25.7      25.7     25.7     25.7                514.0
Less Expenses /e                                                     .3        .6       .6       .6        .6                12.0
Net Revenue                                                        12.0     25.1      25.1     25.1     25.1                502.0
Debt Service - IBRD Loan If                               4.8       9.9     11.3      11.3     12.7     14.0       7.0     323.0
Annual Cash Increase (Decrease) /g               (.3)   (31-0)    (9.1)    13.3       13.8     12.4      11.1     (7-0)
Cumulative Cash                                  (.3)   (31.3)   (40-4)   (27-1)   (13-3)    (.9)    110.1    140.8        140.8
s  Customer down payments of 10% required for housing credits and infrastructure.
IBRD is financing 50% of the project costs.
7&  The Government is assumed to be contributing as equity 28% of the cost of the project.
7a  Customer terms:  Equal monthly instalments over 20 years at 12% interest.                                                  I
7e  Excpenses have been calculated at 2.5% of gross revenue and cover default and administration costs.
71  Terms:  Repayable in 40 semi-annual installments with five years grace at 81$-% interest.
7   BVPis contributing 14% of the cost of the project interest during the grace period on the IBRD                            X
loan, and debt service on the community facilities from its own resources.



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 8
PERU
APPRAISAL OF THE URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Recovery and Pricing
Introduction
1.        The recovery of costs for the project will come mainly from charges
and sales to final users. The exceptions are the subprojects concerned with
access roads and health and nutrition centers in Lima which will be recovered
from general tax revenues. The sources from which subproject costs will be
recovered are:
Total Cost
Subprojects                 US$ (Millions)         Recovery Source
Lima:
Water and sewerage                 14.62           Monthly payments by
for pueblos jovenes                                households
Access roads in pueblos             5.47           10% from households, the
jovenes                                            remainder from user
charges imposed by
government
Electrification of pueblos          4.21           Monthly payments by house-
jovenes                                            holds
Industrial sites and services       6.40           Sales of industrial sites
Housing and commercial sites        4.16           Monthly payments by house-
and services                                       holds and government
Health and nutrition centers        2.08           Government
Arequipa:
Water and sewerage for              1.68           Monthly payments by house-
pueblos jovenes                                    holds
Electrification of pueblos          1.03           Monthly payments by house-
jovenes                                            holds
Industrial sites and services       1.05           Sales of industrial sites
Supervised credit                   1.80           Monthly payments by
households
Technical Assistance                  .70          Government
Total                43.20



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 8
Water and Sewerage in Pueblos Jovenes in Lima
2.        Price of Water.  ESAL utilizes a block tariff and will charge its
regular fees and tariffs for services it provides. In February 1975, the
Government approved a new tariff structure (amounting to an increases of 40%
in the water rates) to enable ESAL to undertake expansion of its capital
facilities.  The inc 5ease in water rates essentially makes water for those
consuming over 400 m much more expensive. Under the previous water rates
these large consumers used up about 71% of the water and brought in 74% of
the revenues.
3.        The new minimum monthly tariffs for water and sewerage service are
based upon the size of the connecting pipe as shown below. Pueblos jovenes
residents would use the 5/8" pipe.
Diameter of Pipe       Minimum Consumption       Minimum Monthly Payment
(1,000 liters)
5/8"                    22                      S/.  36.00
3/4"                    32                           55.00
1" and larger           80                          224.00
The consumption beyond the minimum price of water and sewerage rises steeply
as shown below:
1,000 Liters         Price per 1,000 Liters
22                    S/. 1.65
32                        1.72
40                        1.80
80                        2.00
150                        4.00
220                        4.80
300                        5.60
400 and above              6.00
In addition to the water tariff there is a sewer surcharge dating
from 1970.  The surcharge ranges from S/. 3 per month for a 5/8" water con-
nectipn to S/. 50 per month for a 4" connection plus a charge of S/. 0.40
per m of quantities in excess of the minimum for that particular range.



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 8
4.        Monthly Payments.  Based on the most recent project undertaken by
ESAL in pueblos jovenes, the estimated price for connecting the houses to
the water and sewerage system is the following:
Charge for connecting house to pipes in the street           SI.  81770
Charge for secondary water and sewerage network                  17,800
Canones--contribution to the cost of water mains
and maintenance                                           3,000
Total              S/. 29,570
Present installation generally cover ESAL's average cost per. unit of connec-
tion. However, increases are planned for 1977-78 to provide funds for capital
expansion.  Connection charge may be financed with loans of up to 20 years at
12% interest. With 10% down payment the monthly payment on such a loan would
be about S/. 293. In addition to installation charges, each household would
pay for water consumed each month. ESAL estimates that water consumption in
the pueblos jovenes will be about 200 1/person/day, or 36,000 1/month for a
household of six persons, which would be sold at SI. 63. 1/ Thus the total
estimated monthly charge for families in the pueblos jovenes would be S/. 256
per month. This price is substantially below that charged by the water trucks,
which is about S/.50 per 1,000 liters. 2/
Water and Sewerage for Pueblos Jovenes in Arequipa
5.        Price of Water. Empresa de Saneamiento de Arequipa (ESAR) received
permission to charge higher rates for water in June 1975.  These new rates are
intended to reduce gradually the operating deficit which was incurred in the
last several years.
6.        The water rates for residences are divided into three categories
which are intended to correspond to (a) income level and (b) level of consump-
tion. 3/ Pueblos jovenes fall into the third residential category below:
1/   Based on a price of S/. 1.76 per 1,000 liters.
2/   The price for an oil drum of water (200 liters) is about S/. 10.
3/   A point system is used to classify a residence according to:
(1) number of persons in the house; (2) number of water faucets,
etc.; (3) value of the property; (4) type of neighborhood; and
(5) size of yards and gardens.



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 8
Charge per 1,000
Residential    Minimum Consumption       Minimum Charge    Liters above the
Category          (1,000 liters)          per Month            Minimum
First                   40                S/. 140.00               4.00
Second                  25                      62.50              3.00
Third                   15                      34.50              2.50
7.        Monthly Payments.  The current charge for connecting the dwellings
in the pueblos jovenes to the water and sewerage system is:
Charge for connecting house to pipes in the street            S/.  7,100
Charge for secondary water and sewerage network                    7,500
Total 1/                   S/. 14,600
The users pay for the house connection (S/. 7,100) with an initial down
payment of 30% and the balance over a period of three years at 12% interest.
There is no down payment for the cost of the secondary network (S/. 7,500)
and payments may be spread over as many as 15 years. 2/
8.        The installation charges above reflect savings due to labor con-
tributed by the residents of the pueblos jovenes. SINAMOS, in cooperation
with ESAR, organizes the digging of ditches for the secondary network in
the streets. In addition, each family may realize further savings by
digging the trenches from their house to the street, for which there is a
deduction in the connection charge of S/. 900. With these arrangements
most of the families in the pueblos jovenes have been able to afford water
and sewerage connections. ESAR reports that about 85% of households in
pueblos jovenes eventually sign up for the connections.
1/   The cost of the sewerage network and connections which is included,
amounts to about 30% of the total.
2/   Canones are not paid in Arequipa as they are in Lima.



ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 8
Electricity for Pueblos Jovenes in Lima
9.        In providing electricity in the pueblos jovenes of Lima, the cost
of the low voltage distribution network and the individual connections, plus
part of the high voltage distribution network would be directly recovered
from the households. As in the past, SINAMOS, in conjunction with ELECTROPERU,
would organize the labor contributed by the beneficiaries, thus helping lower
the cost of the connections. 1/ The estimated cost of the electrical connec-
tions charged to the households is: (a) SI. 1,500 for the household connec-
tion (b) S/. 7,000 for the low voltage network; 2/ (c) S./ 240 for the con-
tribution to the Expansion Fund (high voltage network); 3/ (d) S/. 875 for
professional services of engineering and supervision, which totals S/. 8,740
(US$194). When an allowance is made for physical contingencies (S/. 1,181)
and for the possibility that users will not contribute labor (S/. 512) the
average cost increases to S/. 11,308 (US$251).
10.       New electricity rates were approved in February 1975. 4/  The new
tariffs have some positive features, such as lower rates for basic con-
sumption by pueblos jovenes residents and discounts to encourage use of off-
peak and higher voltage service. However, there are other aspects which may
not stimulate efficient energy consumption patterns; these include low resi-
dential and industrial rates and high connection fees and customer contribu-
tions. The tariff applicable to pueblos jovenes is as follows:
1/   The ditches dug by the residents for the underground cable are valued at
S/. 33 per linear meter.
2/   The cost of the low voltage network is divided among the number of lots
connected. Since experience has shown that 20% of those who sign up for
the service move or do not pay the installation charge, the total cost
is divided among 80% of those who have subscribed.
3/   The contribution by the pueblos jovenes residents is considerably lower
than the real cost of the high voltage network per lot. The difference
is financed by ELECTROPERU and higher income users who pay a higher rate
for connections and electricity use than do pueblos jovenes dwellers.
ELECTROPERU reports that it plans to expand electrical connections to
50,000 lots by 1978 and that the Expansion Fund (Fondo de Ampliaciones)
can cover the extension of the high voltage network for the 12,400 lots
included in this project.
4/   The Fifth Power Project for Peru provides technical assistance funds for
tariff structure studies designed to determine the incremental cost of
providing service to various customer classes and to propose an alter-
native to the present tariff which does not reflect marginal cost pricing.



ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 8
First 30 kwh:              minimum bill per month         S/. 28.50
Next 100 kwh:              per kwh                              1.27
Next 70 kwh:               per kwh                              1.15
Excess over 200 kwh:       per kwh                              1.00
The estimated consumption charge in the pueblos jovenes is S/. 65-100 per
month. The monthly bill for electricity, as in the case of water, includes
payment both for connection and for amount consumed. The terms of the loan
for the connection charge are a minimum of 10% down payment with up to 10
years to pay at 12% interest. Thus, the minimum monthly payment in the
pueblos jovenes assuming a S/. 11,300 connection charge with a 10-year
loan would be:
Minimum consumption charge                  S/.  65.00
Payment for consumption                         160.00
Total                  S/. 225.00
Electrification of Pueblos Jovenes in Arequipa
11.       As in the case of Lima, the connection charge for electricity
in the pueblos jovenes of Arequipa includes payments for the distribution
system. The estimated fees are: (a) S/. 2,400 for the dwelling connection;
(b) S/. 5,600 for the low voltage network; and (c) S/. 240 for the Expansion
Fund. I/ If the amounts required for organization of the subproject, pro-
fessional services and contingencies, are included, the total cost of the
subproject would be approximately S/. 46.4 million.
12.       The electricity rates per month in the pueblos jovenes of Arequipa
are:
Up to 15 kwh:                      S/. 0.40 per kwh
15-30 kwh:                       1.55 per kwh
Above 30 kwh:                          1.13 per kwh
As in Lima the estimated consumption charge in the pueblos jovenes is
S/. 65-100 per month.
13.       Assuming a down payment of 10% of the connection charge (i.e.
S/. 1,186) and a loan for 10 years at 12% interest, the minimum monthly pay-
ment in the pueblos jovenes would be:
1/   As in the case of Lima, the contributions to the Expansion Fund are
subsidized by other consumers of electric power, most notably the
industrial sector in Arequipa. The Expansion Fund had by mid-1975
a balance of S/. 13.0 million and expected additional payments o
S/. 9.0 million. No problems are anticipated regarding expansion
of the main networks.



ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 8
Consumption charge                       SI.  65.00
Monthly payment for installation             154.00
Total                   S/. 219.00
Access Roads in Pueblos Jovenes of Lima
14.       The road subproject consists of providing minimum-length access
roads in five pueblos jovenes, and internal roads in four older pueblos
jovenes. The communities involved would be expected to contribute an amount
equivalent to 10% of the total project cost. Legally constituted community
organizations, (urbanizaciones populares) would be responsible for collecting
and depositing the fees at the BVP. The government would absorb the remainder
of the cost. Government revenues related to road user charges have consis-
tently been greater than highway expenditures. 1/
Health and Nutrition Centers in Lima
15.       The construction of three health and nutrition centers and the
expansion of two others are proposed for the pueblos jovenes in the Cono Sur
area of Lima. The Bank loan would be repaid by the government out of general
revenue as part of its responsibility for providing medical service in low-
income areas. Charges for medical services in pueblos jovenes are low and
currently cover only about 5% of operating costs.
Industrial Sites and Services in Lima and Arequipa
16.       The full cost of developing the industrial parks in Lima and
Arequipa will be recovered by sales of the sites.
17.       In the Lima subproject, 50 ha out of a total of 175 ha reserved
for the industrial park are programmed for early development. After space
is set aside for roads, etc., about 34.6 ha will be available for sale.
The price per square meter of about S/. 1,020 reflecting the cost of the
land and development plus 50% for EMADI as the administrative agency. The
policy of the government is to use the industrial park to promote the social
property sector, but some of the sites will be available for purchase by the
private sector.
18.       In Arequipa, the subproject consists of developing 13.5 ha ad-
jacent to an existing industrial park, 11.4 ha of which will be available
1/   In 1972, for example, total road user contributions were S/. 3,243,000
while total highway expenditures were S/. 1,973,000. World Bank
"Appraisal of Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project", October 1974,
Table 4.



ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 8
for sale. Applications for purchase of all of the land have already been
received: the private sector has applied for 44% of the land, the social
property sector for 36%, and a training center for industrial workers for
20%. As in the case of the Lima subproject, the price of the sites (about
S/. 642 per square meter) will reflect the full cost of land and develop-
ment plus an allowance to cover administrative costs for EMADI and profit.
Housing and Commercial Sites and Services in Lima
19.       BVP would finance the cost for site development, requisite infra-
structure, detailed engineering and supervision, community facilities and
other related buildings. Upon completion of construction and site develop-
ment BVP through the technical assistance unit (to be established by MVC)
would enter into contract with settlers for the purchase of serviced plots
plus the provision of individually supervised credits for either the cons-
truction of a dwelling unit or for a core shop/store. The purchase price
of serviced plots would reflect the allocated costs to settlers for land
acquisition, site preparation, and on-site infrastructure. The Government
would reimburse BVP for a proportionate share of the land acquisition costs,
site preparation, green areas, on-site infrastructure, community facilities,
and professional services as well as full cost of off-site and other on-site
infrastructure (referring mainly to an area for future development), community
facilities and selected buildings. At full development, about 60% of total
investment would be recovered.
Supervised Credit in Arequipa
20.       The supervised credit subproject in Arequipa includes 1,000 house-
holds loans for two types of housing construction assistance. The first
program involves credits to 500 households working in groups of 20 partici-
pants each organized by SINAMOS for immediate construction of core housing
units. The second program, which would primarily benefit families in the
lowest 10th percentile, would provide credits for building materials to
construct their dwellings. Cost recovery would be realized through repay-
ments by individual households of credits obtained and indirectly through
general property and sales taxes.



ANNEX 7
PERU
APPRAISAL OF THE URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year         Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                At End of Quarter
(US$ Thousand)
1976 - 1977
December 31, 1976              1,650
March 31, 1977                 4,520
June 30, 1977                  8,300
1977 - 1978
September 30, 1977            12,030
December 31, 1977             15,040
March 31, 1978                17,380
June 30, 1978                 19,200
1978 - 1979
September 30, 1978            20,760
December 31, 1978             21,470
March 31, 1979                21,600



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 9
PERU
APPRAISAL OF THE URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banco de la Vivienda del Peru
Function
1.        The Banco del la Vivienda del Peru (BVP), a semi-autonomos agency
under the guidance of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, was created in
1962 to establish, administer, regulate and supervise savings and loan asso-
ciations. BVP actively promotes public, private and foreign investment for
housing and construction. It has oriented its operations increasingly to
provide technical, economic and social assistance for housing projects and
to provide financial support to the construction industry. Recent policy
decisions taken by the Board have also committed BVP to utilizing a large
percentage of new financial resources for programs designed to assist low-
income areas.
Share Capital and Ownership
2.        The Government is the sole holder of BVP share capital.  The
capital ceiling authorized has increased from SI. 500 million in 1962 to
S/. 1.6 billion in 1973, and the paid in capital has increased from S/. 129
million in 1962 to S/. 825 million in 1973. The U.S. Agency for Interna-
tional Development (AID) has made two seed capital loans of S/. 201 million
(US$7.5 million) in 1962 and S/. 217 million (US$6 million) in 1965. BVP
intends to increase its capital by another S/. 1 billion in 1976.
Management
3.        The BVP is governed by an eight-member board of which four are
appointed by the Ministry of Housing and Construction and four are appointed
by the Ministry of Finance and Economy. The President of the BVP acts as
chairman of the board. A general manager manages the operations of BVP
through four central managers and 11 departments. (Chart WB-15489) The
organizational structure reflects recent changes designed to permit deci-
sions formerly taken exclusively by four central managers -- for adminis-
tration, commercial credit (short term for construction), operations (medium
and long term) and supervision -- to be taken at lower administrative levels.
The four central managers function now as advisors to 11 main departments
whose heads have decision-making authority.
4.        The main technical department is becoming increasingly important
as BVP expands into large scale programs of low cost housing and related
infrastructure. The department which consists of about 25 employees needs
strengthening both in number and in technical capability.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 9
Lendilng Programs and Procedures
5.        BVP carries out six basic types of lending programs:  lending to
mutuales (the saving and loan associations); lending to housing coopera-
tives (which borrow for the purchase of land), loans to public and private
developers for large scale programs (programas masivos) of land development
and housing construction; lending for direct programs of urban renovation
and redevelopment in low-income settlement areas (tugurios and pueblos
jovenes), lending for special experimental projects in building materials
and lending for development of construction industries. The first three
programs (savings and loans, cooperatives and large scale projects carried
out through the savings and loan associations) account for 40% of BVP's lend-
ing. BVP has loaned to the savings and loans and the cooperatives at 6%
interest but most lending to the savings and loans has been financed by uti-
lization of foreign loans. The lending rate of these programs has been 8%
interest, 8 years maturity. Foreign programs have included a 1969 IDB loan
of US$12.8 million for housing and sites and services through the savings and
loan associations and EMADI, an AID Housing Investment Guaranty loan in 1971
of US$28.2 million for housing reconstruction and related community facilities
after the 1970 earthquake, a 1972 AID direct loan of US$15 million for housing
construction, rehabilitation and utility services in the earthquake zone, and
an AID private investment guarantee for four housing projects under the
Housing Investment Guaranty Program.
6.        The housing provided under the above progams has been moderate in
cost; of the 3,731 houses constructed in 1974 through the savings and loan
system, two thirds cost US$7,400 or more. The following table provides a
breakdown of the cost of the housing, and shows that roughly half of the
houses were constructed in the Lima metropolitan area.
Structure of Yortgage Loans Authorized
by Savings ind Loan ^ ,c- tiono in 1j74
~in  /.Thousands)
Within the S&L System  Lima             Provinces
Loan             Loar.             Loan
No.     Value     No.     Value     No.     Value
Riange of Housing Values
Up to  - l50,00C        50      4,564     17      1,756     28      2,573
150,001  - 330,000    1,058    230,6"1    424    91,995    602     131,453
330,001  - 500,000    1,119    317,312    692    167,757   394     139,117
500,001    - 660,000   692     276,173    365    137,150    300    128,323
660,001  - 778,597     452    203,056     220    97,508    223    101,820
Total     3,371   1,031,776   1,718    496,166    1,547    503,286



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 9
7.        The savings and loan associations pay 6% interest on regular
savings deposits (as compared to 5% interest paid by BVP) and 10% on depo-
sits of more than one year duration. They make loans up to 13% interest
(9% interest, 2.5 % initial fee and 1% on outstanding mortgage) up to 20
years duration.
8.        In 1971, BVP began a direct program of lending to upgrade inner
city slums (tugurios) and to provide urban infrastructure and services to
low income settlements (pueblos jovenes) on the fringes of Lima metropolitan
area. The program accounts for one third of BVP's total lending (which was
SI. 3.4 billion in 1974), and includes projects for the supply of water and
drainage and/or electrification, in 10 pueblos jovenes in the metropolitan
area. About 37,500 dwelling units in pueblos jovenes are being provided with
services. Of the loans funded by the end of 1974 amounting to S/. 20.0 mil-
lion, less than 15% were considered in arrears, being at least three months
overdue.
Program for Pueblos Jovens
Serviced          Basic Services 9:heduled  Basic Services Funded
Pueblos .ovenes         Lots               to be Installed        as of Dec. 31, 74
El Ermitaiao            2,993                    172                 2,489
El Agustino             582                      16                   400
Mariscal Ram6n Castilla  1,086                    1                   724
Hogar Po-icial           718                     11                   612
Villa Ma:-a del Triunfo  1,795                  204                 1,486
Pamplona Alta          5,394                    1402                 4,8B6
Chacra Cerro           1,781                     193                 1,536
Villa El Salvador     20,664*                  20,664
Tuupac Amria A1        1,838*                  1,838
Leoncio Frado7z          642*                    642
37,495                  24,143               12,133
I ln execution.
/1 Water and sewerage projects
9.        BVP lending procedures for pueblos jovenes projects are well estab-
lished. BVP lends money directly to the authority that is providing the
service to the project area, for example to ESAL, a regional water company, or
to the Ministry of Housing and Construction. The authority then becomes
responsible for repayment of the loan by the individual beneficiaries of the
project. BVP makes a loan on the basis of a plan which SINAMOS, a government
agency which acts as an intermediate agent between pueblos jovenes organiza-
tions and public authorities, has gained interministerial support. The plan
submitted to BVP by SINAMOS includes the names of 70% of the families who will
participate in the project as well as the name of the authority that will exe-
cute the plan. After BVP's technical department reviews the plan it conducts
a thorough technical and economic evaluation. If the project proves feasible
BVP signs a contract with the authority which then becomes the supervisor,
executor and collector for the loan. BVP provides a model of the contract to
be signed by each individual family for the receipt of services and burden of
debt. The authority, ESAL, for example, ensures collection by including
amortization installment for the loan in the monthly payment for service. In
the event of default, the service is cut off.



ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 9
10.       BVP makes disbursements to the authority or, for certain small
items, to the supplier on the basis of invoices. The authority is responsi-
ble for selection of the contractor, and for reviewing with SINAMOS and BVP's
technical department the contractor's value of authorized work. Disburse-
ments are made on work progress. The conditions of BVP loans for pueblos
jovenes programs are: 8% interest and 8 years repayment for provision of
infrastructure, and 8% interest and 20 years repayment for housing. All
projects are insured against natural disasters by private companies with the
cost of insurance charged to the project. In the case of foreign loans,,-the
Government bears the exchange risk (although in the case of one BID loan BVP
assumed the risk).
11.       BVP has been involved in several renovation and relocation plans
for Lima's central city slums but the costs have been too high to be practi-
cal for the very poor households found in the tugurios. In El Porvenir pro-
ject, for example, the 200 new apartments constructed for slum family relo-
cation cost about S/. 200,000 per unit or US$4,610; the apartments remodeled
in 16 buildings in center city areas cost S/. 150,000 per unit or US$3,748.
It is estimated that about 50% of the people in tugurios whose monthly income
is often as low as S/. 3,700 or US$85 could not afford to participate in the
program. BVP has used EMADI, an agency under the Ministry of Housing and
Construction, which administers the sale and supervises the maintenance of
housing to administer its urban renewal projects. 1/
12.       BVP's last two types of lending programs for experiments in housing
materials and techniques and for development of construction industries is
directed towards increasing the volume and lowering the cost of housing.
Pilot projects in labor intensive methods of construction and in low cost
building materials have been financed with mixed success. PREVI, for example,
is an experimental program financed in part by BVP with assistance from the
UN. Its first phase provided for the study of low cost housing design and
construction of the first 500 modular prefabricated housing units of a pro-
jected total of 2,500 units to be built using various low-cost housing de-
signs. Results however, have been disappointing in that the cost of a
housing unit and land is roughly estimated at S/. 180,000 (US$4,150). This
would require a monthly household income of about S/. 15,000 (US$345) which
is far more than a slum family makes. The second and third phase of the PREVI
will focus on the development of the building materials industry and the re-
habilitation of central city slums. Two other special programs are Cobe, a
pilot project in the use of asphadobe for housing in agro-industrial com-
plexes in Selva, an investigatory project in housing for jungle areas.
1/   The projects have been of various compositions:  serviced lots,
serviced lots and supervised credit, core housing and finished housing.
Conversion rates in this section refer to previous exchange rates of
US$l = S/. 38.



ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 9
Financial Aspects
13.        BVP derives its funds from five main sources:  mortgage bonds,
foreign loans, deposits, capital and reserves, and fondo de garantia. The
following table provides a breakdown of BVP's net source of funds for
1968-74.
kg of uecer.oe 3r
1968    -196     1970     1971     1972     1973
S_'iroes:        h    1j.C6,872  2.398,1i81  2,833.765  3,12?,978  3,979.230  5i277111&
Extesma Credit                    AZ-     31l.296   410, 3M8  59l333   629tfi3
AID MV? 71     -                        15,065   154,065   266,295   4
AID BDV? Dire:tly    -  _        _        _        _       2,780    13,931
Felu IDB 179 SFI?/   -          26,352  160,231   256,283   324,255   38C,5-c.
Caritel       S57.926  685,316  719,760  727.95,   729.754   733.291   825'.o6
P.603    725 .P1? 146,86   172 *            68183   1106s7s
Intermal Rsour:es   1,!a03  2!j6,061 1.552.937  1,61,) 669  215,135  2,104tg223  3.511.7r2
D.L. 17863     -       5,C1S   622,418  686,856  1,065,572  1,356,761  1,819,311
Central Reserre         -             -       -         -            -
Bsnkr Credit
Deposits      41,403  2bl,f43  930,519'  957,813   861,085   834,942  1,294,7M1
D.L. 19604
(perfogme _)   -            --                     17    2"210   39720
14.        Mortgage development bonds have become BVP's most important source
of funds, accounting for 60% of long-term debt in 1974. Six series had been
authorized to December 31, 1974:
(i)  First Series - amount:   S/. 900 million; interest 7%;
maturity 10 years; purchasers - savings and loan
associations;
(ii)  Second Series - amount:   S/. 100 million; interest 10%;
maturity 10 years; purchasers - savings and loan
associations;
(iii)  Third Series - amount:   S/. 250 million; interest 7%;
maturity 5 years; purchasers - insurance companies;
(iv)  Fourth Series - amount:   S/. 800 million; interest 7%;
maturity 5 years; purchasers - housing contractors;
(v)  Fifth Series - amount:   S/. 100 million; interest 9%;
maturity 6 years; purchasers - housing contractors;
and



ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 9
(vi) Sixth Series - amount: S/. 50 million; interest 9%;
maturity 10 years; purchasers - commercial banks.
15.       As of December 31, 1974, the following mortgage development bonds
had been issued and were outstanding:
S/. million
First series                            878.3
Second series                            95.9
Third series                            144.8
Fourth series                           675.1
Fifth series                             20.2
Sixth series                              5.0
Total                            1,819.3
16.       BVP requires that associations place 15% of their deposits with
BVP.  The associations may place 10% of their deposits in a commercial bank
to retain liquidity. The balance of funds available after loans have been
made must be used for the purchase of BVP bonds (issued at 7% interest, 10
years maturity and 10% interest 10 years maturity). Contractors also are
required to purchase bonds up to 2% of the value of construction of a house
costing more than S/. 700,000. Other purchasers of other bond issues have
been insurance companies, proprietors, and commercial banks.  BVP plans to
double bond sales by 1982; retaining the predominant role of mortgage
development bonds as a source of funds.
17.       Foreign loans are another important source of funds for BVP,
representing 27% of long-term debt at December 31, 1974 - terms and con-
ditions for the existing loans are as follows:
(i) Federal Home Loan Bank - agreement dated November 12, 1971.
Amount:  SI. 1,094.5 million; amortization over 22 years after
3 years grace; Interest rate of 8-1/2; Government counterpart
funds of S/. 440.6 million required;
(ii) BID - agreement dated April 25, 1969. Amount: SI. 486.8 million;
amortization over 25.5 years; Interest rate of 3%; and
(iii) AID - agreement dated July 25, 1974. Amount: S/. 580.5 million;
amortization over 30 years with 10 years grace; Interest rates of
2% and 3% during grace and amortization periods respectively;
Government counterpart funds of S/. 387.0 required.
18.       Deposits accounted for 25% of funds in 1974, BVP intends to reduce
the role of deposits in the future.  BVP pays only 5% interest on deposits
compared to 6% interest (and 10% interest on deposits of longer than one
year) paid by the savings and loan associations and 9% by the Central Mortgage



ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 9
Bank.  Deposits are projected to decline both absolutely (by 15%) and pro-
portionally (to 11%) by 1980.
19.       The capital stock and reserves of BVP accounted for 18% of BVP
funds in 1974. The Government is the sole shareholder, and the reserves
are considered state reserves.   The capital ceiling of SI. 500 million
authorized when the Bank was established in 1962 has been increased to
SI. 1.6 billion in 1973, and the paid-in capital has increased SI. 129 mil-
lion in 1962 to S/. 825 in 1974. (The paid-in capital includes two seed
capital loans made by AID for SI. 201 million (US$7.5 million) in 1962 and
S/. 217 million (US$6 million) in 1965).
20.       The Fondo de Garantia is a fund created by decree in 1972 consist-
ing of deposits by contractors of 2% of the value of their works. The depo-
sits are held by BVP until the work is completed, and then returned to the
contractor. The Fondo de Garantia accounted for 8% of BVP funds in 1974,
and is projected to double in volume, increasing to 9% of BVP funds by 1980.
21.       Although BVP has not yet made use of a recently established line
of credit with the Central Reserve Bank (BCR) and with Banco de la Nacion
(BN), it plans to obtain up to SI. 590 million a year from the two banks
from 1975-1980. BVP is required to maintain deposits with both BCR and BN.
Financial Results
22.       BVP's financial statements are audited by two external auditors.
One is selected by the BVP Board of Directors and the other independent
auditor is selected by the Contraloria de la Republica (General Auditing
Office) from among qualified firms. From 1971 to 1974 BVP's revenue doubled
from S/. 191 million to S/. 370 million (Table 1). However, operating income
for the same period decreased from SI. 48 million to SI. 16 million. This
decrease in operating results can be attributed in an increased borrowing
rate. At the same time the average income on lending has remained constant at
about 10%.
Financial Projections
23.       BVP's forecasts show that net lendings will increase SI. 6,098
million from S/. 3,465 million in 1974 to S/. 9,563 in 1980 (Table 2).
These lendings will be financed largely from long-term debt which increases
S/. 5,250 million from S/. 3,063 million in 1974 to S/. 8,313 million in 1980.
Deposits are projected to increase in 1975 to S/. 2,058 million and then de-
crease to S/. 1,928 in 1980. Capital and reserves will double from SV. 1,017
million in 1974 to S/. 2,196 million in 1980. BVP's deposit:debt:equity
ratio which was 24:57:19 in 1974 will thus be 16:67:17 in 1980.
24.       The forecast SI. 5,200 million increase in long-term debt will
come from the following sources: SI. 800 million from mortgage bonds,
SI. 3,300 milion from foreign borrowings, S/. 600 from domestic borrowings,
and S/. 500 million from contractors' guarantee deposits.



ANNEX 8
Page 8 of 9
25.       Interest earnings are forecast to increase from an average of 10% on
loans in 1974 to 10.7% in 1980. Meanwhile, the average cost of borrowing is
forecast to remain constant at 8.2%. Table 3 which shows actual and forecast
cash-flow statements indicate that with Government equity contributions in the
project of about 30% BVP will have sufficient liquid resources to ensure
financial viability. Cash available balances are forecast to increase from
SI. 368 million in 1974 to S/. 1,302 million in 1980.
Program Direction and Targets
26.       BVP's expansion into low-income settlement development is both
deliberate and appropriate. BVP's board of directors have recently approved
a policy in which new resources, including those generated from external
sources, could be utilized for project designed to improve facilities in
pueblos jovenes and other low-income settlements throughout Peru. In accor-
dance with MVC's proposed housing plan new funds will be utilized for the
following:
Subprogram I: Provision of Services
This would include studies, actions and works to supply the residents
of the priority cities listed below with the following:
-    Potable water supply,
-    Storm and sanitary sewer systems,
-    Electric light, including trunk lines and high
tension lines where necessary, and
-    Paving of streets and sidewalks.
Subprogram II: Construction of Houses
Construction of new houses to meet the needs of low-income groups,
making use of improved construction processes and the most suitable
urban and house designs. The program includes the construction of:
-    Basic centers
-    Semi-finished dwellings   )          Single-family
)           or
-    Finished dwellings          )        Multi-family
This subprogram also includes urban renewal and community facilities,
as appropriate.



ANNEX 8
Page 9 of 9
Subprogram III: Improvement of Housing
The purpose of this program would be to grant supervised loans to low-
income families so that they may adapt their houses to their needs,
as their incomes permit.
Subprogram IV: Technical Assistance
Assistance will be provided for studies and project preparation.
The use of funds under this subprogram will make it possible to
begin studies and prepare projects when required; the funds will
be charged to the costs of such studies and projects.
Priority Cities Identified as Relief Centers, Support Centers and
Secondary Centers Under the Redevelopent Policy:
I.  Relief Centers   II. Support Centers   III. Secondary Centers
North        Trujillo               Piura                   Tumbes
Chimbote              Sullana                 Bagua
Chiclayo                Chepen
Cajamarca               Chachapoyas
Tarapota                Moyabamba
Huaraz
Central      Metropolitan           Huancayo                Huanuco
Lima                  Ayacucho                Tingo Maria
Ica                     La Merced
South        Arequipa               Puno                    Abancay
Juliaca                 Quillabamba
Tacna                   Sicuani
Ilo                     Ayaviri
East         Iquitos-Pucallpa



PERU                                                Table 1
RANCO DE LA VIVIENDA DEL PERU
INCOME STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31
(million S/.)
Actual                                                Forecast
1971      1972       1973       1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980
Revenue
Interest & commission on loans   74.5        134.5        223.5      292.9     528.9      624.9       764.6     929.9  1,002.2   1,022.0
Bank interest                       39.0       13.5        20.9       13.8       13.5       13.0       12.1       14.1      14.3       14.3
Income from securities              75.0     105.8         66.8       57.7       81.1       91.4       98.2     107.2    108.5       109.6
Other income                         2.9        3.4         3.6        5.6                                              _
191.4      257.2       314.8      370.0      623.5      729.3      874.9   1,051.2  1,125.0   1,145.9
Expenses
Interest on borrowings              98.3     133.0        175.7      218.5      361.1     422.8       529.9      624.6    669.1      671.1
Salaries and other personnel
expenses                        32.4       43.6        66.2       92.7      150.1      165.1      181.6      199.8    219.8       241.7
General expenses                    11.4       22.6        41.1       39.9       49.2       30.7       37.8       45.3      53.5       63.8
Depreciation                         1.6        2.2         2.2        3.0       16.4       36.1       35.4       34.9      34.4       33.9
143.7      201.4       285.2      354.1      576.8      654.7      784.7      904.6    976.8   1,010.5
Operating income                       47.7       55.8        29.6       15.9       46.7       74.6       90.2      146.6    148.2       135.4
Other expenses (net)                    (.3)    (29.9)        (8.0)      (1.7)
Net income                             47.4       25.9        21.6       14.2       46.7       74.6       90.2      146.6    148.2       135.4
Total revenue as % of average
total assets (ATA)                     -        8.0         8.1        7.4        8.9        8.2        8.6        9.0       9.0        9.1
Financial expenses as % of ATA         -        4.1         4.5        4.4        5.1        4.8        5.2        5.3       5.4       5,3
Gross spread as % of ATA               -        3.9         3,6        3.0        3.8        3.4        3.4        3.7       3.6      3.8
Other operating expenses as t
of ATA                              -        2.1         2.8        2.7       3.1        2.6         2.5        2.5      2.4       2.7
Operating income as I of ATA           -        1.8         0.8        0.3        0.7        0.8        0.9        1.2       1.2      1.1
Income on loans as t of average
loans outstanding                   -       9.8        10.7        9.9       11.1        9.7       10.0       10.2      10.4      10.7
Financial expenses as t of average
borrowings                          -      14.9          8.9        8.2        9.2       8.0        8.3        8.2       8.2       8.2
January, 1976



PERU                                             OM 2
Table 2
IANCO DE LA VIVIENDA DEL PERU
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31
(million S/.)
Actual                                                 Forecast
1971       1972       1973        1974       1975       1976       1977        197B       1979       1980
Sources                                                   -                                 --------
Net Income                         47.4        25.9       21.6       14.2        46.7       74.6       90.2      146.6      148 2        354
Depreciation                        1.6         2.2        2.8        3.4        16.4       36.1       35.4       34.9       34 4       3.9
Provisions B reserves              15.6         3.4       31.1      (39.5)        5.0        5.0        5 .        5.0         5.0        5.0
Internal Cash Generation    64.6           31.5       55.5       (21.9)      68.1      115.7      130.6      186.5       187.6      174.3
Decrease (increase) in short-
term loans - net             (568.8)      526.9      234.7      (179.3)      32.3
Increase (decrease) in curr-
ent liabilities                 30.7      (75.2)     138.1      608.2       745.4      (39.3)      (29.6)     (24.9)     (20.2)     (15.5)
Increase in guarantee fund                   188.5       104.0      105.2       87.7        87.7       87.7       87.7       87.7        87.7
Mortgage bonds issued              64.4      378.7       291.2      462.5       290.7      295.4      308.4      323.5       338.6      353.7
Foreign Borrowings                287.9        96.1      183.0      236.4      968.1       364.3       69.2
Domestic Borrowings                                                             571.1       21.1
PToposed IBRD loan                                                                         159.0      397.4      397.5
Proposed AID loan                                                                          187.5      468.7      468.8
Increase in employees'
indemnity fund                              2.0        4.3         4.1        4.0        4.0         4.0        4.0        4.0        4.0
Shares issued                       8.2         1.7        3.6       91.8        76.4      137.4      276.6      278.5       29.8        29.o
Total Sources                 (113.0)  1,150.2   1,014.4   1,307.0   2,843.8   1,332. 8   1,713.0   1,721.6              6Z7.5      633.8
Applications
Increase (decrease) in
accounts receivable             19.2      (22.3)     102.0       168.1      (18.2)
Housing program funding           236.4        71.9      288.6     (231.8)      (75.0)
Increase in long-term
loans - net                   294.4       776.3      661.3   1,040.1    2,616.2        779.6   1,S91.1   1,301.4        (203.6)       14.0
Investments                                  159.5       113.0      194.2        18.9        4.2        1.8         1.9        1.5        1.5
Fixed asset additions               2.3         7.9        6.8       43.5        95.0      204.2
Repayment of borrowings                                                         217.0      129.8        33.1      205.9      467.9      230.0
Transfer of 50% of
profit to Public
Treasury                                              25.9        19.4       23.4        37.3       45.1       73.3        74.1       67.7
Total Applications            552.3       993.3   1,197.6   1,233.5   2,877.3   1,155.1   1,671.1   1.582.5              339.9       313.2
Increase (decrease) in cash         (665.3)      156.9     (183.2)       73.5      (33.5)    177.7         41.9      139.1      287.6      320.6
Cash, beginning of year              986.4       321.1      478.0       294.8      368.3      334.8       512.5      554.4      693.5       981.1
Cash, end of year                    321.1       478.0      294.8       368.3      334.8      S12.5       554.4      693.5      981.1   1,301.7
January, 1976



PERU                                       Tbe
BANCO DE LA VIVIENDA DEL PERU
BALANCE SHEETS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31
(millioa S/.)
Actual                                                Forecast
1971       1972       1973       1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                 321.1      478.0      294.8    368.3       334.8      512.5       554.4      693.5      981.1   1,301.7
Short-term loans                     814.6      287.7       53.0    232.3       200.0      200.0       200.0      200.0      200.0      200.0
Accounts Receivable                   70.4       48.1      150.1     318.2      300.0      300.0        300.0      300.0      300.0      300.0
Total Current Assets          1,206.1      813.8       497.9    918.8       834.8   1,012.5    1,054.4   1,193.5    1,481.1   1.801.'
Long-term loans                         986.8   1,763.1   2,424.4  3,464.5   6,080.7   6,860.3    8,451.4   9,752.8   9,549.2   9,563.-
Housing programs to be completed    346.3          418.2       706.8    475.0       400.0      400.0       400.0      400.0      400.0      400. 0
Investments                             349.0      508.5      621.5    815.7        834.6      838.8       840.6      842.5      844.0      845.5
Fixed assets - net                       18.8        24.5       28.5      68.6      147.2      315.3       279.9      245.0      210.6      I .
Total Assets                          2,907.0   3,528.1   4,279.1  5,742.6   8,297.3   9,426.9   11,026.3  12,433.8  12,484.9  12,8.1
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Deposits                             957.8      861.1      835.0  1,294.7   2,057.5   2,018.2    1,988.6   1,963.7   1,943.5   1,928.0
Accounts Payable                      33.2       54.7      218.9    367.4       350.0       350.0       350.0      3500      350.0      350.0
Total Current Liabilities       991.0      915.8   1,053.9  1,662.1   2,407.5   2,368.2    2,338.6   2,313.7   2,293.5   2,2-8.0
Long-term Debt
Contractors' Guarantee Fund                     188.5      292.5    397.7       485.4       573.1       660.8      748.5      836.2      923.9
Mortgage Bonds                       686.9   1,065.6   1,356.8  1,819.3   1,905.7   2,096.3    2,399.0   2,545.5   2,450.3   2,613.b
Domestic Loans                                                                  571.1       592.2       592.2      592.2      592.2      592.2
Foreign Loans:
Federal Home Loan Bank          154.1      154.1       266.3    435.3       812.0   1,086.6    1,079.5   1,070.9   1,057.1   1,037.8
BID                             160.2      256.3       324.3    380.6       476.7      456.4       436.1       415.8      395.5      375.2
AID - existing                                           2.8      13.9      496.5      581.5        650.7      650.7      650.7      650.7
AID - proposed                                                                         187.5       656.2   1,125.0   1,125.0   1,125.0
IBRD - proposed                                                                        159.0       556.4       953.9      953.9      953.9
Employees Indemnity Fund               6.2        8.2       12.5      16.6        20.6       24.6        28.6       32.6       36.6       40.6
1,007.4   1,672.7   2,255.2  3,063.4   4,768.0   5,757.2    7,059.5   8,135.1   8,097.S   8,312.9
Capital and Reserves
Share capital                        728.0      729.7      733.3    825.1       901.5   1,038.9    1,315.5   1,594.0   1,623.8   1,653.4
General & other reserves             131.0      184.0      215.1    177.8       194.5       218.2       245.8      287.5      329.6      368.5
Retained earnings                     49.6       25.9       21.6      14.2        25.8       44.4        66.9      103.5      140.5      174.3
908.6      939.6      970.0  1,017.1   1,121.8   1,301.5    1,628.2   1,985.0   2,093.9   2.196.2
Total Liabilities                     2,907.0   3,528.1   4,279.1  5,742.6   8,297.3   9,426.9   11,026.3  12,433.8  12,484.9  12,787.1
Average Total Assets (ATA)                   -   3,217.6   3,903.6  5,010.9   7,020.0   8,862.1   10,226.6  11,730.0  12,459.3  12,636.0
Current Ratio                             1.2         0.9        0.5       0.6        0.3        0.4          0.5        0.5        0.6        0.8
4 increase in total assets                  -       21.4       21.3      34.2        44.5       13.6        17.0        12.8        0.4        2.4
Deposits/Debts/Equity                33/35/32  25/48/27  21/SS/24 24/57/19  26/60/14  22/63/15   19/66/15  16/67/17  16/67/17  16/67/17
January, 1976



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 9
PERU
APPRAISAL OF THE URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic and Social Justification
General
1.        The proposed project has been designed to contribute to the social
and economic well-being and mobility of the urban poor in the two largest
cities of Peru, Lima and Arequipa. It is an integral part of the Government's
urban development program which would extend essential services to the urban
poor, provide basic employment and training and increase the productivity of
large segments of pueblos jovenes.
2.        The project would help institutionalize an efficient "delivery
system" for urban services to low-income areas by establishing effective
working arrangements between the Banco de la Vivienda and governmental agen-
cies to provide capital investments funds for infrastructure construction
and to extend credit to households for public utilities connections as well as
for self-help housing construction. The long-term nature of the loans for
housing materials and for public utilities connections would reduce the monthly
payments to a level that low-income households could afford. The provision of
public services in the pueblos jovenes would be greatly accelerated at little
cost to the Government, since most of the project would be paid by the benefi-
ciaries. Consequently, there is the possibility of replicating this project
in a much larger number of pueblos jovenes without placing a major burden on
the Government.
3.        In contrast to many low-cost housing programs which have proven
to be too expensive for low-income groups, this project would take advantage
of the natural process of housing formation in the pueblos jovenes which has
been based on a tradition of self-help construction. By recognizing and
working within this tradition, the project would contribute towards a viable
solution of the housing problem of low-income groups in Peru.
4.        Both short-run and long-run benefits from the project would accrue
to the low-income groups. In the short run, pueblos jovenes residents would
be among those employed in the construction phase of the project. 1/ In the
long run, employment opportunities would be expanded by providing at least
5,000 new jobs in Lima and 1,000 new jobs in Arequipa in plants that are to be
1/   Construction projects particularly affect the pueblos jovenes since
about 15% of the labor force in these settlements are construction
workers. Robert A. Lewis, "Employment, Income and the Growth of the
Barriadas in Lima, Peru", Ph.D. dissertation, Cornell University,
May 1975, page 139, 278.



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 9
established in the respective industrial sites. In addition, the training
centers in the industrial parks would enable pueblos jovenes residents to
upgrade themselves to higher paying jobs as skilled workers in industry.
5.        Furthermore, a significant benefit of the project would be that
the public services to be provided in the pueblos jovenes would both in-
crease general welfare levels and contribute to better social and economic
performance while at the same time stimulating local businesses in the neigh-
borhood. 1/ The elctrification of the pueblos jovenes, for example, would
permit the use of electrical machinery in small artisan shops and the use of
refrigeration in local food stores and restaurants. The development of paved
roads would facilitate the delivery of merchandise, thereby encouraging the
establishment of retail businesses. The project would thus stimulate a form
of "import substitution" by which neighborhood enterprises would capture
the business that would otherwise be transacted outside the pueblos jovenes.
It is estimated that the jobs created in this manner might increase total
employment in the pueblos jovenes by 5%.
6.        General welfare would be increased in southern Lima, where the
benefits of the various subprojects would tend to reinforce one another, as
shown in Figure 1. Improved health, for example, would not only lead to
obvious social benefits, but could also be expected to have a measureable
impact in economic terms. For instance, better health would lower absen-
teeism at work and probably improve additional components linked to pro-
ductivity. Fewer days would be lost at school, and expensive therapeutic
measures for individuals and families could be reduced.
Benefits and Costs of Subprojects
7.        Water and Sewerage in Pueblos Jovenes in Lima and Arequipa.  In
the pueblos jovenes without water systems, water is either provided by pub-
lic spigots or it is purchased from private trucks. In either case the
water is stored in oil drums or masonry water tanks. Outdoor privies are
used in the absence of sewerage systems. These primitive water and sewerage
facilities contribute to a high incidence of gastro-intestinal illness in
the pueblos jovenes (45% of the cases in one health center). A modern water
and sewerage system would provide a more sanitary water supply and facilitate
personal hygiene; and the elimination of the outdoor privies could reduce
the spread of disease. An additional benefit would be that water would
be available at a lower price per unit than if it were purchased from the
private water trucks.
1/   Experience has shown that as pueblos jovenes mature, many small busines-
ses develop which serve the local population, e.g. food stores,. hard-
ware stores, garages, repair shops, seamstresses, beauty salons, and up
to movie theaters. Many of these small businesses are located in the
front of the dwellings and provide employment for the secondary bread-
winners in the household, such as housewives, who would not otherwise
be able to work.



ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 9
FIGURE 1.
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL BENEFITS OF SUBPROJECTS
IN SOUTHERN METROPOLITAN LIMA
Subproject
I  Industrial Plants        L
Industrial Sit
1 Inc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~reater Employmen  
X Less Expensive xLJ     e
Electricity       a                                         Neighborhood Businesses                                         nk5
L=                             G~~~~~~~~~etter Use of Nght-             Ecuae                                          \
-4   Hours                                                                         \ 
Savings in Transportation                    Education Encourgd\
\ { 5 G~~~~~~~~~~~~~realer I ncome
Access Roads   |                                                                                                             _       in Pueblos
I                        \                                 I                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jovenes
=    Cleaner Environment                       Lower Commuting Costs               
Health and                               Helt Serice
Nutrition Center      _l                                                                                                   /
Health Educto                            ettp9 r   ealbsnees
i      Sanitary Living         L
SWatter asnd Sewerage                      Cniin
Less ExpensiveI
Water Supplyi
VWorld Bank-15845



ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 9
8.        The rates of return for these subprojects were calculated on com-
bined benefit and cost streams. Benefits were valued in terms partly on the
differential price and partly on the average rate of the volume of water con-
sumed as a result of the project.1/ The cost streams involve capital and
maintenance costs. The useful life span of these two subprojects has been
estimated at 20 years, and based on these assumptions, their combined rate of
return is 16.9%. The information used in the computations is shown in the
following table:
Capital            Maintenance
Year              Cost                 Cost             Benefits
1                24.2                  0                   0
2               110.0                  0                   0
3               149.1                 1.0                14.4
4                71.0                 2.5               52.0
5                 0                   2.5                57.8
6 - 20               0                    2.5               57.8
ERR: 16.9%
9.        Electricity for Pueblos Jovenes in Lima and Arequipa.  Aside from
the improvements in the standard of living made possible by electricity,
there are other benefits from the electrification of pueblos jovenes.
Electric lighting would be less expensive to use than candles or kerosene
1/   Based on surveys conducted by the Mission in several pueblos jovenes an
estimate of the demand for water from vendors was established. It was
assumed that as pipe water from ESAL's system becomes available the will-
ingness of pueblos jovenes to obtain water from vendors would decrease
and that from pipe water service would increase. Benefits are measured
as the sum of two components: one, the difference between the vendor's
rate and pipe water rate (lower price) for a given volume of water con-
sumed (i.e., differential rate); and, two, the incremental quantity of
water valued at an average price (i.e., vendor rate plus pipe water rate
divided by 2). Based on the survey of representative pueblos jovenes, it
was assumed that beneficiaries would consume, on the average, about 125
1/day in which 25 1/day would be valued at the differential rate and 100
1/day at the average rate. These prices are, of course, present market
prices and the resulting estimate of benefits reflects the value of these
services to consumers at these prices. The economic rate of return to
the society could differ to the extent that these prices are unrepresenta-
tive of long run marginal costs. These are presently being studied and
undoubtedly some differences will occur between present prices and long
run marginal costs. It is unlikely, however, that the differences will be
sufficiently large to substantially affect the estimate of the economic
rate of return. Calculations were made on the impact of changes in the
tariff levels on the estimated rates of return. The results confirm that
a 25% and 50% increase in the tariff charged by ESAL leads to only 1% to
1-1/2% change in the estimated rates of return.



ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 9
lamps. It would also encourage education since school children and adults
could use the night hours more effectively for study, a self investment in
human capital. Public lighting in streets could also be expected to help
reduce crime. In addition, the use of electricity would add to individual
comfort, stimulate local businesses by making use of electric tools and
appliances. Use of these, would, in turn, expand the scope of economic
activities that could be performed at home and in small workshops.
10.       In estimating the rate of return, benefits of electric lighting
were computed by estimating the savings in the consumption of alternative
means (candles) of illumination now used as a substitute. Costs refer to
capital and maintenance expenditures. Based on these assumptions and assum-
ing a 20-year useful life in these investments, the rates of return are
21.45% and 32.95% for Lima and Arequipa, respectively. A combined rate of
return was computed for the subprojects in both cities based on the data
presented in the following table:
Capital         Maintenance
Year          Cost              Cost             Benefits
1           7.4                 0                 0
2          60.0                 0                 
3          85.0                 0.9              15.4
4          22.5                 1.3              31.8
5 - 20         0.0                1.8              47.0
ERR: 23.7%
11.        Access roads in Pueblos Jovenes of Lima:  In the pueblos jovenes
without paved roads, vehicles must move at a very slow pace due to the un-
even surfaces. Thus, bus service is slow and inadequate, and the mainte-
nance costs of the vehicles are high. With paved roads, increased travel
speeds would permit a more efficient use of vehicles in terms of operating
costs. In one study, operating cost (fuel, oil, tires, maintenance and wages
of the driver) were cut in half by increasing the speed from 5 to 20 miles
per hour. 1/ In addition, the residents of the pueblos jovenes would benefit
from time savings in travelling (20% of total workday time in Villa el Salva-
dor) to the center city. Among other benefits, this would encourage the youth
1/   Venezuela, Ministerio de Obras Publicas, Metro Feasibility Analysis,
June 1971, pp. 50-55.



ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 9
to commute to centers of higher education, make jobs more accessible, and
increase the use of specialized services available only in the center of the
city.  Furthermore, as transport costs decline, retail prices in the pueblos
jovenes would fall. Paved roads would also alleviate the dusty environment
which is responsible for a high incidence of respiratory diseases. Finally,
paved roads would provide a sense of permanence to the neighborhoods, which
experience shows often spurred home improvement.
12.        The benefits of this subproject are derived by estimating the
savings in the operating costs of vehicles as a result of better roads.
Cost streams refer to capital and maintenance costs. The life span of this
subproject was also estimated at 20 years, and the corresponding rate of
return was estimated to be 29.2%. The figures used in the computations
are given below:
Capital         Maintenance
Year            Cost              Cost            Benefits
1             39.2                0                  0
2             114.2               0.2               11.3
3              60.0               2.8               37.8
4               0                 4.3               55.3
5               0                 4.3               59.2
6               0                 4.3               63.4
7               0                 4.3               67.5
8               0                 4.3               72.3
9               0                 4.3               78.4
10               0                 4.3               82.8
11               0                 4.3               86.4
12               0                 4.3               92.2
13               0                 4.3               98.8
14               0                 4.3              105.6
15               0                 4.3              112.4
16               0                 4.3              120.5
17               0                 4.3              128.5
18               0                 4.3              137.4
19               0                 4.3              147.1
20               0                 4.3              157.1
ERR: 29.2%
13.       Health and Nutrition Centers in Lima.  Presently, the pueblos
jovenes in southern Metropolitan Lima, with a total population of about
500,000, are serviced by five health centers, which have more patients than
they can treat adequately. The three new health centers to be constructed,
as well as the two that would be expanded, are located in the pueblos jovenes
and are thus readily accessible to the local population. Medical social
workers would provide classes in health education and help administer the



ANNEX 9
Page 7 of 9
nutrition programs. This emphasis on preventive medicine would help to
reduce the cost of therapeutic medicine, which is the most expensive service
of the health sector. One of the new health centers is designed to include
special rooms for meetings of the local health committees, which will assist
in the health education efforts. If this program proves to be successful,
it could provide a model for other health centers in the pueblos jovenes
throughout Peru.
14.       The benefits of this subproject refer primarily to social gains
that are relatively difficult to estimate in terms of their direct effect
on productivity and welfare. Through its emphasis on preventive medicine,
this program is expected to have significant impact on reducing the need
for therapeutic measures thereby increasing the productivity of the communi-
ties served. In addition, the active participation of these communities
through their designated "health promoters" could lead to an increase in
the number of trained personnel in the medical sector.
15.        Industrial Sites and Services in Lima and Arequipa.  As mentioned
above, the subproject would provide sites and services for industry and
training centers in Lima and Arequipa. The subproject in Arequipa would pro-
vide about 13.5 ha of serviced land which would alleviate a shortage of indus-
trial sites in the city so critical that all of the sites have already been
sold. The subproject in Lima represents the first stage in the development
of 420 ha reserved for an industrial park, which would be a keystone in the
Metropolitan Plan for southern Lima. 1/ The location of this industrial park
is especially advantageous since it is located in an area of 500,000 residents
of pueblos jovenes. Thus, its accessibility to such a large labor pool is a
significant asset. The park would play an important role in the promotion of
the social property sector, which although now only beginning to develop, has
been given highest priority by government officials as a means of reducing
income disparities in Peru.
16.       In computing the estimated rates of return of these two subprojects,
the benefits were considered to be the revenues from selling the serviced
sites, while costs were divided along two streams, namely, capital and mainte-
nance costs. Land was valued at its estimated opportunity cost, and the use-
ful life of each subproject has been estimated at 20 years. When combined for
both locations, the rate of return is 34.4%. The figures used in this compu-
tation are given in the table that follows:
Capital     Maintenance
Year             Cost           Cost          Benefits
1               25.3            0              0
2              178.8            0              0
3              204.0            0.5           11.4
4              151.1            5.4           22.8
5                0              5.4          134.2
6 - 20              0              5.4          325.4
ERR: 34.4%
1/   Eventually, this part will provide approximately 28,000 jobs.



ANNEX 9
Page 8 of 9
17.        Sites and Services in Lima and Supervised Credit in Arequipa.  Home
building is an onerous and lengthy process for the poor involving delays and
expenses that may prove completely disheartening. The subproject is designed
to alleviate some of the major problems as they affect urban poor in Peru's
two largest cities. Ordinarily, families in urban marginal settlements have
to postpone access to essential services such as water and electricity for
many years before they can afford these services under conventional schemes.
In addition, they can only afford to construct their permanent homes a little
at a time with building materials purchased from their regular income. This
process of home construction is slow, taking five to ten years or more because
the families can only afford to buy a small amount of building materials at
any one time.  These sutprojects have been designed to support efforts to
remedy this situation by providing long term credits to low-income groups in
both Lima and Arequipa so they can build homes. The subproject in Lima
consists of various components of which the basic feature is the provision
of serviced sites and the settlers then construct temporary dwellings, core
housing units, and modest shops or workshops on self-help basis. The Banco
de la Vivienda (BVP) would extend supervised credit for each household and
the MVC would provide technical assistance during the execution period of the
project.
18.        By providing long-term credit for infrastructure and dwelling/shop
construction, the Fundo Vasquez project in Lima would improve the living con-
ditions and community services for nearly 1,000 households. The new site is
designed with space for work areas so that households may develop economic
activities at their place of residence. A nearby industrial area is expected
to generate some demand for repair services and provide additional employment
opportunities. The project is designed to provide housing that the households
can afford through long-term mortgages and self-help housing construction.
The households will be able to afford much more housing, by constructing their
own, than they could if they purchased a finished dwelling. The project will
provide the Ministry of Housing and Construction with experience in providing
housing assistance to lower-income groups in Lima, which might be applied on
a broader scale in future housing programs for the poor.
19.        The program in Arequipa is more modest in its scope and will only
provide credit for dwelling construction without reference to infrastructure
or home/shop building. The supervised credits are designed to accelerate home
construction by providing sufficient materials (and supervision in the mutual
aid program) to construct core houses in a short period of time. Self-help
construction would be used in order to keep costs at a level that the families
can afford. Thus, the participants would provide themselves with housing at a
much more rapid pace than would be the case withthan out the program. In
essence, the housing payments would be spread over a longer period than the
home construction.
20.        The benefits used in the computations of the rate of return for
these subprojects refer to the estimated value of the units as they are
completed over time. The cost streams include the opportunity cost of land,



ANNEX 9
Page 9 of 9
capital investments, maintenance, and additional expenditures for the envi-
saged expansions of the units. The useful life of the subproject was
estimated at 20 years, and the combined rate of return for the subprojects
in both cities estimated on these assumptions is 32.2x. The figures used
in these computations is given in the table that follows:
Capital    Maintenance
Year        Cost          Cost         Inputs       Benefits
1         59.4          0              0              0
2        118.5          0              0               0
3         93.6          0.6            0             25.4
4         25.0          3.0            11.4           75.8
5          0            3.0           11.4          101.3
6-7         0            3.0            11.4          126.3
8          0            3.0            11.4          151.3
9          0            3.0            8.0           151.3
10-11        0            3.0            8.0          176.3
12-13        0            3.0            8.0          201.3
14-20        0            3.0            0            232.6
ERR: 32.2%
Sensitivity Analysis
21.       In computing the rate of return for the alternative subprojects,
the sensitivity of these computations was also established. The results
from this analysis for all subprojects combined are summarized below.
Under                15%               15%         25%
Present           Increase in       Decrease    Increase
Project           Construction         in           in
Assumptions            Cost            Benefits    Benefits
Project Total  29.7%                26.6%             26.1%        36.1%






PERU: URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
VEA            1961977                                                                              1978                                               1979
P R OJ ECT CO M PONENT      QUARTER          4            1            2            3            4             1           2            3            4             I           2            3            4
WATER AND SEWERAGE FOR PUEBLOS
JOVENES IN LIMA
1. Tr.nkMain - Afro loRin,n*nd=
2 Retinolotron and C>llenor Syg-ets
3. Ind,idual Connent- n                                                                  -            -_
ELECTRIFICATION OF PUEBLOS
JOVENES IN LIMA
1 Studitt
2. Obtaining Matrralo_
3. Hring oW Skillad Labor
4. ExenuI-on of Work                                                                                                                     _
ACCESS ROADS IN LIMA
1 Tah.n.nIIyo.
2. C,odad da DI1. El Atfonal Ptnplott Bja
3 P-nplntn AlR l                                                                                                                             -
4. Hgar Poliijl_
5 Mfmon  M1lgar and Miranla Ba..id.s
6. Vill. El Sglyedot-
HEALTH AND NUTRITION CENTERS IN LIMA
1. Eatrtbehrks, Engineemring, Sp      Bidi,,tio
Signing CnnranI
A    CIVIL WORKS
2. Ciudgd do DOi                                                           _-
3. N...a Etperoa.=
4. Villg M. Tr,-nf_
5. Villa El Slygd,r ,
B V.I.a El Salnndnt 1_
7. Obtaining Eq.ip-tont
8. In.t;Iling Equlpornt and Renooin, CaM.__
9. Trginina Cent.,
SUPERVISED CREDITS FOR SITE AND
SERVICES IN LIMA
1 Dfta,lgd Enaineoring Spa-ifrti-nn              _
2 Awad and Sign Cotant__
3 Prolont Eoetion._
4 Completion and Tooling
INDUSTRIAL SITES AND SERVICES
IN LIMA (INCOSURI
1. Dolailad Design & P,ngranntinag
2. Tndering and Award of Conttrg
3. PF.int Ennoolmo                                                               _                                                       -            _
4. Completion and T.lgmS
WATER AND SEWERAGE FOR PUEBLOS
JOVENES IN AREQUIPA
1. Prlitninarv WorkI
2. Obtaining Materila_
3. Enantin 0f Tr-noht.
4. Inetalltion and Totting
S. Filling of Tr.nnh._                                                     _
6. Cleaning, at._
ELECTRIFICATION OF PUERLOS
JOVENES IN AREQUIPA
t. H,nter Zone 6
2 Rio S"o_
3. 3 da O-tabra
4. Amp. S mon anliar_
5. Amp. Miguel Grao
6. Alo d. 1 Liberad                                               _                     _
7. Atalaa_
6. Crodad Eland a                                                                                                               -
9. Viter A. B.laundo                                                                                      _        _
SUPERVISED CREDITS IN AREQUIPA
t. Two Groops                                                                            -
2 F.o. Groopa                                                  -            _            _
3. Foot Group,         EXECUTION OF WORK              -        _            _            _
4. Two Groups        )BY GROUPS 121 PAR -
E S! : Groups        iTCIPANTS IN EACH-_
6 Sin Group,         )E04 UNITSI                                                         =
7. Smallt GDroo.p - 600                                                                                                                                  _            _
INDUSTRIAL SITES AND SERVICES
IN AREQUIPA
A.   WATER RESERVOIR
t Dfotalld Dfoign and Programming
2 Tendering and Awrd of Contact-
3. Cottruntmon. ImpC__ mnta'tion end T-ning                                 _            _      ,
B.   FIRST AND SECONO PHASE CIVIL WORKS
1. Detailed Design end Progomq ing
2. Tenderin and Award of Coettact
3  Retaining Walle
4. Foot-Puths, Rs ftoaton ot b rm_
C.   THIRD PHASE
t. Detailed Deni,n and Programming
2 Tendering ord Awrd of Contract
3. Earthwork,
4 WIter S,nem_
s. Ele-tric SYetem
9. Water Drainage end Cleaning
7. A.C.. Rosda
Ward Bankk-I548






PERU
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE
BANCO DE LA VIVIENDA DEL PERU
|GENERALL    |  | INTEHNA                                                                                             G
CEHENCIA                             [      GEH~~~~SUBOCENCIA  |                  .Br  ERENCIA                                                     |          U-CRN  A                                               GERENCIAN  A  U-CRN
|SUBOEENCA                                        3            rUENCIA  SU-DRECI                         C  E ADMINISTHA. |                E                    SUB4ERENCIA  |        E CO[0AU  O
PR GENUERAL IEEA                                      VALORS l  l|S                        CREDITOS    DIECO           IEEBL           CIONDES           CO  SO                              AENC
ASUOMA ~       ~        CN  O      RPE        OC      AOU           M 
_ - |   I            I                                    l       _                     g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B~EE IA |f                          
CONTROL  A                                                   P 0                                 _U,.RA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C0C      NC A      ETUA         s TN
WoOd 8.-1 5489






IBRD 11714
PERU
LIMA
PUEBLOS JOVENES AND SUBPROJECT LOCATION
-    ,   SO                                     S     A   S- RA
:'C"'' ''   






IBRD-117 15
X-                                        M72130                                       |    2EIEBER  1075
WA.  T EF S UPPLY AN DSEWE qA GE
WAE  SPL,EWRAGEPOAND ELCTtIATIO
-   M AINROADS                   4    /X  
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                C
-Ir45            KILOMETERS                                                                                                       17 #  \\2a45'-
PERU
AREQUIPA
PUEBlOS JOVENES AND SUBPROJECT lOCATION
7230'






IBRD-11716
$  /   7;o  72t         i   DECEMBER 1975
-0                                                                                                               7- 7                                      0N
'2 ( X > X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRAZIL
.       E(C U A D                                       . . 
Gulf of                                                  '
Guoyaquil
.                      />q <uitOS
4!                                                          L1 0     R  E  T o 0 
I,-~~~~-
-~~~~                                  K   jlr         LOEO                         /  /; 
L;4 16AYEQUES              z            0-> ;   H
-,I Cimocff              uv\ -A,                           atsn'1,                
As  ?     o       n\(  ~S A+      '<
N               r.,-EJ   0 2 MA RTI N                                                          B     A    Z  I L
-eo                9     ~~~~LA  LIBERTAD) v               ) <g                   
r    A N       NC A 5H   a?              / 
Q   ' H/craz/ (       )                                                           r
P A  C / F IC                      'u 5               '>       nu              ) 4                                   -tv 
5   i             O  ()rAQ-xt J P                       LORETO                       j
~\  tCerro de PosA J   l  Cro/    L   P
O f' E A N                  BT    >                           .
-.  L  IjI  1 A
'v-.--     U N -    N
-12                         Calla>-- ~~~~~~~~~~~ Y    \~Huanca;    f               g          MADRE,,  DE    D105\Sf
PA2    C/MA/C
P E R U                                     ;            Y<.it , X                                                 o            d
'I      ,Huancavelica   \W                                            C  Z CO   _
O   Sites of Urban Development Projec1COne           5             UNAfyauhW                      \'                       = 4         / /
I,  Capitol of Department                                    )pVELICAr\_>uz o *                     '-
(31  National Capilol    J Cuc/  I
---Depatmental Boundories
-    International Boundaries                         ;         C                            Abrncray \       X       r  
--~Rivers                                                ?\iXAPURIMACp)                                                          (LMA
o~    5,0        oo       s      20filC                              ,AYACUCHO   }                                   r    P U N O        if 
Miles~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
0         100       2OO        300''                              /                     -     f               ) C 
,    1    .    I    ,    .    I   ~ ~ ~ ~ s            \ j2r ,'                        MARE\  DE    DI9
Kilo.meiers                                         '-. e  -                                                                       0 C
*t Captal fi Deatmn                                       \   /1tHLJNA     eycch)                                              .. r
NatnaSUliNA aital                      i                       VeLtCA~~URNA
PANA                    ,nFR GUIANA BAn                                                                 E QrU  I P A  Pbnoanoay
icoLoMslAsi  y   ? t>sF t Ocean          R6                                                                EGfUIPd       
ECU              A              bR 4&            .:    [                                                                    i _ 
:i    /  ~~~          R A z Il L      ,/< G>)                                                                                           /
-   - I.rternational Boundaries ~ ~ ~    ~        ~       b,,~ U-   hi~-- d -
Oce-<ZRioAY                                                                              \APU-/MAC  .C
Pac/fic  at CL  tA  It tJ                        The bolmdines hown nn thEr rnap do dot      \{       Tacn25    i I
_____________ C                                                           AYACUCHO,  p        /E Cipyedrrez w eoonet  h
 ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ 1N -RtTN>,z e     IDIlrdtn nlsfd:e                                 -      



