CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1283 PE
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Urban Sites and Services Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 12, 1976


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 12, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF PERU
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE-
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the LoF-n Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Banco de la Vivienda del Peru" (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in
various currencies equivalent to twenty-one million six hundred
thousand dollars ($21,600,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guar-
antor agrees to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect
of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisioLs of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes to:
(a) make, or cause to be made, in accordance with a sche-
dule satisfactory to the Bank, contributions to the Borrower's
capital stock in an aggregate amount equivalent to nineteen
million one hundred thousand dollars ($19,100,000); and
(b) whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the
funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to meet the
estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the Proj-
ect, including the prompt replenishment of the Revolving Fund to
the level required by Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement, make
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds
as are needed to meet such expenditures.


﻿ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt,
which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the
creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provi-
sion to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitu-
tional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with
respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political or
administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿I
-5-
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for The account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. (a) The Guarantor shall take all action as
shall be necessary or advisable on its part to ensure the prampt
execution and delivery of the contracts referred to in Section
3.02 of the Loan Agreement.
(b) The Guarantor shall take all action as shall be neces-
sary to ensure that the land to be developed for industrial sites
under Part A (b) of the Project shall be available for purchase
by private, public or any other type of enterprises.
(c) The Guarantor shall take all steps as shall be necessary
on its part to ensure the timely employment by the corresponding
agencies or entities of the consultants referred to in Section
3.07 of the Loan Agreement.
(d) The Guarantor shall take all action, including the grant-
ing of all necessary authorizations, foreign exchange permits and
other approvals required to ensure the timely procurement of the
goods and services required for the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. For the purpose of assisting the Borrower in
the carrying out of Part A (a) of the Project, the Guarantor
shall:
(i) establish within the Ministerio Vivienda a
Technical Assistance Unit;
(ii) employ, from time to time, in the Technical
Assistance Unit such technical and supporting
staff as shall be necessary for its efficient
operation; and
(iii) provide, or cause to be provided, such Technical
Assistance Unit, promptly as needed, with such
facilities, funds and other resources as shall
be required for the efficient operation thereof.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall compensate or shall cause
the Borrower to be compensated for any losses related to the
carrying out of the Project incurred in connection with the pay-
nnt of interest and other charges on, or the repayment of prin-
cipal of, the Loan, resulting from change in the rate of exchange
between soles and the currency or currencies in which such pay-
ments or repayments are to be made.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. Either the Ministro de Economia y Finanzas of
the Guarantor or the Director General de Credito Pfblico of the
Ministerio de Economfa y Finanzas of the Guarantor is designated
as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Economfa
y Finanzas
Avenida Abancay 5a Cuadra
Lima, Peri
Cable address:
MINDEF
Lima, Peru'
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By /s/ Carlos Garcia Bedoya
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S.M.L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


