76-74
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1283 PE
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Urban Sites and Services Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO DE LA VIVIENDA DEL PERU
Dated October 12, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 12, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and BANCO DE LA VIVIENDA DEL PERU (hereinafter called the
Borrower).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "SINAMOS" means Sistema Nacional de Apoyo a la Moviliza-
ci6n Social, or any successor thereto;
(b) "Ministerio Vivienda" means Ministerio de la Vivienda
Construcci6n of the Guarantor;
(c) "Ministerio Salud" means Ministerio de Salud of the
Guarantor;
(d) "Technical Assistance Unit" means the technical assis-
tance unit to be set up by the Guarantor within its Ministerio
Vivienda in accordance with Section 3.03 of the Guarantee
Agreement;


﻿-3-
(e) "ESAL" means Empresa de Saneamiento de Lima, or any
successor thereto;
(f) "ESAR" means Empresa de Saneamiento de Arequipa, or
any successor thereto;
(g) "ELECTROPERU" means Electricidad del Pert, or any
successor thereto;
(h) "ELECTROLIMA" means Empress de Electricidad de Lima,
or any successor thereto;
(i) "SEAL" means Sociedad El4ctrica de Arequipa, Ltda.,
or any successor thereto;
w () "EMADI" means Empresa de Administraci6n de Inmuebles
del Peri, or any successor thereto;
(k) "Revolving Fund" means the revolving fund referred to
in Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(1) "Basic Laws" means the Ley de Creaci6n of the Borrower,
contained in Decreto-Ley No. 14241 of November 21, 1962 and the
Estatutos of the Borrower, contained in Resoluci6n Suprema
of November 29, 1962, all as amended;


﻿(in) "Pueblos J6venes" means marginal urban settlements in
Perd which have been granted legal status in accordance with the
provisions of Ley No. 13,517, of February 14, 1961, and Decretos
Supremos Nos. 014-68-JC, of August 2, 1968, and 014-69-VI, of
July 4, 1969, all of the Guarantor; and
(n) "soles" means the currency of the Guarantor.
I


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or refer-
red to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-one
million six hundred thousand dollars ($21,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
'Rw
ect and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and works for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.


﻿-6-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and eighty-five hundredths per cent (8.85%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June )5 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project, sub-
stantially in accordance with an implementation schedule satis-
factory to the Bank, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engi-
neering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall enter into a contract,
satisfactory to the Bank, with SINAMOS to: (i) define in detail
the responsibilities, functions and administrative procedures of
the Borrower and SINAMOS in respect of the carrying out of the
Project, and (ii) make available to SINAMOS such portion of the
proceeds of the Loan as shall be necessary to ensure the partici-
pation of SINAMOS in the carrying out of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall enter into contracts, satisfactory
to the Bank, with Ministerio Vivienda, Ministerio Salud and any
other ministries or agencies of the Guarantor which shall participate
in the carrying out of the Project, to define in detail: (i) the
responsibilities, functions and administrative procedures of the
Borrower and Ministerio Vivienda, Ministerio Salud and any such
other appropriate agencies of the Guarantor, respectively, in
respect of the carrying out of the Project, (ii) where the Guar-
antor shall bear the expenses under the Project, the mechanism
and terms and conditions under which Ministerio Vivienda,


﻿8-
Ministerio Salud or any such other appropriate agencies of the
Guarantor shall reimburse the Borrower for amounts disbursed by the
Borrower for the Project, and (iii) where the Guarantor shall not
bear the expenses under the Project, the terms and conditions
under which the Borrower shall make available iunds to Ministerio
Vivienda, Ministerio Salud or any such other appropriate agencies
of the Guarantor, to cover expenses incurred or to be incurred by
them in respect of the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall enter into contracts, satisfactory
to the Bank, with:
(i) ESAL, ESAR, ELECTROPERU, ELECTROLIMA and SEAL,
for the carrying out of Part D (a) (b) of the
Project; and
(ii) EMADI, for the carrying out of Part A (b) of
the Project.
(d) The contracts referred to in paragraph (c) above shall:
(i) define in detail the responsibilities, functions and adminis-
trative procedures of the Borrower and ESAL, ESAR, ELECTROPERU,
ELECTROLIMA, SEAL and EMADI, respectively, for the carrying out
of the Project, and (ii) include the making available to the
entities in (d) (i) hereof of such portions of the proceeds of the
Loan as shall be necessary to ensure their participation in the
carrying out of Parts A (b) and D (a) (b) of the Project.


﻿-9-
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the agreements referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and the Bor-
rower and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
nor amend, abrogate or waive such arrangements or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
in the carrying out of Parts A (a), B and D (a) (b) of the Project
the Borrower shall make loans to individuals participating in the
Project, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which
shall include, inter alia, a repayment period between ten and
twenty years, an annual interest at the rate of not less than twelve
per cent (12%) per annum on the outstanding principal and an initial
contribution, where applicable, of not less than five per cent (5%)
of the principal amount.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its approval
standard forms of the loan agreements to be used for lending to
individuals under paragraph (a) above.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) establish and maintain, upon terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank, a Revolving Fund in soles to be used exclu-
sively for the carrying out of the Project;
(b) keep in respect of the Revolving Fund separate records
and accounts in accordance with Section 5.01 (b) of this Agree-
ment; and


﻿- 10-
(c) promptly deposit in the Revolving Fund:
(i) an initial amount of twenty-two million five
hundred thousand soles;
(ii) such amounts in soles as shall be equivalent
of the amounts withdrawn by the Borrower from
the Loan Account in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, de-
termined as of the respective date of each
withdrawal from the Loan Account;
(iii) such amounts as shall be necessary, so that,
on the first day of each calendar month there
shall be available in the Revolving Fund
amounts sufficient to meet, during the next            W
following three months, the expected financ-
ing requirements of the Borrower under the
Project not covered by its own resources; and
(iv) such other amounts in soles which the Guarantor
or the Borrower shall contribute to the Revolv-
ing Fund.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall utilize all funds repaid
by participating institutions under the contracts referred to
in Section 3 02 of this Agreement and by individuals who have
received loans in accordance with Section 3.04 of this Agreement,
which are not needed immediately to make payments of principal,
interest and other charges under the Loan, exclusively for fi-
nancing, in Pueblos J6venes, projects similar to those included
in the Project.


﻿- 11 -
Section 3.07. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
r     carrying out of Part E (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ, within twelve months from the date of this Agreement, or
such later date as shall be determined by the Ben6, consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of em-
ployment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall cause, in accordance with the pro-
visions of the contracts referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement, the employment of consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank, by:
(i) the Technical Assistance Unit, within six months
from the date of this Agreement, or such later date
as shall be determined by the Bank, for the carry-
ing out of Part E (b) of the Project;
(ii) EMADI, within twelve months from the date of this
Agreement, or such later date as shall be deter-
mined by the Bank, for the carrying out of Part E
(c) of the Project;
(iii) ESAR, within six months from the date of this Agree-
ment, or such later date as shall be determined by
the Bank, for the carrying out of Part E (d) of the
Project; and
(iv) Ministerio Salud, within six months from the date
of this Agreement, or such later date as shall be


﻿- 12 -
determined by the Bank, for the carrying out of
Part E (e) of the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall insure or cause to be
insured, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:                                '
(a) monitor continuously the progress of the Project, in-
cluding comparing such progress with the implementation schedule
of the Project referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement,
and shall periodically evaluate the effects of the Project;
(b) prepare each semester progress and evaluation reports;
and
(c) furnish to the Bank the reports in (b) hereof within
two months from the end of each such semester.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to
be furnished, to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the


﻿- 13 -
plans, specifications reports, contract documents and construc-
tion and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods, works
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall maintain, or
cause to be maintained, such detailed records as shall be neces-
sary to enable the Borrower to monitor the progress, and evaluate
the effects, of the Project; (iii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable, or cause
to be enabled, the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iv) shall furnish, or cause to be fur-
nished, to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods, works and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all buildings, property, works and equipment of the
Borrower and any relevant records and documents.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land, and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for carrying out the Project.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Management ,nd Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times manage its af-
fairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion
and carry on its operations, all in accordance with appropriate
business, financial, administrative and engineering practices and
under the supervision of experienced and qualified management as-
sisted by adequate, experienced and qualified staff.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain an organization,
including credit and technical departments, for the execution of
the Project, satisfactory to the Bank, and shall afford the Bank
a reasonable opportunity to comment on any proposed reorganization
which may affect the carrying out of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall employ, in its technical department,
not less than four additional technicians whose qualifications
and experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) The Borrower shall establish and maintain separate ac-
counts on its records to be used exclusively for the Project and
shall register in such accounts all receipts and payments for or
in connection with the Project, in accordance with appropriate ac-
counting practices consistently applied.
ak        Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its finan-
cial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, as soon as avail-


﻿- 16 -
able, but in any case not later than three months after the end of
each of the Borrower's fiscal years, certified copies of its unau-
dited financial statements.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for
any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,
at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing provi-
sions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the Borrower or any agency or entity with which the Bor-
rover shall have entered into a contract pursuant to Section 3.02
of the Loan Agreement shall have failed to perform any of its re-
spective obligations under the Loan Agreement or any such agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Borrower or any of such agencies or
-.      entities will be able to perform any of its respective obligations
' under the Loan Agreement or any such agreement;
(c) the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of the Borrower or any of such agencies or entities or for the
suspension of its operations which shall adversely affect the
carrying out of the Project;
(d) the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall divest the Borrower or any of such agencies or entities of
any of the functions or powers vested in any of them as of the date
of this Agreement, which are necessary for the efficient carrying
out of the Project; and


﻿- 18 -
(e) the Basic Laws of the Borrower or any provision thereof
shall have been amended, suspended or abrogated so as to affect
adversely the performance by the Borrower of its obligations under
the Loan Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
any of the events specified in paragraphs (a), (c), (d) and (e) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Technical Assistance Unit has been established to
the satisfaction of the Bank;
(b) the Revolving Fund has been established and the initial
deposit referred to in Section 3.05 (c) (i) of this Agreement has
been made; and
(c) the technicians referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this
Agreement have been appointed.
Section 7,02. The date January 10, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-20-
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 1.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For the Borrower:
Banco de la Vivienda
del Peru
camant 488
Lima 1, Perfi
Cable address:                     Telex:
BANCOVIVIENDA                      BANVIPE 20077
Lima


﻿- 21 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S.M.L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO DE LA VIVIENDA DEL PERU
By /s/ Raymundo Morales Urresti
Authorized Representative
By /s/ Victor Castro Munoz
Authorized Representative


﻿- 22-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                9,020,000         48%
(2) Credit Program             1,770,000          50% of amounts
(Part B of the                              disbursed by
Project)                                     Banco Vivienda
to individuals
participating in
Part B of the
Project
(3) Vehicles and Equip-        6,110,000         100% of foreign
ment (including                              expenditures
spare parts thereof)                         or 100% of the
ex-factory cost
of locally manu-
factured goods
(4) Consultants' ser-          1,460,000          50%
vices
(5) Unallocated                3,240,000
TOTAL     21,600,000


﻿- 23 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of a country other than
the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance
with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be
disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the impor-
tation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end,
if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any
item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or
increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in res;pect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000, may
be made in respect of Category (4) on account of payments made for
such expenditures before that date but after December 1, 1975.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category,


﻿- 24 -
to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds
of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category i-. inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for
such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the
Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-25-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
"he Project is an integral part of the Guarantor's program
for providing the urban low-income groups with basic facilities
and employment opportunities to increase their ability to be
productively absorbed into the urban economy. The Project consists
of the following Parts:
Part A:   Sites and Services
(a) The preparation of, and provision of the necessary infra-
structure such as water supply, sewerage facilities, electrical
connections, public lighting, access roads and green areas for,
about 706 plots for dwellings and 161 plots for shop-dwellings in
the Fundo Vazquez area in Lima.
(b) The development of about 50 hectares of land in the Villa
El Salvador area in Lima and about 13.5 hectares of land in Arequipa
for industrial sites by providing the necessary infrastructure such
as water supply, sewerage facilities, electrical connections, public
lighting, access roads and green areas, and the construction of
a few standard factories and common services buildings.
Part B:   Credit Program
(a) The provision of about 870 loans for self-help construc-
tion of dwellings and shop-dwellings to individuals having acquired
plots referred to in Part A (a) hereof.


﻿- 26 -
(b) The provision of about 1,000 loans to low-income indivi-
duals who own in Arequipa plots in Pueblos J6venes or in other
areas approved by SINAMOS, to enable them to erect or upgrade
modest shelter units through a program of mutual aid, 50% of such
loans to be in building materials rather than cash.
Part C:   Community Facilities
The construction and equipping of about seven community fa-
cilities in the area referred to in Part A (a) hereof, including
schools, a health post, a community center, a market and a recre-
ational facility.
Part D:   Primary Infrastructure
(a) Construction of water supply and sewerage facilities in
four Pueblos J6venes in Lima and eight Pueblos Jvenes in Arequipa,
consisting of the extension of water trunk lines, on-site water
and sewerage reticulation and individual dwelling connections.
(b) Construction of electric facilities, including distribu-
tion networks and individual dwelling connections, and primary
10 kv networks, where necessary, to provide electricity to about
12,400 lots in Pueblos J6venes in Lima and 3,900 lots in Pueblos
J6venes in Arequipa.
(c) Improvement of about 86 kilometers of existing secondary
road networks in eight Pueblos J6venes in Lima.


﻿- 27-
(d) Construction and equipping of three health and nutrition
centers and expansion (including equipment) of two existing health
and nutrition centers in Pueblos J6venes in Lima.
Part E:   Technical Assistance
The provision of technical services to:
(a) the Borrower, for assisting it in the carrying out of
the Project and in strengthening its capacity to promote future
projects in the urban sector;
(b) the Technical Assistance Unit, with regard to Parts A (a)
and B (a) of the Project;
(c) EMADI, with regard to Part A (b) of the Project;
(d) ESAR, for assisting it in the review and preparation of
a project that shall meet the future needs for water supply and
sewerage in metropolitan Arequipa; and
(e) the Ministerio de Salud, with regard to Part D (d) of
the Project.
T            e                *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
December 15, 1979                                   280,000
June 15, 1980                                       300,000
December 15, 1980                                   310,000
June 15, 1981                                       325,000
December 15, 1981                                   335,000
June 15, 1982                                       355,000
December 15, 1982                                   370,000
June 15, 1983                                       385,000
December 15, 1983                                    00,ooo
June 15, 1984                                       420,000
December 15, 1984                                   440,000
June 15, 1985                                       460,000
December 15, 1985                                   475,000
June 15, 1986                                       500,000
December 15, 1986                                   520,000
June 15, 1987                                       5459000
December 15, 1987                                   570,000
June 15, 1988                                       595,000
December 15, 1988                                   620,000
June 15, 1989                                       645,000
December 15, 1989                                   680,000
June 15, 1990                                       705,000
December 15, 1990                                   735,000
June 15, 1991                                       770,000
December 15, 1991                                   805,000
June 15, 1992                                       840,000
December 15, 1992                                   880,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 29 -
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
June 15, 1993                                       915,000
December 15, 1993                                   955,000
June 15, 1994                                     1,000,000
December 15, 1994                                 1,040,000
June 15, 1995                                     1,090,000
December 15, 1995                                 1,135,000
June 15, 1996                                     1,200,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-30-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable
on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the General
Conditions:
Ti-:' of Prepayment                     Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1.35%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                         2.65%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         4.85%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                   7.10%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                   7.95%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                         8.85%


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   (a) Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts for
civil works included in Parts A and D of the Project and contracts
for vehicles, equipment and materials shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
(b) For bidding purposes, contracts included in this Part A
shall be grouped, to the extent practicable, in such manner as
shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower, prior to issu-
ing the invitation to bid, so as to permit bulk procurement.
2.   Bidders for civil works under Parts A and D of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.
3.   Contracts for: (i) the purchase of water and electrical meters
and other locally manufactured materials under Part A of the Project,
provided the aggregate cost of such contracts shall not exceed the
equivalent of $80,000; (ii) the purchase of building materials under
Part B (b) of the Project; and (iii) the construction of electric
facilities in Arequipa under Part D (b) of the Project, provided
the aggregate cost of such contracts shall not exceed the equivalent


﻿- 32 -
of $160,000, shall be awarded to domestic suppliers under local
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
4.   Excavation for water pipes in areas included in Part A (a) of
the Project and the execution of community facilities under Part C
of the Project may be carried out through self-help labor.
5.   The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its approval, prior
to issuing the invitations to bid, a list of vehicles and equip-
ment to be procured under the Project.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost of inland freight and other expendi-
tures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure
to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said pro-
cedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequali-
fied bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequali-
fication shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its
review and comments before the applicants are notified.


﻿1
-33 -
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $150,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materiRlly differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿~314
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


