Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 767 7
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PILOT PROJECT (LCI)
(CREDIT 1230-BU)
MARCH 23, 1989
Industry and Energy Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
r
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
I    t    -' nff -i  I dmiti  '    It- onnt   t-   *  v     lt nt   rwi  dii; -I      1 'it  --it Wnrlui  n nk'    mt  kri-z  tic



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                 -   Burundi Franc (FBU)
US$1.00                       -   BuF 125 (June 1987)
US$1.00                       '   BuF 114 (Annual Average 1986)
US$'.00                       -   BuF 105 (June 1985)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASECO               -  Assistance au Secteur de la Construction (local name
of project and project unit)
BNDE                -  Banque Nationale de D<veloppement Economique
(Development Bank)
DETN                -  Direction des Etudes et Travaux Neuf
ENACCI              -  Entreprise Nationale de Chaux et de Ciment
MTPEM               - Ministere des Travaux Publics, de l'Energie et des
Mines (Ministry of Public Works, Energy and Mines)
ONIMAC              -  Office National d'Importation du Materiel de la
Construction
ONL                 -  Office Nationale de Logement
REGIDESO            -  (Regie des Eaux) National Water and Electricity
Utility
SOMIBUROM           -  Societe Miniere de Burundi et Romanie
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL V5 ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington DC 20433
USA
OikO of Owecgtw-C.mqj
Opm.atew EvaiiUM
March 23, 1989
MEMORANDUM TC THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Pass-Through Audit Report on Burundi -
Local Construction Industry Pilot Project (LCI)
(Credit 1230-BU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Pass-
Through Audit Report on Burundi - Local Construction Industry Pilot Project
(LCI) (Credit 1230-BU)l prepared by the Africa Regional Office.  Full
evaluation of this project has not been miace by the Operations Evaluation
Department.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosee without World Sank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PILOT PROJECT
(Credit 1230-BU)
TABLE OF CONTE14TS
Patae No.
Preface ...*.*    i
Basic Data ...ii
Highlights        .....................................................ii
PART I - INTRODUCTION  .........................................
Project Objectives and World Bank Group Role  ....               ..............     3
PART II - PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AND PREPARATION  ....              ..........      3
PART III - ECONOMIC AND SECTORAL SETTING  ......................                    4
Macroeconomic Setting  .........................................                    4
The Construction Industry  .....................................                    5
PART IV - CREDIT IMPLEMENTATION ................................                    8
Development and Improvement of Local Construction Materials   ....                  8
Assistance to Local Contractors ................................                   12
PART V - INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT    ......                14
PART VI - CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED ......................                   16
ANNEXES
1. Summary description of brickoven sub-projects ....              ...........     18
2. S-mmary results of feasibility studies ......................                   20
3. Credit allocation of subloan components .....................                   23
4. Comments from the Borrower ..................................                   24
EXHIBITS
1.  ASECO Information and Promotion Brochure ...................                   39
2.  Photos displaying aspects of brickoven operations ....             ......      44
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PILOT PROJECT
Credit 1230-BU
PREFACE
This report presents an evaluation of Credit 1230-BU
(SDR 4.6 million, US$5.2 million), which was a pilot operation and
combined a broadly structured construction industry project with a DFC
credit line, using Banque Nationale de Developpement (BNDE) as the
financial intermediary. The Credit was approved in April 1982, signed in
June 1982 and declared effective in November 1982. The original terminal
date for submission of subloan applications under the DFC component was
extended twice. The closirg date was extended once from June 30, 1986 to
March 31, 1987. A substantial portion (30%) of the Credit was cancelled in
1985 and the remaining balance was fully disbursed except for SDR 47,000.
The Bank's South-Central and Indian Ocean Department has prepared
this report on the basis of a draft written by the borrower, information
contained in the Project Appraisal Report, a review of Bank files including
supervision and progress reports and information gathered during recent
m4.ssions to Burundi. A specif4c project completion mission was not carried
out. This report presents a factual review of the Borrower's use of credit
procoeds and of the project iiapleknentation between 1982 and 1987.
In accordance with the revised project performance reporting
procedures this report has been read in the Operations Evaluation Depart-
ment (OED) but the project was not audited by OED staff. The draft
Completion Report was sent to the Borrower for comments. A copy of their
response is included as Annex 4.



- li -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDLUSTRY PILOT PROJECT
Credit 1230-BU
BASIC DATA
As ot
Dece b r 31 1907
original   Dtabitrt     Concel!tdl/ Repaid  Uutsttandina
(3611)    -73DR)      - (SW)       -          -
Credit No. 12e-SUI   4,606,0    3,253,068    2,546,912
3J of which SDR1.3 millon were cancelled 2 years prior to the closing dote.
Cumulative Diaburs-emets (SDR m IIliIon)
(I) Estimated        1.0   2.4   5.7   4.6    -       -
(ii) Actu.al          0.4    1.0   1.6   2.5   8.1     8.
(iii)  (it) in S of (1)   46    41    48   64     -    -
Proiect Data
Original Dates    Actual Revised
First Mention in Files                11/31/77           03/31/78
Negotiations                          02/02/82           02/16/82
Board Approval                        07/81              04/07/82
Credit Agreement Signed                n/a               06/01/82
;ffectiveness                         07/82              11/12/82
Completion of Commitments              12/30/84          12/30/85
Credit Closing                        06/30/85           01/31/87
MISSION DATA
Identification         11/77         1       2        2        03/03/78
Preparation            07/79         ?       ?         ?          n/a
Pre-Appraisal          03/80         ?       ?         ?          n/a
Appraisal              09/80         2       4         8       10/22/80
Supervision            05/04/82      ;       1         1       06/10/82
0                  11/11/82      2      2         4        12/15/82
09/83         2      1         2       10/26/83
05/84         1      1         1       06/11/84
10/84        1       1         1       01/15/85
05/85         1      2         2       06/10/85
10/85        1       1         1       12/24/85
06/86         2      2         2       08/29/86
11/86        1       1         1       01/14/87



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
LaCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PILOT PROJECT
(Credit 1230-BU)
HIGHLIGHTS
The Local Construction Industry Pilot Project was one of 6 free-
standing IDA credits that addressed a country's construction industry as a
whole, compared to other, more subsector specific construction components
of sector credits (road maintenance, school construction). Following the
recognition that Burundi depended heavily on imported construction
materials, had obsolete construction standards and lacked adequate
financial and technical support to permit growth of domestic contractors, a
project concept was designed to respond to these constraints through a
number of mutually reinforcing components.
The project (of SDR4.6 million) was appraised in September 1980
and had two major objectives, namely the development and improvement of
lecal construction materials and the assistance to local contractors (para.
1.08). To achieve these goals, specific c.mponents were identified, namely
the construction of limekilns and brick ovens, feasibility studies to
assess the potential for other local construction materials production and
technical assistance to the Ministry of Public Works to train staff and to
review the country's construction standards. In addition, assisting
contractors, a line of credit (SDR1.7 million) was made available through
the Development Bank (BNDE) to provide financing for the purchase of equip-
ment by contractors. This represented the major component of the project
(and hence a former IDF division's responsibility for :he project) and was
coupled with additional technical assistance to contractors (in the form of
accounting, management, bid preparation and work site organization
assistance) and review of general conditions of contract for works.
During project execution t-o changes in scope occurred: (i) the
limekiln component, under whiLh two ilns were to be constructed by private
promoters, was modified. The consti :tion of one kiln was dropped
altogether and the second one was bu.st by the project unit due to lack of
promoters (paras. 4.1-4.3); (ii) following a substantial slowdown in
economic and construction activities, demand for equipment financing did
not materialize and only two subprojects with a total financing of
SDR137,000 were approved under the credit line component. Therefore,
SDR1.3 million (out of the total of SDRI.7 million) of the credit line
component were cancelled (paras. 4.14-4.16).



- iv -
On balance, the project produced mixed results. The brick oven
component and the revision of the construction standards were successful as
they led to efficient production of high quality bricks for local construc-
tion and to a new construction code adapted to local circumstances (paras.
4.5, 4.13). On the other hand, the credit intermadiation concept, which
was the centerpiece of the operation and around which the other components
evolved, did not produce tangible results (para. 5.3). Also, the construc-
tion of the limekiln must be considered a failure as it remains inopera-
tive, without a promoter to take it over and without sufficient demand for
lime (para. 4.2).



B'JRUNDI
PROJEC, COMPLETION REPORT
LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PILOT PROJECT
Credit 1230-BU
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Local Construction Industry Pilot Project was the first
systematic effort by the Bank to assist in the development of the local
construction induetry in a country of the former Eastern Africa Region.
Tr. idea of providing assistance to the sector had been prompted by the
Bank's recognition that the construction industry plays a significant role
in the development process. Another rationale was that the implementation
of Bank-financed projects had in many instances been hindered by
weaknesses of the industry. Typically, this occurred on projects
involving construction works such as schools or low-cost housing of siles
too small to interest the large construction enterprises and which small
local firms were neither technically nor financially equipped to carry
out.
1.02     Following preparatory work on Rwanda which had signalled interest
originally for this pilot operation but subsequently had withdrawn from
further pursuing the project, Burundi was selected for an initial effort.
Reasons were the strong interest the Government showed toward Bank
assistance in the sector and the perceived acute needs of the local
industry which were characterized by having been largely foreign-
controlled, overstretched and unable to meet the demand. Furthermore, 901
(by value) of the materials used by the formal sector were imported.
1.03     Experimental in nature, the project did not purport to address
all the needs of the construction industry but only those which had been
identified as priority and for which effective results appeared possible
to achieve within the framework of a relatively small operation. On that
basis, the following components had been included in the project: (i)
development and improvement of the local production of construction
materials; (ii) assistance to the Ministry of Public Works, Energy and
Mines (MTPEM); and (iii) financial and technical assistance to local
enterprises to expand their activities in the building sector where their
activity was relatively small. The project did not aim at promcting local
enterprises' role in road construction or maintenance which most of the
local firms were not prepared to handle at the time. The overall
responsibility for the execution of the project was assumed by a Project
Unit attached to MTPEM, and staffed with a number of foreign experts and
their local counterparts. The financial assistance, which initially
amounted to almost half of the credit amount, was channeled through the
local development bank, through which a previous IDA DFC-type line of
credit (IDA Cr. 731-BU) had already been relent between 1978 and 1983.



- 2 -
1.04     The Bank's 'nvolvement in the project began in August 1978 when,
at the Governmsent's request, a joint Bank/UNIDO mission visited Burundi to
identify a possible operation. Following positive results, a Bank
preparation mission visited Burundi in July 1979 and was followed by
consultant visits in December 1979 and in May 1980. The final appraisal
mission occurred in September 1980, and its results (Apprsi3al Report No.
3343-BU) led to the approval of Credit 1230-BU of US$5.2 million, which
included financing of subloans for limekiln and brickoven constructions,
and for *quipment investments of construction companies. Furthermore, the
project covered consultant services, feasibility studies and project unit
operating costs. The Credit was approved on April 13, 1982; it was signed
on June 1, 1982 and became effective on November 12. 1982.
1.05     Commitments and disbursements were considerably slower than
anticipated mostly due to lack of demand for equipment financing as a
result of an economic slowdown, e   anced soon after credit effectiveness
which caused a virtual halt of local construction companies' activities.
As a result, 30% of the credit amount was cancelled in January 1986 as no
other use of the funds was envisageable within the scope of the project
unless it were to become an oversized technical assistance operation. As
of December 31, 1983, the original target date for submission of subloan
proposals, only one subproject (for less than 5% of the amount allocated
under the subloan component) had been committed (and was subsequently
cancelled). The terminal date for subproject submission was extended
twice to December 31, 1984 and December 31, 1985. The original closing
date was June 30, 1986 which was extended once to March 31, 1987. Final
disbursements under the credit were made on February 2, 1988, resulting in
the cancellation of SDR 46,911.68.
1.06     The project component allocations as initially appraised and as
revised during the life of the project, were as follows:
Initial     1st Revision    2nd Revision
Allocation    (December 86)    (Aug. 1986)
(SDR)         (SDR)           (SDR)
1. Subloans for          2t0,000         280,00         140,OOO/
limkilIn construction
2. Subloans to             1,000         310,000        318,700
brickmakers
8. Subloans to          1,700,0        1,500,000        137,0942/
construction companies
4. Consultant services    1,36O,000     1,360,00      2,048,412
S. Feasibility Studies    480,000        480,000        226,006
6. Operating Cost of      200,000        200,000        366,006
Project Unit
7. PPF refund             270,666        270,0"C         62,794
S. Unallocated            2ffW.o         200 ff          17000
TOTAL              4,e,00,MO      4,800,000      3,300,
1 Originally planned an subloan, but carried out under force account due to lack of promotorn.
Z Cancellation of SDR 1.3 million included.



- 3 -
1.07     The proceeds under categories (2) and (3) of the Credit were
onlent--under a DFC-type arrangement--by the Government to the development
bank (Banque Nationale de Developpement Economique, BNDE) at 8Z and the rate
to the final borrower was 12% (both rates remained unchanged during the life
of the project). The subloan portion of the Credit was to be repaid based
on a flexible amortization schedule conforming to the aggregate amortization
of BNDE's IDA subloans. The Government assumed the foreign exchange risk
without a charge to the subborrower, and, in addition assumed 751 of the
credit risk on all subloans. Other features of the credit's subloan
component included an individual free limit of US$400,000 per subproject to
ensure financing of a larger number of companies, and subproject financing
was limited to 752 of total cost. Apart from the usual signing of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and BNDE, there were two
other conditions of effectiveness related to Government's sharing of
operating costs.
Project Objectives and World Bank Group Role
1.08     The objectives of the project were derived from the main
constraints of the local construction industry, namely: (i) the 1'.avy
dependence on imported construction materials due to insufficient production
of local materials; (ii) the obsolete construction standards; (iii) the
lack of adequate financial and technical support to permit the growth of
domestic contractors; and (iv) the absence of qualified local manpower.
Resulting objectives were: at the sectcr level, to foster the production of
local materials, to reduce the high dependence on imports and reduce
construction costs by adapting the building code, which was based or
European standards, to local conditions, and to strengthen the capacities of
MTPEM to supervise the implementation of construction projects; at the
enterprise lev'el, to assist in the development of small- and medium-sized
contractors and of producers of local materials through financial and
technical assistance.
1.09     Additional funding for completing a small portion of the technical
assistance component was provided after the project's closing date undar the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of IDA's Second Urban Project. Also, the
recent Small Enterprise Apex project (approved on March 29, 1988) does not
exclude financing of subloans to construction enterprises slould additional
demand arise from that subsector.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AND PREPARATION
2.01     Project identification took place in November of 1977 when a
reconnaissance mission reported an overwhelmingly favorable response from
the authorities. The main sector constraints that were initially identified
and later on refined centered around (i) the lack of materials and supplies,
(ii) the difficulty, unreliability and irregularity in transporting these
materials and supplies when available, (iii) the lack of financing,
particularly for the small contractors which seemed to have serious
difficulty in obtaining cred It for equipment purchase and working capital,
and (iv) the 1lack of capable, technically trained personnel both at
management anc& skilled worker levels. In August 1978, a follow-up
UNIDO/World Bank mission visited Burundi at Government's request, and
identified a project to assist local construction companies. Supported by a
detailed report (issued March 1978) on the situation of the construction



- 4 -
sector, the mission confirmed potential for subcontracting in public works,
housing construction in rural areas and good possibility of G-overnment
allocating specific parts of public work projects to small local
contractors. Moreover, need for developing products and services in
construction such as bricks, woodworks and equipment repairs was identified. 1/
2.02     Following the above findings, a Bank preparation mission visited
Burundi one year later and its full report, dated September 18, 1979,
reviewd ir detail the UNIDO recommendations, confirmed them and outlined
the possibilities of IDA assistance.  In December 1979 and again in May
1980, consultants went to Burundi to carry out additional preparatory work.
Their findings and recommendations provided substantial background for and
led to the appraisal mission of IDA's first pilot project in the region to
assist the local construction enterprise sector.
2.03     One and a half years elapsed between appraisal and board
presentation and six months between board approval and effectiveness.  In
proportion to the size of the project, the preparation was intensive both in
terms of overall staff time and preparatory missions.
III, ECONOMIC AND SECTORAL SETTING
Macroeconomic Setting
3.01     Background.  With an average GNP per capita of about US$200 in 1980
(US$240 in 1987, when the project closed), Burundi remains one of the
poorest countries in the world. In the time span of project execution, its
population grew from about four million to five million, of which only 2.3%
are wage earners, the remainder depending mainly on subsistence agriculture.
The country is landlocked, densely populated and endowed with few natural
resources. Agriculture accounts foL approximately 50 percent of GDP and
generates income for about 85 percent of the population. Coffee being the
main export, it generates four-fifths of total export earnings. Burundi is
quite vulnerable to the transport conditions in neighbouring countries and
even though progress has been made in the first half of the eighties to
improve the transport infrastructure and to simplify transit formalities,
transportation costs remain high resulting in high cost of construction
materials.
3.02     Developments.  During the years preceeding project preparation,
Burundi experienced a phase of rapid economic growth (6.5 percent per year),
which was in large part the result of the coffee price boom in the mid-1970s
and the subsequent accumulation of public savings, which, in turn, allowed
for a considerable expansion of public investment and growth in related
1/
One noteworthy observation is that none of the six construction
enterprises visited and reviewed during project preparation sur,'ved
during the implementation period. Also it is interesting to note that an
internal IDA review of the UNIDO report already alluded to the demand
issue in questioning whether the volume of construction work should solely
be based on a five-year Government plan (which then proposed a US$100
million equivalent volume p.a.) when the actual volume p.a. at the time
amounted to only US$30 million equivalent.



sectors. During this period, the volume of investment grew by 75 percent,
and the investment rate rose from 9 percent of GDP in 1976 to more than 12
percent of GDP in 1979. This effort, which was led and implemented by the
public sector, had important repercussions on the pattern of demand and
mobilization of domestic and external financial resources. In hindsight,
the project can be seen as having partly responded to this demand pattern
given the rapid growth of public sector expenditures between 1978 and 1979.
Public consumption and investmenL expanded three times as much as that of
the private sector during the same period. Government expenditure more than
doubled and increased from about 16 percent of GDP in 1976 to 21 percent in
1979. Capital expenditures, particularly for infrastructure and for the
financing of public enterprises, contributed most to this growth which can
be identified as having contributed to the demand under the project as a
number of these public investments had construction related components
attacned to them.
3.03     At the turn of the decade, however, right at the time of appraisal,
the government failed to adjust to the changing environment, characterised
by a deterioration of the terms of trade and increasing pressure over the
balance of payments. Consequently, an expansionary policy led to serious
financial desequilibria, together with administrative controls and, more
importantly, to severe economic disto-tions coupled with a substantial slow-
down in economic growth. Owing to a significantly lower coffee crop, a fall
in the volume of investment and a showdown in Government spending, GDP
growth decelerated (1.4 percent per year between 1982, when the project
became effective and 1985, when the bulk of project funds was either
comnitted or cancelled).  A first IDA structural adjustment credit s"iressed
some of these issues but by the time it was approved in 1986, the LCU
project was completed. It should be remarked, however, that the project's
President's Report already cautioned somewhat the otherwise upbeat demand
projections when it noted that because of the expected financial
constraints, it was highly unlikely that during the 1980-1984 period the
volume of investment can be more than half of that envisaged in the
country's economic plan. Another caution, which however was not expressed
in preparatory documents should have been that Burundi's level of
urbanization at the time of appraisal was still low and thus effected the
demand for housing.
The Construction Industry
3.04     Basic Characteristics. At the outset of the project, towards the
end of the seventies, Burundi's construction industry was small,
underequipped, concentrated, and highly dependent on foreign skills. The
rate of urbanization in Burundi has been kept very low, as compared to other
African countries. This characteristic did not favor the development of a
domestic construction capacity (either formal or informal). In 1979, it
contributed to about 4% of GDP, 30Z of industrial output, and employed about
10,000 people, representing about 8Z of total wage employment. Construction
investments accounted for a fairly stable proportion of between 502 to 60%
of total investments in the 2-3 years prior to project appraisal. Most
construction enterprises were working at full capacity. The sector was
marked by a lack of local materials, transport difficulties and lack of
skilled manpower and financing.
3.05     At the time of project preparation, the construction sector output
was based on the following 3 segments: 13Z through Government force account



- 6 -
mainly for maintenance work, 70% through contracts to foreign-controlled
firms, basically for major public works and the remaining 17% through a
combination of some twenty privately-owned Burundian firms (few of which
survived the economic downturn during the early eighties), religious
missions and self-employed artisans. This distribution changed over time in
favor of force account activities, as this relative share increase following
the completion of some major foreign contracts (new airport etc.)
3.06     Construction Materials.  Scarcity of local materials had long been
a constraint to the development of Burundi's construction industry.
Although bricks, tiles, stone, sand, gravel, wood, bamboo and limited
quantities of quick lime were and still are produced locally, the country
still imports about 90% of its construction materials. In 1979, the CIF
value of these materials represented about US$13 million. Until to date the
market for these products is characterized by irregular supply, sharp
variations in prices, and a general shortage of such basic materials as
cement, galvanized sheets and reinforcing rods, which are the three main
materials used in construction. Irregularity in supply still leads to high
construction costs and renders it difficult to complete contracts on
schedule.
3.07     To alleviate the problem caused by the variations in price levels
and import volumes and in an effort to improve the country's supply of
construction materials, the Government created in 1978 the National Office
for Import and Marketing of Construction Materials and Domestic Equipme.'t
(ONIMAC), a public company responsible for regulating the import of
construction materials and stabilizing the price of these goods. However,
during project execution, the Project Unit (PU) often experienced
difficulties in receiving agreed levels of quantity from ONIMAC (of cement,
e.g.) in a timely manner.
3.08     In addition, the Government was trying to expand the local
production of lime and of bricks. Burundi has large deposits of limestone
which could have been used in manufacturing possolanic cement. Societe
Miniere de Burundi et Romanie (SOMIBUROM), the public mining company created
in 1978 for the development of Burundi's mineral resources was entrusted
with the geological exploration and the development of the country's major
lime deposits. However, the company went bankrupt a few years later, i.e.
soon after the project became effective (para. 4.3). Also, a program to
build three new limekilns was implemented with assistance from the United
Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), but none of these
limekilns ever operated. The Government had also established a new public
company to rehabilitate and operate a cement plant and bring its annual
production capacity to 20,000 tons of pozzolanic cement. The plant,
however, is closed for a number of years. Bricks were and still are
produced in most regions of Burundi by private manufacturers and by the
National Housing Office (ONL). In 1980, 25 million bricks were produced.
They were generally of uneven sizes and forms (see Exhibit 2) and their
reas.stance to compression and erosion was limited. It is estimated that 30
to 50% of the production is lost because of poor quality. The proje~ct
therefore envisaged to improve significantly the quality of bricks, in
particular by using some simple e.aipment for the preparation of clay anA by
building shelters for storing bricks before they are baked. This was to
lead to a larger utilizatioin of bricks in construction and to substitute for
abo.ut 2,000 tons of imported cement a year. Indeed, the Kamenge brick oven



- 7 -
constructed under the project does produce 2 million (less than 10% of the
national production volume) of good quality bricks (para 4.5).
3.09     Manpower.  The lack of qualified manpower was a constraint to
growth and one of the reasons of foreign predominance in the construction
industry. In addition to a few local civil engineers and architects trained
abroad, the yearly average output of graduates from local technical schools
prior to project implementation was limited to 13 surveyors and general
construction teclnicians, 12 carpenters and masons, 10 electrici_ns, and
about 50 semi-skilled carpenters and masons. Contractors have been hiring
some operators a'.nd foremen in Zaize and other neighboring countries, but
shortages of specialized workers appeared difficult to overcome. The
project contributed to training additional staff 'but in view of the
subsequent downturn of construction industry activities, many skills were
lost as trained counterparts switched over to other sectors of the economy.
According to appraisal estimates, the total annual output of specialized
workers represented, prior to the project, only 45% of the projected
manpower requirements of the construction sector.
3.10     The Public Sector.  The Ministry of Public Works, Energy and Mines
(MTPEM) is the key public agency in the construction sector and also the
most active one. In its public works section, it is composed of a Roads
Directorate, a Building Directorate and a Directorate for the planning of
infrastructure and housing programs. The Roads Directorate executes all
maintenance and small new works (below BuF 100 million) for roads with its
own construction staff which includes more than 3,000 workers, and it
supervises preparation and execution of larger road projects by contractors.
The Building Directorate establishes and enforces policies regarding the
construction industry, assists in the preparation and supervision of major
Government building works and is responsible for the maintenance of all
1,500 Government buildings. The capability of the Buildings Directorate was
reinforced during the project through technical assistance (para. 4.12) to
the directorate's Studies and New Works Department (DETN), which is in
charge of policies regulating contract conditions and construction
standards.
3.11     The construction-related activities of other Ministries (mostly
Agriculture, Army and Education) is much smaller.  The Implementation Unit
of the First Education Project has undertaken a large construction program
for primary schools, which unfortunately continued when construction firms
assisted under the LCI project were ready to substitute for these force
account works (para. 4.19). Construction components of other IDA projects
were also relying on force account (urban, agriculture) and, unfortunately,
continue to do so. The remaining public sector institutions involved in
construction work are REGIDESO, the parastatal responsible for water and
power development, which executes all maintenance and most new works in the
water sector and all maintenance and about 25% of new works in the power
sector and the National Housing Agency (ONL) which was created in 1974 to
complement the limited capacity of the private sector in the construction of
public housing programs. It suffered from poor financial management, and is
now to be closed down.
3.12     Construction Enterprises.  Burundi's private construction sector
was and still is dominated by foreign contractors, including subsidiaries or
branches of large foreign companies and a handful of smaller enterprises
owned and managed by expatriates.   In general, they have adequate equipment



- 8 -
and qualified staff, and their management positions and about a third of
professional positions, are held by expatriates. They benefit from the
parent companies' technical and commercial assistance, particularly for the
direct importation of raw materials in periods of shortages. Similar to
neighbouring Rwanda, Burundi has, as of late, experienced Chinese
construction firms that are capturing an increasing market share.
3.13     Regarding domestic firms, there were about twenty enterprises
headed by a Burundian owner-manager at the beginning of the project. Three
were medium-scale enterprises and the others small-scale. They formed the
target group for both financial and technical assistance under the credit
and worked mostly on Government buildings, public housing projects and, in
the case of small-scale enterprises, on some high income private housing.
They were generally underequipped and labour-intensive and had a weak
liquidity situation. The appraisal report had found that the main
constraints that these local enterprises faced in their development were the
lack of finance and shortages of raw materials. There was virtually no
subcontracting of work to these firms by the big foreign contractors. In
the end, few of them survived (para. 4.16) owing to the dramatic downturn of
the economy.   Finally, there is still a substantial number of self-employed
artisans in both urban and rural areas. While lacking proper tools and
displaying uneven competence, they are engaged mainly in tha construction of
simple, traditional family homes.
3.14     Building Regulations.  Government procurement procedures remain to
be of particular importance since public contracts represent about 80% of
total value of construction work. Prior to the project, general regulations
on construction activities were based on pre-independence Belgian
legislation. They were complex, and neither systematically publicized nor
enforced. Construction standards had become obsolete and did not take into
account local construction techniques and materials. The overall
procurement procedure of the Government is generally satisfactory but
special contract conditions were often scanty or incomplete, due to
inadequate technical specifications. The absence of classification of
contractors led to inefficiencies in contractor selection and inadequate
contract supervision. Most of these deficiencies, however, were
successfully addressed during project execution. (para. 4.13).
IV. CREDIT IMPLEMENTAT1ON
Development and Improvement of Local Construction Materials
4.1      Construction of Limekilns.  Within the overall attempt to develop
construction materials, and in addition to improving brick production (para.
4.5) and preparing feasibility studies (para. 4.9) with a view to assess the
potential fcr local construction material production, the limekiln component
was to finance the construction of two limekilns. At the time of appraisal,
it was expected that the kiln would be owned and operated by private
contractors who were to receive financial, technical and managerial
assistance under the project. The project unit was to select promotors on
the basis of their technical and managerial capabilities and on their
readiness and ability to contribute, in the form of equity, 25% of the
investment cost, the balance to be provided under the credit's financial
component managed by BNDE (para 5.3). The project unit was furthermore to



- 9 -
promote the use of lime in the construction sector as this was not accepted
practice among contractors and builders when the project was launched.
4.2      The limekiln component can clearly be labeled as a failure.  For
two years after effectiveness the project unit was unable to identify a
promotor that remained seriously interested beyond initial curiosity, even
though a broad press and radio advertisement campaign was mounted. As a
result, IDA was asked, and agreed (amendment signed on Oct. 4, 1984) to a
government request to modify the subcomponent objective. Instead of
expecting private promotors to comit themselves from the very beginning,
the project unit itself was to construct one kiln under force account and
only upon its completion and successful demonstration transfer the kiln to
private promotors. Kiln construction began in May 85 and was completed in
June 1986 but as of the preparation of this report, no promotor has yet
expressed serious interest in purchasing it, despite the fact that its
proper functioning has been demonstrated.
4.3      Reasons for promotor reluctance to build--under the initial
concept--and/or to purchase (a) kiln(s) on a turn key basis--under the
revised concept--can be traced to the substantial number of unresolved
issues that arose in connection with the kiln construction.
i)   the fact that SOMIBURM (para. 3.08) went bankrupt: under a
subsidiary credit agreement, this public joint venture between
Burundi and Romania was supposed to develop the extraction of
limestone in quarries. Following the initial absence of SOMIBURM-
provided raw material supply, the project unit selected later on,
under the force account concept, a private firm to blast a quarry
in the Ruhanga area 65 kms north of Bujumbura and chosen for its
low magnesium content and nearby available space for tree-planting
to supply fuelwood for the kiln;
ii)   absence, supply delay and volume miscalculation of fuelwood: In
view of Burundi's deforestation problems and the increasing
shortage of fuel wood in the country, the project was to include
the planting of eucalyptus trees in the vicinity of the selected
sites to supply fuelwood to the two originally proposed kilns. The
negotiated agreement was for the country's Water and Forest
Administration to plant 37.5 ha of eucalyptus per annum and to
begin planting in 1982 based on an understanding that the
production was to be reserved for the limekiln and that a price was
to be charged that would in full reflect the plantation investment
and maintenance cost. Although the appraisal report stated that
managerial and technical capabilities of the Water and Forest
Administration were strained at the time, it was nonetheless
concluded that in view of the relatively small size of the
plantation "there should be no problem". The Water and Forest
Administration never planted a single tree as it lacked financial
resources and could not obtain a loan. Following these
shortcomings, the project unit took over the planting of trees as
it was displaying substantial interest in making the limekiln work.
However, it had been estimated orignally that 1,900m3 of wood p.a.
were needed for 'ropGrly operating one kiln, based on a mixed fuel
consumption of 50% wood and 50% peat. Following unsatisfactory
test results, peat had to be abandoned as a heating source.
Therefore and in view of lower than expected plantation yields of



- 10 -
the eucalyptus, 184 ha had to be planted instead of the original
37.5 ha. However, 119 ha were destroyed during a brushfire on July
14, 1987.
iii)   Marketing uncertainties: Promotion of lime could not be started
until October 1987, when the project unit was able to begin
marketing the 196 tons of lime produced at Ruhanga between
September 17 and October 15, 1986. (Production thereafter was
stopped because of limited storage capacity). Following good test
results of the lime for various applications in construction, an
ordonnance was signed by MTPEM making use of lime compulsory but
this was done only about a year later, on August 8, 1987. At the
same time, tl.e project unit had difficulties in product marketing
as it was not a comercial company itself but an integral part of
MTPEM, albeit with some degree of autonomy.
4.4      The kiln was operating for a second time, following some expansion
work, which was essentially storage oriented and another 373 tons were
produced. However, difficulties in procuring fuel wood and limitations of
yet more storage space forced the final halt the operation on June 30, 1987.
(Total direct construction cost was FBU 22,058,642, equivalent to about SDR
170,000, which exceeded the allocated total by about 15%). This figure
includes neither project unit overhead, nor a substantial amount of
man/hours by the experts.
4.5      Construction of Brickovens.  The positive outcome of the brickoven
component counterbalances the sobering results of the lime kiln related
activities. The component clearly achieved its objectives in as much as
financial, technical and managerial assistance was provided to brick
manufacturers for improvii.g the quality of bricks produced in Burundi. The
financial assistance disbursed was almost double (SDR 191,000) the amount
originally allocated (SDR 110,000), and the three benefitting private
promotors produce good quality bricks and are responding to a consistent
level of demand.
4.6      Despite the fact that brick utilization in construction has a long
tradition in Burundi, the implementation of the component was not without
complications:
i)     A two-step marketing effort had to be launched (project
unit/promotor and promotor/customers) in order to create an
awareness that high quality bricks, albeit more expensive per unit
compared to traditional artisan bricks, are less expensive per qm2
construction as their larger size and regular dimensions provide
for consistent reduction of cement mortar consumption (reduction by
2/3 of the quantity consumed for cement, versus hand-made bricks).
Moreover, the quality of finished walls renders external plastering
unnecessary (exhibit 2).
ii)    An agreement on quarry access near Bujumbura was negotiated with
but never fulfilled by the government. This caused unforeseen
transportation cost, hauling clay from another distant quarry as
the first plant had been located next to the orignally proposed
quarry, to which it was denied access despite the fact that the
promotor had fulfilled all conditions to gain this access.



- 11 -
iii)    The drop out ratio of potential promotors was high.  Contrary to
the limekiln case, a total of 20 promotors presented themselves to
the project unit. However, nearly all possessed neither a
recognized clay deposit nor land on which to luild their plant.
Therefore, applications from counties ("commune") were also studied
and finally 8 investment applications were proposed to BNDE for
financiag. However, the two communes abandor.ed their projects
later on (after IDA had approved them) following changes of
governors. Another promotor had legal difficulties whereas two
others were unable to assemble the necessary 25X equity
participation.
4.7      Three brickovens were finally constructed.  (Annex 1 and Exhibit 2)
The bricks produced (average annual production 2,200 t per plant) are of
good quality due to regulated cooking and are accurately gauged as ccmpared
to traditional hand-made bricks that are irtegularly dimensioned and cooked.
4.8      Apart from the assistance to promotors from the project unit in
winning supply contracts (e.g. the EEC building in Bujumbura), the good
visual appearance of the ready product helped the promotion of bricks. As a
result, the first p:omotor (at the Kamenge quarry near Bujumbura) decided
soon after the first credit to double his production capacity by building a
second oven. It is interesting to note though, that to fund this extension,
the promotor did not apply for another subloan through BNDE because of
--according to him--time-consuming formalities and excessive collateral
requirements. Consequently, he borrowed from his commercial bank, albeit at
higher rates. The initial and prompt suzcess of this operation drew, no
doubt, the attention of the other promotors. A synopsis of all tnree
brickoven plants is described in Annex 1.
4.9      Feasibility St -viies on local material production.  To further study
the potential of local production of construction materials, a SDR 480,000
component was set aside, leaving to the project unit the preparation of
priority topics. A study program was set up, endorsed by the local
authorities and approved by IDA. Tender invitation took place on May 20,
1984 and a contract was awarded on June 25, 1985 to a Canadian firm for a
total of SDR 176,000. Five studies were carried out relating to the
manufacturing potential of pozzolamic cement, sanitary articles, sawn and
polished stone slabs, earthenware tiles and the use of bamboo in
construction.
4.10     The studies conclude that in all five areas, manufacturing units
could not be estab.ished in view of unsatisfactory profitability as the unit
cost would be too high in view of the limited absorptive market capacity.
(Summary results of the studies are compiled in Annex 2.)
4.11     Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Public Works (MTPEM).  The
technical assistance to MTPEM was part of the consultant's program under the
project and consisted of two major parts: (i) assistance--basically in the
form of lectures--to the Studies and New Projects Directorate (Direction des
Etudes et Travaux Neufs--DETN) of MTPEM to upgrade knowledge of staff which
are responsible for preparing tendering documentation, evaluating bids and
supervising contract execution (except for works executed by force account);
and (ii) review of construction standards.



- 12 -
4.12     The lectures given to DETN staZf at the project unit's offices
(located across town from MTPEM) had irregular attendence (50%) due to lack
of att-nlees' interest and MTPEM managers' support. This outcome is
unfortunate as the strengtheniag of DETN's staff would have been of
particular importance because the Government has a determinant impact on the
construction sector (it purchases 902 of all construction contract value) and
because contract supervising technicians often have a decisive role tn
directing the work and staff of construction enterprises.
4.13     Concerning the review of construction standards, this activity,
following an initially shaky start, successfully implemented. The term
"construction standards", translated into French, is too vague and subject to
interpretation as either technical specifications or as genfral conditions of
contract. The project unit chose the second meaning and reiiewed the general
conditions of contract and the procurement regulations. A first specialist
lost an entire year while attempting--without success-to substitute French
regulations for the then existing ones, issued a decade -go by the Belgian
Colonial administration and not very adapted to African construction needs
and circumstances. A second specialist completed the updating of the Burundi
regulations without attempting to modify all those articles that were still
applicable and usable in their original version. This more efficient
updating was easier to implement and undoubtedly facilitates, now that it is
completed (and officially issued, printed and widely circulated) the
construction activity, mainly by stipulating fair rules to indemnify the
contractor in case of delayed payments for the works performed.
Assistance to Local Contractors
4.14     The assistance to local contractors was divided into financial and
technical assistance, the former having been the most important component of
the entire project with an allocation of SDR1.7 million, reflecting the
nature of a DFC-type oriented operation. The technical assistance was
supposed to be an accompanying feature, helping primarily those contractors
who would borrow to finance their equipment replacement and expansion under
the line of credit channeled through BNDE. At the time of the appraisal it
was estimated that 10 to 15 local enterprises would be able to meet specific
criteria, which were made a precondition to qualify for subloans. These were
not overly stringent and comprised (i) a limit on net fixed assets of BuF 100
million (in 1980 prices); (ii) a potential to develop into ernerprises with
qualified management and staff, and suitable accounting systems; (iii) the
inability to obtain term financing through normal commercial bank channels;
and (iv) having been established and operated for at least 3 years in
Burundi.
4.15     However, in the end, less than 8% (SDR135,000) of the originally
allocated amount were disbursed for 2 contractors (Annex 3) The central
reason why so few enterprises showed interest in equipping themselves was
that they did not hove sufficient contracts that would justify the equipment
purchase and therefore provide enough cash flow to service the debt. In
order to avoid a disproportionate use of funds under the credit for
categories other than the onlending one, which was the prime purpose of the
project, IDA decided to cancel the non-utilized portion of financial
assistance to contractors, after the submission date for subloan applications
(extended once, from December 31, 1985 to December 31, 1986) had expired and
after it became evident that no additional demand existed. The cancellation
of SDR1.3 million, carried out in January 1986, met initial resistance from



- 13 -
MTPEM but was justified to avoid further reallocation of this component to
the overall technical assistance compone.nt. Otherwise the entire project
might have turned into an oversized To credit.
4.16     According to the project unit, there were numerous reasons that
contributed to the tremendous reduction in the number of enterprises
qualifying as potential subborrowers under the credit, and a short summary of
that development is given below.
"The first two Burundian construction enterprises were
established in 1975. At that time and during the following years,
labor supply was abandoned and contract amounts were quite
substantial in size.
Given a reasonable profit margin on those contracts, it was
very attractive to become a building contractor. Moreover, the
financial terms (payment of an advance on placement of order)
enabled a contractor to open a worksite without needing funds of his
own. As a result, many enterprises were set up by persons who did
not necessarily possess a vocation as building contractor.
Most of these persons who had suddenly become 'contractors",
knew nothing about this profession, which is not a simple commercial
activity consisting of buying and selling products but a complex
processing industry which requires extensive technical knowledge.
Lacking this competence, and without any idea of management or
organization, these enterprises were doomed to fail, except of
course those that had managed to surround themselves with competent
assistance. Intoxicated by the amount of money they took in,
contractors often used it to buy personal effects that they regarded
as success symbols. Since they were quite unable to keep track of
their financial situation, the day came--alas, rather late--when
they realized that they no longer possessed the necessary resources
to complete their ongoing projects.
They then resorted to the system of underbidding on new
contracts which were beyond their competence, in order to complete
previous projects.  This system, repeated regularly, aggravated the
situation, to the point the contractors were unable to honor
commitments and faced bankruptcy as a consequence. As a result,
close to 20 enterprises disappeared between 1975 and 1982."
4.17     The technical assistance to local contractors originally was to be
made available to enterprises upon request. To carry out this task, two
experts, a construction and a management specialist were posted for 2 years,
along with 2 local counterparts. Lacking sufficient financing requests from
individual contractors, the project unit decided to offer group courses, and
also invited firms that did not borrow under the project's credit line. The
first phase of these courses, organized to improve the contractors' knowledge
of management, procurement and work planning did not gain the confidence of
the construction companies. In a secord phase, courses were moved from the
classroom to the construction sites, resulting in a much higher degree of
acceptance and prome'ter openness. To reinforce the on-site assistance, the
project unit published three handbooks on management, cost control and site
organization which the few firms that were still in existence at the time of



- 14 -
publication (about 7 altogether, grouped in the association of construction
sector enterprises) found useful. Overall, this assistance led to works that
resulted in improved customer satisfaction and timely executed contracts.
4.18     In addition to the above, more company specific oriented higher
level program, the project unit launched training courses for construction
workers. Responding to the contractors' criticism that the established
national training center (Centres de Formation Professionnelle) courses wele
overly theoretical, a small-scale, isolated 14-month program for about 20
carpenters and masons was organized in the project unit's backyard. The
impact of this very low key concept, however, was dismal, as it was
dismantled following the departure of the supervising expert and as the
trainees did not find jobs in the ever declining construction industry.
4.19     A final effort was made, during the last phase of the project, to
render assistance geared towards helping individual construction companies to
form temporary Joint-ventures among themselves when responding to an
invitation for contract tender. This initiative partly resulted from the
reluctance of an IDA-financed education sector project bureau (BPE, Bureau
Projet Education) to entrust school construction works to local enterprises
because of unfortunate earlier experiences.  Following intervent:cn by IDA
staff during LCI supervision missions, the issue was resolved and contractors
supported through the LCI project were awarded several contracts and
received reference certificates for the works carried out.
V. INSTITUTIONAL FERFORMANCE AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT
5.1      The overall responsibility for the execution of the project and the
coordination of the various actions included was assumed by a project unit
within MTPEM. As the project dealt with a number of private entrepreneurs,
ministerial departments and parastatals (including BNDE), this unit was
directly attached to the minister's office to ensure autonomy and efficiency.
5.2      The overall responsibility for project execution was with MTPEM,
which displayed a consistent level of interest in the project, albeit with
some administrative delays in approving progress reports, confirming credit
amendments (limekiln, para. 4.2) and growing technical assistance contract
extensions for the consultant in the project unit.
5.3        Financial intermediation did not develop into the predominant
activity that it was supposed to under the project concept. As shown in
Annex 3, total 'subproject' related disbursements reached SDR327,000, just
slightly above 10% of the originally allocated amounts for this feature,
combining limekiln, brickoven, and equipment financing for contractors (as
per summary table in para. 1.06). As a result, the role of BNDE was a
limited one under the project. Furthermore, BNDE was not--as agreed under
the project concept--to take the lead in helping local contractors, lime- and
brick manufacturers prepare project appraisals, and concentrated on general
administration of the subprojects, the repayment of which presents some
arrears problems. (Most subprojects are in arrears except for one contractor
who has prepaid his loan in full). The former East Africa IDF division
had issued a PCR on BNDE on January 30, 1987 (IDA's first line of credit
to BNDE, Credit-731-BU) and has recently reviewed BNDE's performance as
part of the SAR report 7025-BU of February 25, 1988 for the Small
Enterprise Apex Project, which was approved on March 29, 1988.



- 15 -
Therefore, BNDE's performance is not commented upon in the context of this
PCR, except for stating that, as a prudent development bank, it had to take a
conservative view when considering project approval, but showed a sufficient
degree of flexibility and cooperation. BNDE's prudent approach was right
as the performance of subprojects did not match the targets set.
5.4      The most important role under the project was assigned to the
prolect unit itself, called ASECO in the local context. The staffing of the
unit included a directcr (foreign), a co-director (local), a lime-, a brick-,
a :onstruction and a management expert plus their counterparts, as well as a
training specialist, a construction engineer and a constructio. technician,
the latter two also with counterparts, bringing total staffing to 18 plus
auxiliary support.
5.5      Pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Credit Agreement, the Government of
Burundi signed an agreement with a foreign consultant company (under ICB) on
April 20, 1982, to provide specialists :equired for the staffing of the
project unit and the execution of the project for a period of 22 months. The
contract was extended for a period of 12 months beginning June 1, 1984.
Following initial delays in project execution, a second contract, with the
same company, wa.. approved on May 12, 1986 for a period of one year beginning
August 1, 1985. It was again extended on February 26, 1987 to prolong the
consultant's mission to December 31, 1986 (sic) to run from July 1, 1986.
5.6      An amount of US$240,000 as part of the advance for preparation of
the second Urban Development Project was granted by IDA to extend the mission
of a number of experts to june 30, 1987. An additional eight man-months was
agreed on under the Technical Assistance Credit 1456-BU to the Planning
Ministry for three project experts to complete their work on the limekiln,
the brickovens and assistance to enterprises to help finalizing some
remaining works. Recruitment of the Burundian counterparts posed a number of
difficulties, as it was Impossible to assure them any type of employment
after the end of the project (only the local co-director was a civil
servant).
5.7      Following the contract extensions and the operation of the project
unit for twice as long as expected, the total ftnancing share for this
project activity rose from an initial 30% to 68.. (rhis increa..e, however,
is also due to the reduction of the total credit amount following the
substantial cancellation of SDRI.3 million). Overall, the performance of the
consultant can be rated as acceptable. (See table below) The main
achievements of the consultancy services were the revisiorn of the
construction code and the assistance to brickoven promoters and contracters
to organize their construction ectivities and prepare bids.
Poor    Fair    Good
Purchase of equipment by contractors             x
Construction of lime kiln                                x
Brickovens                                                        x
Training for Public Works ministry agents                x
Training for domestic contractors                                 x
Training for construction workers                         x
Revision of construction code                                     x



- 16 -
5.8      Regarding proiect execution matters, and following the above
mentioned extensions, the project lasted twice as long as originally planned.
The reporting, provided by the project unit, and--overlapping partly with IDA
Credit 733-BU--by BNDE, was adequate albeit delayed at times. Procurement
and disbursement provisions were adhered to and did not undergo changes.
Auditing of the project unit was carried out by a foreign auditor and
resulted in clean audits consistently throughout the project.
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
6.1      Although the technical and financial assistance provided under the
project provided some useful benefits, the project has, on an overall basis,
not produced the expected results. At the same time, it should be
recognized, however, that the project was of a pilot nature and that it was
noted from the beginning to be complex, multi-faceted and therefore difficult
to implement. Furthermore, the SAR did not fail to allude to the inherent
risks of the construction sector and in particular to the uncertainties about
the reaction of beneficiaries to the proposed assistance. Since the majority
of construction industry output is capital investment, cemand tends to
fluctuate considerably more than for most other industries. The Burundi
contractors, thus, had to face the risk of sharp fluctuations in the volume
of work and, hence, in the amount of equipment needed. This was due to the
beginning of economic slow-down shortly after credit effectiveness but also
to the fact that Burundi's level of urbanization was very low, a fact that
was probably not suffic ently recognized at appraisal and that began to
change only recently.
6.2      At the time of project preparation, construction sector activity was
high and the main constraint hampering the development of domestic
construction firms was indeed the lack of financial resources for equipment
purchases. Therefore the concept of the project to build upon that need with
additional features responded well to the Bank's previous recognition that
financial assistance to contractors would be effective only, if it is
reinforced with technical assistance, with improvements 'n governments'
procurement procedures and practices, and with addressing more fully the
range of institutional, financial and administrative problems constraining
the construction sector development.
6.3      The lessons that could be drawn from this experience in order to
improve the design of similar future projects include:
{i)    Allocation of sufficient works: If the country has limited private
demand for construction, Government should be ready and willing to
allocate works from existing development programs to the local
contractors whom the project intends to help. To be effective, any
development project of domestic contractors should, therefore, be
tied to a program of ongoing works. (Masons are taught while
building walls, and not in academic classes). In the Burundi case,
the design of the project relied on a continuously flourishing
construction market providing sufficient demand to keep the
contractors in business. Unfortunately, the downward trend of the
economy cancelled out this possibility. A safety network cculd have
been built-in by allocating the domestic contractors a preferential
share in the few projects which continued being implemented (such as
road maintenance or school construction). As this was not done,
domestic contractors became more and more idle which severely



- 17 -
weakened the project. Consaquently, similar projects should be
based on thorough studies of the sustainable demand based on which
the construction industry will develop, and be tied to an
appropriate program of works.
(ii)   Strong commitment of the authorities: The project suffered from
delays in support from the Authorities, who did not react in a
timely fashion when the situation deterioriated. Therefore, it
appears that it might have been wrong to place the project under the
direct supervision of the minister himself. It would have been
wiser to get a high level manager involved in the project, such as
the 'directeur de la construction," who could have provided routine
support to the project manager.
(iii)   Limited dispersion of activities:  The projoct should have
concentrated on a smaller number of activities with a clear order of
priority. Too broad an array of targets made project implementation
and pezformance difficult. It is easier to select a consultant with
a specialized technical field than tc find a generalist who covers
very different activities satisfactorily.



-18-                           Annex  1
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PILOT PROJECT
Credit 1230-BU
Summary description of brick-oven subprolects
I.  Kamenge Brickworks (Simon Mahwera)
BNDE accepted the Kamenge brickworks application on January 20,
1984. The esouipment, comprising a gasoline-powered mixing machine and 2
manual brick presses with matrix, was ordered in February 1984. The civil
engineering works started in February and were completed in late October
1984.
Firing of the first kiln load of about 37,000 bricks took place
on November 30, 1984. Originally designed to operate with a single
*           upright kiln holding about 50,000 bricks per charge, the brickworks
quickly expanded since the standstill time for charging, cooling and
recharging, on the order of 20 days, was slowing down production, the
*           construction of a second kiln took place in April 1985 .
To meet an ever growing demand, two additional Terstaram-type
manual presses were purchased and four upright kilns were built, raising
monthly production from 100,0G0 to 250,000 solid bricks during the summer
period when the relative air humidity is very low.
Supplemental equipment, comprising a type 4 U clod-breaker, a
15-hp type 4V crusher, an SZ 2 wetter/mixer, a type VL 15 molder with
vacuum pump and three filieres, a cutter and two 45-hp diesel drive
motors, were ordered in December 1985.
The four machines and the motors arrived in August 1986 and
irstallation was completed in November 1986.  The clay preparation and
machine-setting tests were carried out between January and April 1987.
The trials for bakirg hollow bricks were conducted on the
reversed-flame kiln between FebtLary and May 1987 and gave satisfactory
results.
Pr,4uction with the new machines has not yet started. It awaits
competion of construction of the reversed-flame kiln, which is in
progress. The molding machine was set to a production of 16 tons per day.
Despite the difficulties encountered, the prospects appear quite good.



- 19 -                         Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
II. Kayanza Brickworks (Barthelemy Barutwanayo)
The application for the Kayanza Brickworks was approved by BNDE
on November 29, 1985 and transmitted to IDA for approval on December 4,
1985. IDA apDroved it on January 29,1986.
The machines were bought from the Commune of Bururi, which had
abandoned its own project following a change of governor.  They comprise a
clod-breaker, wetter/mixer, a diesel drive motor and two manual presses.
Total ennual production is about 2,200 tons, with expansion
possible to 4,400 tons.
Construction of the storage shed and kiln and installation of the
machinery were completed in May 1987.
Baking of the first kiln load of 35.000 bricks took place in July
1987 in the absence of the project unit's brickmaking technician, who had
left on June 30, 1987, but who returned for a short follow-up period in
early 1988.
The project is facing high production cost problems and, together
with BNDE, is looking for further technical assistance.
III. Second Bujumbura Brickworks (EGB construction company)
The application for the Bujumbura Brickworks was sent to BNDE on
October 3, 1985 and approved on Novemuer 29, 1985. It was approved by IDA
on January 29, 1986.
The original project proposed by the project unit was of the same
capacity as the Kamenge Brickworks and had two purposes: to provide good-
quality bricks in adequate quantity to supply the Bujumbura market, and to
ensure competition with the Kamenge Brickworks in order to maintain
product quality.
Following the decision o, the promotor, much more efficient
equipment was ordered in April 1986. Production trials started in January
1989 with assistance from the equipment supplier.



- 20 -                          Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PILOT PROJLCT
Credit 1230-BU
Susmmary Results of Feasibility Studies
I. Pozzolamic cement
The basis of the study was a resurrection of ENACCI, the former
public cement company, which, located at the Tanganyika Lake, has never
operated since the floods of 1964. IDA discourages the establishment of
new public sector manufacturing units, especially as part of the policy
context of the recently approved Second Structural Adjustment Credit. The
sunmmary analyses below is, therefore, for the record only. No private
investor so far has expressed interest in providing the necessary funds.
The rate ot replacement of portland cement was estimated at 25%
until 1990, and demand was estimated at 26,473 tons. Two production
alternatives were considered: conversion of ENACCI, and installation of a
new production unit. The cost, not including operating expenditures, comes
to BuF 34,024,822 for rehabilitation of ENACCI and BuF 179,879,500 for a
new production unit.
Three output levels were examined: 9,150, 18,300 and 27,400
tons/year. With a price of BuF 18,000/ton anid an annual output of 27,400
tons the IRR is 28.44% for a new production unit and 59.0% for conversion
of ENACCI. While economic rates of return were not provided, the
sensitivity analysis yielded the following results:
-    If the selling price per ton falls from BuF 18,000 to BuF 16,200,
the IRR falls from 28.44% to 22.4% for a new production unit and
from 59% to 48.50Z for conversion of ENACCI.
-    If the selling price falls to BuF 14,400/ton, only conversion of
ENACCI shows an attractive IRR (37.02%).
-    If production falls from 27,400 to 9,150 tons/year and the selling
price is set at BuF 18,000/ton, the IRR falls from 48.50Z to 9.55Z
in the case of a new production unit and from 59% to 30.60% in the
case of conversion of ENACCI.
-    If operating expenses rise by 10%, 20% and 30%, with a selling
price of BuF 18,000/ton, the ENACCI conversion project remains
profitable only in the case of a 10% increase.



- 21 -                     Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
II. Manufacture of sanitary articles
Seven items forming a standard set of sanitary articles were
selected. Average consumption was estimated at between 230 and 300 a year
up to 1990. Production capacity was set at 750 standard sets a year and
200 wall urinals, which assumes exports of 450-520 bathroom suites,
something rather unlikely, given transport problems, and as unfavorable
price/weight ratio. Installation and operating costs amount to BuF
179,593,198 and BuF 18,140,166 respectively. Project implementation time
is estimated at about 23 months.
The IRR remains low for the output levels in question: 6.98% and
3.50%. This poor profitability is due to the high amount of the
investment required to set up the plant.
III. Manufacture of sawn and polished stone slabs
On the basis of the investments in the construction sector, the
potential area to be built was estimated at about 140,000m2/year.
Assuming 50-percent implementation of this projection, the area
to be built falls to 70,000m2/yer. The utilization rate of floor slabs is
between 17.1% and 21.4%, which generates a surface of between 12,500m2 and
15,00m2/year.
The profitability calculation was based on three production
hypotheses of 12,000, 15,000 and 30,000m2/year. With the IRR set at 25%,
the selling prices for outputs of 12,000, 15,000 and 30,000m2/year are
BuF 9,260, 7,620 and 4,390/m2 including taxes and BuF 6,760, 5,610 and
4,390/m2 excluding taxes.
Although the project is financially viable, the substitutes for
sawn and polished stone slabs are currently cheaper (FBu 1,100/m2) and
this price discrepancy would discourage purchase of the new product.
IV. Manufacture of earthenware tiles
Two products were selected: earthenware tiles (carrelages de
gres) and pantiles (tuiles "canal"). Using the same market hypotheses as
for sawn and polished stone slabs, profitability calculations were
performed for outputs of (a) 20,000m2 of earthenware tiles and 5,000m2 of
pantiles and (b) 40,000m2 of earthenware tiles and 10,000m2 of pantiles.
For production of 25,000m2, installation cost is BuF 80,802,312
and operating cost BuF 17,914,870.  For production of 50,000m2,
installation cost is BuF 93,827,078 and operating cost BuF 23,037,400.
The rate of return for 25,000m2 production is 1.99Z including
taxes and 6.51% excluding taxes. The rate for 50,000m2 production is more
attractive: 16.78% including taxes and 29.53% excluding taxes. However,
the Burundian market is too small to absorb such a production volume.



-22 -               Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
V. Use of bamboo in construction
The manufacture of woven ceiling panels was adopted for this
study.
The installation cost of a unit with a production of
105,300m3/year was estimated at BuF 41,707,486. Operating costs (raw
materials, energy, labor) of BuF 23,877,840 must be added.
The project is not profitable since the selling price per m2
would have to exceed the price of the substitute products (triplex and
asbestos cement board). In addition, the Burundian market is not large
enough to absorb the full plant's output.



-23-                                  Annex 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PILOT PROJECT
Credit 1230-BU
Credit Allocation of Subloan Components
Subproject  Name                           Date approved   committed   disbursed
No.-                                              _        (SDR)        (SDR)
A. Subloans for Brickoven Construction
BM3         Simon M.hwera (Kamenge)         3/7/84           38,000       37,837
BM5         Briqueterie de Bujumbura        1/28/86         188,500      125,454
BM6         Briqueterie de Kayanza          1/28/86          51,400       28,280
+ subsequent increase          3/4/87            4,500
Sub-total                                 282,400      191,571
B. Subloans to Contractors
CC-1        LAGECO                          6/21/84          75,093       75,093
CC-2        NKAMIKANIYE                     6/21/84          62.000       59.977
Sub-total                                  137,093      135,070
TOTAL                                          419,493      326,642
* BM1, 2 and 4 wer4 cancelled because promotor failed to produce required
equity participation of 25%.



Annex 4
Page 1 of 17
89E0475    February 7, 1989
- 24 -             French      (Burundi)
175/20-OEDD2       TS:sn
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
Banque Nationale pour le
D6veloppeaent Economique
Bujumbura, Burundi
Ref:  16/DR                                             Bujumbura, January 5, 1989
World Bank
Washington, D,C.
For the attention of Mr. Alexander Nowicki
Division Chief, Operations Evaluation Department
Ref: Your letter of November 14, 1988
Subject: Project Completion Report on Local Construction Industry Pilot
Project (Credit 1230-BU)
Gentlemen:
Further the above-referenced Project Completion Report we have the
honor to set forth our comments below.
We consider that BNDE fulfilled all the obligations deriving from
the project agreement signed on June 1, 1982 by IDA and BNDE. If "as a
prudent development bank, it had to take a more conservative view when
considering project approval" (para. 5.3 of PCR), with hindsight we have to
admit that it was right to act prudently since the results subsequertly
obtained have not unfortunately matched the targets set and the optimistic
forecasts of the LCI project unit.
The fact is that, contrary to what is stated in the report where it
notes that BNDE "concentrated only on general administration of the
subprojects, the repaymenc of which does not present problems" (para. 5.3 of
PCR), all the loans granted under Credit 1230-BU, with the exception of one
that has been paid in advance, are in arrears, in some cases to such an extent
that losses for the bank are to be expected.
We att.ach an annex detailing the present status, both financial and
economic, of the subprojects financed by BNDE; we also attach recent visit
reports and an expert's report on the requirements for the Kayanza brickworks
to be viable.
Yours sincerely,
Is/B. Boisselet                                           s/B. Kamwenubusa
Director of Financial Operations                                      President



- 25 -                      Annex 4
Page 2 of 17
cc for information:    Minister of Public Works and Urban Development
Minister of Energy and Mines
Minister of Finance
World Bank Resident Representative in Bujumbura
Encl.: 4



- 26 -                      Annex 4
Page 3 of 17
ANNEX
Status of SubRroiects Financed by BNDE
under Credit 1230-BU (December 1988)
BRICKWORKS
1.   BM-3  KamenRe Brickworks (Mr. Simon Mahwera)
Loan Recovery Situation
Amount of loan granted on January 20, 1984          BuF 4,616,000
Outstanding as of November 30, 1988                     4,250,910
Arrears as of November 30, 1988                         2,804,410
Prospects
The promoter recently completed (after 18 months) the extruded brick
production trials and he is only now beginning to market the output. Despite
the difficulties encountered, the prospects appear quite good.
See also attached visit report.
2.   BM-5.  Bujumbura Brickworks (SOFABRI)
Loan recovery situation
Amount of loan granted on November 29, 1985       BuF 24,000,000
Outstanding as of December 31, 1988                    27,201,925
Arrears as of December 31, 1988                         3,927,390
Prospects
Contrary to what is stated in the Project Completion Report, this
brickworks has not yet started producti4... Trials are to start in January
1989 with assistance from the equipment supplier.
The promoters regret not having been able to benefit from technical
assistance from the Local Construction Industry project whose last expert left
before the startup of the subproject.
It is still too early to be able to give an opinion on the economic
viability of this subproject, the promoters of which-who also run a public
works enterprise-seem to be competent.
See also attached visit report.
3.   BM-6.  Kayanza Brickworks (Mr. Barthelemy Barutwanayo)
Loan recovery situation
Amount of loan granted on November 29, 1985        BuF 7,000,000
Outstanding as of November 30, 1988                     7,930,839
Arrears as of November 30, 1988                         2,335,294



- 27 -                      Annex 4
Page 4 of 17
Amount of supplementary loan granted on 12/17/86         1,000,000
(out of BND funds)
Outstanding as of November 30, 1988                      1,291,399
Arrears as of November 30, 1988                            353,300
Prospects
The brickworks has been operating intermittently since the end of
1937; the production cost of the bricks is greater than the selling price.
The promoter regrets that the project technical assistance, which
helped him with the construction of the kiln, was withdrawn at the time of the
production rrials because the expert left for good. The prospects are
presently very bleak.
The promoter and BNDE are currently looking for techuical
assistance, which could be provided by the EEC Industrial Development Center.
See also visit report and CERATEC recommendations.
CONSTRUCTION FIRMS
1.   CC-1.  LAGECO
Loan recovery situation
Amount of loan granted on April 20, 1984            BuF 9,115,302
Outstanding as of December 15, 1988                     7,695,086
Arrears as of December 15, 1988                         7,695,086
Prospects
The firm has not obtained any con.racts since 1987 so its activity
was practically nil in 1988. The State's commitment in respect of LAGECO is
about BuF 6 million. The prospects appear very bleak.
See also visit report.
2.   CC-2.  NKAMICANIYE
Amount of loan granted on May 22, 1985              BuF 7,500,000
This loan was repaid in full in advance in 1987.
Bujumbura, January 5, 1989



- 28 -                     Annex 4
page 5 of  7
Visit Reports
1.   Kamenge Brickworks
2.   SOFABRI Brickworks
Visits made by Mr. B. Boisselet and Mrs. Beatrice Bukware
1.   Kamenge Brickworks
Date of visit: December 9, 1988
Present Situation
The brickworks started its activit-.es at the beginning of 1985 under
the supervision of the LoLal Con-truction Industry (LCI) project.  It ran into
a large number of problems due largely to lack of experience, to the cost of
the brircs produced being higher than anticipated, and to the sizable new
investment requirements (drying and storage shed, new presses, second kiln).
The promoter informed us that the trials which have taken
practically 18 months have now been completed:
-~  using Kamenge clay, they can produce extruded bricks at a rate of
3,000 bricks a day and BuF 12 per brick.
-    using Muzinda clay (binder) mixed with Kamenge clay, they produce
Dressed bricks at a rate of 4,600 a day and BuF 8 per brick.
The future seems promising because they look like obtaining two big
contracts:
-    (1)  SIP, for 1,700,000 bricks
-    (2)  COTEBU, for 2,000,000 bricks
Since its bricks are of good quality, the Kamenge Brickworks will
certainly be well placed to gain a part or all of these contracts.
Financial Situation
The brickworks is experiencing financial difficulties connected with
the reasons mentioned above. Arrears amounted to BuF 2,804,410 as of
December 9, 1988. The promoter has undertaken to pay two installnents in
December 1988 and two per quarter in 1989 in order to pay off the arrears.
2.   SeVABRI Brickworks
Visit made on December 19, 1988.
The brickworks has had a line of machines for brickmaking since
October 1987. Construction of the kiln was started in May 1987 but the shed
has been ready since 1986.



Annex 4
- 29 -                     Page 6 of 17
The kiln is of the "reversed flame" type. The plans were made by
the LCI project but construction was done by the promoters. They did not
receive LCI technical assistance as was originally intended because the LCI
project was terminated in June 1987.
The equipment supplier will send an expert for the startup of
production in January 1989. Actual production will be started in February
1989.  A stock of wood is already available and the promoters expect to build
up a stock of clay between now and January 1989. SOFABRI will benefit from
the Kamenge Brickworks' experience.
Financial Situation
Loan granted           BuF 24 million (Board meeting of Nov. 29, 1985)
Interest rate              12X
11 years including one grace year
Arrears as of December 19, 1988: BuF 2,858,666, comprising interest
due on March 31, 1988 and two installments (first installment due June 30,
1988).
The promoters intend to call a meeting of their Board befor -he end
of 1988 to determine how they can remedy this situation.
An additional grace year has been proposed to SOFABRI, which would
make the first installment due on June 30, 1989 (cf. letter of December 23,
1988.
Bujumbura, December 27, 1988
/s/Beatrice Bukware
Visit Report
Enterprise visited: LAGECO
Visit made by:        Mr. B. Boisselet and Mrs. Beatrice Bukwsre
Persons met:          Messrs. Fidele Nsabimana and Germain Semondo
LAGECO obtained a loan of BuF 18 million, of which only
BuF 9,115,302 was released, the rest being canceled. Repayment has been due
for a year, but nothing has been received since April 1988. The entire
balance as of December 2, 1988, of BuF 7,695,086, has been declared due and
payable and LAGECO has been so notified by BNDE letter of December 5, 1988.
The purpose of the visit was to discuss with the promoters whether
they could make any concrete proposals regarding reiayment of this loan before
BNDE initiates legal action.
The promoters stated that LAGECO's activities were at at standstill
during 1987-88 because it received no contracts. Final acceptance of the last



-30-                        Annex 4
Page 7 of 17
works took place in September 1988 and payment of the ;S% withheld, amounting
to approximately BuF 6 million, is now due and this sum will be paid by the
State in the course of 1989.
We have asked LAGECO to send us a letter providing the following
information:
-    the amount payable by the State
-    copies of accounts receivable
-    proposal as to the proportion of each bill paid that will be
transferred to BNDE
-    BANCOBU's consent to transferring the proposed amount to our account
-    LAGECO's future prospects.
Once this information is received, BNDE will be able to decide
whether it can allow rescheduling of the debt or whether it should proceed
with legal action.
Bujumbura, January 5, 1989
/s/ Beatrice Bukware



- 31 -                      Annex 4
Page 3 of 17
BNDE
REPORT ON THE SITUATION OF THE KAYANZA SEMI-INDUSTRIAL BRICKWORKS
Visits made on January 29 and February 26 by Mrs. Beatrice Bukware
and Marc Rotsaert.
1.   Proiect background
(a) On November 29, 1985, the BNDE Board granted Mr. Barthel6my
Barutwanayo a loan of BuF 7 million for establishment of a brickworks at
Kayanza.
The terms and conditions of this loan were:
Interest:                    12X p.a.
Term:                        6 years, with one grace year
Refinancing:                 IDA (LCI project)
(b)  The installation work was started in September 1986 and a
supplementary loan of BuF 1 million was granted on the same terms and
conditions on December 17, 1986.
(c) The first production trials began in June 1987. The kiln was
constructed with LCI tec'nical assistance but production was handled by the
promoter once the LCI expert left for good.
2.   Present situation of Pro1ect
2.1 Production
After a trlal period, the promoter concluded a contract with BPE for
the supply of 800,000 bricks for construction of the Kayanza Teacher Training
School.
The selling price was fixed at BuF 5 per brick delivered to the
worksite.  This price was also subject to change depending on the quality of
the bricks and to the extent that transportation from the brickworks to the
site was done by BPE, with the result that the output and sales data were as
follows as of January 30, 1988:
Bricks baked     Losses          Bricks sold           Price       Total sales
45,000           21,500             23,500              4.5          105,750
55,000           13,000             42,000               3           126,000
59,000            7,000             52,000               3           156,000
55,000           15,000             40,000               3           120,000
50,000           20,000             30,000              4.5          135,000
53,000           12,000             41,000              4.5          184.500
317,000          88,500            228,500               3.75    BuF 827,250



3nnex 4
Page 9 of 17
2.2  Operating costs
According to the promoter, the operating costs break down as follows:
-    Materials and supplies                                BuF 765,500
Water + electricity           30,000
Fuel                          41,000
Raw materials                 65,500
Kiln fuel                    135,000
Transportation              436,000
Travel                        60,000
Stationery                     3,500
-    Other services                                              79,075
Building maintenance           5,000
Vehicle maintenance           65,000
Postage, telephone             2,500
Bank charges                   6,575
-    Personnel                                                  740,000
Wages                        715,000
Medical                       25,000
-    Taxes                                                       22,000
Local taxes                   22,000
BuF 1,606,575
3.   Analysis of the situation
We observe that the brickworks' productivity is too low and that the
present selling price is less than the cost of the bricks.
(a) Productivity
Up to the present, the promoter has on average been baking one batch
of 55,000 bricks per month. Losses are very high: 28S
To remedy these problems, the promoter has now stopped production in
order to take the following steps:
-    Provision of an access road to the clay pit, since the existing road
is impassable when it rains
-    Construction of a shed to provide more space for drying bricks prior
to baking (space created: 180 m2)
-    Construction of a shed for storing clay out of the weather (space
created: 144 m2).



Annex 4
- 33 -                      Page lO of 17
As to the loss rate, this is explained by the promoter's lack of
experience in brickuaking, especially since he was no longer able to use
technical assistance from the LCI project, which had been wound up in the
meanwhile. The loss rate for the last batch was still 23%. (In comparison,
the loss rate for the Kamenge brickworks is 1A.)
In addition, the organization of production is complicated by the
need for transportation, which is hard to hire on a day-to-day basis in
Kayanza.  A duuptruck is needed for:
-    hauling fuelwood, which has to be obtained from the vicinity of
Kayanza (four truckloads per kiln)
-    hauling peat, which comes from Bujumbura
-    bringing in clay, which entails a 20-km round trip.  Thirty
truckloads are needed to fill one kiln.
Production
(b) Cost
To the extent that the operating cots reported by the promoter
represent the true situation since the start of the operation, the production
cost breaks down as follows:
-    Variable costs
Water + electricity           30,000
Fu-el                        41,000
Raw materials                65,500
Kiln fuel                   135,000
Transportation              436,000
Maintenance                    5,000
Wages                        715.500
BuF 1,428,000
-    Fixed costs
Overhead                    191,150
Finance charges             508,800 (6 months)
Amortization                600,000
BuF 1,299,950 (6 months)
In the present situation, the production cost would be:
1,428,000 + 1,299.950 = BuF 11.9 brick
228,500 bricks sold
In the future, assuming tiiat the loss rate can be brought down to 5S
and that two batches are produced per month, the production cost could come
down to:



- 34 -                      Annex 4
Page 11 of 17
Bricks baked                317,000
Bricks sold                 301,150
Variable costs            BuF 4,742 bricks
Fixed costs               1,299,950 - BuF 2,158 brick
301,150 x 2
Production cost               BuF 6.9 brick
Selling price                 BuF 7.5 brick
Gross profit                  BuF 361,000/month
Comments
The cost of transportation adds to the production cost: not
counting the trips made by the BPE truck, the cost of which ihas been
incorporated directly into the selling price, transportation represents 30% of
the variable costs.
The promoter would do well to obtain a dumptruck, because it would:
-    facilitate organization of the work
-    make the project independent
-    increase productivity
-    bring production costs down
-    an could also conceivably be used for haulage activities outside of
the project.
The promoter is presently negotiating with a private individual for
a second-band tiuck at a cost of BuF 3 million. Since he does not have the
funds for this purchase, we have recolmmended to him that he check out a
leaRing formula.
Conclusions
The first order provided valuable experience for the promoter in
that it enabled him to gain a better idea of the difficulties of his project
and to place on the market a good quality brick with a compressive strength of
200 kg/m2.
It will nevertheless be impossible for this brickworks to show a
recurn. Repayment of the loan will therefore be highly uncertain. We
accordingly suggest that management reschedule the debt over ten years,
including two grace years.
As to purchase of a truck, could not the bank's management consider
leasing to Mr. Barutwanayo the truck belonging to Sobritumaga that is
currently the subject of a dispute with Mr. Kamatari?
/I/ Marc Rotsaert
Rapporteur



35 -                      Annex 4
Page 12 of 17
REPORT ON VISIT TO KAYANZA BRICKWORKS ON OCTOBER 19, 1988
Purpose of visit: To inform the representative of the Belgian company
"CERATEC" regarding the situation of the project to enable
CERATEC to propose a technical assistance plan for
restarting the project and making it profitable.
Participants:       Mr. Barthelemy Barutwanayo, promoter
Mr. Vanoverstraeten, CERATEC Export Manager
Mr. Boisselet, Director of Financial Operations, BNDE
Mr. Rotsaert, BNDE
The participants first visited the brickworks and then went to the
claypit. The CERATEC repr'sentative checked the dimensions of the kiln
structure and the characteristics of the equipment.
Because the claypit is so far away (about 8 km), CERATEC would like
the promoter to gather clay samples from nearer the brickworks and send them
to it in Belgium, so that CERATEC can determine what products can be made from
it: tiles, bricks and floor slabs.
The CERATEC representative pointed out that it is difficult for
brickworks located too far from their claypits to turn a profit.  It was
suggested to the promoter that he should send samples of his products to
potential customers and determine the prices they would be prepared to pay.
The promoter explained that he had several customers interested in floor tiles
(for which he did not have molds) and "tuiles flamandes."
Availability of the truck that was the subject of the promoter's
present loan application for haulage activities outside of the brickworks was
examined. In the current situation the truck would be used mainly for hauling
clay and fuel.
Conclusion
The CDRATEC representative will send BNDE proposals for possible
improvement of the project's situation.
Bujumbura, October 21, 1988
s/Marc Rotsaert



- 36 -                       Annex 4
Page 13 of 17
CERATEC S.A.
Rue du Touquet 228
B-7793 Ploegsteert
Belgium
Ref:  PDB/DDC/JRM 402.01                                    November 25, 1988
Mr. Boisselet
Director of Financial Operations
BNDE
P.O. Box 1620
Bujumbura, Burundi
Subject: Kayanza Brickworks
Dear Sir:
Following Mr. Vanoverstraeten's recent visit to Burundi where he
visited the Kayanza Brickworks, we attach some recoummendations which we hope
will help you to resolve the problems this project is experiencing.
Only a full-scale study by an expert would make it possible to
consider all the details of the situation and give you precise specific advice
as to the steps to be taken and the possibilities open to you.
Regarding training, Mr. Vanoverstraeten will certainly have told you
that we regularly organize training courses (practical and theory), a detailed
program of which is also attached.
We will, of course, be pleased to provide any further assistance you
may require, and will make a point of visiting you ths next time we are in
Burinmdi.
Yours sincerely,
/s/D. Deconinck                                  /s/Ph. de Bruyn
Technical Adviser                                 Managing Director



37                        Annex 4
Page 14 of 17
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE KAYANZA BRICKWORKS, BURUNDI
The project in its present form is very probably not viable. Its
main handicaps are:
1.   The distance between the claypit and the brickworks is too great and
the cost of transportation too high.
2.   The use of a high-powered diesel generator or motor is extremely
costly. To the extent possible, connection to the electricity
system is much more economical in the long term.
3.   Baking:  with the present kiln, and with any type of intermittent
kiln, about 1,200 kcal is need to bake one kilogram of dry clay, and
only firewood can be used, whereas with a continuous or
semicontinuous kiln only 400 or 600 kcal is needed for 1 kg of dry
clay. Moreover, any fuel can be used, for instance sawdust, coffee
husks, etc.
4.   Personnel training; output
Without training it is usually difficult to obtain very good
results, and especially to achieve a high output. Project startup
is then a very slow process, which ultimately proves extremely
costly and can cause the project to fail. In the present case,
output is extremely low, notwithstanding the fact that the project
was started two years ago.
5.   This project as it has been set up does not make a lot of sense,
being a mixture of incompatible machines and processes.
One uses either:
(a) vacuum extrusion, in which case the production line will be made up
of a feeder, a roller, a mixer, a vacuum extruder and a cutter. The
clay must contain 20% moisture and is mixed to form a plastic and
homogeneous mix.
(b) dry pressing, in which case the moisture content of the clay must
not exceed 10-15X, otherwise the clay will stick to the molds. In
addition, the clay must be broken into fine particles (particle size
from 0 to 20 mm) so that the molds can be properly filled with a
constant quantity of clay and maximum production achieved. Mixing
is pointless with this technique. A production line normally
consists of just a clod-breaker and presses (manual or automatic).
For the Kayanza Brickworks, the most appropriate technique would
therefore seem to be dry pressing. However, to enhance profitability the
following points should be corrected:
(a) Claypit
The distance between the pit and the works is too great, especially
for so low an output.; It would be advisable to see whether a



38 -                      Annex 4
Page 15 of 17
source of clay could not be opened up closer to the works.  If this
proves impossible, the production cost should be analyzed to
determine the incidence of transportation. On the face of it,
purchase of a truck for so low an output would hardly be
worthwhile. Renting two trucks and a hydraulic shovel for one day a
month would perhaps be the best solution. However, this would still
leave the problem of firewood supply.
(b)  Preparation
The mixer is quite unnecessary. I. should therefore be eliminated
in order to save labor and energy.
(c)  Diesel consumption could also be reduced.  The clod-breaker used is
a very heavy one that needs a high installed power. Other types of
breakers operate with a Lister 5-hp motor and only use 5 liters of
diesel a day.
(d)  With a little training, it should be possible to considerably
increase production, up to the maximum capacity of the manual
presses (300 bricks/hour per press). Stepping up of production will
in any event be essential for the enterprise's survival. Output
could also be increased by procuring an automatic press
(1,400-2,000 bricks/hour), provided there is a sufficient supply of
clay and production is well organized.
(e)  Baking, as it is done at present, is very good.  Construction of a
reversed-flame kiln will not lessen fuel consumption. However, in
the future, once the other problems have been solved, construction
of a rectangular kiln (see Annex) might be the ideal solution and
would permit a quite sizable fuel saving, which could provide a
decisive advantage compared with traditional production units.
In general, it is very diffi ult to produce bricks at a cost lower
than that of traditioaal bricks.  It is the quality difference that makes it
possible to justify the higher price, provided the price difference is not too
great. With a clod-breaker and presses (manual or automatic), this is
perfectly possible as long as the above points are corrected.
Production of items such as tiles is generally very profitable and
can be done with very little equipment. However, if a high output is desired
the investment required is very sizable (extrusion line, with or without
vacuum equipment).



Annex 4
39 -                      Page 16 of 17
89E0523   February 27, 1989
French (Burundi)
OEDD2   OTS:jl
Republic of Burundi
Ministry of Energy and Mines
Office of the Minister
Bujumbura, Burundi
Our Ref.:  760/CAB/082/G.B./S.A/89                  Bujumbura, February 10, 1989
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
For the Attention of Mr. Alexander Nowicki
Division Chief, Operations Evaluation Department
Subject: Prolec' Completion Report on Local .onstruction Ilidustry Pilot
Pro_ect (Credit 1230-BU)
Copy sent for information to:
Prime Minister and Minister
of Planning, Bujumbura
Dear Mr. Nowicki:
Thank you for the draft version of the Project Completion Report on
the Local Construction Industry Pilot Project.
As you emphasize in the Highlights of the report, Burundi is heavily
dependent on imported construction materials.
It was to eliminate or at least lessen this dependence that the
Government asked IDA for the funds to set up Burundi's own local construction
materials industry. This financing was granted in the context of the LCI
project. However, for the reasons set forth under Conclusions and Lessons
Learned in the PCR, this project did not produce the results expected of it.
You accordingly decided to terminate the LCI project before the credit was
fully utilized.
However, imported construction materials are today an evkn heavier
drain on Burundi's resources than before (because imports are more costly and
the Burundi franc has depreciated). Utilization of local raw materials is
therefore now a vital necessity.



Annex 4
- 40 -                      Page 17 of 17
I think that certain components of the LCI project, in particular
development and improvement of prod.ction of local construction materials,
should be examined, taking into account the difficulties already encountered,
of course.
Yours sincerely,
/8/ Gilbert Midende
Minister of Energy and Mines
cc for information: Min.ster of Public Works and Urban Development
Minister of Finance
Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
World Bank Resident Representative
Director General of Geology and Mines



41                                    Exhibit    I
-41 -            #                      Page  1 of 5
clay mixer
43                                    X      ,1
manual brick press
d   o
|                               ~~~~~~~~~~dryin8 of preased brickc prior to being heated



4_                                 Exhibit  I
_                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 2 of 5
(C 
lC_
loading bricks into ov':n
f4.  e1-  nf nv n



- 43 -
Exhibit   1
i                                                          ME             Page 3of 5
4-~
'41~
4- ~    Nf'                     ,,      ' 
p..~~~~~
construction of necond oven
--_         -, a*
-                              i,l. lt ' ',5            1'
27~~~~7
construction of second oven



- 44 -
Exhibit 1
I                         F~~~~~~~~age 4 of 5
-                                regular artisan brick
qai ofbcfr prjtfncdbcovI
I~~~~~~
quality of brick from project financed brick oven



- 45 -                                     Exhibit_I
Page 5 of 
4*e, Xr VI ,
S~~~~           -p.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                                   A
*..~~~~            -*
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Exhibit 2
-46-                                               Page 1 of 3
touTES LES CONSENMAB SONE e A                                LOCALDC LE CUW1rLE EUT WD m
L FAlOrATI   0u PiOWUrr 
p__b"w     dassubsbu    ma* gs asd m a  Wn nWuaue g am x WA Om x a so S
4mmn paase Cms 2S kg. ds q  des W"s aua cvsmm de s uSW   '1 flean Ia mduMW,sk. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~MTRE   :  a-1 d_sW*                                6 CYKf 04 ba Ille  -10U
_ sr_iL    - t dissu*gas m   mpr de 4 A  10 t/-h
__                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~- 1 nikxmi c25d5dl0it
- I m0bw iss ee amascde as mm dm' A posifi et aassais
Plinse ou 2 nAma5s OMscta  &Ac Nbh.s deci
-lI p~sess      avjes  c 2 masnde 4. ncwis
IGENE CMWL - 2 hIn di,*0bd. 45     mO                 - ri
- I hF a de 0cosp -   n     de 370m'.
TEMPS DE CONSTRUCTO : tO amis'
EMPLOIS CREES          :22 Ps
_  ESTISSEMENT TOTAL   O: s 50O.C  S US * EcIlg 400 S tn.
W_ TE000 T0UOS/
__ bl~~~~~~~~MTERIEL                            I  d__vtIff & cyW    t be     6tOUh
I ma.W. 4.5  mc de 4 6 10 t/PL
p    amu 2 moin    Motsis m &mc _J de et4
- Spaa  NmAM  amc 4 mouse de rscimgso
OBMOW  - 2  aL,abd ft s 2 MI4 f                       X
- I   bosBd tgS a    lob1 af de 0W0 'iF;
TEMS 0 CONSTRUCTION   la m:ll"                          -
REES iv            40      _ p;    S   tf
sfES1USEBdT TOTAL       Din 0_ am S 1La ' mbs.  S    us"
UW  0300 T1MIl
MATERL   - 1 are*g          cyb*  et ba   s s-l0 Lt%
-  M O~ ls ,wdl sdes4 610 L/k
3- Sr m wAses mc  as vde * p                a
__ , , _ NE CNL - 3 han  nma dsse s2ml6 mas
OSIE ~      S-  I hw    ad 'cin' -I-S  d*M'.
_.. TEMPS EOEN   nN : 0ofa           s10m
TOTAL                   O     01_ U00 S US. * ElnaSs UWo  S US"



Exhibit 2
47                                                      Page 2 of 3
LE  MAINES SONT ROSUSTES. L'ENTRETnEN ET L'UTUSTION SONT SIMPLES ET FACLE  us
UW:I '1400 TONES M OIS
MATERIEL   - I1dtW*Pteu III cy*Woe et bwT~  6-10  hIL
- I m,ouw _6lmngm  de 4 * 10 t.h.
- 1 nr   de" avc wbre de twantselm A poWif t cot r oWT
pltes ou 2 motmIn 61    e avoc bui  de conwid.
- 4 presss nwwjete OvOC  8 6  aiie de ris .
GENIF CML  - 4 tok  de    e   02Sm'We                                                          A
- Ilogwo  ade   go - 1fdnbficO  de 72 i'.
TEMPS DE CONS TRmON  :10 mdc-
EMPLOIS CREES             bO ponKwwio
.NVESTISSEMENT TOTAL       Die" 67.0 S US * ECFt4" 66.100 S U  -S
_              .
!!II~~~~~ii.   -.  -  '
-                                                                             4
o--         -                                             s.                                       
, .-        .     .   ;
/~~~~~~
C) Aeadsde o dbde .p     a      de tcCfuw~dsefCho Is        l*)Piig MmO tw  ieism   au BUK              ,  ov
.;*f   lduW   nu*I. f*W'j Is  do de  j,wr4  de               O         t I Wip
run".



-48 -
Exhibit    2
Page  3  of  3
1IESSEMSNTS SONT PROG_FS. CtAOUQE STADE DIHNVESTEMENT PREPARE LE KW
L FAICAnON DE PRODUrtS OThUOES
-  AhCfmE4 doe bvtu  ctroA   du biqee plebtse. des WO  Wwt*osr de hodo powrn -dw
an Whon arn*l, doe cistesrs. dee. ieftIes * k preew pw lir dee bAse. due wlmel de m4aro~t.m    de ad
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Cre tct.ii "o, txa                         ec._                                        n
UWTE DE6360.4   TONNES/MOIS :.ECT`nOUE SUM. MXTRBA.E
MATEF;L   - 1 dieeuAgew A  C~*4 et b  etteo   O lo t                                               _, .
-1 tr6mis doossue
- 1 broyea firies A cy*o 2e 3 t /h
- 1 MOIe X fiifegwv  de 4  10 t./h.
-1 *exfudeuse (moNe) 2-6 tI/h sacs wOd
*- I cc -u
-4 convoya,s A beide
-1 PsiuVe de conwyrnend avec matmNm Adecir"u mxAoendam as
buise Ie mectwe
GENE CML  - 2 fOx" A chetbre de 115 m' A %vwi rewrs  230 mi)
- I hrg rde tabnco        - eAcheg de 90 ml.
TEMPS DE CONSTRUCTION   12 mris*
EMPLOISCREES             :SOpenwame
iINVESTISSEMENT TOTAL     200C0SU S LIS"
UITE  310d  TON0S/MOA DIESEL.  MI It TRIELLE AVEC HAUTE
WrENSITE Of MAIN-WOEUVRE
MATERIEL   - 1 d6eegrantew A cyl*rs et bureftt  6-10 t /h
- 1  Maew ff*wVw de 4 A 10 L/h.
1 brryew fia        & cy&" 2 A 3 t/h.
- 1 extudmue Gttus) 2-6 t /h. mm Me
- 2 mt. desel ec 2 arbres de trde   felon A potS.e
et courrole plot.,
-1   ou, n umr_*
GENE CML  - 4 fuedafts de t2 M'S t2 m),
-I h1    dC ftbibon - sAchre deo W                              s__
TEMPS 06 CONSTR0 CTION      I  ime
EMSP RIES :R    po 
*     _STN T TOTAL    :34MO S US'



