Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3343-BU
BURUNDI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF
A PILOT PROJECT TO ASSIST
THE LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
March 25, 1982
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance oet
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         Burundi Francs (BuF)
US$1.00           =   BuF90
US$0.0111             BuFl
BuFl million          US$11,111
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (metric system)
1 cubic meter                         35.31 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 meter (m)       2                   39.37 inches (in) or 3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m )               =   10.9 square feet (sq ft)
1 kilometer (km)                      0.62 milrs (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                        10,000 m  or 2.471 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                       2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton                      =   1,000 kgs or 2,204 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BANCOBU        - Banque Commerciale de Bujumbura
BCB            - Banque de Credit de Bujumbura
BNDE           - Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
(Development Bank)
BRB            - Banque de la Republique du Burundi (Central Bank)
CADEBU         - Caisse d'Epargne du Burundi (Savings Bank)
CAMOFI         - Caisse Centrale de Mobilisation et de Financement
(National Bank for Savings and Investments)
DETN           - Direction des Etudes et Travaux Neufs (New Works
Directorate)
EDF            - European Development Fund
EEC            - European Economic Community
EIB            - European Investment Bank
ENACCI         - Entreprise Nationale de Chaux et de Ciment
IDA            - International Development Association
ILO            - International Labor Organization
MTPEM          - Ministere des Travaux Publics, de l'Energie et des Mines
(Ministry of Public Works, Energy and Mining)
OCIBU          - Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi
ONABOIS        - Office National du Bois
ONIMAC         - Office National d'Importation et de Commercialisation
des Materiaux de Construction et d'Equipement Domesti-
que (National Office for the Import and Marketing of
Construction Materials and Domestic Equipment)
ONL            - Office National du Logement (National Housing Office)
REGIDESO       - ("Regie des Eaux") National Water and Electricity
Authority



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOMIBUROM     - Societe Mixte Miniere et Industrielle Burundo - Roumaine
(Burundo-Rumanian Mining & Industrial Company)
SIP           - Societe Immobiliere Publique (Public Housing Corporation)
SSE           - Small Scale Enterprises
g      UNCDF          - United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP          - United Nations Development Programme
UNIDO         - United Nations Industrial Development Organization
UPRONA        - Union pour le Progres National (Union for National
Progress)
GOVERNMENT OF BURUNDI
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I
f0
I
tr



BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF A PILOT PROJECT TO ASSIST
THE LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION   ......  -  ..........                 ......          1
II.   THE LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY ........... .......    -             2
A. Construction Activities.                                      2
B. Construction Materials.                                       8
C. The Financial Framework of
the Construction Industry.                               13
III.   THE PROJECT .................           .                          17
A.  Background and Objectives .......................          17
B.  Detailed Features    ..................                    19
C.  Terms and Conditions Specific to the
Credit Component .23
D. Project Cost ...............                                24
E. Financing Plan .26
F.  Project Management and Implementation                       28
IV.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION .32
A.  General Justification and Project Benefits                  32
B.  Benefits from Specifie Project Components                   33
C.  Risks Associated with the Project .35
V.      RECOMMENDATIONS AND CREDIT CONDITIONS .36
This report was prepared by Messrs. Philippe Beuzelin, Michel Cramer,
Ms. Fatoumata Sylla, Mrs. Fernande Lancksweirt (Consultant) on the basis of an
appraisal mission which visited Burundi in September 1980.



List of Annexes
Page No.
1.   Selected Major Investment Projects to be
Implemented in 1981-1984 ....................................           39
2.   The Main Imported Construction Materials in Burundi
(1977-1979) .................................................           40
3.   The Production of Local Construction Materials (1979) .......           41
4.   Staffing of the Project Unit ................................           42
5.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ...           43



BURUNDI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OR
A PILOT PROJECT TO ASSIST
THE LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
I. INTRODUCTION
Project Background
1.01      The proposed project is the first systematic effort by the Bank to
assist in the development of the local construction industry in a country
of the Eastern Africa Region. The idea of providing assistance to the sector
was prompted by a growing recognition by the Bank of the significance of the
construction industry in the development process. Furthermore, the implemen-
tation of Bank-financed projects have, in many instances, been hindered by
weaknesses of the industry. Typically, this occurred on projects involving
construction works not large enough to be of interest to the large construc-
tion enterprises and which small local firms were not technically nor finan-
cially equipped to carry out.
1.02      Burundi was selected for an initial effort because of the strong
iiuterest which the Governnent showed toward Bank assistance to the sector and
also in view of the acute needs of the local industry: the local construction
industry, which is largely foreign-controlled, is overstretched and cannot
meet the demand and, furthermore 90%, by value, of the materials used by the
formal sector are imported.
1.03      Being experimental in nature, this project does not purport to
address itself to all the needs of the construction industry but only to those
which have been identified as priority or those where something effective
could be done within the framework of a relatively small operation. On that
basis the following components have been included in the project: (1) develop-
ment and improvement of the local production of construction materials;
(2) assistance to the Ministry of Public Works, Energy and Mining; (3) assis-
tance to the local enterprises to expand their activities in the building
sector where their share is still relatively small; it does not aim at
promoting their role in road construction nor maintenance which most of the
local firms are not prepared to tackle.



- 2 -
II. THE LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
A.   Construction Activities 1/
The Demand for Construction
2.01      Overall Volume of Investment in Burundi.  In recent years, the
Government has engaged in important efforts to mobilize external aid financing
to step up Burundi's investment rate, which had long been one of the lowest in
the world, averaging about 7% of GDP in 1960-76. Gross fixed investments have
increased in real terms by 47% in 1977, 15% in 1978, 4% in 1979; and reached                  s
BuF11.5 billion in 1980, representing still a moderate share of about 14% of
GDP. During 1977-80, 91% of investments were made by the public sector; 57%
were financed by external grants and soft-term loans.
2.02      Future investments are mostly constrained by the implementing capa-
city and financial condition of the country. Burundi continues to have a
low external debt and has secured donors commitments for many multi-years
investment programs, particularly for roads, education, power and housing
(para. 2.04). Since 1978, however, it has been affected by large trade
deficits and increased budgetary constraints, like many other African countries.
In the medium term, Burundi may have to call upon some general external
financing for balance of payment support, probably accompanied with conditions
limiting investments.  Although the Planning Ministry has revised downwards
the level of the investment program in the 1978-82 Plan, it continues to
project an investment growth of 12% per year in real terms through 1984. In
view of th- abave. < ie findings of IDA's economic mission in December 1979
also suggest a concinued but more moderate investment growth in a range of
5%-8% per year (Economic Memorandum No. 3071-BU).
2.03      The Demand for Construction Investment.  Construction investments
which have accounted for a fairly stable proportion of 52% to 60% of total
investments in the years 1977-79, would thus be expected to increase from
the actual amount of BuF5.5 billion in 1979 to around BuF7-8 billion at 1979
prices in 1984. In 1980, however, the large majority of locally based con-
struction enterprises were found to be already working at almost full capacity,
and major obstacles, such as shortages on construction materials, were prevent-
ing further increase in construction output.  Clearly, the capacity of the
construction industry is likely to become a serious cause of delays in the
implementation of major investment programs, and a significant constraint to
economic development in general. The Government needs therefore to promote
the rapid development of domestic contractors.
2.04      Structure of the Demand.  Based on the investment projections of the
Planning Ministry for 1980-1984, it may be estimated that the future demand
for construction works will be composed of: 20% for roads, 17% for energy,
1/   Defined to include both buildings and civil work.



- 3 -
15% for the rural sector, 13% for education, 8% for manufacturing, 6% for
housing, and 21% for investments in other sectors. Annex 1 presents the
construction costs of some 15 major investment projects in various sectors,
for which preparation is well advanced and financing appears assured; these
projects alone require construction expenditures of up to BuF3.8 billion per
year in 1981/82.
The Producers of Construction
2.05      Following the upsurge of national investment the value of total
construction output in constant prices increased by 96% in 1977 and 20% in
1978, but decreased by 9% in 1979, mostly due to the shortages in construction
materials. In 1979, construction work still represented only 4.9% of Burundi's
GDP, but accounted for 52% of total investments and approximately 20% of
employment in the formal sector. Based on the limited data available, the
table below provides an estimate of the distribution of the employment and
output value in 1979 among the main producers in the formal sector:
Number of Employees   Estimated Share (%)
Construction Producers                 in Construction _/   of Output Value   2/
Government, 3/ 1 Parastatal
(REGIDESO)                          6,200                       10
National Housing Agency (ONL)             600                       3
Private Enterprises:
Burundi-Owned  4/                     3,000                      13
Foreign-Controlled                    7,100                      70
Religious Missions                      1,100                       4
Total             18,000                     100%
1/ Source: "Statistiques du Travail," UNDP/ILO Project, April 1980.
2/ Main Source: World Bank/UNIDO Cooperative Program, March 1979 Mission
Report.
3/  Excluding the undetermined proportion of the 15,000 day-laborers employed
by the Ministries of Agriculture and Defense who are partly involved in
construction work.
4/ Excluding artisans and owner-builders (para. 2.18).



-4-
Government and Parastatals
2.06      The Ministry of Public Works, Energy and Mining (MTPEM) 1/ is the
public agency most active in the construction sector. It is composed of a
Roads Directorate, a Buildings Directorate and a Directorate for the planning
of energy, infrastructure and housing programs. The Roads Directorate executes
all maintenance and small new works (below BuF50 million) for roads with its
own construction staff including more than 3,000 laborers, and supervises the
preparation and the execution of the larger road projects by contractors.
2.07      The Maintenance Department of the Buildings Directorate executes
all maintenance for the 1,500 Government buildings and houses with its limited
staff including about 7 professionals and 90 skilled workers. The Studies
and New Works Department (DETN) of the Buildings Directorate is in charge of
policies regarding the construction industry (e.g. contract conditions, cons-
truction standards) and generally assists in the preparation and supervision
of major Government building works with a staff of about 20 construction
technicians including 5 expatriates.
2.08      Other ministries (particularly Agriculture, Army and Education) do
some construction work on force account, mostly for building maintenance and
generally under MTPEM's supervision, but their joint construction output is
notably smaller. However, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of IDA's
First Education Project, set up in 1977 under the Ministry of Education has
undertaken a large construction program for 100 primary schools with its own
departmental force including 5 professionals; in 1979, it succeeded in parti-
cular in importing cement directly at prices about 30% below local market
rates.
2.09      REGIDESO, the parastatal for water and power development, executes
all maintenance and some new works in the water sector, and all maintenance
and about 25% of new works in the power sector. It is subcontracting all the
larger or technically complex new works solely to foreign contractors, as it
does not consider the local contractors qualified for them. REGIDESO's staff
includes 28 engineers and technicians, 35 skilled workers, and about 1,400
laborers, who are mostly involved in civil works.
2.10      National Housing Agency (ONL) 2/ is a parastatal created in 1974 to
complement the small capacity of the private sector in the construction of
Government housing. Following poor financial management, it is now being
reorganized to become a profitable construction enterprise, with Dutch Aid
providing two management staff. The Dutch construction enterprise providing
two project managers and an accountant might eventually become a minority
shareholder. Aside from Government housing, ONL produces bricks (para. 2.42)
and intends to engage in small road maintenance. In 1980, ONL had 15 profes-
sional staff and 430 skilled workers.
1/   Ministere des Travaux Publics, de l'Energie et des Mines.
2/   Office National du Logement.



Private Construction Sector
2.11       Foreign Contractors.  These contractors include 7 subsidiaries
or branches of large foreign companies, mostly Belgian and Italians, and
about 10 smaller enterprises owned and managed by expatriate individuals.
The largest foreign subsidiary has in Burundi a total staff of 3,500 and has
been producing about a third of contract value in the formal sector, with a
quasi-monopoly in new road construction.
2.12      The remaining 6 foreign subsidiaries each have a total staff of
200 - 1,000 and net fixed assets of BuF20 - 200 million; and may thus be
defined as medium-scale enterprises (MSE). These MSEs generally have ade-
quate equipment and qualified staff, with the management and about a third
of professional positions held by expatriates. They benefit from the parent
company-s technical and commercial assistance, particularly for the direct
importation of raw materials in periods of shortages. The foreign subsidiaries
generally have the monopoly for civil works, technically complex works (e.g.,
high buildings, new roads, new power plants works) and larger contracts (above
BuF300 million); they have little interest and activity in the smaller building
and housing construction works.
2.13      The about 10 expatriate-owned firms are small-scale enterprises
(SSEs), each wîth a staff of 20 to 200 and fixed assets below BuF20 million.
These SSEs are very similar to the Burundi-owned SSEs (para. 2.14), except
that they were often created before 1970, and have been operating for a
longer time.
2.14      Domestic Contractors.  Excluding the ONL and artisans (paras. 2.10
and 2.18), there are about 20 enterprises with a Burundian owner-manager: 3
MSEs and about 17 SSEs as defined above, including 3 SSEs with only irregular
activity. The typical MSE was founded in 1972-75 by a businessman without
construction background who has recruited technical staff. It is staffed
with 2 engineers/architects, 6 technicians/foremen, 1 accountant and 300
skilled workers; equipped with 4 tippers, 1 heavy truck, 6 light vehicles,
5 mixers and 3 welding machines; and does contracts of BuF5 - 200 million.
About 20% of its technical staff (engineers, technicians) are expatriates.
The typical SSE was founded in 1978-80 by an experienced construction techni-
cian.  Its staff includes 4 foremen, 50 skilled workers, and no engineers and
accountants; it is equipped with 1 tipper, 1 truck, 2 light vehicles, 1 mixer
and 1 welding machine; and does contracts of BuFO.5 - 25 million.
2.15      These domestic enterprises mostly work on Government buildings and
housing, and, in the case of SSEs, some high-income private housing. They
are generally underequipped and labor-intensive. These enterprises generally
have a weak liquidity situation, but are profitable and resisted well the
construction material shortages in 1979. They have a low indebtedness, with
a debt/equity ratio generally below 0.4:1, suggesting a strong borrowing
capacity.



-6-
2.16      Constraints to the Development of Domestic Contractors.  Domestic
enterprises interviewed cite as major problems lack of finance and shortages
of construction materials. Commercial banks mainly provide performance bonds
and guarantees for advance payments, as required from contractors for Govern-
ment contracts (para. 2.23). They also provide short-term credit against
bills certified by the Government, and occasionally loans of up to 3 years
for vehicle purchases. However, they tend to limit these credit/guarantee
facilities and require a security coverage of more than 100%, generally
through mortgages on real estate (and not on vehicles and other equipment).
Most contractors having totally mortgaged their real estate assets, mainly
rely on their cash-flow for pre-financing new contracts and renewing/expanding
equipment and working capital, and this restricts their growth.                             t
2.17      Although availability of construction materials has improved since
the acute cement shortage in 1979 (para. 2.28), local contractors continue to
suffer from intermittent shortages of various materials in addition to cement:
reinforcing steel, timber, and several hardware items with a small demand,
which are not kept in stock by importers. These shortages delay contract
completion and thus further weaken the cash-flow of local contractors. In
addition, contractors report difficulties with Government procurement proce-
dures. The general contract conditions based on the Belgian model are
complex and sometimes unsuitable for Burundi, while the special conditions
prepared for individual contracts often are rudimentary and provide little
guidance to contractors.
2.18      Artisans and Self-Construction.  In addition to the modern construc-
tion sector, there is a large number of self-employed artisans in both urban
and rural areas. Actually, most families can only afford traditional houses
that they build themselves or with the help of these artisans. Such houses
typically have mud-brick walls and a corrugated iron roof, and cost about
BuF160,000 each, as compared to BuF2.5 million for a modern house built by the
formal construction sector. In Bujumbura, 700 traditional houses have been
built per year during 1970-78, as compared to only 25 modern houses per year.
In 1978, there were about 2,300 construction artisans and apprentices in
Bujumbura, mostly masons, carpenters, brickmakers and metalworkers. These
artisans lack tools and their competence is uneven; some 200 of them are
expected to receive financial and technical assistance in the framework of
the Urban Project approved by IDA in June 1980 (report No. 2850-BU).
Availability of Construction Manpower
2.19    The lack of qualified local manpower is a constraint to growth and a
cause of foreign dominance in the construction industry. In addition to a few
local civil engineers and architects trained abroad, the yearly average output
of graduates from local technical schools during 1975-79 was limited to 13
surveyors and general construction technicians, 12 carpenters and masons, 10
electricians, and about 50 semi-skilled carpenters and masons. Contractors
have been hiring some operators and foremen particularly from Zaire and other
neighboring countries, but shortages of specialized workers appear more
difficult to overcome. Qualified plumbers are reportedly in particularly
short supply.



- 7 -
2.20      The major thrust of the Second Education Project approved by IDA on
January 29, 1980 (Report No. 2659-BU), is to set up two construction schools
which are expected to start graduating in 1987 some 80 middle-level technicians
and 125 skilled workers per year (including 27 plumbers). The total annual
output of specialized manpower would then represent 45% of the projected
requirements of the construction sector; the remainder would have to be
trained on the job.
Regulatory Framework
2.21      General regulations affecting construction activities (e.g. contract-
ing, construction standards, labor, safety) are mostly based on the original
Belgian legislation, partly updated and adapted by several decrees. These
regulations are generally sound but rather complex, and are not systematically
publicized and enforced.  Construction standards, however, have become obsolete
and do not take into account the local construction techniques and materials.
In practice, foreign contractors refer to current European standards for large
works, but for small works, contractors receive only limited instructions on
the special conditions of Government contracts. Simple general guidelines for
small works would need to be drawn up and publicized among contractors and
home-builders.
2.22       Procurement.  The Government procurement procedure is of particular
importance, since about 80% of the total value of construction work is produced
through Government contracting of private enterprises. This procedure is
simple. For every construction project, the implementing Ministry has to
submit a project proposal file including the construction plans, special
contract conditions and tender form, to an interministerial Tender Committee
(TC) chaired L.y a representative of the Finance Ministry and including repre-
sentatives of MTPEM and the Planning Ministry. Before approval, the TC
normally requires a technical review which is generally conducted by MTPEM.
2.23      Locally advertised competitive bidding is required for contracts of
more than BuFl million, and international competitive bidding is decided on a
case by case basis.  Following a review of bids by a technical committee
including staff of MTPEM, the TC selects a contractor; among recent contracts,
the lowest bidder was rejected in only 20% of the cases, mostly for lack of
technical references. Until now, the Government has not felt the need for a
price preference for local contractors, presumably because large foreign
contractors concentrate on large and technically complex works, where they
are irreplaceable. Foreign contractors require on average 50% of payments in
foreign exchange. The Government uses fixed-price contracts for small jobs,
and, for large works, admeasurement contracts where most of the activities
are paid according to unit rates and actual quantities. The Governnent
normally requires performance bonds of 10-20% of contracts, retention money
of 5-10%, and bank guarantees for the advance payments which have been
limited to 15% of contracts since 1980. The supervision of contracts is
generally entrusted to MTPEM's staff who regularly visits the work sites and
certifies the contractors bills for disbursements.



- 8 -
2.24       The overall procurement procedure is generally sound but not
rigorously applied. The major shortcomings are: (i) special contract con-
ditions which are often scanty or incomplete, due to insufficient technical
project preparation; (ii) the absence of a classification of contractors
leading to inefficiencies in contractor selection; and, (iii) the shortage of
qualified staff for contract supervision.
2.25       In summary, although the construction production sector achieved a
remarkable increase in output in 1977/78, it may have reached its limits and
it will have increasing difficulties to meet the growth of the demand due to
major general constraints: (i) the irregular supply of construction materials
(para. 2.31); (ii) the lack of financing for contractors (para. 2.16); and
(iii) the shortage of qualified manpower (para. 2.19). In addition, the
regulatory framework and procurement procedure need to be updated and more
rigorously enforced.
B.    Construction Materials
2.26      The production of local materials has been neglected in the past;
therefore Burundi has to rely heavily on imported construction materials.
Ninety percent by value of the materials used by the formal sector (specializ-
ing in the construction of high-grade housing and public works) is imported.
In the informal sector which accounts for about 5% of building activities in
the country, the proportion is about 40% and consists mainly of corrugated
galvanized sheet, cement and hardware. In 1979, the imported construction
materials amounted to 36,000 tons with a total value of BuFl.2 billion. This
represented 25% of the country-s imports in volume and 9% in value.
2.27      The construction material market in Burundi is generally character-
ized by high irregularities in supply, sharp variations in prices, and periodic
shortages of such basic materials as cement and reinforcing steel. During
the last 2 years (1978-80), these constraints have become more acute with the
rapid development of the country-s overall investments, particularly in the
housing, power and road sectors. Because of cement shortages, only two-third
of investments projected for 1979 in the 1978-82 five-year plan were realized,
thus causing a decline of over 6% in real terms in the value added of the
construction sector.
Imported Materials 1/
2.28      Cement, galvanized sheet and reinforcing rods for concrete are the
three main materials used in construction. In 1979 they alone accounted for
1/   Burundi's main sources of supply are the EEC countries, the People's
Republic of China, Zaire and Tanzania. In 1979/80 the latter two
major African suppliers furnished more than 60% of Burundi's imports
from Africa and 30% of its total imports.



- 9 -
88% of the volume of construction material imports and for 62% of their CIF
value, Cement is the primary material used in the construction sector,
accounting for over 74% (27,000 tons) of total construction material imports
by volume in 1979 and 32% (BuF381 million) of theîr CIF value. However, the
consumption of cement in 1979 remained below the projections of the 1978-82
five-year plan (30,000 tons). This discrepancy was due to import difficulties
(para. 2.31). The same remark applies to the consumption of reinforcing
steel, which fell from 3,500 tons in 1978 to 995 tons in 1979. However,
consumption of galvanized sheet rose by 53% from 2,194 tons in 1978 to 4,100
tons in 1979. This latter material is mostly used in the informal sector for
low-income housing.
2.29      Mainly because of shortages, prices of imported construction
materials are subject to wide variations. For instance price of cement in
1979 fluctuated between BuF16,000 per ton and BuF36,000.
2.30      In the coming years, considering the stagnation in the purchasing
power of the population and the foreseen increase in the price of galvanized
sheet due to high cost in transport, the annual demand for this material is
expected to remain stable at the 1979 level of about 4,000 tons.  On the
contrary, the consumption of cement in the formal sector, where 70-80% of the
imported cement is used, is expected to more than triple, increasing from
27,000 tons in 1979 to about 88,000 tons in 1985. Therefore, given the large
demand for cement, its great impact on the development of the sector, and its
high selling price, a promotion policy in favor of local materials should
fo.ius on those that are likely to partially replace the use of cement.
Import Difficulties
2.31      Because it is land-locked and suffers from poorly organized trans-
port facilities (congestion in ports of Dar es Salaam and Mombasa, difficult
rail links, hazardous roads) Burundi obtains its construction materials under
the most adverse conditions, involving merchandize losses, excessive freight
costs and delivery times ranging from seven months to a year. This irregularity
in supply results in disorganized construction sites and excessively high
operating costs, while also making it difficult for contractors to complete
jobs on schedule. Moreover, in 1978/79, because of the political/military
conflict in the countries of transit (Tanzania and Uganda) supply problems
worsened, resulting in hikes of more than 25% in the prices of materials.
2.32       Besides the shortage of basic materials, the lack of secondary
materials (such as sanitary and electrical equipment, hardware, faucets and
fittings, pipes) also hampers the progress of construction projects. In the
face of all these constraints private local Burundian 1/ and foreign 2/
importers and the National Office for Trade (ONC), a public parastatal
1/   Such as Impex, Socimex.
2/   Such as Utema-Travhydro (a Belgian subsidiary); Hatton and Cokson
(a subsidiary of the Unilever group).



- 10 -
company importing a wide variety of goods, do not ensure a regular supply of
imported construction materials. ONC and the private Burundian importers
lack management capabilities, particularly in inventory control. This
results in stocks being continuously exhausted and those who do have supplies
tend to hold them from the market in order to create speculative price
increases.
ONIMAC 1/
2.33      To alleviate the problems caused by such variations in price levels
and import volumes, and in an effort to rationalize the country's supply
of construction materials, the Government decided to set up ONIMAC which
was created as a public parastatal company, specifically responsible for the
import of construction materials. It was created in October 1978 with a
capital of BuF12.5 million, subsequently increased to BuF17.5 million in 1980.
The purpose of this new agency placed under the responsibility of the Minister
of Trade and Industry is to ensure the availability of imported construction
materials in the country and therefore regularize at more normal levels the
price of these goods.
2.34      The management of ONIMAC intends to concentrate its activities on
importing high priority materials such as cement, reinforcing steel, pipes and
tubes, corrugated sheets.
2.35      ONIMAC has an important role to play in regulating the influx of
construction materials in the country and in stabilizing the pricing of these
goods. As mentioned earlier (para. 2.32) the private importers which presently
enjoy an oligopolistic situation do not ensure an adequate supply of construc-
tion materials in the country and tend to speculate on their prices.
Local Materials
2.36      Locally produced construction materials include:  bricks, lime and
tiles. These could replace some of the cement and galvanized iron sheet in
construction. A number of other natural resources, such as sand, stone,
gravel, wood, bamboo, are also currently used in construction.
2.37      Lime and Pozzolanic Cement.  Fifty years ago the use of lime in
Burundi declined sharply when Portland cement became the preferred material.
During 1950-65 Burundi was regularly supplied with cement from a plant located
in Bujumbura, which was producing cement from imported clinker from Kalemie,
(Zaire). As cement was easy to use, compared to lime, it rapidly replaced it
1/   Office National d'Importation et de Commercialisation des Materiaux
de Construction et d'Equipement Domestique (National Office for the
Import and Marketing of Construction Materials and Domestic Equipment).



- hl -
in construction. But since 1966, wîth the closing down of the cement factory
because of flooding, Burundi started to import cement. In 1979, it imported
27,000 tons of cement at an average CIF price of about BuF14,000 per ton.
2.38      In view of the present problems regarding the supply and cost of
cement and because Burundi has large deposits of limestone (400 million tons),
the Ministry of Trade and Industry decided to expand domestic lime production.
SOMIBUROM, a public company formed in 1978, has been assigned the geological
exploration and the development of the country's major lime deposits. 1/ In
1979, 480 tons of lime were produced in the Southern part of Burundi by six
privately-owned small limekilns.  These limekilns are inefficient, underequipped,
and are facing shortages of fuel wood. UNIDO in conjunction with the United
Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) has introduced a program (for
1980/81) to build three limekilns. One of these, with an annual production
capacity of 1,500 tons, has already been set up, and a second one of 2,500
tons is under construction.
2.39      Starting in 1982, at least 4,000 tons should be available.  This would
still be well below the 15,000 tons which the market could absorb annually.
Presently lime is used only for painting low-income houses, although it could
have been more widely used in construction 2/, in agriculture, textiles, and
waste treatment. Moreover, besides these possible uses, lime can be used
in the manufacture of pozzolanic cement (lime ani activated kaolin).
Pozzolanic cement, (with a,strength of 105 kg/cm ) could replace two-thirds
of the Portland cement in all types of construction (low-cost and private
housi2g, public buildings) except in those where a higher strength than 105
kg/cm is required, such as reinforced concrete in buildings and bridges.
2.40      In order to promote the production of pozzolanic cement, the
Governrent decided to rehabilitate the former cement plant by setting up in
1977, a new company, the Enterprise Nationale de Chaux et de Ciment (ENACCI).
It is currently in the process of modernizing its equipment and plans to
install a 10,000 tons capacity limekiln (between now and 1982) that will
enable it to produce 20,000 tons of pozzolanic cement a year. A decrease in
imported cement consumption in Burundi could be effected if the Government
encouraged a larger use of lime and pozzolanic cement in all the projects
being currently implemented including projects under the financial assistance
of IDA 3/, EDF and UNCDF.
p                __
2.41      Furthermore a UN mining exploration project (UNDP/BDI/77/003) has
identified a large deposit of carbonatite in the Matongo-Bandaga area,
which could be used for the domestic manufacture of Portland cement. Feasi-
bility studies are under way to assess the financial and economic feasibility
1/   Bubanza, Buganba, Bukemba, Butare, Gihungwe, Kiofi, Makamba, Ngozi.
2/   For instance as lime mortar, or stabilized soil for road surfacing.
Mixed with sand, it can also be used to make bricks.
3/   Such as the Education and Urban Development projects.



- 12 -
of this project. However, in view of the characteristics of this deposit
wnich is located from 20 to 60 meters underground, the economic and financial
viability of this project appears doubtful.
2.42      Bricks.  Bricks are produced in most regions of Burundi (Gitega,
Giheta, Bukema, etc) by private manufacturers and by ONL. In 1979 production
was around 20 million bricks, 5.2 million of which were made by ONL.
2.43      In general, bricks made in Burundi are of uneven sizes and forms and
their resistance to compression and erosion is low. Their use in modern
construction leads to a larger use of cement as mortar than it would be
necessary with bricks of better quality. The low quality of these bricks is
due to poor mixing of clay, lack of shelter for storing and protecting bricks
during drying, and lack of skill in the building of kilns, so that many bricks
are baked insufficiently or too much. Moreover, in Bujumbura, the clay of the
quarry being exploited contains 40% of sand, making the bricks made in this
area of poorer quality compared to those from Muramvya, Giheta or Gitega.
Because of these defects in brick production, wastage is sometimes as high
as 30-50%, making production costs high. 1/
2.44      Without going into mechanized methods of production, it would be
possible to improve significantly the quality of the bricks, in particular
by using some simple equipment for the preparation of the clay. The construc-
tion of shelters for storing the bricks before they are baked would prevent
them from being damaged by rain. The provision of technical and financial
assistance on a modest scale, could contribute to a significant improvement in
the production of this basic material leading to its utilization on a larger
scale in construction. This would result in savings in cement requirements of
at least 2,000 tons/year 2/, (or 7.5% of 1979 cement imports). UNIDO is
currently preparing a long-term study for an industrial-scalé brick plant with
an annual capacity of 15 million bricks.
2.45      Other Local Materials.  Burundi produces also some baked tiles in
the areas of Gitega, and has quite large reserves of sand, gravel, pebbles and
stone from its rivers, thousands of hectares of bamboo in the south as yet
unused and some forests.
2.46      Baked Tiles and Bamboo.   Four different types of baked tiles
(machine-made, pantiles, flat and round) were widely used in Burundi, but were
progressively supplanted by galvanized sheets. Now only a small amount of
round tiles is still produced in the Gitega areas. However, a promotion of
round tiles (by improving their quality and increasing annual production to 10
million) would make it possible to substitute these for three-quarters of the
1/   The selling price per brick ranges from BuF2-4 in Bujumbura, BuF2-3
in Gitega and BuFl.3-2 in Ngozi, depending on the quality of the bricks.
2/   Substitution of 1 million cement blocks by bricks will result in an
annual saving of 2,000 tons of cement.



- 13 -
corrugated sheet presently imported. Experiments have shown that a combination
of eucalyptus, bamboo (providing it is treated against termites) and round
tiles makes an excellent roofing material. However, further studies on
production methods of light tiles, and on the possible uses of bamboo and its
treatment against insects are still necessary to enable larger uses of these
local materials in construction.
2.47      Lumber.  Wood is becoming increasingly scarce in Burundi since most
of the forests have been cleared under population pressure and for fuel wood.
A reforestation campaign is underway with assistance from EDF, IDA, FAC,
Saudi Arabia, and EIB. The Office National du Bois -- ONABOIS -- (National
Forestry Office) was formed in April 1980 to implement this reforestation
policy and to take steps to ensure better handling and maintenance of the
remaining national forestry resources. With a budgetary appropriation of
BuFlO million, ONABOIS started its activities in July 1980, and seems to have
difficulties in hiring the necessary qualified staff. Saw wood totals only
4,000 ha, and is often of mediocre quality. Thus this wood can be only used
in construction for forms and frames. Some 70-80% of the lumber for modern
construction is currently imported. For low-cost housing most of the framework
is made of eucalyptus poles.
2.48      In summary, various efforts are underway to increase the local
production of construction materials with a view toward their replacing
imported cement which is costly to the country. These programs include the
production of pozzolanic cement and of lime, the improvement of the quality
of the bricks produced and an increase in the volume of production. It is
estimated that if these programs develop as expected, about 22,000 tons of the
1985 forecast demand for Portland cement could be replaced by domestically
produced materials. This would result in foreign exchange savings (in 1980
prices) of BuF330 million.
C.   The Financial Framework of the Construction Industry
General
2.49      Most major financial institutions play some role in the financing
of construction: the Central Bank, (BRB), the three commercial banks (BANCOBU,
BCB, and Banque Belgo-Africaine), the development bank (BNDE), and two special-
ized institutions (CAMOFI and CADEBU). BRB issues import licenses for building
materials and rediscounts credit; commercial banks and CAMOFI extend short-term
credit guarantees; and CADEBU and BNDE mostly extend medium- and long-term
credit. In 1979, these institutions excluding BRB had total assets of BuFll
billion, distributed between:  BANCOBU - 29%, BCD - 25%, Banque Belgo-Africaine -
7%, BNDE - 12%, CADEBU - 14% and CAMOFI - 13%.  They had credits outstanding
totalling BuF8.1 billion. Based on limited data, the share of those credits
related to construction activities may be estimated at about BuFl.8 billion or
23%; it was mainly composed of medium- and long-term credit for public and
private housing (60%), and short-term credit (30%) mostly as advances under
large Government contracts.



- 14 -
The Commercial Banks
2.50      In 1979, credits outstanding from the three commercial banks totalled
BuF5.3 billion. The share of the construction sector was estimated at about
BuF600 million, of which more than 90% was short-term credit. In addition,
commercial banks had extended performance bonds and guarantees totalling
more than BuFl billion under contracts. Generally, the commercial banks artz
wary of granting medium- to long-term loans, and only do so when assured of
BRB refinancing, or the Government's guarantee. The assistance they provide
to construction enterprises is thus limited to granting of contract performance
bonds, guarantees for advances under contracts, and mostly short-term advances
through the discounting of contractor invoices certified by Government agencies.
Banque Nationale de Developpement Economique (BNDE)
2.51      This development bank provides medium- and long-term financing to
medium- and small-scale industries, agriculture, tourism and housing. On
March 27, 1978, BNDE was granted a first IDA credit of US$3.4 million equiva-
lent, of which US$3 million were for financing of the foreign exchange costs
of industrial subprojects, and US$0.4 million for technical assistance (2
experts). After a slow start, BNDE has recently made progress in the imple-
mentation of this project and the credit is almost fully committed. BNDE has
thus requested a second line of credit from IDA. IDA's mission to BNDE in
November 1981 recommended that, before a second line of credit be approved, a
study of the financial set-up should be done to clarify BNDE's role vis-a-vis
other term financing institutions.
2.52      In 1980, BNDE had a total portfolio outstanding of about BuFl.2
billion. The share of the construction sector amounted to BuF384 million
(31%) and was for financing individual private housing, and housing programs
sponsored by the public real estate agency (SIP).
Caisse d'Epargne du Burundi (CADEBU)
2.53      This savings bank receives deposits from Government agencies (12%),
and deposits from private individuals (88%). Most of its lending in the
construction sector is for the financing of houses.  In proportion to the
size of their savings deposits, CADEBU customers are granted short-term loans
for the financing of durable consumer goods, or working capital, or long-term
loans for the construction or improvement of housing and investment projects
in the social, agricultural or craft-industry sectors. Following the intro-
duction of savings at source and forced savings in Burundi in 1976/77,
the deposits collected by CADEBU have been increasing rapidly to reach
about BuFl.5 billion in 1979 and its lending operations have followed the
same trend. In 1979, the total loan portfolio outstanding had reached
BuFl.1 billion, including about BuF800 million (70%) for housing construction
and improvement loans mostly for urban areas.



- 15 -
Caisse Centrale de Mobilisation et de Financement (CAMOFI)
2.54      CAMOFI was set up in January 1979 by the Government with the objec-
tive to centralize all non-productive financial resources and re-inject them
into the economy through long- and medium-term loans for the financing of
development projects. It is to support the other financial institutions in
operations on a scale that exceeds their own financing capacity, by participat-
ing with them in consortium loans or by refinancing some of their lending
operations. The institution's present resources come principally from deposits
by the public or quasi-public 1/ sector and mixed-economy corporations and
from certificates of deposits taken by the banks in lieu of maintaining their
own obligatory minimum cash reserves. CAMOFI may also engage in borrowings in
the domestic and external markets.
2.55      As of December 1979, CAMOFI had already collected deposits totalling
BuF918 million, and extended a total credit amount of about BuF510 million; of
which BuF130 million (25%) went to the construction sector as bridging loans
(BuF65 million), prefinancing for 300 dwellings (BuF65 million), and a short-
term advance to ONL (BuFl5 million). For the period up to 1982, CAMOFI's
objective is to invest BuF2 billion in a series of projects including ware-
houses in Bujumbura, new housing for civil servants and expatriate assistance
personnel, and construction of new administrative buildings.
Credit Control
2.56      In May 1978, a new credit policy was introduced defining which
lending operations by financial institutions would require prior consent from
BRB. The present situation is that the total credit made available by the
financial institutions as a group to any individual enterprise may not exceed
BuF3 million 2/ without the prior authorization from BRB. A global volume of
short-term rediscountable credit is fixed for every enterprise. Furthermore,
the new policy distinguishes between rediscountable and non-rediscountable
credits. The former are granted only for the financing of priority, public
contracts and economic investments that yield an adequate return or are
socially necessary. For instance, loans made for importing urgently needed
construction materials by local contractors or by ONC, and financing made
available to SIP for the construction of social housing or Government office
premises, would fall into this category. Consent to rediscounting is given
only if the financial structure of the enterprise in question is regarded as
satisfactory and if the need for financing can be justified. In practice,
only major domestic and foreign contractors obtain access to this type of
credit.
1/   Savings, social security and insurance entities or SIP, CADEBU,
ONIMAC, etc.
2/   Including both rediscountable and non-rediscountable credit.



- 16 -
Interest Rates
2.57      The Central Bank sets limits on all interest rates for lending,
rediscounting and deposits. Lending rates vary depending on whether the
operations are rediscountable or not. Following the readjustment in the
structure of interest rate on October 1, 1981 lending rates on non-rediscount-
able loans vary between 11% and 15%, according to the nature of the invest-
ment. Rediscountable medium credits are subject to lending rates of 7% to
11%, depending on what priority ranking the investment has. The same condi-
tions exist with regard to BRB rediscount rates, which vary between 4.5% and
9%. The minimum rates on savings and terms deposits range from 4.5% to 8%.
Inflation
2.58      The rate of price inflation has been high for several years, aver-
aging 22.1% in 1976-78, 25% in 1979 and 15% in 1980-81. In 1979, the main
causes of the increased price inflation were: (a) a growth of 20% in the
money supply (as compared to a growth of 2.7% in GDP); (b) the unsatisfied
demand for both domestic and imported goods; (c) high transport costs in the
border countries; and (d) imported inflation. Inflation was one of the major
causes of the rise in building material prices, and cost overruns lead to
suspension of work on numerous construction sites. As the local inflation
rate is projected to be in the order of 12% in 1982-84 the current interest
rates are slightly negative in real terms despite the recent readjustment.
The Bank and IMF are engaged in a dialogue with the Government on the interest
structure. A Bank mission visited Burundi in May 1981 to review the financial
set-up, including the interest rate structure.  Its report is under D:eparation.
Effectiveness of the Financial Set-up for Construction Financing
2.59      Overall, the financial sector in Burundi is relatively developed and
even somewhat overcrowded by the multiplicity of institutions and Governnent
agencies involved in promoting and financing industry. However, most of the
financial institutions are either mainly interested in financing trade or not
adapted to efficiently meet the needs of Burundian construction enterprises.
The general weakness of the construction industry dissuades the financial
institutions, and particularly the commercial banks, from taking a more active
role in financing that sector. When they do so, they insist on a security
coverage which many local contracting firms are unable to provide (100% of
their total medium- and long-term loans).  As a consequence, if construction
firms in Burundi are to develop further, they will require assistance on
flexible terms in financing their equipment and working capital needs.



- 17 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Background and Objectives
3.01      The main bottlenecks that are constraining the development of the
local construction industry include a heavy dependence on imported construc-
tion materials due to the insufficient production of local materials (paras
2.26 and 2.27) and obsolete construction standards (para. 2.21); the lack of
adequate financial and technical support to permit the growth of domestic
contractors who have development potential (para. 2.15 and 2.16); the lack of
qualified local manpower (para. 2.19). The project aims at removing some of
these obstacles through a number of actions that are distinct but interrelated:
(i) at the sector level, it would: (a) foster the production of
local materials to reduce the historical high dependence on imports; (b)
improve the industry's efficiency and reduce construction costs by adapting to
local realities the building code which still requires European standards; and
(c) strengthen the capacities of the Ministry of Public Works, Energy and
Mining (MTPEM) to supervise the implementation of construction projects;
(ii) at the enterprise level, it would assist in the development
of small and medium-sized contractors and also of producers of local materials
through provision of financial and technical assistance in a coordinated way.
3.02      The overall responsibility for the execution of the project and
the coordination of the various actions included would be assumed by a Project
Unit within MTPEM. As the project deals with a large number or private
entrepreneurs, ministerial departments and parastatals, the Project Unit
would be attached directly to the Minister of Public Works, Energy and Mining,
to ensure its autonomy and efficiency.
3.03      To meet the objectives stated in para. 3.01, the project includes
the following main components:
(i) at the sector level: development of the production of lime
and bricks; assessment of the viability of developing other
local construction materials, and study of ways and means to
improve the availability and regularity of imported con-
struction materials, and stabilize their prices; technical
assistance to MTPEM to improve its capability to supervise
and administer government-financed construction projects,
and to update and improve the construction code;
(ii)  at the enterprise level:  funds would be made available to
BNDE under a line of credit approach to finance producers
of local construction materials and contractors, with
technical assistance being provided by the Project Unit in
coordination with BNDE.



- 18 -
3.04      Although the actions to be taken under the project are distinct and
diverse, it is expected that they will be mutually reinforcing. For instance,
a revision of the building code would permit to make greater use of locally
produced construction materials while technical and financial assistance to
producers would assist in expanding the volume and improving the quality of
these materials; furthermore, a strengthening of local contractors through
financial and technical assistance would make them more capable of participat-
ing in Government construction projects while the training of the staff of
the MTPEM would result in a more efficient supervision of these government-
financed projects.
3.05      These project components are summarized as follows and explained in
detail in subsequent paragraphs:
Base Cost          % of
US$ million      Base Cost
1.   Develop and improve the production of
local construction materials _/                       1.4              29
2.   Assist the Ministry of Public Works, Energy
and Mining (MTPEM)                                    0.4               8
3.  Assist local construction companies                    2.5               52
4.   Operate the Project Unit                              0.5               il
4.8             100
3.06      This project is experimental and pilot in the sense that:  (i) it
does not address all the needs and constraints of the sector (e.g. it does not
aim at assisting enterprises in the roads construction and maintenance sector,
and will only prepare for solutions to improve regularity and availability of
imported raw materials); and (ii) there are uncertainties about the reactions
of beneficiaries during project implementation, as it is the first attempt at
providing coordinated assistance to producers and contractors. It is hoped
that, through this project, experience will be gained and lessons will be
learnt that permit to prepare a larger project to assist the construction
industry in a more integrated fashion. The Project Unit will be responsible
for preparing such a project, with IDA's assistance.
1/   This component also includes the preparation of a follow-up project.



- 19 -
B.   Detailed Features
1.   Development and Improvement of Local Construction Materials
(a) Construction of Limekilns
3.07      This component would finance the construction of two limekilns with
a production capacity each of 2,500 tons of lime per annum. These kilns would
be located one in the area of Bujumbura and the other in the Southern part of
the Country (Mosso area). These locations have been selected on the basis of
their relative proximity to the limestone deposits, the peat-bogs and the fuel
wood.
3.08      It is expected that the kilns would be owned and operated by private
contractors who would receive financial, technical and managerial assistance
under the project. The promoters to be selected by the Project Unit on the
basis of their technical and managerial capabilities would provide 25% of the
investment cost of the kilns and the balance would be financed by BNDE as
subloans from resources to be provided under the project. The Project Unit
will prepare and implement a program to promote the use of lime in the con-
struction sector in Burundi.
3.09      At present, the limestone used to produce the lime is picked up
by the producers in form of loose stones which are scattered through the
countryside. A more intensive development of lime production will require
that SOMIBUROM, a company jointly owned by the Burundian and Rumanian Govern-
ments, which is responsible for the exploitation of Burundi's mineral resources,
develop the extraction of limestone in quarries. The company has the technical
and managerial capabilities required to do so.
3.10      SOMIBUROM which already has information on limestone deposits in
Burundi would identify those deposits which would be the most appropriate for
lime production, particularly in the areas of Bujumbura and the Mosso and
prepare for the Government and IDA-s approval a program of development and
exploitation of these deposits within a time frame corresponding to the
forecast dates of construction of the limekilns (end of 1982) and their
start of operations (middle of 1983). During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government that SOMIBUROM will supply the limestone required
by the kilns, i.e. about 4,500 tons per annum in the Mosso area and 4,500 tons
per annum in the area of Bujumbura and this at a price sufficient: (i) to
cover at least SOMIBUROM's direct costs of production and an appropriate share
of its management, general and administrative costs; and (ii) to generate a
12% return before taxes of the value of the assets used for the production of
the limestone, including provisions for necessary working capital. The sub-
mission by SOMIBUROM of a program satisfactory to IDA and the signing of a
subsidiary agreement between the Government and SOMIBUROM would be a condi-
tion of effectiveness.
3.11      The kilns envisaged under the project use a combination of wood
and peat as fuel. Under the present conditions of operation of these kilns,
it seems unlikely that the proportion of wood can be much lower than 50%.
Each kiln, to produce annually 2,500 tons of lime, will require 1,900 cubic
meters of wood per year, which corresponds to the exploitation of 37.5 ha.



- 20 -
3.I2      In view of the deforestation problem in Burundi and the increasing
shortage of burning wood in the country, the project would include the set-
ting-up of plantations of eucalyptus in the vicinity of each of the two pro-
posed kilns. As the trees require seven years to grow, seven successive
blocks will need to be planted to ensure an adequate supply of wood for the
kilns, i.e., a total of 265 ha of eucalyptus for each kiln. The Director
of the Water and Forest Administration has indicated that such plantations
are quite feasible and that, until the new plantations are ready for exploita-
tion, a sufficient amount of fuel wood could be found within a 60 km radius
from the kilns.
3.13      In order to ensure in the future a regular supply of fuel wood
for the two limekilns, during negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government that the Water and Forest Administration will: (i) plant 37.5 ha
of eucalyptus per annum (i.e. 265 ha within a seven-year period) in the areas
of Bujumbura and the Mosso; (ii) start such plantation toward the end of 1982;
(iii) maintain and exploit these plantations; (iv) reserve the production from
these plantations for the limekilns to be financed by the project and to
charge them a price covering the full investment, operation and maintenance
costs of the plantations. This price will be reviewed annually by the Govern-
ment and the Association. Although the Water and Forest Administration's
technical and managerial capabilities are presently strained, there should be
no problem in view of the relatively small size of the plantations envisaged
under the project.
(b) Improvement of Brick Production
3.14      This component would provide financial, technical and managerial
assistance to brick manufacturers for the purpose of improving their opera-
tions and the quality of bricks produced. This could result in a wider use
of bricks in construction work.
3.15      The financial assistance would be geared toward the acquisition
of small equipment such as mixers and molds to obtain a better preparation
of the bricks, the construction of shelters for the bricks before they are
cooked, to avoid their being damaged by rain. The resources to be made
available for that purpose will be channelled through BNDE. A limited number
of brickmakers are expected to receive loans for that purpose. The managerial
assistance would be mainly in the areas of accounting and financial management
while the technical assistance would be, for selection of equipment, the
exploitation of deposits and the construction of the kilns where the bricks
are baked.  To that end, two experts, one in bricks and one in management,
assisted by Burundian counterparts, will be posted in the Project Unit which
will be responsible for implementing the project (para. 3.33). The management
expert will also advise the limekiln owners and the construction enterprises.
3.16      The project will provide assistance to improve the technology for
producing bricks. However, a major gause of present deficiencies is the use
of inadequate soil extracted from the quarry being exploited. In order to
improve significantly, in the immediate future, the quality of bricks pro-
duced in the area of Bujumbura, it was agreed with the Government during



- 21 -
negotiations, that it will make available to the brickmakers, for periods of
up to two years, a portion of the quarry of Kamenge, which has been prospected
for the establishment of an industrial brick plant and found to be of suffi-
cient size and satisfactory quality. To have access to the quarry, the
brickmakers will have to agree to following requirements: (i) produce bricks
of a single standardized format; (ii) exploit the quarry according to a method
which optimizes the quality of the bricks produced. This method will be
determined by the Project Unit.  After the initial two-year period this
arrangement will be reviewed by the Association and the Government.
(c)  Feasibility Studies and Preparation of Follow-up Project
3.17      This component would finance feasibility studies with a view toward
expanding the production of construction materials, improving the availability
and price of imported construction materials and strengthening the construc-
tion industry. For instance, other construction materials such as timber or
bamboo might be utilized more efficiently. Small-scale production of building
hardware, and the manufacture of construction tools better adapted to the
needs of the country, might usefully be developed.
3.18      The Project Unit (para. 3.33) will be responsible for preparing a
list of priority topics for investigation and a program for conducting these
studies. This document will specify the objectives of each individual feasi-
bility study, the staffing requirements in terms of man-months and particular
technical capabilities of participants, the expected costs, elapsed time,
possible consultants. This program, once approved by the local authorities,
will be submitted to IDA's approval before any study can be launched.
3.19      Before starting a particular study, the Project Unit will prepare
detailed terms of reference and a short list of consultants which will be
submitted to IDA's approval. If necessary, IDA shall assist in identifying
qualified consultants. The contracts to be signed wîth the firms selected
to carry out the feasibility studies shall be submitted to IDA for its
review and concurrence. The above procedure was discussed and agreed upon
with the Government during negotiations.
3.20      Finally, the Project Unit will be responsible for the preparation of
a project to follow this pilot project that would assist the construction
industry in a more comprehensive and integrated fashion (para. 3.06). To that
end, US$220,000 have been allocated under the project.
2.   Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Public Works, Energy
and Mining (MTPEM)
3.21      This component would finance technical assistance to the Studies and
New Works Department of the Buildings Directorate (DETN) 1/ of MTPEM which
generally acts as the agent of all Government bodies to complete tender
documents, analyze bids and supervise execution of contracts, except for works
under force account by specialized agencies (i.e. the Water Agency). At
1/ Direction des Etudes et Travaux Neufs (DETN).



- 22 -
present the DETN has to follow up on about 70 contracts (of which 40 are major
contracts), with a staff of 20 experienced technicians (including 5 expatri-
ates). In addition, the basic legal and technical documents and procedures
need to be improved. The strengthening of DETN-s staff and procedures is of
particular importance because: (i) the Government, being the purchaser of
more than 90% of all construction contract value, has a determinant impact on
the sector; and (ii) the Government technicians supervising contracts often
have a decisive role in directing the work and staff of construction enter-
prises in Burundi.
3.22      It is proposed that the project finance the following two staff
to be posted in DETN:  (i) a construction engineer for two years to elaborate
a general document specifying norms and procedures for the use of materials
and construction methods; to review the tendering documents used by the
Government (general and specific clauses), and set up a system of classifica-
tion for construction enterprises; (ii) a construction technician for two
years to provide on-the-job training for the staff of DETN regarding con-
struction procurement and follow-up in the field.
3.23      In order to draw maximum benefits from the advice and training of
these experts, and ensure adequate preparation and follow-up of the increasing
number of contracts it is important that at all times during the implementa-
tion of the project DETN be staffed with adequately qualified pesonnel in
appropriate number. The present staffing of DETN was reviewed during negotia-
tions and found satisfactory. It was also agreed that the Government and the
Association would exchange views annually on the adequacy of the staffing of
the DETN.
3.   Assistance to Local Contractors
3.24 (a) Technical Assistance. Two experts, a construction and a management
specialist, posted for two years in the Project Unit (para. 3.34) and
assisted by two Burundian professionals would be responsible for providing
professional assistance to enterprises upon request. The construction expert
would visit enterprises and give advice on the use of materials, construction
techniques and on the preparation and follow-up in the field of the most
difficult contracts.  He would organize training courses for general foremen
(chefs de chantier). The management expert would give advice on accounting,
supply management, and organize courses for accountants, technicians and
foremen. These two experts would also help enterprises to prepare their
requests for financial assistance. In addition, during a one year period,
an experienced technician would organize a series of courses for plumbers,
carpenters and masons to alleviate the existing shortage of qualified staff
in these fields. Furthermore, the management expert would give general assis-
tance to those local construction enterprises that will be selected for civil
works under the World Bank Third Highway Project.
3.25 (b) Financial Assistance. The project would include loans to local
enterprises for financing equipment renewal and expansion. These enterprises



- 23 -
would be selected on the basis of the following criteria 1/ which were agreed
upon with the Government during negotiations:
(a) maximum net fixed assets of BuFlO0 million (in 1980 prices);
(b) potential to develop into enterprises with qualified management
and staff, and suitable accounting systems;
(c) inability to obtain term finance through normal commercial
bank channels or from parent companies abroad;
(d) having been established and operated for at least 3 years in
Burundi.
3.26      It is estimated that 10 to 15 local enterprises, will fulfill the
requirements in terms of management, financial structure, technical capabili-
ties, to obtain those loans and be able with this financing to increase their
production capacity by about 30% within two years. These loans would be tied
to an expansion plan for the whole enterprise rather than to specific contracts.
3.27      Given that the proposed loan program is meant to promote on an ex-
perimental basis and at Government initiative, a new and fragile sector, the
Government would assume the foreign exchange risk on these loans and a seventy
five percent (75%) of the risk of non-repayment. In addition, BNDE which
would be responsible for administering this loan program (para. 3.36) would
receive an adequate margin in interest rates (4%) in order to bear the remain-
ing credit risk without- weakening its already low profitability. The condi-
tions to be included in a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
BNDE were agreed upon during negotiations. The signing of such an agreement
would be a condition of effectiveness.
C.   Terms and Conditions Specifie to the Credit Component 2/
3.28 (a)  Subloan Approval.  All subloans made by BNDE to enterprises
would be subject to IDA's review and approval.
(b)  Interest Rates.  The Government would lend to BNDE the funds
to be used for the subloans at a rate which would be 4 per-
centage points below the interest rate charged on these
subloans. BNDE would in turn lend these funds initially at
a rate of 12%. Although this rate will probably be negative
in real terms, it will be high compared to those charged by
other institutions. The interest rate charged to sub-borrowers
will be reviewed annually with BNDE and the Goverunent to
determine its adequacy.
I/   These criteria will also apply for the selection of lime and brick manu-
facturers.
2/   Subloans to construction enterprises, lime and brick manufacturers.
These terms and conditions apply to all subloans whether financed by IDA
or from the Government s contribution.



- 24 -
(c) Foreign Exchange Risk. The Government would assume the
foreign exchange risk on the subloans.
(d) Amortization Schedule. In conformity with IDA-s standard
policy, BNDE would repay to the Government the funds it would
have lent to local companies according to a flexible amor-
tization schedule that would conform substantially with the
aggregate of the amortization schedules of BNDE-s subloans
financed under this component, subject to a maximum of 15
years including a grace period not to exceed five years.
(e) Security. BNDE shall not reject, for security reason only, an
application for a subloan as long as such security would repre-
sent 50% of the amount of the subloan in the case of construc-
tion enterprises and 25% of the amount of the subloan in the
case of a limekiln promoter of brickmaker.
(f) Sharing of Risk between BNDE and the Government. The risk
on the subloans would be shared between BNDE and the
Government in a proportion of 25/75 respectively.
(g) Subloan Limit. To avoid that the resources available for
financing of enterprises be used only for a few projects or
enterprises: (i) the maximum subloan granted by BNDE for a
single project would be limited to US$400,000; (ii) no subloan
shall exceed 75% of the cost of the project it finances; and
(iii) a single enterprise would not receive subloans amounting
to more than the equivalent of US$400,000 in the aggregate.
These limits will apply regardless of whether the subloan is
financed from the IDA credit or from the Government's contribu-
tion to the financing of enterprises (para 3.32).
D.   Project Cost
3.29      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$7.4 million
(BuF663.6 million) of which US$4.8 million or about 65% represent the foreign
exchange component. The estimated costs and foreign exchange components are
summarized in table III-1 below. Base cost estimates are expressed in prices
as of September 1980.  Costs for the construction of the limekilns were based
on data provided by the UNIDO expert who supervised the construction of the two
existing limekilns in Burundi; those related to the eucalyptus plantations
were provided by the Water and Forest Administration in Burundi. The average
annual cost of expatriate staff (including international travel, salary and
benefits) was estimated at about US$100,000 or about US$8,300 per staff-month.
The cost of counterpart staff was based on current civil service base pay and
benefits. The financial assistance to local contractors was determined after
a detailed examination of their needs for equipment and permanent working
capital. Other costs financed within the project include gasoline, insurance
and maintenance for project vehicles for a period of two years. The project
cost estimate will be discussed and agreed upon with the Goverument during
negotiations.



- 25 -                                              TABLE III -
BURUNDI
PILOT PROJEC-i FOR DOMESTIC CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
Summa r y- cf Project  Costs
(Base costs at 'ptember 1980 prices)
BuF mi'lion                          US$ thousand               % Foreign
Project Component                  Local      Foreign    Total           Local      Foreign    Total        Exchange
I.    Develop and Improve Local
Construction Materials
1.  Limekiln construction            14.7       19.2       33.9          162.8       213.5      376.3         57
2.  Eucalyptus plantation             7.5         -          7.5          83.4        -          83.4          -
3. Equipment for brick
production                      0.9         8.1        9.0           10.0       90.0       100.0        90
4.  Technical assistarce !/          13.3        25.2       38.5         148.0       280o0      428.0         65
5.  Feasibility studiEf               3.6       36.0       39.6           40.0      400.0      440.0          91
Sub-total I                   40.0        88.5      128.5         444.2       983.5   1,427.7          65
II.    Assist Ministry of  Public
Works, Eqergy &
Mining (MTPEM)
Technical'Assistance2/           12.5       23.2       35.7          138.5       258.0     396.5          65
Sub-total Il                  12.5        23.2       35.7         138.5       258.0      396.5         65
III.    Assist Domestic Con2truction
Compan ees
1.  Financial assistance            64.7        121.8      186.5         719.0    1,353.0   2,072.0           65
2.  Technical assistance3/           13.2        27,2       40,4         146.5       302.5      449.o         67
Sub-total III                 77.9       149.0      226.9         865.5    1,655.5   2,521.0           66
IV.    Operate Project Unit
1.  Staffing4/                       10.4        14.4      24.8          116.0       160.0      276.0         58
2,  Premises                          2.4         _          2.4          27.0        -          27.0         -
3.  Vehicles                          5.0        10.6       15.6          55.0       118.3      173.3         68
4. Office furniture and
equipment                       0.5          1.8       2.3            5.0       20.0        25.0         80
5.  Miscellaneous                     0.7         o.6        1.3           8.0         7.0       15.0         47
Sub-totai IV                  19.0        27.4       46.4          211.0      305.3      516.3          59
Base   Costs                   149.4       288.1      437.5       1,659.2    3,202.3   4,861.5            66
(Sub-total I - IV)
Physical Contingencies                8.0        12.2       20.2          89.0       135.9      224.9         60
(4.6% of total base cost)
Price Contingencies                 77.4        128.5     205.9          859.8    1,427.7   2,287.5           62
47%  of total base cost)
TOTAL PROJECT COST            234.8        428.8      663.6       2,608.0    4,765.9   7,373.9            65
EAPID
March 1982
I/  One lime and one brick experts with counterparts.
2/ One construction engineer and o,e construction technician with counterparts.
3/ One technical adviser, one management adviser, and one training specialist with counterparts.
-The Director of the Project Unit, his Burundian couterpart, clerical and other staff.



- 26 -
3.30      Contingency Allowance.  Physical contingencies of 10% have been
allowed for the construction of the limekilns, the eucalyptus plantations
and the technical assistance components. Estimated price increases are based
upon the following annual rates for which price escalation has been calculated
from the base costs (September 1980) in accordance with the implementation
schedule presented in table III-3 below. As particularly steep increases in
transport costs to Burundi can be expected, contingencies for the foreign
components with such costs have been adjusted to take these costs into con-
sideration.
1980     1981      1982      1983     1984
Local Component                       20%      15%       12%       12%      12%
Foreign Component                     17%      12%       10%       10%      10%
Total price contingencies including those on the physical contingencies are
estimated at 47.0% of the total base cost of the project.
Duties and Taxes
3.31      Equipment and material imported under the project by the local con-
struction companies, the lime and brick producers would be subject to the
import duties and taxes normally levied on these items. However, all items
specifically imported for the administration of the project and the salaries
of expatriate staff would be exempt from customs duties and taxes in accor-
dance with the normal practice of the Government. The total amount of taxes
expected to be levied by the Government is estimrted at about US$0.631 million.
E.   Financing Plan
3.32      An IDA Credit of US$5.2 million (BuF468 million) is proposed which
would finance about 70% of total project cost including 100% of the foreign
exchange requirements and about 17% of local cost. The total Government
contribution would be of about US$1.2 million equivalent i.e. BuF108 million
(of which about US$0.6 million would be recovered in duties and taxes) which
would represent about 17% of total project cost (about 8% after recovery of
duties and taxes). It would include a line of credit of US$430,000 (BuF39
million) to BNDE for financing part of the local costs of subloans to local
enterprises (lime producers, brickmakers, contractors) and US$810,000 (BuF73
million) for financing other components of the project. As conditions of
effectiveness, the Government would: (i) open the line of credit to BNDE by
depositing the equivalent of US$110,000 in a BNDE account to be opened at the
Central Bank; and (ii) deposit the equivalent of US$110,000 in the Project
account at the Central Bank for the financing of other components. Subsequent
deposits in the BNDE account would be as follows: the equivalent of US$110,000
by July 31, 1982 and the equivalent of US$210,000 by January 31, 1983. Other
deposits in the Project account would be as follows: the equivalent of
US$33,000 by July 31, 1982 and, commencing January 31, 1983 four semiannual
installments each amounting to no less than the equivalent of US$167,000. The
contribution from the producers of lime and bricks and from the local contrac-
tors would amount to about US$900,000 equivalent, or about 13% of the total
project cost. The financing plan of the project is presented in Table III-2
below. It was discussed and agreed upon with the Government during negotiations.



BURUNDI
PILOT PROJECT FOR LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
Financing Plan (Amounts in thousand of dollars)
IDA          National Government  Local Coppanies
Component                           Total.Cost    Amount       _ _    Amount             %      Amount       %
Loans to enterprises
(lime producers, brick-
makers, contractors)                 3,733        2,370          63       429         12         934        25
Technical assistance to
enterprises and MTPEM               2,279        1,850          81       429         19          -          -
Studies
(feasibility studies and
preparation of second
project)                              600          540          90         60         10
Tree plantation                         182         -             -         182        100
Equipment and operation
of Project  Unit                       380          240          63        140        37
Unallocated                             200          200         100        -            -
7,374       5,200          70      1,240         171/       934        13
1/ Including taxes of $631,300 to be levied from the project (import duties).  When taxes are deducted
f rom the Government's contribution to the project, its share of the financing of the
project represents about 8% of total project cost.
EAPID
March 1982



- 28 -
F.   Project Management and Implementation
Project Unit
3.33      Overall responsibility for project execution would be with the
Ministry of Public Works, Energy and Mining. A Project Unit would be estab-
lished in this Ministry to coordinate and supervise all aspects of project
implementation.  It would report directly to the Minister of Public Works,
Energy and Mining and would oversee the technical, administrative and finan-
cial aspects of project execution. In particular, it will ensure adequate
coordination between the two Ministries involved in the project:  Public
Works, Energy and Mining; Commerce and Industry.  Although the latter Ministry
would not receive direct assistance under the project, it would be consulted
on all aspects of the project related to industrial production (lime, brick
manufacturing) because of its responsibilities in the sector.
3.34      The staffing of the Unit is presented in Annex 4.  In addition
to an expatriate director, a Burundian codirector and a Burundian deputy
director, the unit would include one lime and one brick expert responsible for
providing technical assistance to the lime producers and the brickmakers; one
construction expert to provide technical assistance to the contractors; one
management expert to assist the entrepreneurs in the three sectors of activity
(lime, brick, construction). Furthermore, a training specialist would prepare
and conduct courses and workshops for plumbers, carpenters and masons. These
experts, likely to be expatriates, will have Burundian counterparts. During
negotiations, it was agreed that the Government and the Association would
exchange views, annually, on the adequacy of the Ftaffing of the Project
Unit.
3.35      The provision of technical assistance to producers and contractors
has been assigned to the Project Unit rather than to BNDE because experience
with other projects, notably SSI, has shown that it is preferable to separate
the technical assistance and the financial assistance functions rather than
combining them into a single institution. Furthermore, the technical assist-
ance provided by the Project Unit will not be limited to enterprises receiving
financial assistance under the project. During the preparation of the follow-
up project, alternative ways of providing both types of assistance will be
explored. The Project Unit would provide assistance to the small contractors
in obtaining imported construction materials. It would also make recommenda-
tions to the Government toward improving the availability and prices of these
materials.
Financial Intermediary
3.36      The expert team in the Project Unit would help the local contractors
and lime and brick manufacturers prepare request for loans and would do
preliminary project appraisals. They would also remain available for consul-
tation to resolve major problems occurring during loan follow-up and collec-
tion; BNDE would take charge of the general administration of these loans:
appraisals, approvals, disbursements, follow-up and collections.



- 29 -
Schedule
3.37      The project would be implemented over a period of about two and a
half years after the date of credit effectiveness. Project completion is
expected by December 31, 1984 except for the credit component which is expected
to be fully disbursed by June 1986. During negotiations, the implementation
schedule presented in table III-3 was discussed and agreed upon with the
Government.
Monitoring and Reporting
3.38      Monitoring of project components by the Project Unit would ensure
that information essential to project execution is available. Quarterly
reports would be prepared to monitor progress toward project goals. The
format of these reports was discussed and agreed upon at negotiations.
Recovery of Costs from Beneficiaries
3.39      The recipients of the subloans will repay them to BNDE under amor-
tization schedules in line with the conditions described in para 3.28(d). The
technical assistance to the local firms (lime producers, brickmakers, con-
tractors), will be provided free of charge, so that these beneficiaries would
be encouraged to use these services.
Procurement
3.40      Subloans.  BNDE would supervise procurements under subloans for
brick and lime producers and for contractors. BNDE-s procurement practices
are generally acceptable, and normally involve the review of offers from at
least three suppliers. In addition, IDA would review procurement adequacy as
part of its standard procedure for the approval of individual subprojects.
3.41      Technical Assistance.  The Government had invited 8 consulting
firms, acceptable to the Association in terms of experience and qualification,
to submit proposals and, among those, it selected Louis Berger International,
Inc. The 8 experts in the Project Unit and MTPEM (para. 3.34) would be
employed under a contract of about US$1.1 million equivalent with the consultant.
The Government has submitted to the Association for its concurrence a draft of
the proposed contract with Louis Berger International, Inc.
g         3.42      The Project Unit would be responsible for administering the procure-
ment of consulting and expert services for the feasibility studies, with IDA's
assistance and in accordance with IDA-s respective guidelines. The contracts
for these studies totalling US$220,000 are expected to be directly negotiated
with individual consultants, gîven their costs and specialized nature (para.
3.15).
3.43      Equipment of the Project Unit.  The purchase of vehicles, office
equipment, furniture and furnishings for the Project Unit would be under



BURUNDI
PILOT PROJECT FOR LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
Proposed Project Schedule
1981                     1982                      1983                      1984
1-3  4-6  7-9  10-12   1-3  4-6  7-9  10-12   1-3  4-6  7-9  10-12   1-3  4-6  7-9  10-12
Negotiations                                                                                 x
Board                                                                                            x
Effectivenes a                                                                                         x
I. Develop and Improve Local Construction Materials
1.  Construction of 2 limekilns.  Lime promotion                                                      __..........
2.  Plantation of eucalyptus
3.  Purchase of equipment for brickmakers                                                     -___-_-
4. Technical assistance                                                                 __
5.  Feasibility studies.  Preparation second project
II.  Assist Ministry of Public Works, Energy and
Mining (MTPEM)
Technical Assistance                                                                         ____
III. Assist Local Construction Companies
1.  Financial assistance
2.  Technical assistance
IV. Operate Project Unit
Staffing                                                                                _
LEGEND
Design/Preparation
Construction/Implementation
.... Promotion
EAPID
March 1982
ta~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



- 31 -
competitive bidding advertised locally but would also be open to bidders
without local representation. Under local competitive bidding, procedures
for bid evaluation and award are patterned after those commonly used interna-
tionally, and winning foreign bidders may be paid in foreign exchange.
Disbursement
3.44      Disbursements would be made on the basis of:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
equipment, vehicles, materials and furniture, and
75% of local expenditures for goods procured locally
but previously imported;
(b) 65% of total expenditures for civil work;
(c) 100% of foreign and 50% of local expenditures for consultant
services for the Project Unit;
(d) 100% of foreign and 80% of local expenditures for consultant
services for feasibility and other studies;
(e) 100% of foreign and 80% of local expenditures for the
purchase of equipment for the Project Unit and for the cost
of operation of the Project Unit.
(f) 100% reimbursement of the PPF advance to complete
the preparation of the project and establish the
Project Unit.
3.45      All disbursements would be fully documented.  In the case of
subloans to lime and brick producers and contractors, BNDE would be required
to apply a disbursement supervision procedure acceptable to IDA, and involving
physical inspections upon delivery with a view to discourage possible over-
invoicing.
3.46      The schedule of estimated disbursements of the proposed IDA Credit
is given in Table III-4 below:



- 32 -
Table III-4  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IDA Disbursement    Cumulative Disburse-            %
Quarter           each quarter       mends, end of quarter    Cumulative
IDA FY     Ending            (US$ million)         (US$ million)           Disbursements
1983    September 30, 1982        0.2                  0.2                      4
December 31, 1982        0.3                   0.5                     10
March 31, 1983            0.3                  0.8                     16
June 30, 1983            0.3                   1.1                     22
1984    September 30, 1983        0.4                   1.5                    30
December 31, 1983        0.4                   1.9                     38
March 31, 1984            0.5                  2.4                     48
June 30, 1984            0.5                   2.9                     58
1985    September 30, 1984        0.4                   3.3                    66
December 31, 1984        0.4                   3.7                     74
March 31, 1985            0.4                  4.1                     79
June 30, 1985            0.3                   4.4                     85
1986    September 30, 1985        0.3                  4.7                     90
December 31, 1985         0.2                  4.9                     94
March 31, 1986            0.2                  5.1                     98
June 30, 1986            0.1                   5.2                    100
Audit
3.47      Not later than six months after the close of each Government fiscal
year, the management of the Project Unit would submit to IDA suitable finan-
cial statements reflecting the financial operations and position of the proj-
ect. These financial statements would be audited by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA. The cost of these audits would be financed under the
technical assistance component of the project. BNDE already submits audited
annual statements to IDA.
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A.   General Justification and Project Benefits
4.01      The value added of the construction sector of Burundi increased from
1.9% of GDP in 1974 (BuF3,481 million) to 4.9% in 1979. 1/ However, between
1978 and 1979, the value added decreased by 6% in real terms because of a
cement shortage due to transportation problems in neighboring countries in a
state of war. Now that the situation has normalized, the growth of the sector
is likely to continue.
1/   Source:  "The Economy of Burundi in 1979.` Ministere du Plan.



- 33 -
4.02      The development of local lime production and the improvement of the
quality of brick production should lessen the burden of irregular imports in
terms of prices and shortages; the expected consequence is a substantial
improvement of the contractors construction material supply and, consequently,
of their financial and economic returns.  The assistance to Burundian companies
will allow them to take full advantage of these improvements while giving them
the technical and organizational means they need to participate in the growth
of the sector and to enhance their share of the market.
4.03      Overall, one should therefore expect a substantial positive effect
on the balance of payments, growth of industrial activity and, consequently,
of the GDP. Moreover, the development of new jobs and the rise of a class of
domestic contractors are likely to strengthen the economy of the country with
new initiative and organizational skills.
4.04      As the elements pertaining to the economic valuation of the various
project components are very dissimilar, the analysis has to be limited to
each element of the project without losing sight of their complementarity nor
of the additional benefits that will be derived from it.
B.   Benefits from Specific Project Components
The Limekilns
4.05      Economic Rate of Return.  The economic benefits of the project
are estimated on the assumption that, for some work, locally produced lime
will substitute for imported cement.  The results of the economic caleulation
are as follows:
Rates of Return
2,500 tons   2,500 tons
Mosso         Bubanza
1.  Basic assumption:                    83.6%       121.4%
Cement price constant
2.  Cement cost                         92.7%        132.3%
+ 1% per year
3.  Cement cost                        101.9%        143.3%
+ 2% per year
4.  Fuel Cost                           80.5%        120.2%
+ 7% per year
5.  Using shadow exchange rate 1/        93.1%       135.9%
1/   Official rate of exchange:  US$ = BuF90
Shadow exchange rate:         US$ = BuFlOO



- 34 -
4.06      The rates of return are rather high, which is quite logical in
view of the low investment costs required for semi-industrial limekilns and
the high price of imported cement compared to the costs of lime produced
domestically.
4.07      Effects on the Balance of Payments.  These effects calculated in
1980 prices are as follows:
BuFmillion
2,500 tons    2,500 tons
Mosso         Bubanza
1.  Gross annual foreign exchange savings         45.5           45.5
2. Annual costs in foreign currencies
- fuel                                       5.2            1.9
- truck maintenance                          2.4            1.3
3.   Net annual foreign exchange savings          37.9           42.3
As can be seen, the substitution of lime for imported cement will have a favor-
able impact on the balance of payment.
4.08      Effects on Employment and Manpower Development.  The two limekilns
will generate a total of about 165 permanent jobs, which is rather low.
However, if, on the whole, the numerical effect on employment will be limited,
the construction of the limekilns will cause another, hardly measurable,
effect on a certain category of the population: the managers of small enter-
prises and staff members to whom this experience will be an initiation to
production technique, organization methods and industrial management. There
are good reasons to think that, after a few years, the best among the entre-
preneurs will be able to expand their business and use more advanced technolo-
gies and means. In a country like Burundi which has little or no industrial
tradition, this kind of evolution will be most beneficial.
Assistance to Local Contractors
4.09      The primary benefit of this component would be to assist in the
development of local entrepreneurs and strengthen the financial capabilities
of their enterprises through access to credit, in a construction sector overly
dominated by large foreign enterprises. The larger part of IDA-s contribution
(81%) under this component would be to finance through BNDE subprojects for the
consolidation and expansion of the production capacity of some 10 to 15 selected
local contractors. Benefits in terns of value-added, employment and foreign
exchange savings are expected to be substantial, in view of the high capital
productivity and labor-intensity of the sector, and considering that foreign
contractors require on average 50% of payments in foreign exchange. IDA would
review the financial profitability and other benefits of specific subprojects
at the time each subproject is formulated and submitted for approval, according
to the usual procedure for DFC projects.



- 35 -
Assistance to the Brick Industry
4.10      Burundi produced some 20 million bricks in 1979 and the 1980 pro-
duction is estimated at some 25 million. Bricks cost BuF3 1/ and sell BuF4
each. However, 40 to 50% of production are lost at the brickyards, during
transportation, or at the construction site and, as a result, the industry as
a whole is operating at a loss. Taking these losses into account, the 1980
turnover of the sector was in the BuF50 to BuF60 million range, with an
operating deficit of BuF15 to BuF25 million.
4.11      The main purpose of the assistance to be provided by the project is
to reduce losses to a level not exceeding 30% of production after two years of
assistance. As a result, the total turnover of the brick industry should
increase by 10 to 20 million BuF and, consequently, its profitability should
improve. To reach this objective, the following investments (in 1980 prices)
will be made:
Equipment:                                 US$100,000 or BuF 9,000,000
Consultancy services during two years:  US$200,000 or BuF18,000,000
Total                                 US$300,000    BuF27,000,000
4.12       It is estimated that five years with a discount rate of 15% would be
sufficient to make the sectoral profits balance the cost of assistance.
C.   Risks Associated with the Project
4.13      Despite its relatively limited scope, the proposed project is
nevertheless a complex and multi-faceted one which is likely to be difficult
to implement. First, it involves various public and private institutions:
two ministries 2/, the development bank, promoters of limekilns, brickmakers,
local contractors. As a result, the task of coordinating the assistance could
be quite burdensome. Second, BNDE, the financial intermediary proposed for
the project, still has some internal problems which could be a delaying factor
in project implementation. These risks are the usual ones associated with a
project providing under several components technical and financial assistance
in a country whose absorptive capacity is limited. In addition, there are the
risks associated to dealing with the construction sector, a difficult and risk
sector indeed and, in particular the uncertainties about the reaction of
beneficiaries to the proposed assistance.
1/   Source:  ONL.
2/   Public Works, Energy and Mining; Commerce and Industry.



- 36 -
4.14      In order to ensure an effective coordination of the various institu-
tions involved in the project, responsibility for its implementation will be
assigned to one entity, i.e. the Project Unit. To reduce the risk associated
with the staffing of the Project Unit, a contract will be signed with a single
consulting firm that will be responsible for finding the required experts.
Finally, IDA-s association with BNDE will permit to improve its performance.
4.15      The risks associated with the sector and the beneficiaries are more
difficult to anticipate. To a certain extent, the careful preparation of the
project resulting in a design where emphasis has been put on coordination of
multifaceted efforts and selection of beneficiaries will go some way to
reducing these risks. However, there is no doubt that there is a strong pilot
and experimental element in this project and we hope that lessons learnt and
experience gained under the project will permit to minimize the risks in
further similar programs.
V. RECOMMENDATIONS AND CREDIT CONDITIONS
5.01      This report recommends an IDA Credit of US$5.2 million to assist the
local construction industry.
5.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a) SOMIBUROM will: (i) identify those deposits of limestone which
would be most appropriate for lime production, particularly in
the areas of Bujumbura and the Mosso; (ii) prepare for the
Government and IDA's approval a program of development and
exploitation of these deposits; (iii) supply the amount of
limestone required by the kilns at a price covering SOMIBUROM s
costs of production plus an adequate margin. These matters will
be included in a subsidiary agreement between the Government and
SOMIBUROM (para. 3.10);
(b) the Water and Forest Administration will: (i) plant 37.5 ha of
eucalyptus per annum in the areas of Bujumbura and the Mosso;
(ii) start such plantation toward the end of 1982; (iii) maintain
and exploit.these plantations; (iv) reserve the production from
these plantations for the limekilns to be financed by the project
and to charge them a price covering the operations and mainten-
ance costs of the plantations. This price will be reviewed
annually by the Government and the Association (para. 3.13);
(c)  Government will make available to the brickmakers a portion of
the quarry of Kamenge (para. 3.16);



- 37 -
(d) the procedure for the feasibility studies (para. 3.19);
(e) The Government and the Association will exchange views
annually on the adequacy of the staffing of the New Works
Directorate (para. 3.33) and of the staffing of the Project
Unit (para 3.34);
(f) the criteria for the selection of enterprises that will
receive financial assistance under the project (para 3.25);
(g) from the proceeds of the IDA Credit the Government will
on-lend to BNDE up to US$2.4 million for subloans to local
enterprises (limekiln promoters, brickmakers, construction
companies) at a rate of 8%; it will assume the foreign
exchange risk on the funds used for such loans; it will
assume 75% of credit risk on these loans (para. 3.28);
(h) the Government will open a line of credit of US$430,000
equivalent to BNDE as its contribution toward meeting the
local costs of subloans to local enterprises (lime producers,
brickmakers, contractors) and deposit the corresponding
amount in three installments in a BNDE account at the
Central Bank (para 3.32);
(i) the Government will contribute the equivalent of US$810,000
for the financing of the components of the project other
than the subloans to lime producers, brickmakers and contractors.
Such contribution shall be deposited in tranches in a
project account at the Central Bank (para 3.32);
(j) the Project Unit will submit to IDA quarterly reports
on the status of the project (para. 3.38);
(k) the conditions to be included in the subsidiary credit
agreement between the Government and BNDE (para 3.27).
5.03      Furthermore, agreement was reached with BNDE that:
(a) it will provide subloans to the local enterprises to be
financed under the project at the rate of 12%; this
interest rate will be reviewed annually by the Associa-
tion, the Government and BNDE to determine its adequacy
(para. 3.28);
(b) it will assume 25% of the credit risk on these subloans
(para. 3.28);
(c)  it will not request from the beneficiaries of these subloans
security exceeding 50% of the amount of the subloans in the
case of construction enterprises and 25% of the amount of
the subloans in the case of limekiln promoters or brickmakers
(para 3.28).



- 38 -
5.04      Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) approval by BNDE's Board of Director of a subsidiary loan
agreement acceptable to IDA and the signing of such an agree-
ment by the Government and BNDE (para. 3.27);
(b) submission by SOMIBUROM of a program satisfactory to IDA and
the signing of a subsidiary agreement between the Government
and SOMIBUROM (para. 3.10);
(c) the opening of a line of credit to BNDE of US$430,000
equivalent (BuF39 million) to cover the Government's contribu-
tion to the financing of subprojects by depositing the equiva-
lent of US$110,000 in a BNDE account to be opened at the Central
Bank (para. 3.32);
(d) the deposit by the Government of a first tranche of US$110,000
equivalent in the project account at the Central Bank (para.
3.32).



e
BURUNDI
LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
Selected Major Investment Projects to be Implemented in 1981-1984:
Estimated Construction Expenditures
Construction Costs (BuF millions)              Status of
Projects                    Total (1981-1984)    During 1981-1982    Construction Component                   Project Financing
Roads (MTPEL)
32 Km    Kayanz2  - Ngozi                   700                700              Work started in Nov  1980              EDF No. 4, Approved
93 Km    Gitega - Gihofi                  2,500              2,000              Contractor seclected in Sept.1980    KfW Saoudi, Approved
160 Km    Bujumbura - Rutovu               3,000              1,280              Preparation completed                  China, Expected
46 Km    Mutambara - Nyanza Lake           1,150               750              Preparation completed                  AfDB, Approved
73 Km    Ngozi - Muyinga                  2,660                470              Preparation completed                  Appraised by IDA in June 1980
Power/Water (RECIDESO)
Power plant, Muyinga               160                160              Preparation completed                  KfW,Approved
Electrification, Ngozi - Kayanza  460                 240              Preparation completed                  KfW,Approved
Electification, Kirunda and    (above
Rutana. - Gihofi                 400)               n.a.             Preparation completed                  KfW, Approved in principle
Water supply, Bujumbura            250                250              n.a.                                   KfW, Approved
Water supply, 9 rural towns        220                110              n.a.                                   KfW, Approved
Education c
4 Secondary Schools (2 new,
2 expansion)                  690                200             Vnder preparation                       IDA, Approved
(To be completed by Education
Division - Belgian Aid?
Housing
Bujumbura - Infrastructure,
low-cost housing loans,
community facilities              370                370              Preparation mostly completed           IDA, Approved
SIP - 300 modern houses,
Bujumbura           900               450              Work started in July 1979              CAMOFI, Approved
- 400 modern houses,
Bujumbura          920                580              Preparation completed                  CAMOFI, Expected
- 200 units, Bujumbura,
Gitega, Ngozi                100                 50              Preparation completed                  CAMOFI, Expected
14,080             7,610
EAPID
March 1982



BURUNDI
LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
The Main Iwported Construction Matertals in Burundi (1977-79)
1977                                           1978                                          1979                                  January-June 1980
Net weight   Value c.t.f.        % in          Net Welght   Value c.l.f.        % in          Net weight   Value c.i.f.        % in           Net weight   Value c.i.f.
<tons)     millions FBU   Value c.i.f.         (tons)      millions FEU   Value c.i.f.        (tons)      millions FEU   Value c.i.f.         (tons)      millions FBU
Portland cement                               23,181           196           27%             23,705           210          26,5%            26,790            381           31,9%           17,356           232
Galvanized and corrugated sheet                2,213           120           16,7%            2,194           131          16,5%             4,110            309           25,9%            1,995          183
Reinforced rode                               1,510             62            8,6%           3,500            134          16,9%               995            51             4,2%              498           38
Pipes and tubes                                1,103            84           11,7%              805            67           8,4%               799             82            6,8%            1,023           92
Hot and cold rolled shapes                       884            53             7,4%           1,061            63            7,9X              661             45            3,7%              579            43
Wire (with no connecting outlets)                434            86           12%                128            48           6%                 237             62            5,1%             n.a.          a.e.
Wood                                             355            24             3,3%             231            12           1,5%               536             31            2,5%              286            29
Aebestos-cement                                  181            il            1,5%               36              2          0,2%               401             27            2,2%              125             8
Glass                                            176            12            1,6%              154            17           2,1%               667             65            5,4%              276            28
Lamps                                            135            14            1,9%              122            10           1,2%               205             16            1,3%             n.a.          n.a.
Wire                                              53             7            0,9%               40             4           0,5%               114             il            0,9%             n.a.          n.a.
Cast iron pipes and tubes                         29            14            1,9%               18              7          0,8%                55             25            2%               n.a.          n.a.
Other materials                                  237            33            4,6%              667            86          12,1%               436             88            7%                367            70
36,006        1,193            100% 
Total                                   30,491           716          100%              32,661           791           100%
Source: Central Bank Statistical Office
EAPID
match 1982



- 41 -                            ANNEX 3
BURUNDI
LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
The Production of Local Construction Materials
1979               Unit Price in 1979
Units                    (BuF)
Dried brick                     25,000,000            3 to 4/piece
Burned brick                    30,000,000 I/         4 to 5/piece
Gravel                          85,000 m 3            2,600 to 3,500/m 3
Sand                            54,400 m 3            1,100/m 3
Rubblestone                      1,000 to 2,000 m3   375 to 1,500/m 3
Lime                               480 tons           13 to 14/kg
These data are the mission's estimates.
_/ 30% are not marketable.
EAPID
March 1982



- 42 -
ANNEX 4
BURUNDI
PILOT PROJECT FOR LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
Staffing of the Project Unit
Foreign    Counterpart    Duration
Director of Unit                            1             -          2 years
Codirector of Unit                          -             1          2 years
Assistant                                                 1          2 years
Lime expert                                 1             2          2 years
Brick expert                                1             2          2. years
Construction expert                         1             1          2 years
Management expert 1/                        1             1          2 years
Training specialists for workers            1             -          1 year
Construction engineer 2/                    1             1          2 years
Construction technician 2/                  1             1          2 years
TOTAL                                 8            10
1,   For trickmakers, lime producers and contractors.
2/   Working mainly at MTPEM.
EAPID
March 1982



- 43 -                             ANNEX 5
BURUNDI
PILOT PROJECT FOR LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.  Direction des Etudes de la Banque de la Republique du Burundi
Bulletin Mensuel No. 1 Janvie 80 et No. 6 Juin 80.
2. Burundi, Industrie Locale de Construction
Hugo G. Houben; Ing. T., Consultant
Bruxelles 25/1/80
Rapport de Mission 3-23 Dec. 1979 - Programme mixte Banque Mondiale/ONUDI.
3. World Bank Economic Memorandum. The Burundian Economy: Current
Situation and Socio-Economic and Organizational Constraints.
July 30, 1980.
4. Burundi - Local Construction Industry Project; Mission Report -
June 4, 1980.
World ORT Union, London.
5. Republique du Burundi-- Industrie Locale de Construction; contraintes,
entrepreneurs locaux, volume previsionnel, recommandations. C.C.M.E.
Janvier 1980.
Philîppe Paux, conjointement avec
Hugo Houben
6. Rapport Annuel 1979 de la BNDE.
7. Rapport Annuel 1979 de la Caisse Centrale de Mobilisation et de
Financement (CAMOFI).
8. Bulletin Economique et Financier de la CAMOFI (Bimestriel)
No. 11, Mars-April 1979
Ministere des Finances, du Commerce et de l'Industrie.
9.  Rapports et Bilan 1979 de la Banque de Credit de Bujumbura.
10.  Rapport Annuel 1979 de la Banque Belgo-Africaine du Burundi.
11.  L-Economie Burundaise en 1979.  Ministere du Plan.
12.  A Framework for the Promotion of Construction Industries in the
Developing Countries.
I.B.R.D.; Bank Staff Working Paper No. 168, November 1973.
13. The Construction Industry - Survey and Identification Report.
World Bank/UNIDO Co-operative Programme
UNIDO, Vienna (Austria), March 1979.
EAPID
March 1982



