Document of    IIt1     COPY
The World Ban
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3250-BU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A
PILOT PROJECT
TO ASSIST
THE LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
March 25, 1982
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          -     Burundi Franc (BuF)
US$1.00                -     BuF90
BuFl                   -     US$0.011
BuFl million           -     US$11,111
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BANCOBU     -   Banque Commerciale du Burundi
BCB         -   Banque de Credit de Bujumbura
BNDE        -   Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
(Development Bank)
BRB         -   Banque de la Republique du Burundi (Central Bank)
CADEBU      -   Caisse d'Epargne du Burundi (Savings Bank)
CAMOFI      -   Caisse Centrale de Mobilisation et de Financement
(National Bank for Savings and Investments)
DETN        -   Direction des Etudes et Travaux Neufs (New Works
(Directorate)
ILO         -   International Labour Organization
MiPEM       -   Ministere des Travaux Publics, de l'Equipement et
des Mines (Ministry of Public Works, Energy
and Mining)
ONIMAC      -   Office National d'Importation et de Commercialisation
des Materiaux de Construction et d'Equipement
Domestique (National Office for the Import and
Marketing of Construction Materials and Domestic
Equipment)
ONL         -   Office National du Logement (National Housing Office)
REGIDESO    -   Regie des Eaux (National Water and Electricity Authority)
SIP         -   Societe Immobiliare Publique (Public Housing Corporation)
SOMIBUROM   -   Societe Mixte Miniare et Industrielle Burundo-Roumaine
(Burundo-Rumanian Mining and Industrial Company)
SSE         -   Small Scale Enterprises
UNDP        -   United Nations Development Programme
UNIDO       -   United Nations Industrial Development Organization
UPRONA      -   Union Pour le Progres National (Union for National
Progress)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURUNDI
PILOT PROJECT TO ASSIST THE LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Burundi
Amount:                   SDR 4.6 million
(US$5.2 million)
Terms:                    Standard
Beneficiaries:           Republic of Burundi and the National Development
Bank (BNDE)
Relending Terms:          About US$2.4 million of the proceeds of the Credit
would be relent to BNDE at an initial rate of 8 percent
per annum, with a flexible amortization schedule
conforming to the aggregate amortization schedule of
BNDE's subloans, subject to a maximum of fifteen years,
including a grace period not to exceed five years.
BNDE would relend the funds to construction
enterprises, brick and lime producers at a rate
which would initially be of 12 percent per annum.
This rate would be reviewed annually by the
Government, BNDE and IDA. The relending rate from
the Government to BNDE would at all times be four
percent below the rate applicable to subloans. The
Republic of Burundi would bear the foreign exchange
risk.
Project Description:
(i)   Objectives:  (a) at the sector level, to foster
the production of local materials to reduce the
high dependence on imports; improve the industry's
efficiency and reduce construction costs by
adapting the building code to local conditions;
and strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of
Public Works, Energy and Mining (MTPEM) to
supervise the implementation of construction
projects; (b) at the enterprise level, it would
assist in the development of small- and medium-sized
contractors and also of producers of local materials
through provision of financial and technical
assistance.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
(ii)   Components:  (a) a credit. program to finance the
construction of two limekilns and the purchase of
equipment for brickmakers and construction
enterprises; (b) technicaLl and/or managerial
assistance to promoters of limekilns, brickmakers
and local construction companies; (c) technical
assistance to the Ministry of Public Works,
Energy and Mining; (d) plantation of eucalyptus
trees; and (e) feasibility studies.
(iii)   Benefits:  By reducing the reliance of the local
construction industry on imported materials, the
Project should improve the supply of construction
materials, reduce their cost and consequently
improve the financial and. economic returns of the
construction industry. This would have positive
effects on the balance of payments, and stimulate
the growth of industrial activity and employment.
It would also contribute to the emergence of a
group of local contractors.
(iv)   Risks:  (a) possible problems in the coordination
of the various public and private institutions
responsible for Project implementation;
(b) difficulties in recruiting experts; and
(c) possible weaknesses in the performance of
BNDE. To minimize these risks, the responsibility
of Project implementation would be entrusted to a
Project Unit, the technical assistance would be
provided by a single firm, and BNDE's operations
would be closely supervised.
Estimated Costs 1/                                         US$ MILLION
Local     Foreign      Total
Development and Improvement of Local
Construction Materials
- Limekiln construction                       0.16         0.22       0.38
- Eucalyptus plantation                       0.08          -         0.08
- Equipment for brick production              0.01         0.09       0.10
- Technical assistance                        0.15         0.28       0.43
- Feasibility studies                         0.04         0.40       0.44
Sub-Total                          0.44        0.99       1.43
1/ Includes taxes on equipment and materials imported by enterprises under
the Project (estimated at US$0.6 million).



iii
US$ MILLION
Local     Foreign      Total
Assistance to the Ministry of Public Works,
Equipment and Housing (MTPEL)
- Tachnical assistance                           0.14         0.25       0.39
Assistance to Local Construction Companies
- Financial assistance                           0.72         1.36       2.08
- Technical assistance                           0.15         0.30       0.45
Sub-Total                           0.87         1.66       2.53
Operations of Project Unit                         0.21         0.30       0.51
TOTAL BASE COST                     1.66         3.20       4.86
Physical Contingencies                             0.09         0.14       0.22
Price Contingencies                                0.85         1.43       2.29
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  2.60         4.77       7.37
Financing Plan
- Government                                     1.24 /1       -         1.24
- IDA                                            0.43         4.77       5.20
- Lime and brick producers and local
contractors                                  0.93          -        0.93
TOTAL                               2.60         4.77       7.37
Estimated Disbursements                                (US$ MILLION)
IDA FY        1982     1983      1984      1985     1986
Annual                                             1.1       1.8      1.5       0.8
Cumulative                                         1.1       2.9      4.4       5.2
Economic Rate of Return:  not applicable
Appraisal Report: No. 3343 BU, dated March 25, 1982
Map: IBRD 12260
1/  Including 0.6 million equivalent in taxes






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A PILOT PROJECT TO ASSIST
THE LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
1.            I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Burundi for the equivalent of SDR 4.6
million (US$5.2 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a pilot project
to assist the Local Construction Industry. Up to US$2.4 million of the proceeds
of the Credit would be relent to the National Development Bank (BNDE) at an
initial rate of 8 percent per annum, with a flexible amortization schedule con-
forming to the aggregate amortization schedule of BNDE's subloans, subject to a
maximum of fifteen years. The relending rate from the Government to BNDE would
at all times be four percent below the rate applicable to the subloans, which
is to be reviewed annually.
PART 1 - THE ECONOMYi/
2.            A Country Economic Memorandum was distributed to the Executive
Directors in March 1981. Updated country data are provided below and in Annex I.
3.            Background.  With an average GNP per capita of about US$200 in
1980, Burundi is one of the poorest countries in the world and is designated as
"least developed" by the United Nations. Of a population of about four million,
only 90,000 are wage earners; the remainder depend mainly on subsistence agri-
culture. The Government is facing several critical problems in its efforts to
develop the economy: the capability to prepare and manage programs and projects
is weak; the agricultural labor force is largely untrained; and population growth
keeps straining Burundi's productive resources, particularly in agriculture.
Despite a stated policy of "spaced births", the problems of population pressure
cannot be solved in the immediate future. A major effort must therefore be made
to increase agricultural productivity. During the past decade, per capita agri-
cultural production declined steadily. The search for more arable land has
caused large-scale deforestation and severe shortages of firewood in the rural
areas, which makes the development of alternative energy sources urgent.
4.            Shipments of imports and exports through the principal outlets
via Tanzania have frequently encountered delays due to bottlenecks in the
port of Dar-es-Salaam, underinvestment in the railway link between Tabora
and Kigoma on Lake Tanganyika, and losses because of theft. However, action
is being taken to make external connections more reliable. The link via Rwanda
and Uganda to the port of Mombasa (Kenya) is becoming increasingly attractive
with the continuing improvement of national highways between Bujumbura and
Mombasa.
1/ This part is substantially the same as that in the President's Report
No. P-3149-BU on an Integrated Rural Development/Ngozi III Project,
considered by the Executive Directors on December 8, 1981.



- 2 -
5.           Government Development Strategy.  Since 1977 the Government has
designed a new strategy to achieve social justice, ethnic reconciliation and
improved living conditions in the rural areas. The poll tax, which was levied
on all males, was replaced by compulsory deposits which can be withdrawn after
three years. In addition, the traditional obligation for small farmers to pro-
vide services to landowners, in exchange for the right to cultivate land, was
abolished. Likewise, land which was obtained in an irregular manner for specu-
lative purposes was returned to the State or to the farmers who cultivated it.
Other aspects of the new policies, which are embodied in the Third Five-Year
Plan (1978-82), are: (a) emphasizing agricultural production to meet the
increasing needs for food of the rapidly growing popu:Lation; (b) increasing the
rate of economic growth substantially in order to provide greater employment
opportunities and more income to the poorest segments of the population; (c)
raising the investment rate significantly; (d) giving the Government a more
active role in mobilizing financial and manpower resources, and greater parti-
cipation in mixed enterprises in the commercial and productive sectors; and
(e) fostering decentralization of economic and social activity away from the
capital city through the creation of development poles and voluntary settlement
of the peasant population in villages. To facilitate the implementation of its
strategy, the Government strengthened the role of planning by elevating the
planning organization to the rank of Ministry and by giving it a key role in
selecting and monitoring public investment.
6.           Recent Economic Developments.  The period 1976-79 constitutes an
important phase in Burundi's economic history, as it witnessed an acceleration
of economic growth to an annual average of 4.4 percent in real terms, as well
as a major effort by the Government to raise the country's investment rate,
traditionally among the lowest in the developing worldi. During this period,
the volume of investment grew by about 75 percent, and the investment rate rose
from 9 percent of GDP in 1976 to more than 12 percent of GDP. This effort,
which was led and implemented by the public sector, had important repercussions
on the pattern of demand, inflation, and the mobilization of domestic and
external financial resources.
7.           The growth of domestic demand in Burundi accelerated in the last
few years owing mainly to high producer prices for coffee during 1976 and 1977,
and to the rapid growth of public sector expenditures during 1978 and 1979.
Public consumption and investment expanded at a rate almost triple that of the
private sector during the period 1976-79. Government expenditures more than
doubled in current terms and increased from about 16 percent of GDP in 1976
to 21 percent in 1979. Capital expenditures, particularly for infrastructure.
and for the financing of public enterprises, contributed most to this growth.
The government overall deficit, which increased from about 3.3 percent of GDP
in 1976 to 7.3 percent in 1979, was covered to an increasing extent through
recourse to the domestic banking system (about half in 1979).
8.           The rapid expansion of domestic credit was the main cause of the
almost 26 percent rate of inflation in 1979, although rising import prices
were also a contributing factor. Mainly because of high transportation costs,
import prices increased by 33 percent in 1979, more than twice the international
inflation rate. Owing to a significantly lower coffee crop, a fall in the
volume of investment, and a slowdown in Government spending, GDP growth
decelerated during 1980 to 1.8 percent in real terms, domestic credit did
not expand much further, and, in spite of continued inflationary pressures
from abroad, domestic inflation slowed down significanitly to about 14 percent.



9.           Burundi's external current account registered surpluses in 1976
and 1977 but showed deficits in 1978 and 1979. In 1979, the current account
deficit was about US$57 million, equivalent to 7 percent of GDP. Underlying
this shift was an adverse movement in the country's terms of trade as well
as an unprecedented increase (55 percent) in the volume of imports. Owing
mainly to a one-third decline in the volume of coffee exports, a 16 percent
fall in the terms of trade and notwithstanding a decline in imports in
real terms, Burundi's current account deficit widened to US$100 million in
1980, equivalent to 11 percent of GDP. The country's growing deficit has been
financed mainly with project-related aid to the Government and parastatals
from multilateral and bilateral agencies. During 1979-80, these flows averaged
US$64 million per annum (equivalent to 32 percent of Burundi's 1979-80 imports),
compared to US$18 million in 1976.
10.          In 1981, the Burundian economy registered significant growth owing
to a resumption of investment activity and an exceptionally good agricultural
crop. According to preliminary data, in 1981 GDP and investment both grew
at about 5 percent in real terms. Coffee production increased from about
15,200 tons in 1980 to about 41,000 tons in 1981. Because of Burundi's quota
under the International Coffee Agreement (ICA), however, during 1981 coffee
exports were limited to 24,000 tons. The increase in export volume more than
offset a significant decline in the world market price. The balance of
payments registered an overall deficit in 1981 of about US$30 million owing
mainly to increased imports, a decline in net capital inflows, and a
depreciation of the banking system's foreign exchange holdings in terms of the
US dollar. By the end of 1981, Burundi's gross reserves had fallen to about
US$60 million, equivalent to 3 months of imports of goods and non-factor
services. Domestic inflation slowed down again in 1981 to about 8-10 percent.
The relatively low level of domestic inflation reflects not only an
improvement in supply conditions (particularly of foodstuffs), but also
the depressing effects on import prices, expressed in local currency, of
the appreciation of the Burundi Franc (which, because it is pegged to the
US dollar, has followed the upward movement of the US dollar vis-a-vis the
currencies of Burundi's major European trading partners).
11.          External Assistance, Major Issues and Prospects.  Because of
the unfavorable outlook for world coffee prices, the medium-term prospects
of the economy are not good (coffee exports constitute about 90 percent of
Burundi's merchandise exports). According to current forecasts, the price
for coffee could fall by about 35 percent in real terms between 1978-80
and 1985. The impact of this decline in Burundi would have to be absorbed
by the small farmers (through lower producer prices in real terms) and by
the Government (through lower coffee tax receipts in real terms). Even
with a policy of demand restraint, it will be difficult for Burundi to
.reduce its current account deficit to below 10 percent of GDP.
12.          Burundi's future external capital requirements are likely to
be much higher than in the recent past. In order to sustain a growth
rate of the economy of about 4.5% p.a. in real terms, medium- and long-term
external capital requirements would have to more than double to an average
of about US$180 million p.a. in current prices during the period 1982-84.
Although Burundi has been remarkably successful in mobilizing external resources,
recently a few high priority agricultural projects have not attracted sufficient



- 4 -
financing. The composition of aid flows also would have to be changed,
since direct balance of payments support (and/or commodity assistance
for essential imports) would have to be provided of a greater extent
than before.
13.           Restraining the growth of domestic demand and stimulating
the productive sectors would help Burundi obtain needed external aid.
This would imply close coordination of policies on several fronts:
Government expenditures, the taxation of consumer goods and imports,
as well as price policies. Together with the Government's investment
program, a more flexible pricing strategy should constitute the
cornerstone of a policy to expand domestic production. In recent months,
the Government has taken important steps in this direction by raising
significantly electricity and water tariffs, domestic transport fares,
gasoline retail prices, and by selectively lifting rent controls. The
major policy issues outlined above have been the object of discussions
between the Burundian authorities and two IMF missions which visited
Burundi during the second half of 1981. Discussions between the
Government and the IMF started in 1981 on a medium-term adjustment
program to be supported with an Extended Fund Facility. Negotiations
are expected to resume during the next few months. Under current IMF
guidelines, Burundi could draw up to SDR 155 million during the period
1982-84, enough to cover Burundi's non-project external financial
requirements during those years.
14.           Because of the expected financial c:onstraints, it is
highly unlikely that during the period 1980-84 the volume of investment
can be much more than half of that envisaged in the Plan. Nevertheless,
even this reduced level would still allow the economic growth mentioned
above (para. 12) as well as some increase in the investment rate. Also,
a lower level of investment would be more in line with the country's
implementation capacity.
15.           The Government has already taken steps to reduce its
investment objectives, but an important issue remains whether the
Government will attain its objective of directing, investment to the
productive sectors, particularly agriculture. Population pressure on
available land, and its adverse effects on soil fertility, foodcrop
production and nutrition, underlines the urgency of accelerating rural
development. The Government recently launched a number of integrated
rural development projects which, over the next few years, are expected
to benefit an increasing number of small farmers. However, the
preparation of integrated rural development projects has been hindered
by limited knowledge of intensified cultural practices and of the
willingness of small farmers to adopt them. The first major projects,
which began implementation in 1981, remain in many respects experimental
and will have to be complemented by adaptive research.
16.           Government policy is to establish regional development companies
(RDGs) to promote integrated rural development, appropriate technology,
village-level organizations, and decentralization of Government services.
To this end, the RDCs will manage all agricultural, forestry and veterinary
Government staff working in the proposed project areas. These integrated
rural development schemes cut accross the functions of various ministerial



departments. Although the Government expects RDCs to eventually cover part,
if not all, of their expenditures with their own earnings, opportunities to
make commercial profits will only develop slowly, and RDCs will probably
depend on Government budgetary allocations for a number of years. In spite
of this financial dependence, the Government intends to endow the RDCs with
full management autonomy.
17.          Despite certain successes, a number of parastatals have been
affected by inadequate coordination with the central Government, management
problems, lack of career incentives for staff, financial weaknesses and, in
the case of agricultural parastatals, lack of small farmer participation owing
to insufficient incentives. Increasing the efficiency of the parastatal sector
constitutes a top Government priority. With IDA assistance, the Government
is assessing the situation of the parastatal sector with the intention of
providing it with the resources, autonomy and flexibility it requires to achieve
satisfactory economic and financial performance.
18.          To complement the efforts made by the RDCs, it will also be necessary
to promote rural development more actively by stimulating the activities of
small and decentralized organizations such as Government-sponsored and private
cooperatives as well as private secular and religious groups, and by supporting
the communal efforts under the sole political (UPRONA) party. The scope and
efficiency of the activities of communes (the basic administrative unit) could
be greatly improved by providing more resources to local authorities. Available
evidence suggests that these organizations can play a key role as "transmission
belts" between the small farmers and the rest of the economy. Rural development
projects now face the difficult challenge of combining the vertical integration
needed for increasing the production and quality of coffee with the more parti-
cipatory arrangements necessary for increasing foodcrop production and meeting
other basic needs. This reconciliation is critical since the satisfaction
of basic nutritional needs to a large extent guides the socioeconomic behaviour
of the farm family. The scarcity of land is already such that, in a number
of regions, farmers face a choice between continuing coffee cultivation and
gradually shifting to foodcrop production.
19.          If the Government continues to focus on development, pursues
improvements in policies and strengthens its administration, it may achieve
a steady, albeit slow, improvement in per capita incomes. If mining of Burundi's
nickel resources proves feasible, the prospects over the next ten years would
be much better. However, the commercial viability of exploiting these deposits
has yet to be established. Regional development in Central Africa will also
be important to Burundi's economy. In September 1976, Burundi, Rwanda and
Zaire signed a convention establishing the "Economic Community of the Countries
of the Great Lakes" (CEPGL). The Community, which has its seat in Gisenyi,
Rwanda, aims inter alia at stimulating and intensifying intra-regional trade
and cooperation in a wide range of activities. A major objective of the Community
is the electrification of the Great Lakes region. The glass container project
which was approved by the Board of IFC in 1981 will be the first major regional
industry to be implemented under the aegis of the CEPGL. The three countries
have set up a joint development bank to finance regional development projects,
in particular to exploit methane deposits around Lake Kivu, and to develop
a fishing industry around Lake Tanganyika. They have also instructed the
Secretariat of CEPLG to investigate ways of improving the transport system



around the lakes in order to ease the transport bottLenecks affecting
Burundi and Rwanda.
20.          In 1977-80, total long-term capital inflows to Burundi amounted
to about US$220 million, of which US$90 million (41 percent) was in the form
of grants. Most of the assistance has come from the UN agencies, Belgium, the
European Development Fund, IDA, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the
People's Republic of China. On December 31, 1980, Burundi's external medium
and long-term debt amounted to about US$290 million (including undisbursed
amounts), of which IDA held 32 percent. Debt service averaged 8.5 percent
of export earnings. Owing to the large proportion of grants in external
assistance, IDA will probably continue to hold a large proportion of Burundi's
outstanding debt. Notwithstanding the relatively low debt service ratio,
Burundi, because of its poverty and the instability of its export earnings,
should refrain from borrowing on commercial terms. External aid should there-
fore be on grant or very concessional terms and should continue to include a
substantial share of local cost financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
21.          Since IDA lending started in Burundi in 1966, eighteen credits
have been made, of which fifteen expressed in dollars, for a total amount of
US$92.9 million, and three expressed in Special Drawing Rights, totalling
SDR40.0 million. One credit (US$1.1 million) helped improve water supply
to Bujumbura; four credits (US$17.3 million) were for agriculture (two for
coffee production, one for fisheries and one for forestry); three credits
(US$19.4 million, including an engineering credit of US$400,000) helped start
a highway maintenance and improvement program; a US$10.0 million credit is
supporting the improvement of primary education and a second one of US$15.0
million finances vocational and technical training; two credits (US$4.0 million)
were made for technical assistance; and the National Economic Development Bank
received a credit of US$3.4 million. A US$15.0 million credit for an Urban
Project aimed at improving the conditions of the poor in the city of Bujumbura
and a US$7.7 million credit for a Telecommunications Plroject became effective
in October 1980 and January 1981, respectively. The Second Coffee Project and
the Fisheries Project are cofinanced by the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Deve-
lopment (US$1.0 million) and the Abu Dhabi Fund (US$1.2 million), respectively.
The Second Highway Project is cofinanced by the Arab Bank for Economic Develop-
ment in Africa (BADEA) in an amount of US$6.0 million. The Forestry Project is
cofinanced with a credit of US$1.2 million equivalent made from the EEC Special
Action Account. Credits for a Nickel Exploration Project (SDR3.3 million), a
Third Highway Project (SDR20.5 million), and a Kirimiro Rural Development Project
(SDR16.2 million), were signed in FY82 and are not yet effective. In addition,
one credit approved by the Board in FY82, for an Integrated Rural Development/
Ngozi III (SDR14.2 million) Project, has not yet been signed. In June 1981,
IFC approved a glass container project (para. 19). Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA credits, notes on projects in execution, and the status of
disbursements as of September 30, 1981.
22.          Project performance has been hampered by the shortage of local
management capacity and technical skills, which is likely to remain a major
constraint to development for some time to come. This situation has particularly



-7-
delayed the execution of the Fisheries and the Second Coffee Projects, although
the implementation of the Second Coffee Project has recently improved. Problems
encountered in the execution of IDA-financed projects were discussed with the
Government during the Second Country Implementation Review held in Bujumbura
in June 1980. Recommendations were made in particular regarding the training
of local staff, accounting, audits and disbursement procedures. Given existing
constraints, however, project performance is, on the whole, satisfactory.
23.          Future IDA operations in Burundi will aim primarily at reversing
the decline in agricultural productivity, improving the transport and communi-
cation network, developing energy resources and strengthening absorptive capacity
through training and technical assistance. The Second Technical Assistance
Project is assisting the Government in its efforts to improve the planning
process and the management of the public enterprise sector. A third technical
assistance credit aiming principally at continuing these efforts and assisting
in the restructuring of the public enterprise sector is to be appraised in
June 1982. A sector mission visited Burundi in May 1981 to determine priority
areas in the energy sector. Its report is being prepared. A second credit to
the Development Bank has been appraised. A Third education project aiming
primarily at strengthening basic education, is to be appraised shortly.
PART III - THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
Background
24.          The Construction Industry in Burundi is small, underequipped,
concentrated, and highly dependent on foreign skills. In 1979, it contributed
to about 4% of GDP, 30% of industrial output, and employed about 10,000 people,
representing about 8% of total wage employment. Construction investments
accounted for a fairly stable proportion of 52% to 60% of total investments in
the years 1977-79, representing about US$60 million in 1979. Most construction
enterprises are working at full capacity. Lack of local materials, transport
difficulties, lack of manpower and of financing are the main constraints to
the development of the sector.
25.          The Government is the main client and also accounts for about 13%
of the sector output, mainly as maintenance work. Major public works are
usually contracted to foreign-controlled firms, the output of which accounts
for 70% of the total construction value. About twenty privately-owned Burundian
firms, religious missions and self-employed artisans account for the remaining
17%. Artisans are very active in the housing sector.
Construction Materials
26.          Lack of local materials has long been a constraint to the develop-
ment of the construction industry. Although bricks, tiles, stone, sand, gravel,
wood, bamboo and limited quantities of quick lime are produced locally, the
country currently imports about 90% of its needs. In 1979, the CIF value of
these materials represented about US$13 million. The market for these products
is characterized by irregular supply, sharp variations in prices, and a general
shortage of such basic materials as cement, galvanized sheets and reinforcing
rods for concrete, which are the three main materials used in construction.
The price of cement, for instance, fluctuated between US$178 per ton and



US$400 per ton during 1979, a year in which the count:ry imported about 27,000
tons of cement, representing over 74% of the total volume of construction
materials imports and 32% of its CIF value. In addition, irregularity in
supply leads to excessively high operating costs and renders it difficult to
complete jobs on schedule.
27.          To alleviate the problem caused by the variations in price levels
and import volumes and in an effort to improve the country's supply of construc-
tion materials, the Government created in 1978, the National Office for Import
and Marketing of Construction Materials and Domestic Equipment (ONIMAC), a
public company responsible for regulating the import of construction materials
and stabilizing the price of these goods.
28.          In addition, the Government is trying to expand the local production
of lime and of bricks. Burundi has large deposits of limestone which can be
used in the manufacture of pozzolanic cement. SOMIBUROM, the public mining
company created in 1978 for the development of Burundi's mineral resources is
entrusted with the geological exploration and the development of the country's
major lime deposits. A program to build three new limekilns is being implemented
with assistance from the United Nations Industrial Development Organization.
(UNIDO). Starting in 1982, at least 4,000 tons of lime should be available
which would still be well below the 15,000 tons which the construction market
could absorb annually. The government has also established a new public company
to rehabilitate and operate a cement plant and bring its production capacity to
20,000 tons of pozzolanic cement a year. Bricks are lproduced in most regions
of Burundi by private manufacturers and by the National Housing Office (ONL).
In 1980, 25 million bricks were produced. They are generally of uneven sizes
and forms and their resistance to compression and erosion is limited. It is
estimated that 30 to 50% of the production is lost because of poor quality.
It would be possible to improve significantly the quality of bricks, in parti-
cular by using some simple equipment for the preparation of the clay and by
building shelters for storing the bricks before they are baked. This could
lead to a largerutilization of bricks in construction which could substitute
for about 2,000 tons of imported cement a year.
Manpower
29.          The lack of qualified manpower is a constraint to growth and one
of the reasons of foreign predominance in the construction industry. In
addition to a few local civil engineers and architects trained abroad, the
yearly average output of graduates from local technical schools during 1975-79
was limited to 13 surveyors and general construction technicians, 12 carpenters
and masons, 10 electricians, and about 50 semi-skilled carpenters and masons.
Contractors have been hiring some operators and foremen in Zaire and other
neighboring countries, but shortages of specialized workers appear more difficult
to overcome. Qualified plumbers are reportedly in particularly short supply.
Under the Second Education Project approved by IDA on January 29, 1980, two
construction trades training schools will be built which are expected to train
about 80 middle-level technicians and'125 skilled workers per year (including
27 plumbers). The total annual output of specialized workers would then
represent 45% of the projected manpower requirements of the construction sector.



-9-
Construction Enterprises
30.          The private sector is dominated by foreign contractors, including
seven subsidiaries or branches of large foreign companies and about twelve
smaller enterprises owned and managed by expatriates. The largest foreign
subsidiary has a staff of about 3,500 and has been producing about a third
of contract values in the formal sector with a quasi monopoly in new road
construction. Each of the other six foreign subsidiaries has a staff of 200
to 1,000, net fixed assets between US$200,000 and US$2.2 million and may be
considered as medium-scale enterprises. In general, they have adequate equip-
ment and qualified staff, and their management positions and about a third of
professional positions, are held by expatriates. They benefit from the parent
companies' technical and commercial assistance, particularly for the direct
importation of raw materials in periods of shortages. The firms owned by
expatriates are small-scale enterprises each with a staff of 20 to 200 and
fixed assets of less than US$220,000.
31.          There are about twenty enterprises headed by a Burundian owner-
manager, of which three are medium scale enterprises and the others small-
scale. These local enterprises work mostly on Government buildings and public
housing projects and, in the case of small-scale enterprises, some high income
private housing. They are generally underequipped and labour-intensive and
have a weak liquidity situation, but are profitable and have a low indebtedness
with a debt/equity ratio generally below 0.4:1, suggesting a strong borrowing
capacity. The main constraints that local enterprises face in their develop-
ment are lack of finance (para. 34-37) and shortages of raw materials. In
addition to the modern construction sector, there is a large number of self-
employed artisans in both urban and rural areas. They are engaged mainly in
the construction of traditional houses for families. These artisans lack
tools and their competence is uneven; some 200 of them are expected to receive
financial and technical assistance under the ongoing Urban project.
The Public Sector
32.          The Ministry of Public Works, Energy and Mining (MTPEM) is the
agency most active in the public construction sector. Its Road Directorate
executes all maintenance and small new works for roads and supervises the
preparation and the execution of the larger road projects by contractors.
The Buildings Directorate establishes and enforces policies regarding the
construction industry, assists in the preparation and supervision of major
Government building works and is responsible for maintenance of all 1,500
Government buildings. The capability of the Buildings Directorate is
adequate, with a staff of about 20 construction technicians, including 5
expatriates. The joint construction output of other Ministries (mostly
Agriculture, Army and Education) is much smaller. The Implementation Unit of
the First Education Project has, however, successfully undertaken a large
construction program for primary schools. REGIDESO, the parastatal
responsible for water and power development, executes all maintenance and
most new works in the water sector and all maintenance and about 25% of
new works in the power sector. The National Housing Agency (ONL) was
created in 1974 to complement the small capacity of the private sector in
the construction of public housing programs. It suffered from poor
financial management, and is now being reorganized with technical assistance
from the Netherlands.



- 10 -
Building Regulations
33.          The Government procurement procedure is of particular importance
since Government contracts represent about 80% of total value of construction
work. General regulations on construction activities are based essentially
on the pre-independence Belgian legislation. They are generally satisfactory
but rather complex and are not systematically publicized and enforced.
Construction standards have become obsolete and do not take into account local
construction techniques and materials. The overall procurement procedure of
the Government is generally satisfactory but not rigorously applied. Special
contract conditions are often scanty or incomplete, due to inadequate technical
specifications. The absence of classification of contractors leads to
inefficiencies in contractor selection and contract supervision needs to
be strengthened.
Financing
34.          Well-established contractors report no major financing constraints.
The financial institutions, however, are not adapted to efficiently meet the
needs of smaller local enterprises. The development of local construction
firms would require the provision of financing on flexible terms for equip-
ment and permanent working capital needs.
35.           In 1979, credits outstanding from the three commercial banks
totalled about US$59 million, of which an estimated US$6.7 million consisted
of short-term loans to the construction sector. Commercial banks mainly
provide performance bonds and guarantees for advance payments, as required
by Government contracts. They also provide short-term credits against bills
certified by the Government and, occasionally, loans for up to three years
for vehicle purchases. However, they tend to limit these credits and
guarantees to a small sum and require a security coverage of 100% which most
domestic construction enterprises are unable to meet. Generally, commercial
banks are wary of granting medium-term loans and only do so when assured of
the Central Bank (BRB) refinancing or with the Governmesnt's guarantee. In
1979, the National Development Bank (BNDE) had a total portfolio oustanding
of about US$12.2 million. The share of the construction sector amounted to
US$3.2 million (26%), mainly for the financing of private houses and public
housing programs. The Savings Bank (CADEBU) had an outstanding portfolio
of about US$13 million, of which about 70% for housing construction and
improvement loans. The National Bank for Savings and i[nvestment (CAMOFI)
was set up in January 1979 by the Government with the objective of using
surplus liquidities from the public sector to grant long- and medium-term
loans for the financing of developments projects. As of December 1979,
CAMO,FI had made loans totalling US$5.7 million, of which 25% went to public
construction programs.
36.            In 1978, a new system of credit regulation based on the
distinction between rediscountable and non-rediscountable credit was
introduced.   Rediscount, with a few exceptions such as export credits which
are rediscountable by nature, requires prior authorization of the Central Bank.
Only major contractors have access to credit from the commercial banking
system. Small contractors have difficulties in obtaining credit because
(i) loans to these contractors are considered too risky, and (ii) the
contractors may be unable to satisfy the criteria for rediscounting
eligibility without which commercial banks are hesitant to extend credit.



- 11 -
37.           Ceilings on interest rates are set bv the Central Bank
and vary depending on whether operations are rediscountable or not.
Following the readjustment in the structure of interest rate in
October 1981 further to policy discussions with the Bank and the IMF,
lending rates vary between 11 percent and 15 percent for non-rediscountable
loans and between 7 to 11 percent for rediscountable loans. The Central
Bank rediscount rates vary between 4.5 percent and 9 percent. As
inflatioin, which averaged 22.0 percent in 1976-78, 30% in 1979 and 15% in
1980-81, is projected to be in the order of 12% in 1982-84, the present
interest rates will however remain slightly negative in real terms.
IV. THE PROJECT
38.           The proposed Project was identified in 1977, and appraised in
September 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington from February 15 to
19. The Government's delegation was led by Mr. Nyaboya, Minister of Public
Works, Energy and Mining. A detailed description of the Project components
can be found in the staff appraisal report (Report No. 3343/BU dated
March 25, 1982)which is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. An advance under the Project Preparation Facility of
US$300.000 was granted in July 1981. The main features of the Project
are highlighted in the Credit and Project Summary at the beginning of this
report. Special conditions of the credit are summarized in Annex III.
Objectives and Description of Project
39.           The proposed Project would represent the first attempt by
the Bank to assist in the development of the local construction industry
in a country of the Eastern Africa Region. The main bottlenecks that
are constraining the development of the local construction industry
include a heavy dependency on imported construction materials due to the
insufficient production of local materials (para. 26) and obsolete
construction standards (para. 33); the lack of adequate financial and
technical support to permit the growth of domestic contractors who have
development potential (para. 34); and the lack of qualified local
manpower (para. 29). The Project aims at removing some of these
obstacles through a number of actions that are distinct but interrelated.
At the sector level, it would foster the production of local materials
to reduce the historical high dependence on imports; improve the industry's
efficiency and reduce construction costs by adapting to local realities
the building code which still requires European standards; and strengthen
the capacity of the Ministry of Public Works, Energy and Mining (MTPEM)
to supervise the implementation of construction projects. At the
enterprise level, it would assist in the development of small- and
medium-sized contractors and also of producers of local materials through
provision of financial and technical assistance.
40.           Although the actions to be taken under the Project are
distinct and diverse, they will be coordinated by a single Project Unit
(para. 46) and it is expected that they will be mutually reinforcing.
For instance, a revision of the building code would permit greater use
of locally-produced construction materials while technical and financial
assistance to producers would assist in expanding the volume and improving
the quality of these materials; furthermore, a strengthening of local
contractors through financial and technical assistance would make them



- 12 -
more capable of participating in Government construction projects, while
the training of the staff of the MTPEM would result in a more efficient
supervision of these Government-financed projects. This Project is
experimental and pilot in the sense that it does not address all the
needs and constraints of the sector and there are uncertainties about the
reaction of beneficiaries during project implementation, as it is the
first attempt at providing coordinated assistance t:o producers of
construction materials and local contractors.  It is hoped that, through
this project, experience will be gained and lessons; will be learned that
will permit preparation of a larger project to assist the construction
industry in a more integrated fashion. The Project Unit will be
responsible for preparing such a project, with IDA's assistance.
Development and Improvement of Local Construction Materials
(a) Construction of Limekilns
41.          To develop the production of lime (para. 28), the Project
would provide financial, technical and managerial assistance to contractors
for the construction and operations of two limekilnsb each with a
production capacity of 2,500 tons of lime per annum.  The kilns would be
owned by the contractors. The enterprises would be selected by the
Project Unit on the basis of their technical and management capabilities,
and would in addition meet the following criteria: (i) maximum net fixed
assets of BuFlO0 million, in 1980 prices (US$110.000); (ii) inability to
obtain term financing through normal commercial bank channels or from
parent companies abroad (Section 1.02 (g) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Loan requests would be prepared with the assistance of the
Project Unit, would be appraised by BNDE and reviewed and approved by IDA.
The promoters would provide out of their own resources at least 25% of the
investment cost of the kilns and the balance would be sublent by BNDE
(para. 49). Under an agreement with the Government, SOMIBUROM would
undertake to supply the limestone required by the kilns at a price
sufficient (i) to cover direct costs of production and an-appropriate
share of its management, general and administration costs and (ii) to
generate a 12 percent return before taxes on the value of assets used
for such production; this price would be reviewed annually by the
Government and the Association (Section 4.03 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The signature of the agreement between the Government
and SOMIBUROM and the preparation of a satisfactory program of
development of lime deposits to supply the two lime kilns would be
conditions of effectiveness of the Credit. (Section 6.01 (b) and (c) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement.) To ensure a regular supply of
fuel wood for the two limekilns, it was also agreed that the Water and
Forest Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock would
(i) maintain and exploit eucalyptus tree plantations in accordance with
appropriate forestry practices; and (ii) reserve and make available the
production of such plantations for the operation of the limekilns financed
by sub-loans at a price which would cover the full investment, operation
and maintenance costs of such plantations; this price would be reviewed
annually by the Government and the Association (Section 4.05 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). In addition, to foster the optimal use of
the lime produced by the lime kilns, the Project Unit will promote the use
of the lime in the construction sector.



- 13 -
(b) Improvement of Brick Production
42.          The Project would provide financial, technical and managerial
assistance to brick manufacturers to improve their operations and the quality
of bricks produced. Subloans of up to 75% of the investment cost would be
granted to brick manufacturers through the BNDE (para. 49), for the
acquisition of small equipment and construction of shelters. The brick
manufacturers would be selected on the same basis as limekiln promoters
(para. 41). The manufacturer would provide out of its own resources at
least 25% of the cost of the investment. The brick manufacturers would also
receive managerial assistance mainly in the areas of accounting and financial
management, and technical assistance for the selection of equipment, the
exploitation of deposits and the construction of kilns where the bricks are
baked. In order to encourage the brickmakers to participate in the Project,
the Government would make available for periods of up to two years, a portion
of the quarry of Kamenge, which has been prospected for the establishment of an
industrial brick plant and found to be of efficient size and of satisfactory
quality, to brickmakers who would commit themselves to produce bricks of
standardized format and to exploit the quarry in accordance to a method
which will be determined by the Project Unit; after the initial two year
period, these arrangements would be reviewed by the Association and the
Government (Section 4.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
(c) Feasibility Studies and Preparation of Follow-up Project
43.          The Project would finance feasibility studies to examine
additional ways to expand the production of construction materials, improve
the availability and price of imported construction materials and strengthen
the construction industry. The Project Unit would be responsible for
preparing a list of priority topics for investigation and a program for
conducting these studies which would be submitted to IDA for approval
(Section 3.09 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Such studies
would, for example, examine whether construction materials such as timber
or bamboo could be utilized more efficiently and whether small scale
production of building hardware and construction tools bett.er adapted to
the needs of the country could be developed. The Credit would also finance
a study to prepare a follow-up Project.
Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Public Works, Energy and Mining (MTPEM)
44.          The Studies and New Works Department (DETN) of the Buildings
Directorate of the MTPEM, which generally acts as the agent of all Government
agencies to complete tender documents, analyze bids and supervise execution
of contracts, would receive technical assistance under the Project as
follows: (i) services of a construction engineer (para. 47) for two years
to draft a general document specifying norms and procedures for the use of
materials and construction methods; and to review the tendering documents
used by the Government; (ii) the services of a construction technician
(para. 47) for two years to provide on-the-job training for the staff of
DETN regarding procurement of construction works contracts and supervision
of their execution. The Government would ensure that during the execution
of the Project, DETN is adequately staffed and, each year of Project execution,
the Government and the Association shall exchange views on the adequacy of
this staffing so as to ensure that the staff of DETN shall draw maximum
benefits from their cooperation with the consultants and the specialists
(Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 14 -
Assistance to Local Construction Enterprises.
45.          The Project would provide managerial, technical and financial
assistance to local contractors. A construction expert would give advice,
on the use of materials, and construction techniques, including assistance
in the preparation and implementation of some of the most difficult contracts.
He would also organize training courses for general foremen. A management
expert would give advice on accounting, supply management, and organize
courses for accountants, technicians and foremen. In addition, during
a one year period, an experienced technician would organize training for
plumbers, carpenters and masons to alleviate the existing shortage of
qualified staff in these fields. The Project Unit would also provide
guidance to small contractors on the purchase of imported construction
materials. Subloans of up to 75 percent of the cost of the investment,
totalling about US$2.4 million, would be granted by BNDE to local construction
enterprises (para. 49) for the financing of equipment renewal and expansion.
These enterprises would be selected on the same basiLs as limekiln promoters
(para. 41). In addition it would be required that they have been established
and in operation for at least three years (Section 1.02 (g) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). It is estimated that 10 to 15 local cons-
truction enterprises will fulfill the requirements of these criteria and
obtain loans under the proposed Credit to increase their production capacity by
about 30 percent within two years. (These loans would be tied to an expansion
plan for the whole enterprise rather than to specific contracts.)
Project Management and Implementation
46.          The Project would be implemented over a period of two and a half
years. The credit component would be administered by BNDE (para. 48). Overall
implementation of the Project would require coordination between several
public and private agencies (The Ministry of Public 'Works, Energy and
Mining (MTPEM), the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI), BNDE, promoters
of limekilns, brick makers, local construction enterprises), none of which
presently has the capacity to assume this task. It is therefore proposed
to set up a Project Unit which would be entrusted with overall responsibility
for Project execution and would receive all powers necessary for this purpose
(Section 3.02 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Project
Unit would be established under MTPEM, and would report directly to the
Minister.  The Project Unit would in particular, ass-ist enterprises in
preparing their loan requests and ensure adequate coordination among all
agencies involved in the Project including the MCI, which would be consulted
on aspects of the Project related to industrial production. If the Project
is successful, responsibility for the tasks assumed by the Project Unit could
be eventually divided between the MTPEM and the MCI by merging the relevant
sections of the Project Unit into these Ministries. This could be envisaged
in the framework of a follow-up project.
47.          In addition to the Project Director, a Codirector, and their
Deputy, the Project Unit would include one lime and one brick expert
responsible for providing technical assistance to the lime producers and
the brickmakers; one construction engineer and two construction technicians
to provide technical assistance to the contractors; one management expert
to assist the entreprises in the three sectors (lime, brick, and construction).
A training specialist would prepare and conduct courses and workshops for
plumbers, carpenters and masons. These experts would be internationally



- 15 -
recruited. During each year of Project execution, the Government would
ensure that Project Unit is adequately staffed. The Association and the
Government would exchange views annually about the adequacy of this
staffing (Section 3.07 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
A single firm of consultants has been chosen to provide the experts and
it is expected that the contract will be signed shortly. The Project
Director has been selected.
Project Cost and Financing
48.          The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$7.4 million
of which US$4.8 million or about 65% represents the foreign exchange component.
The total cost of technical assistance representing 164 man-months is
estimated at US$1.5 million excluding contingencies. This does not
include the cost of feasibility studies which is estimated at US$440,000,
excluding contingencies. The average cost of technical assistance
(including international travel, salary and benefits) is estimated at
about US$8,300 per staff-month. Physical contingencies of 10% were
allowed for the construction of the limekilns, the eucalyptus plantations
and the technical assistance components. Price contingencies are based
on estimates of inflation rates, both international and local, as follows:
1980 - international 17%, local 20%; 1981 - international 12%, local 15%;
1982 - international 10%, local 12%; 1983 - international 10%, local 12%;
1984 - international 10%, local 12%. The proposed US$5.2 million IDA
Credit (SDR 4.6 million) would finance about 70% of total Project cost
including 100% of foreign exchange requirements and about US$0.4 million
in local costs. Local contributions would amount to US$2.1 million,
representing .30% of the Project cost: the Government's contribution would
amount to US$1.2 million equivalent (of which about US$0.6 million would
be recovered in duties and taxes), which would represent about 16% of
total Project cost (about 8% after recovery of duties and taxes); the
contribution from the producers of lime and bricks and from the local
contractors would amount to US$0.9 million equivalent, or about 12% of
total Project cost. The Government would deposit its contributions into
the BNDE Account and the Project Account in installments (Section 3.01 (b) (ii)
and 3.08 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). As conditions of
effectiveness of the Credit, the Government would (a) deposit into the BNDE
Account at the Central Bank the equivalent of US$110,000 (Section 6.01 (e) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement) and (b) deposit the equivalent of
US$110,000 as part of its contribution to the financing of other project
components in the Project Account at the Central Bank (Section 6.01 (d) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
49.          Up to US$2.4 million from the proceeds of the Credit would be
onlent to BNDE to finance the foreign exchange cost of the subloans to enter-
prises under conditions to be stipulated in a Subsidiary Agreement between
the Government and BNDE (Schedule 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The Government would onlend to BNDE the funds to be used for the subloans at
an initial rate of eight percent per annum. BNDE would relend the funds at a
rate which would be initially of 12 percent per annum and would be reviewed
annually by the Government, the Association and IDA (Section 2.12 (b) of the
draft Project Agreement). The relending rate from the Government to BNDE
would at all times be 4 percent below the rate applicable to subloans. The rates
applicable to subloans are justified as: (a) they are already three points



- 16 -
above the maximum rate charged by commercial banks for rediscountable
medium-term loans; (b) although domestic inflation averaged 22.0 percent
in 1978, 30 percent in 1979 and 15 percent in 1980-81, it is expected
that it will slow down to an average of 12 percent per annum between
1982 and 1984; (c) even if the interest rates were marginally negative,
an element of subsidy is warranted by the experimental nature of the
Project; and (d) as indicated above, interest rates would be reviewed
annually. The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk on
the subloans and, as an incentive to encourage enterprises to
participate in the Project, would not charge a fee for the coverage
of this risk. The amortization schedule of subloans would be a maximum
of fifteen years with a maximum grace period of five years (Section 2.02 (c)
of the draft Project Agreement). BNDE would not r,eject an application for
a sub-loan for security reason only, as long as such security would
represent (i) at least 50% of the amount of the subloan in the case of
contractors and (ii) at least 25% of the subloan in the case of the
limekiln promoters and brickmakers (Section 2.11 oiE the draft Project
Agreement). The risk of non-repayment would be shared between the
Government and BNDE in the proportion of 75/25 percent respectively
(Section 3.01 (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In order
to avoid that the resources available for financing of enterprises be
used only for a few projects or enterprises, the maximum subloan granted
by BNDE to lime producers, brick manufacturers, ancl local contractors,
for a single project would be limited to US$400,000 or to 75 percent of
the total cost of the project, whichever is less. Furthermore a single
enterprise would not receive subloans amounting to more than the
tquivalent of US$400,000 in the aggregate.  All subloans made by BNDE
to enterprises would be subject to IDA's review and approval (Section 2.02 (a)
of the draft Project Agreement). The signature of a Subsidiary Agreement
acceptable to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit
(Section 6.01 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). According
to its Statement of Policy, BNDE's term debt is not to exceed four times
the amount of BNDE's unimpaired subscribed share capital plus surplus and
reserves. This requirement is satisfactory and would be maintained under
the proposed Project (Section 3.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
Cost Recovery
50.           The recipients of the subloans would repay them to BNDE
under the conditions specified above (para. 49). Following normal
practice and as an incentive to participate in the Project, local
contractors, brickmakers, and promoters of limekilns would not be charged
for technical assistance.
Procurement
51.           Procurement for the subloans refinanced under the Credit
would be in accordance with the standard IDA practice for development banks.
BNDE would supervise procurement for items financed under the subloans.
Its procurement practices are generally acceptable. The purchase of
vehicles and equipment for the Project Unit would be under competitive
bidding advertised locally under procedures which are acceptable to
IDA (Schedule 3 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In order
to facilitate Project implementation, the experts in the Project



- 17 -
Unit and MTPEM will be employed under a contract with a single consulting
firm (para. 47), which was selected in accordance with the IDA Guidelines
of August 1981. The cost of this contract is about US$1.1 million.
Disbursements
52.          Disbursements would be made on the basis of (a) 100% of
foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment, vehicles, materials
and furniture and 75% of local expenditures for goods, procured locally
but previously imported; (b) 65% of total expenditures for civil works;
(c) 100% of foreign and 50% of local expenditures for consultant services
for the Project Unit and for the audits; (d) 100% of foreign and 80%
of local expenditures for consultant services for feasibility and other
studies; (e) 100% of foreign and 80% of local expenditures for the purchase
of equipment for the Project Unit and for the cost of operation of the
Project Unit; and (f) 100% reimbursement of the Project Preparation
Facility Advance. All disbursements would be fully documented. In
the case of subloans to lime and brick producers and contractors, BNDE
would be required to apply a disbursement procedure acceptable to IDA,
including physical inspections upon delivery with a view to avoiding
over-invoicing (Section 2.03 (a) (iv) of the draft Project Agreement).
Audit
53.          Not later than six months after the close of each Government
fiscal year, the management of the Project Unit would submit to IDA
suitable financial statements reflecting the financial operations and
position of the Project. These financial statements would be audited
by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA (Section 4.01 (b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 3.02 of the draft Project
Agreement). The cost of these audits would be financed under the Project
(para. 52). BNDE already submits audited annual statements to IDA.
Benefits and Risks.
54.          The development of the local lime production and the improvement
in the quality of brick production should reduce the reliance of the
construction industry on imported materials, substantially improve the
regularity of supply of construction materials, and reduce their cost.
Technical and financial assistance to local construction companies would
provide them with the technical and organizational means they need to
participate in the growth of the sector and to enhance their share of
the market. This should have positive effects on the balance of payments,
and stimulate the growth of industrial activity. The Project would
also contribute to the emergence of a class of domestic contractors
and create new jobs.
55.          Because of the low investment cost and of the high price
of imported cement for which the lime would substitute, the economic
rate of return of the two lime kilns is estimated at 93% and 135%
respectively. The net foreign exchange savings calculated in 1980 prices,
would be about US$880,000. The benefits of the component geared to
assisting domestic construction enterprises are expected to be
substantial in terms of value added, employment generation and foreign
exchange savings. The main purpose of the brick component is to reduce



- 18 -
production losses to a level not exceeding 30% after two years (para. 28).
It is estimated that the resulting profits of the brick manufactures would offset
the cost of the component in about five years. In view of the nature of the
project components it was not possible to calculate an economic rate of return
for the project as a whole.
56.          The task of coordinating the activities of the several public
and private institutions involved in project implementation could be
difficult.  Furthermore, the success of the project will depend also to
a large extent upon the availability of experts. Finally, possible
weakness in BNDE's performance could delay implementation. In order to
minimize these risks, responsibility for coordinating the various agencies
involved in Project implementation would be assigned to a Project Unit
reporting directly to the Minister of Public Works,, which would be assisted
by several experts provided by a single consulting firm, and the staffing
of which would be reviewed periodically by the Government and the
Association (paras. 46 and 47). In addition, the Association would
continue to closely supervise BNDE's operations since a second line of
credit to BNDE has recently been appraised.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.          The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Burundi and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Republic
of Burundi and the Development Bank, BNDE, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
58.          Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the
proposed Credit would be as follows: (a) The Subsidiary Credit Agreement
between the Government and the BNDE, has been signed (para. 49); (b) The
Agreement between the Government and SOMIBUROM has been signed and a program of
development of lime deposits has been prepared (para. 41); (c) The
Government has made the first deposit in the BNDE account (para. 47); and
(d) the Government has made the first deposit in the Project Account (para. 47).
59.          I am satisfied that the Proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
60.          I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the Proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 25, 1982



ANNEX I
19                                                     Page 1 of 5
___    BURUNDI  SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BURUNDI                       RUERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEILGES
LAND AREA (THUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)_
TOTAL             27.8                                noST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      17.1              1960  /b   1970 lb ESTINATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUrH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  50.0        90.0    180.0  /              238.3                   794.2
ENERGY CONSUMNTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      11.0/c      11.3      17.3                 70.5                   707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 2851.0       3350.0   4022.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 2.2          2.2       2.3                 17.5                    27.7
POPULATION PROWECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 20O0 (MILLIONS)                       6.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        17.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      102.6       120.5    144.7                  27.7                    55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    168.8       208.6    230.6                  73.7                   130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.5        43.8      41.9                 44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                         54.6        53.2      54.8                 52.4                    51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.9         3.0       3.3                  2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.6         1.6       2.0  2               2.6                     2.8
URBAN                              1.6         1.6       2.4   /              6.5                     5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.8         44.1      45.3                 46.9                    46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    26.5         24.2      22.3                 19.3                    15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.0         2.9       2.9                  3.1                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         103.0       100.0    104.0                  89.5                    89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   91.0        98.0      97.0                 90.2                    92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          56.0        61.0      60.0                 52.7                    52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       28.0        30.0      30.0                 17.8                    16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     41.0        36.0      32.8                 27.3                    20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   37.2         39.5      41.8                 45.8                    50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..       140.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..                 23.9                    27.4
URBAN                               ..        77.0      94.0                 55.0                    74.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                 18.5                    12.6
ACCESS 1O EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..                 26.2
URBAN                               ..        96.0      95.0                 63.5
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                 20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         96566.7    55833.3  45020.0                31911.8                 13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     6768.7      7494.4   6180.0                3674.9                  2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            877.6       744.4        ..               1238.8                  1028.4
URBAN                             27.3       113.4        ..                272.8                   423.0
RURAL                           3723.1      1074.9        ..               1745.2                  3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..       5.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               . .
URBAN                               * *
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URIa                                . .
RURAL
The tllowin  Figures reflect the most recently available data:
1/  200.0                 2/ 2.2                3/ 5.0



20                                    ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
BURIIUDI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BURUNDI                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MDST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS                                       l/
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 18.0        27.0      21.0  2/              56.4                    73.7
MALE                 27.0        37.0      26.0  3'/             70.7                    96.8
FEMALE                9.0        18.0      17.0 _                50.1                    79.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  1.0         2.0       3.0 II               10.0                    16.2
MALE                  1.0         3.0       4.0 5/               13.6                    25.3
FEMALE                1.0         1.0       2.0 6/                6.6                    14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY) 35.0         24.0       12.0 7/               8.0                     5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           36.0        37.0      33.0                  46.5                    36.2
SECONDARY                         15.0        12.0      16.0/d                25.5                    23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       13.9/c         ..      25.0                 25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.9         1.1       1.3                   2.9                    32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THDUSAND
POPULATION                        20.0        19.4      27.6                  32.8                    69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..                   1.9                     8.0
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..         0.1       0.3                   2.8                    20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        ..                   1.2                     0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    1495.2       1676.8   1923.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  45.6        45.2      44.4                  34.1                    36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             90.0        87.0      84.1                  80.0                    56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 3.0         4.0       4.9                   8.6                    17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               52.4        50.1      47.8                  41.7                    37.2
MALE                                58.3        56.0      54.1                  54.3                    47.1
FEMALE                              46.9        44.4      41.7                  29.2                    27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.9         0.9        1.0                  1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    213.0                  136.0                   381.2
RURAL                               ..          ..     136.0                  84.5                   156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                  99.1                   334.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      37.0                  61.2                   137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      55.0                  39.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      85.0                  68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicatof are population-weighted aritk etic means.  Coverage of countries
mong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estlmte, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d 1975.
The followial figures reflect the mgot recently available data:                       May, 1981
1/ 25.0    2/ 30.0   3/ 20.0    4/ 2.5
,t3.4    kl 1.6    7/ 13.0



- 21-                                                                           ANNEX I
DEFtITINS  F SQLAI  ~NICAORSPage    3   of   5
Otose: Alohough the date see dree  foca source. ge-solly judged the ecee euthorittine end reliable, it should also be ected that they say not be inter-
catiocllycompe...hbl  because. of the inch If standardized defntione and e...pte used by differ..nt countrie  incolctn   the data   The date  -re, note-
thle...e.. cefo1 to deecrihe ceder. of -sagitude, jdicete noend., end cheo-tertee cocin major diffeeneshesen  ooines
The  ::referenc  goup  are II)1 the samo ocutny group of the suhjeutt country ced (2)Ie coutr  grcup  ith  -omeeht higher everege inne  the the coun1try groP
of ncsbetcuty(neofr i"etesI Surplus Oil fopoocore' groop  bem  MKiddleIcm    otch Aftoms end Middle feet  is chosen beee f strne
sinutoeeffititeie. .In the rsfaronn  gro.op dets th.              Itreeser  popoleolon -eighoed erinthscir e-n  for each  tdiceto and shoot only  he-
ejorfopy of the coutries  In asgrop baa dace for  bht itdic....v.  tinn  the coeag-f,o,nte  cn  theI ndicecore1 deede on the evolahilitY of. dane
and isnouifom   natie  cc  be aceriend in    1 oieig  Ivnge   f on  indicesor to    shr   Te.avrge_r  only useful tocoPac'Ig chs nel   o
nectedneco  n stie ena  the coutry end raference grope.
LAN  AREA (cheusrd sobs)                                                                        PncloI       IH pe ..oeitl  ted-IttlFohn.orrl-Poplation  (tone;
Tns- Ttnel sur f:. en  e     compising land aree en  iniendeeters.                           cohen  an .rrn) divided hy t'htiroroeti nee  of hoyle  bod
kActoolnu-    - Estimate of agi-ltu-e   ere  sd  eporerly or permostly                          evutbleht    public en  pcivnts general end epantelird hpitel  ndcc
fcr coops, yascre, market And hithn gaden  on no lie fellon; 1978 dana.                       habiltiutin cntrs   Onpnlerttcleert   eraeul   cffed
by an Ius  one t  hecn.ichihen    ovdn   roiainev
iNP PER CAPITA (00$) - GNP Penc -pica rei-oe   en cure t scht poiooe, -1-                         dial nt.t  ore non included   fun1 hoopinelo. h--orn  include hoeibh
c-ated by  _a  _o-erio  e-`ho  Ac ucrd Sunk Atles 1197)-7g basis); 1900,                        ocdi e    Idiv.. tenirt notproncy acfe yaphys I'llr (hoe by 
iy,ad1970 dana.                                                                            neIcol  eelnoo, .ccee.  idif.,  to.  oucth offricpnetece
datioc and provide a linitd nacte of -odica  foutir.fo ctic-
EtNoiY ClONSUMPTION PEt CAPITA - A--Ica  coeuputo- of         or         rg noy (coo              cina1 puny cooterban boepicele  onledo WHOl  pcII.,nlcconu  heInal,
sod lignite  prcnleu,nnolgsadbdo,cneoadcoboellc                                                  n   ee   cpcl  oa   ccr .oennal  enPeeIcaI en  oatac
ttrinity) in kiegee   y-oa  eqei-l-t pon capito; co6y, copy, and 10)0                           cetc.Ieiliced bcepicalo cr  inclu;dedoIlp endee ota.1
dana.                                                                                         Adn.icainn  Pro Rfo2ftul le  - Tota  cu Ite of odi...c teer di-h-ergo
free bo-pttaln divided by ohs nuhe ob       bdo
POPUfLATION cNo VTAct STATISTICS
TotalP1 cioin.fed-Yeat (chI u...de) - us of Joly 1; 1960, l97ll. ad 1010                   H00111N1
data.                                                                                       uvra   uSi  of Onusthol  ltsos  r  iceh,         ll   tute. urha, ncdtrural -
Urban Pprluuun (por-n  of pond  -Rcoic of urban no ennu  poculutice;                            A    eh.. d coIc  of A gone  of indcocdul L1         c obh n h toing quetan
differren doitin    f urhnaeo t.         p ayffect cmper-bility cf dent                       end their maTh -eaI..  A bcnrdrr -v Podgany- orsy nor bo irciud.d in
amon  coun tries; 1960. 1907, cod 1070 dena.                                                  the heuahold f-cealele  P-cpoee.
Puruletion Pcojrntoi..                                                                        A vergoc..   orn  neneeno ye  n e-ccal.ti urba             andreve- A-enngr cu--
Poruleion i  veerLOl  - Curctn  popeleni-n-r19nca  rebre   n            0               bar of peae per. eo  in  l1l urban, and  rua          MocPied crefn
toa  puputieic  by egr and eso end chefr mortality adfoucc    ee                          d.ellung, repcc 1oy.  loollinge e-cicdr  o-prann               trucue   n
Pnctinn Puranr   c   ocaiyrtso-rito   he   eel   su-ecpind pucte.
ing  ifoenpceeny a  bich icotsin  nic  nontea pe  nainoIcon.       dces   no i -lectrlity (percent of doellicce) - tonal, uran  ad  orl-
i  livlfco  female.t lIfe espoeenh    enc iglitin   atty7.) peers.pi. m   pens-.            Cocnitaboline                  lentfy  nlvngnecv  cc  erota
macme for tecilicy rcr ese havehebre  lends asesin  drcli"o iI f tonal, urban, cod rural dosligs rep-c i-ly.
ftectlity according to uc__  lea  cod pea   e_ilp plaInningproste
Each -cutny ic then aesleord  Ic   f these nine noobicaftions of  oroty                cUnTIccu
tod fo-cility tronde for projenion puyesAdin-td Invole   no iRtice
ncInryroat in Ionttioor                     Iouo nchr  oc  groonlelnor                       Pvnv   col-ccl   anedfel-va    oa,cInnd foalo~ti
the brth  ote  a cod  cItho docI  rote, and elo the og   tutr   e                       ooieno   i  ugre It the prienc  leeT            o  ecnageo   eernt
ta ccnoecoi Th  is  e ehie-d ocip after forniliny rtee decline nopimc  scoo-copopulaions; neroly includes child-e  ecI b-li
nbc -oPlacrst level of unit net -sprdconinnvnn, oh.. ouch generation                          yeave hut udjeoted for diff.ovet lengthe of primary oductioc; fcc
of c      -mreienne cessle scoely.  The ettinuery populaIonetsso                               ne ine vith  c            Ivy d  ...natitn rnrlee..  ma py e-Ie IlI percent
ronimaced on the basin of tho proj-ctad  taetrs Isf thei popultion                            eit      -sm  pupile or  bin- c lov  the oficialncI  ia
itthe yea  lOll, cod the ntrt ofdsclins of f-nil icy ctst core.plete-                     tsndn   nol-it               a    n   soe -CePon  c b abv; scoot.dary
sent level.                                                           e~~~~~~~~~~~dc..anicnreq Iet l..est f-c  years of epprcnd prImary ccecc_t_c_
Isrsaiotr  pop.l.tion is  -tenhd - The psur  h.s. etuti..ury Pc...laeion                   prnie   .n.er-, ou..tute..u.  orI tsutfcvnen  ic-nrtcn "-   or ppiP`
elce lee beon rsa-hbe.                                                                        us.Ily of 12 tc 17 pears of n f; coree.pond-oc   --eee  eve gecarlp
FPonuticci  ce_enty                                                                                e_luded.
ha. - Mid-pery-    uuno  per aq-ar  cilnos- (110 h-cerse) of                         looatnioa     Inoiotlooc f scnA'y  - Voccucon1 icvnuuionci
otatl cr0; 1061,t.cOIl ne  1079 londnld tec. hnical M                                                                 1,cdeil.o  ocherV  pograe  dud.  .peu. -     odoend
PeFs_    s                  Iniuua  ad -    ACmpte   Ietabov  fec uguiotura-1 ladIMora  deparctnt o. t f  -ecodoy itcce i_nsI
only  101.  070end1~1b dcc.-                                                                                                  ...-enhrrto- omn. n   e    dory - nTe~l -cuon 1 nrlld it
Popelotuon Aee Onvucct..recuc    Children (0-14 ypserel. corkleg-age (15-                         pmu          I n    eondcvy lev-la divided by  Ieln   f te.be.  inh he
64 peers), an  vecired (hi peace en d coed  ae p..r..asgee of ned-pose popo-                    -onepoding i_ei..
iction; 1960, 190)1  sod 10709dccc.                                                           Adult interacy rune Ice-cet) - Ltuc-ceneadutu  (tbIe tc red ce  -olts)
Poccatio  mooh note (P"'oun - to_el - eccul gronh rates of ccts1 mid-                       eeper--nag  of itel. edyt popelution eged 1) yrare an  00cr.
Population G-sch cone frr-etL -urbe  - A.ucal grcuh rtnts  of orhue pnru-                   COrNSUMPTION
lanio.e for 1 _05i, 1On0-7l, and 1901-79.                                                   Peaeoo  Cr(evtosndnclatl - Peetmagro, oenecoerue macor
Cnud tirl  ct(nocced) - -Auua  lure bicche Per thousand of mud-year                             cae.In ettanegtynuo   c Iue   ee Ace, heerers and
Crude teeth none (cur thoceend) - AI ...  deetha o- chouse..  o.f eid-y.a.                    nodin  sn-ivere (nor thoead u     nlniol   All nypse of  oteier  fo  .adio
ypuP"innnn  16061  101. AM  1010 dana.                                                        broacats to general pllin Per thu....nd of popelocio;scue   n-
bros. Osprduoti.n none - cn--geumbr- of dauchteneI           -u  cii  hou I  ho                 iio=ed rctv Iv in  ....erire ard it yearc  hen reis1-irato   ofret
her noma  reprductira period if she enpics prset age-pecif in fec-                           Iseceoc  in effect; d.tc fI  venIn  Yoae may cot bo coepevhi. snc
cili m  r-is; eeocIlly fine-you   ..e.ge  en.dung in 16061  1971, so  1070.mevoers.ubolishd lio-ein.8
Poellyo1 Ploine-dcoue on    toen -                 -AAunoe  neber of n..cepeors               TV ecivrslotchocend Io...letion     IOncenc  fcc brodoetic-
ofhehn rld-vinno undor e         Ipce f culna   aily pIlatig   rgre                  g...r-1 PubIc pe  tlboceand populacl-c; nocude  unlicese  T    cIns
PamiloPln-ion-Peo  loarcen-      t cc marriedcoe    -Pretgof maried                             in  oonite And in pear .ole2noistrtion of TV este  -a ic effect.
clima rie   thec  nbes eh gc-t-ou1nid oV"dci  gnsrt  icnret tnslpep, dfindht Ipeiodce
.1, __id   i. I9   Et -P.                                                                                     :.-P. ~pulictocdeond   rtarlytoveo It0 uIevlcoe    It oni.dered
rOOD Acl ITD OTITION                                                                              to br "daily" if it  Pppee  te en leas ft e -t ie.sIac..k.
loden of Pood Pvod-cito  Per  aCpic 11960-Pirill  - lode  of pIr c-picaI...a.                 Cinema_Annual Intendnc  yet Cu2ite 0ev cYo-h-s..d on the cuehoc o
pondeotln of oil food  -oad icie. .poodcoclc, -node  sen  an d feed an                        tinhac  eI d d-riog tIe Yaa-  including adeeelo .. ct driei   iea
is on c-lende  year basis.  Coeeeditles cove  oimary coeds (e.g.  ncevcane                    an  cobil  coins..
iceneud of angcn), dbid  are edIble s cnti  otuinrste  (e.g. ccffee end
tea are ...luded.  Ccgnnc-  p-nd-cti- of each .... ty in koce  Ic                         I.BO0 PFORCE
cotione  averace prodoter po ins oeiobne1961-6. 1907, end i91  dato.                        nTel. L,ebr F.ome ltheu....do)-eoniul.cuerrce   nidc
Pe colc  orl of -1atllne  (cement of voisotl-Conrood fvo.ame -                                 forcI an  u-saloynd hut occldinghuole,nedce   t
ene rgy eui Ien f net food eeppliee  -vilablo in  -cntry Penc -pinecvrntocelcn.l   gs   efetoai  a  nscut e   r
ra  Icy.  oa-llable anppliee  -opriar donestic productIon  imprta lees                     no  -omprah; 1906, boll cod 1010 dune.
enporte, an  changes Pc otcuch   Net euppliac  -clode  nimal fecd, erde                  PeIe loececIt _-Ifm lebito  f-ccrc   pen-ctge o  totllbrfre
qu..ntlcle  used in Pond Pr_c..cig,cc  losese...  diecrbuo .  .teqic-                     Aicluelrn)- Labor fccc  in funic.g  forencep,thuning'and
_ante core  aeinucd by PIP boeed on phylo..logce  Ied  fto  -ccma Iti-                      fiahin   ap_rv-cgo of tona  lnber force; 19f0, 1907  and 1010 deco.
vity co  health coc..id-obo  rirntnticeytove  hdy Ieihc   _e_nuty  pret  -  ao  oc   nnucu   oenc In    aootvn
end eec,i di ibetloc of popelci-c, an  allcoiou 11 prvcen  fovn-oeeet                       end     _ snticity,  ee'  n  ga   npretg   Ptnilhcfre   960
hon..ekold Il.vel; 1911-61, 1971, and 19771 tcc.                                            1971 cod 1979 date.
Per carte e'poly of evotnsL. igroec Pe   o        nci   cn co   rcpt                        P-rinipation noon (p.eti -. cocc.  malo an.    d fooale-Perlitipecioc o
ne   upy of fn   e  ds.  tont auplyl of fon. idefned a                Rcv .  -          Ictiityoe  ore competed. at.ct1, sale, en  fsouls labor fon-c
qutnom=cc  for all conci         t.svbliebed by lUllA provide fon tiniecanntcso  toto, male end femel  p                                         Iueco   f .11 ages  osp-cti-ely
ailnoe.c. otf h   iso   oe  prte.in per Icy and    gnome of animal cc                       190,170. ard 1079 dana.  Tb- ester   i         -o onL"lt pecoiipatiocrcce
peeeprfe  ofclck             t c-m ehold hoaimaIp Acin.  Ths.. stand-                      reflect ing   g-eon.  I-ocun-c  the poultIon, I.d long ties tsnd. A
erdeor  loe     Iht is f 75 enem  nf cocci protein un  23 gcma of                           fee necimatee. ace Onc neinn aute
onsa  prtnin eIaanrcgs far the cotta, yropcsed by FAP i thcb  Third                     toncic lendeon  nnu  - oic of poulaionudr15ed6cdcs
W.'ldFrood Survey; 10%1-65, lOl 7ccl 1077 dane.                                             cc  the cov1 lobur force.
,er ce ite  r-et  enn   from evAal sn  nulee - Pr tein supply of fc-d de-                  ICMDS:
rived frog  -isale1ad pul..e in gv-n  per day; 196oi-6c  .Oil sod 1011 date,           BOOf   ITLtt1ON
Clild (ages 1-cl  otalt  yInn   prthuud     Aoulduhe pry choca. It                            Percencuce     Privece Ioo-   lbcnh in tunk ccl kind) - Osc-ivd lvrcle
agegncp 1-4, yeace, no ohild-  in cli. cas oroep; for most dev-IopigcoIuc-                  I Penrn, vihec  1  ec-t, p-nreo  21P.rot,ad po--rt 40 percnt
tIdes dccc derived fine luif  cchics  19600  1707  end 1070 dana.                             of h-usehlde.
Life  orcen atM~-   Orth brave -.    -9oag  nIon- of year  of life  -eiaunlg                  Teflciganecsaevr   pnnnc   aeceo   nec   ee
enbirch  19PM90nd11   aao  ehoeld Is i-csopvrcd cmfl' coci'dire    cuton
Inet fcrtclfty nono lprerthc..end)  A- Anua  deacth  of infacce evder One  e-n              Eteimated Abeolctr Povrty cc-oo  LI1.c    (ft$P s  c-oicol -o bnh   an  rnlut -
o.f age pen thou....d lint hite                                                                uelc  pnctpttealrr  Ic thor incmales 'bio  alt h A o,lnes
A toc   cclfe Cuter (pecet-o   eulco;-tn Irbu, nod vocal - Nun-                                               .t                                                    i
her_nf.people (total, orboc,!,an  roya) oldh .......       cee    o  MIiuoalydrecedetpueocoeca  nnfcd    rqirsc    s  o
netsr supply   cc      sun              ovu,, ntreenet                             icmto_d tR1i-nv   oec   InooLvl i)nreicc   -uban end runul-
eaeoc   e thanfo  po ctdbuvonnisa, epig,.co  cantory cell.) 00                          tralricv   pv1yIcoalvlIc    -third of  ..eroge Per -opin
fou.-eu  Iteaupe  loccced notcon  than 2ll neten  fr.oIahcesa  be                                ...vl ouh-d)Ifec Ihfon bihtr,   coc  fIlvg din         d I-htcen -ee    1
r..e...hblac-ec  could  ,ImpyZchtltbehousnifth or oohr  of the hoceshold                      unrrl- Percet of popul-ic-o lurbun on  -u1ei oko n At               net
lcoeetcortlipalyocnoferlto-onl . erhi. se  hua  -Mt--
Ochro   orl   ccl   rboc, anI... siedh   corota diapneal.us
pen   Ifae   o   heir r-p-toiv-poulton.     -ureta dieyea  co.I y include
the cilec..e. andI dieposal nith on nicheo  tree.m-t , of humn-c.         ccool  on  locOal PacOnec
codcec-ea   _y_uoph_n  Iyenone or the ceo of yin privie  end deoicnociolcl   v  Proetinhevmv
b.r  ctlaln...                                                                                                                                                        -- lf
Poca -o    t Phyticien-   docinic lvded by cuohe  of prent inioc ohpei-                                                                            11
I'a.. qualfie  fro  s ma.dic-I echoc1 an enlv-ity leve.
P.Tn_ucto  nLn Ou-i- Pereco - Popelaton divided by onch- of pr.acci-u
colecnd feolgdecnvcs                                             ...ncleee,c    c .....v.ves



_ 22                             ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980                  ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.    %         1970-75           1975-80           1980
GNP at Market Prices           920.0      100.0        0.9-/            3.8I/            1.8-
Gross Domestic Investment    127.7         13.9        6.6             12.]            -4.2
Gross National Savings          27.7        3.0
Current Account Balance       -100.1      -10.9
Exports of Goods, NFS           72.7        7.9        3.7             -5.7           -35.6
Imports of Goods, NFS          208.3       22.6        8.0              5.7            -8.6
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980
Value added
UST Mln.       %
Agriculture                                 436.3         49.1
Industry                                    141.2         15.9
Services                                    223.1         25.1
Other 2/                                     88.6          9.9
TOTAL                               100.0       3/
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                              Central Government -
(BuF Million)    Percent of GDP
1980 (P)       1980   1976-78
Current Receipts                            12,715.6          14.3      14.8
Current Expenditure                         10,848.2          12.2      11.2
Current Surplus                              1,867.4           2.1       3.6
Capital Expenditures                         7,736.0           8.7       8.0
External Assistance (net)                    3,695.0           4.6       3.6
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                    1975      1976      1977     1978      1979      1980
(Million BuF outstanding at end period)
Money and Quasi Money                       3544.4   5220.9   8233.2   9411.2   11452.7 10619.7
Bank credit to Public Sector                1271.6   1125.0    270.8   1660.8    4150.4  4177.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                997.0   1532.2   1886.9   4491.3    6220.4  6864.4
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi as % of GDP                   10.8      13.2      16.8      17.0       16.1    13.3
General Price Index (1970=100)               153.1    163.6    174.6    216.4        272.1   310.2
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                           15.8       6.8       6.7      23.9      25.7    14.0
Bank credit to Public Sector                  41.7    -11.5    -75.9    513.3        149.9      0.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                -60.3      53.7      23.1    138.0       38.5    10.4
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
1/    Growth rates calculated on the basis of GDP at factor cost.
2/    Net indirect taxes and subsidies.
3/    Consolidated staternent of Government finances.
(P)   Preliminary



-.23 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1977-80)
1977   1978   1979   1980.-
(Millions US Dollars)                                              US$ Mln   %
Export of Goods, NFS               96.3   71.4  111.9   72.7          Coffee                               V5.2   91.1
Imports of Goods, NFS              94.7  123.4  192.9  208.3         Cotton                                 2.1    2.5
Resource Gap (deficit   -)          1.6  -52.0  -81.0 -135.6          Skins                                 0.7    0.8
Tea                                   1.8    2.2
Interest Paymen s (net)            -0.6   -0.9   -1.3   -3.9
Workers' Remittances                 ..
Other Factor Payments (net)       -13.1  -13.6   -8.9   -8.3
Net transfers                      29.0   32.7   34.3   47.8          All other commodities                 2.8    3.4
Balance on Current Account         16.9  -33.8  -56.8 -100.1            Total                              82.6 100.0
Direct Foreign Investment           -       -      -       -          EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                    18.9   20.2   41.7   46.7                                                  US$ Mln
Amortization                      3.5    2.6    2.7    2.3          Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              108.2
Subtotal                         15.4   17.6   39.0   44.4         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Capital Grants                     13.8   20.9   25.4   31.1          Total outstanding and Disbursed
Other Capital (net)                -0.3  -24.6   -4.3   24.6
Other items n.e.i.                  0.2    3.2   -6.7       -
Increase in Reserves (-)          -46.1   16.7    3.4                 DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980 3/
Gross Reserves (end year) 2/       95.9   83.4   92.7   92.9          Public.Debt, incl. guaranteed
Net Reserves (end year)            86.0   69.3   65.9   65.9          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding and Disbursed
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports of which:
Petroleum                       5.6    6.7   12.6   25.0
Exports of which:
Petroleum                       -      -      -        -
RATE OF EXCILANGE                                                     IDA LENDING,  September 30, 1981
IlBa     IDA
(Amount expressed in US$ Million)
Through Feb. 1973                  Since May 3, 1976                                                      X
USS1.00  -  BuF 87.5               USS1.00  -  EuF 90.0              Outstanding and Disbursed            -      44. 1
BuF 100  -  USZ 1.14               BuF 100  -  US$ 1.11              Undisbursed                          -      48. 6
Outstanding including Undisbursea -         92.7
From March 1973 to May 2, 1976                                      (Amount expressed in SDR million)
USSI.00 - BuF 78.75
BuF 100  -  US$  1.27                                                Outstanding and Disbursed            -        -
Undisbursed                          -       3.3
Outstanding including
Undisbursed                                3'3
1I/ Preliminary estimates.
2/  Central Bank
3/ Ratio of Debt Service to Export of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available -   . non applicable
September 11, 1981



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURUNDI
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
EXPRESSED IN US DOLLARS
(as of September 30, 1981)                     Amount
US$ million
Loan or                                                          (less cancellations)
Credit Number            Year        Borrower       Purpose   Bank    IDA 2/ Undisbursed
One loan 1/ and five credits fully disbursed                    4.8    9.8         -
593-BU                   1975        Burundi        Second
iCoffee    -     5.2        0.24
Improvement
626-BU                   1976        Burundi      Fisheries
Development   -      6.0       2.88
679-BU                   1977        Burundi      Education      -    10.0       0.06
731-BU                   1978        Burundi      Development
Bank        -      3.4       2.04
773-BU                   1978        Burundi      Second Highway
Project    -     14.0        4.48
917-BU                   1979        Burundi      Second Technical
Assistance  -      2.5       1.20
918-BU                   1979        Burundi      Forestry       -     4.3       3.30
976-BU                   1980        Burundi      Second              15.0      12.91
Education    -
1049-BU                  1980        Burundi      Urban
Development  -    15.0       13.88
1058-BU                  1981        Burundi      Telecom-
munications -      7.7       7.61
Total                     4.8   92.9      48.60
of which has been repaid 4.8    0.2
Total now held            0.0   92.7
Total undisbursed         0.0   48.6
1/ Extended in 1957 to the Belgian Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi for the
improvement of the Bujumbura-Muramvya road and the expansion of the Lake
port of Bujumbura. The loan which was guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium
has been fully reapid.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



25 -                              ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS EXPRESSED IN SDR
(as of September 30, 1981)
Credit                                                 AAmount in SDR Million
Number          Year       Borrower     Purpose       Original         Undisbursed
1154  2/        1981      Burundi       Nickel         3.30              3.30
Exploration
Total now outstanding       3.30              3.30
Total now held by IDA       3.30
Total undisbursed           0.0               3.30
1/ Two credits were approved by the Board for a Third Highway Project (SDR20.5 million)
and a Kirimiro Rural Development Project (SDR16.2 million) in April and
June 1981, respectively.
2/ Not yet effective.
C. Statement of IFC Investments
Amount in US$ Million
Type of
Year     Obligor         Business              Loan    Equity   Total
1981     Verreries du   Glass container
Burundi                               4.65    0.78      5.63
Total gross commitments
less cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                    4.65    0.78      5.63
Total commitments now held by IFC              4.65    0.78      5.63
Total undisbursed                              4.65    0.78      5.63



26 _                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
D. Projects ir Execution 1f
as of September 30th, 1981
Credit No. 593-BU    Second Coffee Improvement Project:  US$5.2 million of
December 5, 1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1976;
Closing Date: April 30, 1982.
The Project is a continuation of the First Coffee
Improvement Project (US$1.8 million Credit No. 147-BU of April 11, 1969).  It
is being co-financed by the Kuwait Fund (US$1.2 million) on a parallel basis
and by Belgium (about US$600,000). The Kuwait Fund has financed the
construction of coffee washing stations and of the road construction component,
and Belgium assists in the carrying out of a coffee research component. The
project is designed to support the development of coffee and food production by
strengthening and expanding extension services and distribution of agricultural
inputs; it includes a pilot rural development program to improve livestock and
food crop production. Start up of the project was slow because of frequent
changes in foreign and local project staff. Following the appointment of a new
team of experts and of a new Burundian manager, project management improved.
Coffee extension work is showing favourable results. Husbandry methods
practiced by coffee growers continue to improve and coffee research activities
are making satisfactory progress. Construction of twelve washing stations has been
completed. The results of the coffee processing component are very
satisfactory due to efficient management of the washing stations and the fact
that farmers have started to pay greater attention to quality aspects of coffee
production. The pilot food crop development program has encountered
difficulties. The project is nearly completed. However, to allow for completion
of the construction program, the Closing Date has been postponed from September 30,
1981-to April 30, 1982.
Credit No. 626-BU      Fisheries Development Project: US$6.0 million of
June 11, 1976; Effective Date: February 22, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This project is designed to increase the production of
fish through the provision of training, equipment and materials to fishermen
and to improve the distribution of fish throughout Burundi. The project also
includes financing for the preparation of rural development plans for the
coastal region along Lake Tanganyika and the implementation of pilot
development activities. The project is cofinanced by a US$1.2 million loan
from the Abu-Dhabi Fund. Project implementation was initially very slow
because of problems encountered in the recruitment of both expatriate technical
assistants and their national counterparts and in the procurement of goods.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding they do not
purport to present a balance evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



_ 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Some of these constraints have been overcome and the pace of project
implementation has accelerated. Production of a limited number of fiberglass
hulls for fishing boats has begun and there has been an improvement in the
catch rates at some fishing centers. A new experiment is underway to use low
quality local wood and a minimum amount of foreign exchange to produce longer
lasting and cheaper laminated wood baots. Problems of shortages of spare parts
for the outboard engines are being solved. Contracts for all the studies have
been signed and all of them are underway. However, SUPOBU's activities related
to commercialization and marketing of fish have been unsuccessful, causing
severe financial strains on the Company. Further to a review of implementation
problems with the Government, it was decided to stop all processing and
marketing activities except for high value frozen fish, and limit SUPOBU's role
to the provision of fishing craft and gear and extension services.
Credit No. 679-BU      Education Project:  US$10.0 million of April 28, 1977;
Effective Date    September 1, 1977; Closing Date: March
31, 1983.
In line with the reform of primary education in 1973, the
main objectives of the Project were to develop primary education in rural
areas, and in particular to introduce practical subjects in the curriculum and
the local language as the medium of instruction. The project included (a)
construction and equipment of 100 Multi-purpose Learning Centers (MLCs) - to
be utilized by primary school students and the local community at large - and
of a practical subject teacher training center; and (b) provision of equipment
and technical assistance to the Rural Education Bureau, which is responsible
for the implementation of the reform, as well as for teacher training. As a
result of a shortage of cement and fuel caused by the hostilities in Uganda in
1979, project execution has been delayed by about a year. Because of this
interruption and of higher than anticipated price increases, the Project is
encountering high cost overruns. The construction of 21 MLCs, a teacher
training center and a printshop has been completed. Due to high cost overruns,
and changes in project scope which included the establishement of a
construction unit, and an enlargement of the scope fo the works for the teacher
training center and the MLC workshops, only about 50 MLCs will now be built.
Funds are nearly totally disbursed.
Credit No. 731-BU      Development Bank Project:  US$3.4 million
30, 1977; Effective Date: March 27, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project aims at providing funds for investment in
medium size productive entreprises and technical assistance to the National
Economic Development Bank (BNDE). Implementation of the Project started
slowly. Following, however, an amendment of the Credit Agreement of June 1980,
which allows the use of up to US$1 million for financing loans to small-scale
enterprises, project execution has accelerated. The newly established
Industrial Development Unit of BNDE which is to promote and appraise industrial
projects is now fully staffed.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Credit No. 773-BU    Second Highway Project:  US$14.0 million of March 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 27, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project finances the paving of a major nation road,
Bujumbura-Rugombo (65 km), the start-up phase of an iLmprovement program for
selected secondary and tertiary roads and bridges, the construction of a new
central laboratory, the strengthening of the mechanized maintenance brigade and
the provision of technical assistance and equipment for the ongoing maintenance
program. Project implementation, in particular major road construction, was
delayed by the lack of cement and fuel supplies due to disruption in
international transport through neighbouring countries during the first half of
1979. Since then, works have resumed satisfactorily. Because of these
interruptions, and of higher than expected price increases, the project is
encountering high cost overruns. The improvement program for selected
secondary roads is proceeding satisfactorily. The construction of a new
central laboratory is nearly completed. The mechanized maintenance brigade is
fully operational and has received all the equipment financed under the
project. The technical assistance component is, in general, meeting its
objectives; however, difficulties in recruiting local counterparts and in
retaining them in service once trained have not made possible the reduction of
expatriate technical assistance as planned.
Credit No. 917-BU    Second Technical Asssita?lee Project; TTSt2.5 million
of June 1, 197Q; Effectiveness Date:  September 27, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This project provides for the further strengthening of the
Government's planning mechanism and its project preparation and implementation
capacity. It includes continuation of the technical assistance to
macroeconomic planning at the Ministry of Planning, provision of experts to
the planning divisions of the Ministries of Agriculture and Industry and
financing of feasibility studies. The credit is also financing consultant
services to support the Government's effort in restructuring public
enterprises. Most of the experts have been recruited. Project implementation
is satisfactory.
Credit No. 918-BU    Forestry Project:  US$4.3 million and US$1.2 milion
EEC Special Action Credit of June 1, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: October 22, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project assists the Government in initiating the
first stage for a long-term program to develop basic forestry services and
plantations to supply fuel wood, building poles and timber and to establish
long-term wood production and marketing policies. The project includes the
establishment of rural nurseries in 30 communes, a 2,000 ha eucalyptus
plantation and a 5,000 ha pine plantation, technical assistance (provided by
France) and financing of energy studies. The three expatriate technical
assistant-s (project manager, two silviculturists) are in post. The project is
progressing satisfactorily.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Credit No. 976-BU      Second Education Project:  US$15.0 million of April 23,
1980; Effectiveness Date:  July 21, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project assists the Government in training middle
level technicians and skilled workers in industrial trades and
secretarial-administrative skills. It includes the construction, furnishing
and equipping of two new boarding technical schools, a Mechanics Department and
a Typist and Bookkeeper Training Department in two existing schools and staff
housing. The Credit became effective on July 21, 1980 and implementation is
progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1049-B      Urban Development Project:  US$15.0 million of June
24, 1980; Effective Date: October 31, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
This project seeks to redress the most urgent
infrastructure deficiencies in Bujumbura neighbourhoods while laying the
foundation for more efficient future growth. Essential improvements to street,
drainage, water and public lighting networks will improve living conditions for
118,000 persons in Bujumbura, or 85% of the population. Serviced plots and
loanr for house construction will be made available to families between 15th
and 65th income percentiles. An artisan promotion component will provide
technical and financial assistance to masons, carpenters, tailors, and
metalworkers. An energy assistance program will improve the efficiency of
charcoal-burning metal stoves. A municipal services component will strengthen
the capacity of the Bujumbura municipality to collect garbage and maintain
streets, drains and public buildings. Project start-up is progressing
satisfactorily. Street and drainage improvements are underway in
the first upgrading neighbourhood and at the Kwijabe serviced site. Artisan
trainer-promoters have begun providing assistance to carpenters and
metalworkers. Households to receive serviced plots at Kwijabe will be selected
in November 1981; those chosen for the first phase of occupancy will begin
construction in early 1982.
Credit No. 1058-BU    Telecommunications Project:  US$7.7 million of August 7,
1980; Effective Date: January 7, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
The project is a major component of the country's 1980-84
investment program for telecommunications. It aims at improving the quality of
existing services while extending the coverage to rural areas and segments of
the population presently unserved. It would also strengthen the management of
telecommunications parastatal company (ONATEL) in order to establish the
company as a financially autonomous entity, and provide assistance for staff
training. The project became effective on January 7, 1981. ONATEL started
functioning in January 1980 and is developing satisfactorily. A delay of three
to four months in the recruitment of consultants has delayed project
implementation correspondingly.



-30--                         ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BURUNDI
PILOT PROJECT TO ASSIST THE LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetables of Key Events
Identification:                   1977
Preparation:                      Government, with IDA's assistance
Appraisal Mission:                September 1980
Negotiations:                     February 1982
Planned Date of Effectiveness:  July 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions of the Project
Under an agreement with the Government, SOMIBUROM would supply
the amount of limestone required by the kilns at a price
sufficient (i) to cover its direct costs of production and an
appropriate share of its management, general and administration
costs and (ii) to generate a twelve percent return before taxes
on the value of assets used for such production (para. 41).
The Water and Forest Administration will plant and maintain
eucalyptus plantations, supply the amounts required by the
kilns at a price sufficient to cover the full investment,
operation and maintenance costs of such plantations (para. 41).
The Government would allow the brick makers to exploit the
quarry of Kamenge (para. 42).



-31 -                         ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
The Government would exchange views annually with the Association
on the adequacy of staffing of the DETN (para. 44) and of the
Project Unit (para. 47).
The amortization schedule of the sub-loans extended by BNDE would
be a maximum of fifteen years with a maximum grace period of five
years. BNDE would not request from the sub-borrowers a security
exceeding 50% of the amount of the loan for construction
enterprises and 25% for brickmakers and limekiln operators. The
Government would assume the foreign exchange risk. The risk of
non repayment would be shared by the Government (75% and BNDE
(25%) (para. 49).
The Government, IDA and BNDE would periodically review interest
rates applicable to sub-loans. The relending rate from the
Government to BNDE would be 4% below the interest rate
applicable to sub-loans (para. 49).
The Government would deposit its contribution in the Project
Account and in the BNDE Account in installments (para. 48).
Additional Conditions of Effectiveness (para. 58)
Signing of a Subsidiary Agreement between the Government and
BNDE.
Submission by SOMIBUROM of a program of development of lime
deposits satisfactory to IDA and signing of an agreement
between the Government and SOMIBUROM.
First deposit, by the Government, in the BNDE Account for
its contribution to the sub-loans.
First depcsit, by the Government, in the Project account
for its ccntribution to other project components.






IBRD 12260
N         ~~~JULY i976
~~~~~j~i                                                                                                           
:7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z~~~7
1<              A
_                                                                                                                                     -~~~~~~~~n -
oo  0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~" 
Hi                                                                                            I           V                                                          CL 4~~~~~~~6   "". 1



