OFIIGAL         CREDIT NUMBER 1230 BU
%)CiJ1T-9T
Development Credit Agreement
(Local Construction Industry Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               ,1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1230 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               \              , 1982, between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (hereinaf er called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Banque
Nationale pour le Developpement Economique S.A.R.L. (hereinafter
called BNDE), a company established and operating under the laws
of the Borrower, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower shall make available to BNDE a part
of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements
of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
(a) The words "Investment Projects and the other Parts
of" are inserted immediately preceding the words "the Project" at
the end of Section 5.03.
(b) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:


﻿-2-
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If
(a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account shall have been suspended with respect
to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of
thirty days, or (b) by the date specified in Section 2.02 (d)
of the Project Agreement no applications for approval
permitted under paragraph (b) of such Section shall
have been received by the Association in respect of any
portion of the Credit, or having been so received, shall have
been denied or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the
Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the
right to request such applications or to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account, as the case may be, with respect to
such amount or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such
notice such amount or portion of the Credit shall be can-
celled."
(c) The words "and the Project Agi,eement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06;
and
(d) The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Section 10.02.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Unit" means the unit within the Ministry of the
Borrower responsible for public works, energy, and mining created
by presidential Decree No. 100/221, dated October 31, 1981.
(b) "DETN" means the Direction des Etudes et Travaux Neufs
within the Ministry of the Borrower responsible for public works;
(c) "Project Agreement" means the agreemeit between the
Association and BNDE of even date herewith, as tte same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(d) "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and BNDE pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of


﻿-3-
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes any schedule to the Subsidiary Agreement;
(e) "SOMIBUROM Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and SOMIBUROM pursuant to Section 4.03
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(f) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed
to be made by BNDE to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project out of (i) the proceeds of the Credit relent to BNDE and
(ii) the line of credit made available to BNDE by the Borrower;
(g) "Investment Enterprise" means a construction enterprise,
a limekiln promoter or a brick manufacturer to which BNDE proposes
to make or has made a Sub-loan, having net fixed assets below
Burundi Francs one hundred million (BuF 100,000,000) in 1980
prices, and being unable to obtain financing for the items to
be financed under the proposed Sub-loan through commercial bank
channels or from parent companies.   In the case of construction
enterprises such enterprises shall have been established and
operated in Burundi for at least three years;
(h)  "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(i) "Burundi Francs" and the letters "BuF" means the
currency of the Borrower;
(j)  "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower;
(k)  "Statutes" means the Acte Constitutif of BNDE published
in the Official Bulletin of Burundi No. 4/67 of April 1, 1967, as
modified to date;
(1)  "Statement of Policy" means the statement as approved
by the Board of Directors of BNDE on June 17, 1977 and as amended
by the Board of Directors of BNDE on July 22, 1980, as the same
may be amended from time to time in compliance with the provisions
of Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement;
(m) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by BNDE or by any one or more


﻿-4-
subsidiaries of BNDE or by BNDE and one or more of its subsi-
diaries;
(n) "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.08 (a) of this Agreement which shall be credited with
the Borrower's contribution for Parts B, C and D of the Project
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.08 (b) of this Agreement;
(o) "BNDE Account" means the account referred to in Section
3.08 (a) of this Agreement which shall be credited with the
Borrower's contribution required for Part A of the Project
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agree-
ment; and
(p) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated May 15, 1981 and July 27, 1981
between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to four million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 4,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association
as follows:
(a) for amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so
agree, amounts to be paid) by BNDE to finance the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Investment Project in
respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is re-
quested; provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in
respect of an Investment Project unless the Sub-loan for such
Investment Project shall have been approved by the Associa-
tion;


﻿-5-
(b) for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of services
required for Parts B, C and D of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1992, and ending
February 15, 2032, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conetions.
Section 2.09. The Borrower designates BNDE as its repre-
sentative for the purpose of taking any action re, .iired or per-
mitted to be taken under Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and


﻿-6-
Article V of the General Conditions regarding the carrying out of
Part A of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause BNDE to perform in accordance with the provisions of
the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to
enable BNDE to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall under a subsidiary agreement (the
Subsidiary Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
BNDE on terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association:
(i) lend the proceeds of the Credit allocated to
Part A of the Project and the Borrower's contribu-
tion to said Part of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in Part A of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement; and
(ii) pay into the BNDE Account the Borrower's contribu-
tion referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of this
paragraph: (A) an initial deposit of $110,000; (B)
by July 31, 1982 an amount equivalent to $110,000;
and (C) by January 31, 1983 an amount equivalent to
$210,000.
(c) Within thirty days of receipt of a notification from
BNDE pursuant to Section 2.10 (a) of the Project Agreement, the
Borrower shall grant BNDE seventy-five per cent (75%) of the
amount of the principal, interest and other charges, if any, with
respect to the Sub-loan due to BNDE by the Investment Enterprise
in question.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the Durposes of
the Credit, and except as the Asociation shall otherwise agree,


﻿-7-
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the
Project through the Water and Forest Administration within its
Ministry responsible for agriculture and rural development and
Parts C and D through its Ministry responsible for public works,
energy and mines with due diligence and efficiency and in accor-
dance with appropriate financial, administrative and engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Project Unit within the Borrower's Ministry respon-
sible for public works shall be entrusted with the carrying out of
Parts C and D of the Project. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain the
Project Unit until at least six months after the Closing Date; and
(ii) empower the Project Unit to carry out its responsibilities
under paragraph (a) of this Section and under the provisions of
Section 3.05 of this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts B, C and D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants, including a project manager, a lime specialist, a
brick specialist, a management specialist, a training specialist,
a construction engineer and two construction technicians, whose
selection, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
fo the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World
B,.A as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) Without limitation or restriction on the obligation set
forth in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall:
(i) at all times during execution of the Project employ a project
manager; (ii) take all measures necessary to ensure that the
project manager will at all times be in the position to exercise
adequate authority to carry out his responsibilities under his
contract of employment; and (iii) consult with the Association
prior to any replacement for the position of the project manager.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
Project.


﻿-8-
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) through the Project
Unit maintain records and procedures adequate to record and
monitor the progress of Parts B, C and D of the Project (including
its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the plantations included in Part B of
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Association through the Project Unit at the end of
each quarter during execution of the Project all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning Parts B, C
and D of the Project, its cost and the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods financed out of such proceeds.
(b) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out
Part B of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that at all
times during execution of the Project DETN and the Project Unit
are staffed with adequately qualified personnel in appropriate
numbers; (b) annually during execution of the Project consult with
the Association so as to ensure that the personnel of DETN and the
Project Unit will draw maximum benefits from their coopeT ation
with the consultants and specialists who assist the Borrower in
carrying out Parts C and D of the Project.


﻿-9-
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall open and maintain
during execution of the Project, the Project Account and the BNDE
Account in its Central Bank.
(b) Without limitation upon the generality of the pro-
visions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
deposit into the Project Account the amounts required for the
carrying of Parts B, C and D of the Project over and above the
proceeds of the Credit allocated thereto; such amounts shall be
paid into the Project Account by the dates hereinafter specified
and shall in any event be not less than: (i) an initial deposit in
an amount equivalent to $110,000; (ii) by July 31, 1982 an amount
equivalent to $33,000; and (iii) commencing January 31, 1983 four
semiannual installments each amounting to not less than the
equivalent of $167,000.
Section 3.09. The Borrower sha      without limitation upon
the generality of the provisions of Section 3.03 (a) of this
Section: (a) not later than December 31, 1982, or such other
date as the Borrower and the Association shall agree, furnish to
the Association for its review and approval proposals for feasi-
bility studies (together with detailed terms of reference) to be
carried out under Part C (i) of the Project; and (b) promptly
after such approval implement said studies in accordance with
terms of reference as approved by the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accor-
dance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting prac-
tices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of Parts B, C and D of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section and the Project Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,


﻿e  10
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and the audit thereof as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall enter into an agreement
with SOMIBUROM (the SOMIBUROM Agreement) on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association including, inter alia, the require-
ment that: (i) SOMIBUROM shall supply to each limekiln financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit at least 4,500 tons of limestone
per annum from the date of start of operations of any such lime-
kiln; and (ii) the price to be charged for the limestone supplied
to each such limekiln shall be sufficient: (A) to cover at least
SOMIBUROM's direct costs of production and an appropriate share of
its management, general and administrative costs; and (B) to
generate a 12% return before taxes of the value of the assets used
for such production including provisions for necessary working
capital.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section: (i)
"direct costs of production" means all direct operating and
maintenance expenses including but not limited to expenses for
labor, fuel, materials, spares and depreciation on the fixed
assets used to produce the limestone to be supplied to the lime-
kilns to be financed under this Project; (ii) the share of manage-
ment, general and administrative costs to be covered by the price
charged for limestone shall be determined in accordance with
financing practices generally acceptable in the mining sector and
in accordance with generally acceptable accounting principles;
(iii) the value of the assets used for the production of limestone
shall be determined in accordance with generally acceptable
accounting principles and shall take into account provisions for
previous revaluations of the assets to reflect changes in current
prices for such assets.
(c) The Borrower and the Association shall, annually, review
and exchange views on the prices charged by SOMIBUROM for lime-
stone supplied to limekilns.
Section 4.,4. (a) The Borrower shall, within six months from
the Effective Date of this Agreement, enter into agreements with
brickmakers by which:


﻿- 11 -
(i) brickmakers shall be entitled to exploit under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, the quarry of Kamenge for a period of up
to two years from the date of such agreement;
and
(ii) such brickmakers shall be required: (A) to produce
bricks of single standardized format; and (B) to
exploit the quarry in accordance with a method
which will be determined by the Project Unit.
(b) The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1984,
exchange views with the Association on the exploitation of the
quarry of Kamenge or other quarry acceptable to the Association
for purposes of determining the terms and conditions on which the
brickmakers will continue the exploitation of said quarry.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain, harvest
and replant the plantations of eucalyptus trees established
under Part B-of the Project in accordance with appropriate
forestry practices and as required for a continuing supply of
fuel wood to the limekilns financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit; and (ii) make the wood produced by such plantations
exclusively available to said limekilns at prices which shall
cover the full investment, operation and maintenance costs of
the plantations. Such prices shall be reviewed, annually by
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.06. During the last quarter of 1983 and annually
thereafter the Borrower shall review and consult with the Asso-
ciation whether it is advisable for the Borrower to levy taxes,
royalty fees or any other impositions on the owners of limekilns
financed under the Project for the use of limestone or on
SOMIBUROM for the exploitation of such limestone and, if applic-
able, at which rate such taxes, royalty fees or any other imposi-
tions should be levied.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿- 12 -
(a) BNDE shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of BNDE under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that BNDE will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of BNDE or for the suspension of its operations;
(d) BNDE shall be unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been undertaken whereby any of
the property of BNDE shall or may be distributed among its
creditors;
(e) any part of the principal amount of any loan to BNDE
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accor-
dance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of
maturity, as provided in the relative contractual instruments,
or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(f) a Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by BNDE, if such creation, acquisition
or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of its manage-
ment and personnel or the carrying out of Part A of the Project;
and
(g) a representation made by BNDE in or pursuant to the
Project Agreement, or any statement furnished in connection
therewith, and intended to be relied upon by the Association
in making the Loan, shall have been incorrect in any material
respect.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or (f) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c), (d) or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by
the Borrower and BNDE in compliance with the provisions of Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) that the SOMIBUROM Agreement has been executed by the
Borrower and SOMIBUROM in compliance with the provisions of
Section 4.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(c) that SOMIBUROM shall have furnished to the Association
a program satisfactory to the Association for the development
and exploitation of the lime deposits which shall be used to
supply limestone to the limekilns financed under the Project;
(d) the initial deposit in an amount equivalent to $110,000
has been paid by the Borrower into the Project Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 3.08 (b) of this Agreement; and
(e) the initial deposit in an amount equivalent to $110,000
has been paid into the BNDE Account pursuant to the provisions of
Section 3.01 (b) (ii) (A) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by BNDE and is legally binding upon BNDE in accordance
with its terms;
(b) the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized
by the Borrower and BNDE in compliance with the provisions of
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, and is legally binding upon
the Borrower and BNDE in accordance with its terms; and


﻿- 14 -
(c) the SOMIBURUM Agreement has been duly authorized by the
Borrower and SOMIBURUM in compliance with the provisions of
Section 4.03 of this Agreement, and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and SOMIBUROM in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date                            is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tion 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministry responsible for public works,
energy and mines of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Travaux Publics de
l'Energie et des Mines
B.P. 745
Bujumbura
Burundi
Telex:
BDI 48
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 15 -
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regio+nalVice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans for limekiln           280,000
onstruction under
Part A (i) of the
Project:
(i) directly                                  100% of foreign
imported                                 expenditures
equipment
(ii) previously                                75% of local
imported and                             expenditures
locally pro-
cured equip-
ment
(iii) civil works                               65%
(2) Sub-loans to brick-              110,000
makers under Part A
(ii) of the Project
(i) directly                                  100% of foreign
imported                                 expenditures
equipment
(ii) previously                                75% of local
imported                                 expenditures
equipment
(iii) civil works                               65%


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Credit Ailocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(3) Sub-loans to construc-          1,700,000
tion companies under
Part A (iii) of the
Project:
(i) directly                                  100% of foreign
imported                                 expenditures
equipment
(ii) previously                               75% of local
imported                                 expenditures
equipment
(4) Consultant services             1,360,000      100% of foreign
under Part D of the                           and 50% of lo-
Project including the                         cal expendi-
auditing required under                       tures
Section 4.01 (b) of
this Agreement
(5) Studies under Part C              480,000      100% of foreign
of the Project                                expenditures
and 80% of
local expendi-
tures
(6) Equipment for the                 200,000      100% of foreign
Project Unit and                              expenditures
operating costs of                            and 80% of
the Project Unit                              local expendi-
tures
(7) Refunding of the Project          270,000      Amount due at
Preparation Advance                           Effective Date
(8) Unallocated                       200,000
TOTAL           4,600,000


﻿- 18 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to April 13, 1982.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with


﻿- 19 -
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Part A:   Credit Program
(i) Sub-loans to finance the construction of two
limekilns, each with a production capacity of 2,500
tons of lime per annum, one of which will be
located in the area of Bujumbura and the other in
the Mosso area;
(ii) A Sub-loan program to finance the purchase of
equipment needed by brickmakers such as mixers and
molds and to finance the construction of shelters
for bricks; and
(iii) A Sub-loan program to finance the purchase of
equipment needed by construction companies.
Part B:   Afforestation
Plantation of eucalyptus trees on about 37.5 ha
per annum for a period of 7 years commencing
in April 1982 in the area of Bujumbura and Mosso to
supply the aforementioned kilns with fuel wood.
Part C:   Studies
(i) A program of feasibility studies on expanding the
production of construction materials and tools,
improving the availability and price of imported
construction materials and strengthening the
Borrower's construction industry; and
(ii) Additional studies to prepare a subsequent project
to develop the construction industry of the
Borrower.
Part D:   Technical Assistance
(i) Provision of technical assistance to promoters of
limekilns, brickmakers and contractors in the
preparation of requests for Sub-loans;


﻿- 21 -
(ii) Provision of technical assistance to promoters of
limekilns to be financed under Part A (i) above
to ensure the proper construction and satisfactory
op2ration of such limekilns and to promote the use
of limekilns in the building industry;
(iii) Provision of technical assistance to brickmakers to
improve production methods and the management of
brick producing enterprises;
(iv) Provision of technical assistance to contractors
regarding the use of materials, construction
techniques, including assistance in the carrying
out of a limited number of contracts;
(v) Training of Burundian plumbers, carpenters and
masons;
(vi) On-the-job training for DETN staff on the procure-
ment of civil work contracts and supervision of
the carrying out of such contracts; and
(vii) Provision of technical assistance to DETN for the
preparation of a document specifying norms and
procedures for the use of construction materials
and specifying construction methods to be used in
the sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1984.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   Goods to be purchased for the Project Unit shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally. Foreign firms, even if not locally represented, shall be
entitled to participate in the bidding.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts, with respect to all contracts estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, to-
gether with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time fo: its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.


﻿- 23 -
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Associa-
tion of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4
Lending Arrangements under the Subsidiary Agreement
and Financial Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
A.   Lending Arrangements under the Subsidiary Agreement
1.   Term: maximum 15 years including a grace period not
exceeding five years.
2.   Foreign exchange risk: borne by the Borrower.
3.   Interest: 4 percentage points below the interest rate
applicable for Sub-loans.
B.   Financial Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.   Sub-Loan limit: equivalent to $400,000 in Burundi
Francs for a single Investment Project but not more than
75% of the total investment costs of any Investment
Project carried out under the Project.       A single
Investment Enterprise shall not receive Sub-loans
exceeding the equivalent of $400,000 in the aggregate.
2.   Maturities: as provided in Section 2.02 (c) of the
Project Agreement.
3.   Interest: 12% per annum on the outstanding principal
amount or such other interest rate as shall be agreed
upon by the Borrower, the Association and BNDE pursuant
to Section 2.12 (b) of the Project Agreement.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of-the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Develop&ent Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   I    Lday of
198.
FOR SECRETARY


