Report No. PIC877
Project Name                       Morocco-Fez Rehabilitation Project (@+)
Region                             Middle East and North Africa
Sector                             Urban Development
Project ID                         MA-PE-5524
Borrower                           Kingdom of Morocco
Project Coordinator                Mr. Mohamed Fassi Fehri
Governor, Fes Medina
Fax: 212.5.63.53.09
Lead Implementing Agency           Agence pour la Dedensification
et la
Rehabilitation de la Medina de Fes
(ADER-Fs)
4, Avenue Zaid Ibn Harita
Fez, Morocco
Contact                            Mr. El Hajjami
Managing Director, ADER-Fs
Tel. 212.5.65.34.69/78
Fax. 212.5.65.38.83
Date initial PID prepared          July 1994
Date this update prepared          March 1997
Project Appraisal date             March 1997
Project Board date                 June 1997
Background
1.       Morocco's 30 medinas have been largely overlooked for much of
the 20th century, since investment has been concentrated in areas
outside the traditional urban centers. The result has been a
serious deterioration of the historic building stock, urban
infrastructure, and the urban environment. This decline has been
compounded by rural migration and the exodus of the original
inhabitants of the medina so that density of population in the
medinas is high and income levels are often below national
averages. The absence of a focused Government policy towards these
historic cities and relatively low levels of investment have
deterred their ability to provide satisfactory living conditions
for their inhabitants.
2.       A 1995 project survey indicates that 36 percent of the
medina's population is below the poverty threshold, a proportion
far exceeding the national average for both urban (10.4 percent)
and rural (28.7 percent). Moreover, half of the housing stock is
seriously decayed and housing occupancy levels surpass acceptable
levels. This cycle of decline also affects the architectural
heritage of Fs, despite recent efforts by Moroccan authorities to
preserve selected monuments. However, data collected on the demand



for building permits to rehabilitate the housing stock, as well as
on land transactions, indicate a potential for reversing the cycle
of decline among all segments of the medina's population. A good
indicator of the long-term benefits expected from the project is
the leveraging ratio computed under the project's economic
analysis. It shows that for every dollar of public funds invested
under the project, more than US$3.0 will be invested by the
medina's population over the long term.
Project Objectives
3.       The Fs Medina, a UNESCO World Heritage site since 1976 and
center of Moroccan commerce and culture, has a high incidence of
poverty and substandard living conditions. Under a comprehensive
definition of cultural heritage as the historically built
environment, encompassing the housing stock and the social
structures which support it, the primary objective of the proposed
project is the conservation and rehabilitation of the Medina
through the empowering of its population and institutions, and by
raising the national and international awareness of its cultural
value. To reach this objective, the project will: (a) expand and
accelerate ongoing conservation efforts; (b) consolidate
partnerships between the public and private sectors, the Borrower,
World Bank, and other donors; and (c) use the rehabilitation
process to alleviate poverty.
Project Description
4.       The following components constitute the proposed project: (a)
conserving cultural heritage through a variety of priority
rehabilitation activities aimed at meeting community needs,
upgrading the historic housing stock, and expanding the tourism
offering; (b) providing priority access for emergency public
services extending to the center of the medina, and facilitating
logistical activities for residents and businesses, thereby
creating favorable conditions for efficient urban development and
private sector investment; (c) improving the urban environment and
reducing poverty by instituting programs for solid waste collection
and pollution reduction for small-scale industries, and creating
employment through a labor-intensive public works program linked
with the rehabilitation process, and training; and (d)
strengthening the capacity of the municipality and responsible
agencies to plan and carry out urban improvements.
Benefits and Target Population
5.       The target population is the residents of the medina (150,500
inhabitants), with special attention to those living below the
poverty threshold (52,700 inhabitants). About one-third of the
residents would benefit directly from improved infrastructure
network, including an emergency network of some 14 km which would
improve access to the medina for medical emergencies, fire
brigades, security services, solid waste collection etc. Another
direct benefit would be the creation of some 8,000 jobs over the
next fifteen years, of which 50 percent would be targeted to the
- 2-



poor under a specific poverty alleviation component. Benefits of
the project would also accrue to various professional and artisan
groups working in the medina; those individuals receiving training
and technical assistance; local institutions, universities, NGOs,
and neighborhood associations involved in the rehabilitation of the
medina; and the tourism industry. The ultimate beneficiary, of
course, would be the World Heritage city of Fs, whcih wuold
benefit from the new rhythm of maintenance and rehabilitation and
resulting inward investment. There would also be benefits at the
national level, since the Fs experience would serve as a
demonstration project that could be replicated in other medinas of
Morocco.
Project Cost and Financing
6.       Total project cost is currently estimated at US$41.8 million,
with a Bank loan tentatively placed at US$25 million. Under a grant
from the Japan Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) Fund,
an expanded program of rehabilitation, totaling US$65 million, was
prepared and will be presented to a donors' conference in May 1997.
During ths conference, particular focus will be put on the
financing of activities which relate directly to the poverty
alleviation component, including financing a line of micro-credit.
Project Implementation
7.       The Borrower would be the Government of Morocco (GoM) which
would on-lend part of the loan to the two municipalities in charge
of the medina (Fs-Medina and Fs-Jdid), and to the District of Fs
(Communaute Urbaine). Among these entities, the Fs-Medina
municipality is playing a key role in the day-to-day management of
the medina, and would share most of the project cost with the
Government. ADER-Fs was the main agency in charge of preparing the
project, and will play a pivotal role during the course of the
project. It will act as technical coordinator and advisor for all
rehabilitation projects of historic interest. It will be in charge
of the poverty alleviation component, which will be managed under
a specific unit (Unite de developpement communautaire or UDC).
Sustainability
8.       The sustainability of project benefits will be dependent on
two main factors: (i) the reaction of the medina's residents to
overall improvements brought about by the project. According to
this criterion, a sustainable project would imply an increasing
level of private investment in the medina, particularly in the
housing stock and in commercial and tourism activity. Over the long
term, reaching a leverage ratio of three for each dollar of project
funds would ensure this sustainability. The participatory approach
adopted during project preparation should contribute to this goal;
and (ii) the strengthening and effective participation of local
entities, in particular ADER-Fs and the municipality of Fs-
Medina. Both activities will be supported by the project, under the
technical assistance component and an agreed-upon program of
actions.
-3-



Lessons Learned
9.       Through an iterative process of analysis and consensus
building, the project team, together with their Moroccan
counterparts, defined a program of strategic actions that are most
likely to overcome existing constraints to the process of
rehabilitating the medina. Several grants, including one from the
Japan Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) Fund, enabled
a social assessment to be carried out, with the objective of
establishing a forum for dialogue between residents and
institutional stakeholders and identifying needs and concerns. Fs
University and Harvard University (USA) also participated in these
actions. It is a pioneering example of the use of social assessment
and participation techniques to measure community preferences in
regard to the rehabilitation of the historic built environment. and
has informed project conservation priorities.
10.      The project also demonstrates the importance of collecting
data on the physical condition of the historic and social
structures in targeting interventions to maximize benefit to the
residents of the medina. This data made possible an alternative
design for improving emergency access to the center of the medina
which has reduced resettlement of residents down to 9 families.
11.      Through a variety of institutional audits and assessment of
training needs, the project has considered ways to strengthen local
government's ability to improve selection of development
priorities, deliver services, and manage resources. Administrative
and operational efficiency will be addressed by introducing a
computerized GIS database on the medina into local government
administration, and strengthening by organizational structures for
ADER and other related institutions.
Environmental Assessment
12.      The project has been rated a Category B project. Please see
attached Annex.
-4-



Contact Point:             Mr. F. Amiot, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington DC, 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2372
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 21, 1997
Environmental Annex
The environmental category of the project was initially rated A,
based on the UNDP prefeasibility proposal which should have led to
the resettlement of more than 300 households. The new project
design has minimized the resettlement to nine households, and
includes positive actions to improve the environment of the medina.
It is, therefore, proposed to rate the project under Category B.
In spite of the extensive improvements to the medina's circulation
system, particularly with the opening of an emergency network, the
residential relocation load has been kept to a minimum by
substituting demolitions of permanent structures by partial
demolitions. As a result, the relocation load has been divided into
two categories: permanent displacements due to the acquisition and
demolition of a structure; and provisions for the temporary
relocation of families, while partial demolitions and
reconstruction of the affected structure is taking place.
All structures affected by the project have been surveyed and a
preliminary estimation of the modification works to be undertaken
has been included in the project's cost. Interviews of households
to be relocated or displaced temporarily have been undertaken in
coordination with the local authorities, the Wali of Fs and the
Governor of Fs-Medina. Data available on each household include:
the number of members and relationship to the head of the
household; employment information, including place of work;
household income; location of educational establishment attended by
school-age children. Nine households are to be relocated
permanently.
Five temporary relocation rental units have been set aside while
modification works are undertaken in the 21 structures affected by
the emergency network. No commercial relocation within the medina
will be required as the polluting nature of the four displaced
businesses requires their relocation in the new industrial zone of
Ain Nokbi as part of a comprehensive policy affecting all polluting
economic activities in the medina.
The organization of the relocation process will be entrusted to a
social unit within the prefecture. The unit will work in close
cooperation with ADER-Fs and the municipality of Fs-Medina for
- 5-



households living in Fs-Bali, and with the municipality of
Mechouar for those living in Fs-Jdid. Its responsibilities will be
to keep the concerned households informed of the process as it
progresses; discuss their relocation options and assist them in
making a timely choice; and assist them in organizing their move.
Households requiring temporary relocation while structural work is
being conducted will be given the option of moving into one of five
apartments set aside for this purpose during the street improvement
phase of the project, or receiving a monetary compensation
equivalent to six months' rent should they prefer to move in
temporarily with relatives or friends.
A five-year follow-up study of displaced households is part of the
project, and has been assigned to the social unit responsible for
assistance to displaced households. The purpose of the study is to
ascertain any variations in living standard resulting from
temporary or permanent displacement in order to alleviate any drop
in their standard of life. Families will be interviewed at six-
month intervals, their situation assessed, and appropriate remedial
measures taken as required by the social unit.
- 6 -



