Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4403-MOR
Loan Agreement
(Fes Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COMMUNE URBAINE OF FES-MEDINA
Dated December 10, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4403-MOR 
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 10, 1998 between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the COMMUNE URBAINE OF FES-MEDINA (the 
Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) Kingdom of Morocco (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement;
(C)
Parts A; B.1(a) and (b); C.2; E.1; E.3 and E.4 of the Project will be 
carried out by ADER-Fes, with the Guarantor and the Bank’s assistance, and as part of 
such assistance, the Bank has agreed to make available a Loan (the Kingdom Loan) to 
the Guarantor in an aggregate amount of forty million nine hundred thousand French 
Francs (FRF40,900,000) to assist in the financing of Parts A; B.1.(a) and (b); C.2; 
E.1; E.3 and E.4 of the Project, the proceeds of which will be made available to 
ADER-Fes under terms and conditions set forth in a Loan Agreement of even date 
herewith (the Kingdom Loan Agreement, as further defined in Section 1.02 (i) of this 
Agreement), and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
ADER-Fes; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
ADER-Fes;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Development Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of 
the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall 
remain 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the 
Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the 
Loan shall be 
canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ADER-Fes" means the Agency of De-Densification and Rehabilitation of the 
Medina of Fes (Agence pour la Dedensification et la Rehabilitation de la medina de 
Fes), a Joint Stock Company established pursuant to its Statutes dated June 23, 1989 
and registered in the Registry of Commerce under the No. 16775-Fes;
(b)
“CDD” means the Community Development Division (Direction de 
Developpement Communautaire de Fes) of ADER-Fes, in charge of managing labor intensive 
works and contracts aiming at supplying jobs to the poor in the Medina;
(c)
“Commune Urbaine” means an administrative municipal sub-division of the 
Guarantor;
(d)
"Convention” means the agreement entered into between the Guarantor’s 
Ministries of Interior, Culture and Economy and Finance or any successor thereto, the 
Commune Urbaine of Fes-Jedid and ADER-Fes on September 1, 1998, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Convention;
(e)
"Dirham" and "DH" mean the lawful currency of the Borrower;
(f)
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve month period corresponding to any of the 
Borrower’s fiscal years, which period starts on July 1st and ends on June 30th in each 
calendar year;
(g)
“French Francs” and “FRF” mean the lawful currency of the Republic of 
France;
Page  3
(h)
“Heritage Center” means the Fes Heritage Center for the promotion of 
cultural, touristic and heritage activities;
(i)
“Kingdom Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement of even date herewith 
between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Bank for the Project;
(j)
“Management fee” means the fee to be paid by the Borrower to ADER-Fes out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, for the technical assistance provided to the Borrower, 
under the terms of the Convention;
(k)
“Medina of Fes” and “Medina” mean the old city of Fes, including the 
Communes Urbaines of  Fes-Medina and Fes-Jedid;
(l)
“MoC” means the Ministry in charge of Culture of the Borrower or any 
successor thereto;
(m)
“MoF” means the Ministry in charge of Finance of the Borrower or any 
successor thereto;
(n)
“MoI” means the Ministry in charge of the Interior of the Borrower or any 
successor thereto;
(o)
“Rehabilitation Facility” means a grant facility to assist eligible 
owners of multi-family dwellings and commercial premises to undertake the upgrading of 
their buildings within the framework of pilot operations;
(p)
“Short Term Loss of Occupancy” means the  loss of use, not exceeding 
twenty one days, of a building, or of a part thereof, by its occupants, due to the 
rehabilitation or repair of an infrastructure network or to an emergency situation;
(q)
“Short Term Loss of Occupancy Plan” means the plan satisfactory to the 
Bank, dated September 13, 1998, aimed at mitigating the adverse effects sustained by 
the occupants of the buildings referred to in (a) above;
(r)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(s)
“Steering Committee” means a committee established, functioning and 
maintained pursuant to Annex 3 of the Convention, as hereinafter defined; and
(t)
"Technical Committee” means a committee established, functioning and 
maintained pursuant to Annex 4 of the Convention.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to forty 
million nine hundred thousand French Francs (FRF40,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for Parts B.1 (c), (d) and (e); B.2; C.1; D and E.2 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts B.1 (c); B.2; C.1; D and E.2 
of the Project, open and maintain in Dirham a Special Account in the Regional Treasury 
of Fes on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments 
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Page  4
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to PIBOR Base Rate plus PIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
"PIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the Paris 
interbank offered 
rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the 
first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
"PIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the Paris 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of PIBOR Base Rate 
and PIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the 
Guarantor and the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the 
expiry of the notice period unless the Guarantor or the Borrower notifies the Bank 
during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not 
apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April  
15 and October 15, in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of Parts B.2; C.1; D and E.2 of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts B.2; C.1; D and E.2 of the Project, with the assistance of ADER-Fes and 
under the terms of the Convention, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate engineering, environmental, and technical practices, and shall 
Page  5
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for Parts B.1(c); B.2; C.1; D and E.2 of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out Parts B.1(c); B.2; C.1; D and E.2 of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Convention in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, 
amend abrogate or waive the Convention or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants’ services required for Parts B.1(c); B.2; C.1; D and E.2 
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of Parts B.1(c); B.2; C.1; D and E.2 the Project; and  
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and account adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records of 
the accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case no later 
than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records 
and account 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
Page  6
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and the report 
of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that:
(a) 
the Convention has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived, so as to affect materially and adversely the realization of the objectives of 
the Project;
(b)
ADER-Fes shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
ADER-Fes Project Agreement;
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that ADER-Fes will be able to perform its obligations under the ADER-Fes Project 
Agreement;
(d)
the Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or financial condition 
of ADER-Fes or its ability to carry out the Project or the ability of ADER-Fes to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(e)
any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken, during the time of 
Project implementation, any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ADER-Fes 
or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Bank within the meaning of Section 12.01 of the General 
Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Kingdom 
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The President of the Communal Counsel of the Borrower is 
Page  7
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Commune Urbaine of Fes-Medina 
Avenue Allal Al Fassi Batha, Fes 
Kingdom of Morocco
Fax:
637221
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Rabat, Morocco, as of the day and year first above written.
COMMUNE URBAINE DE FES MEDINA
By /s/ Mohamed Debbagh 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier P. Godron 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
French Francs
to be Financed
Page  8
(1)
Civil works
  24,500,000
80%
(2)
Goods
   5,250,000
100% of foreign
expenditures; 100%
of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
and 80% of local
expenditures for 
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)
Consultants'
   4,090,000
100%
services
(4)
Management Fee
    2,920,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated
    4,140,000
TOTAL
   40,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed FRF4090,000 may be made 
in respect of the Categories set in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after November 16, 
1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent, for civil works under contracts not exceeding $150,000 equivalent 
and under contracts for consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent for firms and 
$25,000 equivalent for individual consultants, under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist in the conservation and 
rehabilitation of the Medina of Fes, with particular attention to its historic built 
heritage and urban environment, through the expansion and acceleration of ongoing 
conservation efforts, the consolidation of partnerships between the private and public 
sectors, and the alleviation of poverty through community development and the 
promotion of new growth oriented activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Rehabilitation of built heritage
1.
Establishment of a grant facility to support private initiatives in historic 
building conservation, including private investments for the rehabilitation of about 
250 historic domestic or commercial premises (souks, fondouks, workshops).
2.
Promotion of tourism and preservation of cultural heritage through:
Page  9
(a)
the creation of six new tourism thematic itineraries within the Medina, 
including targeted investments in historic buildings, improvement of signage in the 
Medina and development of historic gardens; and
(b)
establishment of a Heritage Center serving the functions of a center for 
information and cultural activities.
Part B:
Improving critical access to the Medina
1.
Development and construction of:
(a)
an emergency access network in order to facilitate access of emergency 
motor vehicles, services and municipal works;
(b)
an access network of about 15 kilometers of pedestrian streets;
(c)
four streets to allow access to motorized vehicles and proper sidewalks 
in order to improve the traffic patterns at the entrance of the Medina, namely Ain 
Zetlen access, Oued Zhoun access and Bin Lamdoun access;
(d)
transfer facilities at the gates of the Medina, such as bus and taxi 
stations, and pedestrian waiting facilities; and
(e)
three (3) parking facilities in the Medina.
2.
Establishment of a traffic bureau entrusted with management of safe vehicle and 
pedestrian traffic.
Part C:
Improvement of Urban Environment
1.
Improvement of solid waste collection, including clearance of solid waste stock 
and derelict sites and launching of a campaign aimed at sensitizing the population.
2.
Regrouping of the crafts polluting industries within the Medina by providing two 
(2) improved workshop facilities to neutralize their nuisance.
Part D:
Community Development
1.
Promotion of labor-intensive job opportunities, particularly among the 
unemployed population of the Medina and surrounding areas.
2.
Carrying out of emergency works on housing and commercial premises, clearance of 
solid waste stock, rehabilitation of community facilities through the contracting out 
of such works to small scale private enterprises.
Part E:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Support to ADER-Fes through the provision of technical assistance in areas of 
management, accounting, geographic information system and rehabilitation techniques.
2.
Establishment of a resource mobilization program for the benefit of the 
Municipalities of Fes Medina and Fes Jedid and provision of technical assistance in 
municipal management and organization.
3.
Setting up of a  laboratory network to improve architectural and urban 
conservation methods and techniques in the Medina.
4.
Development and implementation of a training program adapted to the following 
relevant professional skills for the rehabilitation of the Medina:  architecture, 
archeology, rehabilitation, urban management and planning, and engineering, to be 
provided for technical staff, builders, craftsmen and workers with skills in 
traditional building preservation and rehabilitation, municipal and other staff 
relevant to the implementation of the project, owners of polluting traditional 
activities and handicrafts with particular emphasis on women.
* * * 
Page  10
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Date Payment Due
  Payment of Principal 
(Expressed in French Francs)*     
April 15, 2004 
1,020,000 
October 15, 2004
1,040,000 
April 15, 2005 
1,060,000 
October 15, 2005
1,080,000 
April 15, 2006 
1,105,000 
October 15, 2006
1,125,000 
April 15, 2007 
1,145,000 
October 15, 2007
1,165,000 
April 15, 2008 
1,190,000 
October 15, 2008
1,210,000 
April 15, 2009 
1,235,000 
October 15, 2009
1,260,000 
April 15, 2010 
1,285,000 
October 15, 2010
1,310,000 
April 15, 2011 
1,335,000 
October 11, 2011
1,360,000 
April 15, 2012 
1,385,000 
October 15, 2012
1,410,000 
April 15, 2013 
1,435,000 
October 15, 2013
1,465,000 
April 15, 2014 
1,495,000 
October 15, 2014
1,520,000 
April 15, 2015 
1,550,000 
October 15, 2015
1,580,000 
April 15, 2016 
1,610,000 
October 15, 2016
1,640,000 
April 15, 2017 
1,670,000 
October 15, 2017
1,705,000 
April 15, 2018 
1,735,000 
October 15, 2018
1,775,000
_______________________ 
* 
The figures in the column represent the amount in French Francs equivalents 
determined as of 
the respective dates of withdrawal.  See the General conditions, 
Sections 3.04 and 4.03. 
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services for Parts B.1(c); 
B.2; C.1; D and E.2 of the Project
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Page  11
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$1,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not exceeding $3,000,000 equivalent may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provision of paragraph 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of  
$1,000,000 or more, and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September, 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Page  12
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for the training program under Part E of 
the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications: Contracts for services under Part 
E.2 of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection: Contracts for services  under Part E.2 of the Project 
up to an aggregate amount of $150,000 may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants: Contracts for services under Part E.2 of the Project up 
to an aggregate amount of $150,000 shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under Parts B.1(c); B.2; C.1; D and E.2 of the 
Project shall be furnished to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  13
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall, with the assistance of ADER-Fes, inter alia:
(a)
implement the Short Term Loss of Occupancy Plan under terms of reference 
and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
under the terms of the Convention, realize, inter alia, in connection 
with Parts B.1(c); B.2; C.1; D and E.2 of the Project: building of emergency networks, 
transfer and parking facilities, establish a traffic management office within its 
public works department, managing solid waste disposal under arrangements, including 
private concessions, satisfactory to the Bank, programs for  public awareness and 
resource mobilization;
(c)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of Parts B.1(c); B.2; C.1; D and E.2 of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(d)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about April 30, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Parts B.1(c) B.2; C.1; D and 
E.2 of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Parts B.1(c); B.2; 
C.1; D and E.2 of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(e)
review with the Bank, by October 30, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (f) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for Parts B.1(c); B.2; C.1; D 
and E.2 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an 
amount equivalent to FRF4,090,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall 
be limited to an amount equivalent to FRF2,300,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of FRF17,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
Page  14
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the  Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
Page  15
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
