                                          Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 35074

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                (SCL-44020 SCL-44030 TF-29646)

                                           ON TWO

                                            LOANS

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 8.9 MILLION

                                            TO THE

                 KINGDOM OF MOROCCO AND THE MUNICIPALITY OF FES

                                           FOR THE

                           FES MEDINA REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                          June 2, 2006




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Middle East and North Africa Region

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective May 2006)

                                 Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham (MAD)
                                         MAD1 = US$ 0.10959
                                         US$ 1 = 9.22514 MAD

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 to   December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADER-Fès  Agence pour la Dedensification et la Réhabilitation de la Médina de Fès
          (Agency for the Rehabilitation of Fes Medina)
BITS      Board of the Investment and Technical Support
          (Conseil à l'investissement et à l'appui technique)
BOT       Build, Operate, Transfer (Construction, exploitation, transfert, CET)
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy (Stratégie d'assistance au pays)
CDG       Caisse de dépôt et gestion (Savings Management Fund)
CIH       Crédit immobilier et hôtelier (Real Estate and Hotel Credit Institution)
CUF       Communauté urbaine de Fès (Community of Fes)
FADES     Fonds arabe pour le développement économique et social
          (Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development)
FEC       Fonds d'équipement communal (Municipal Fund)
FES-SAIS  Association pour le développement culturel, social et économique de Fès)
FIAHS     Fund for Innovative Approaches in Human and Social Development (Fonds pour la
          promotion d'approches novatricces en matière de développement humain et social)
GIS       Geographical Information System (Système d'information géographique, SIG)
GoM       Gouvernment of Morocco (Gouvernement du Maroc)
MCA       Ministry of Cultural Affairs (Ministère des Affaires Culturelles)
NGO       Non Governemental Organization (Agence non-gouvernementale)
OFPPT     Office de la formation professionnelle et de la promotion du travail
          (Vocational Training and Labor Promotion Office)
RADEF     Régie autonome de distribution d'eau et d'électricité de Fès
          (Water Supply and Electricity Public Utility of Fès)
UDC       Unité de développement communautaire (Local Development Unit)
UNPD      United Nations Development Programme
          (Programme des Nations Unies pour le Développement, PNUD)
UNESCO    United Nations Educational, Scientifc and Cultural Organization)
          (Organisation des Nations Unies pour l'éducation, les sciences et la culture)
VAT       Value Added Tax (Taxe sur la Valeur Ajoutée, TVA)



                                Vice President:      Christiaan J. Poortman
                              Country Director       Theodore O. Ahlers
              Sector Director/Sector Manager         Hossein Razavi/Hedi Larbi
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Anthony G. Bigio

                                          MOROCCO

                      FES MEDINA REHABILITATION PROJECT
                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
Annex 8. Partner Comments                                                        29

Project ID: P005524                                                  Project Name: FES MEDINA REHABILITATION
                                                                     PROJECT
Team Leader: Anthony G. Bigio                                        TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 2, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: FES MEDINA REHABILITATION PROJECT                        L/C/TF Number: SCL-44020; SCL-44030;
                                                                                                     TF-29646
   Country/Department: MOROCCO                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (52%); Other social services (40%); Sub-national government
                            administration (8%)
                  Theme: Municipal governance and institution building (P); Other social protection and risk
                            management (P); Pollution management and environmental health (P); Other financial and
                            private sector development (S); Participation and civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/26/1994                                     Effective: 03/10/1999                09/01/1999
     Appraisal: 03/06/1997                                         MTR:                             01/22/2003
      Approval: 10/29/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 11/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/ADER-FES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Christian Delvoie
Sector Director:                Hossein Razavi                                 Jean-Claude Villiard
Team Leader at ICR:             Anthony G. Bigio                               Francois Amiot
ICR Primary Author:             Anthony G. Bigio


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The original Project Development Objective was stated as follows: "The objectives of the project are to
assist in the conservation and rehabilitation of the Medina of Fes, with particular attention to its historic
built heritage and urban environment, through the expansion and acceleration of ongoing conservation
efforts, the consolidation of partnerships between the private and the public sectors, and the alleviation of
poverty through community development and the promotion of new growth oriented activities".

The project was prepared after nearly two decades of campaigns for the preservation of the historic city of
Fes that had benefited from the support of local and national foundations, as well as from the support and
visibility of international agencies such as UNESCO, which in 1981 inscribed Fes on its list of World
Heritage Sites, and later promoted an international campaign for its preservation. Despite efforts by
UNESCO and UNDP, the rehabilitation of the Medina had not moved beyond voluminous studies and some
marginal restoration activities. In this context the dialogue was started with the World Bank which a decade
ago was actively exploring the linkages between culture and promoting cultural heritage operations.

The PDO recognized that the cultural and artistic wealth of the city was an asset to be leveraged to promote
cultural tourism and local economic development, and that the urban poverty of the degraded Medina
needed to be mitigated for a successful urban rehabilitation to take place. In retrospect, the project
objectives are considered ambitious, considering the long process of decay that had occurred in the Medina
over many decades and that the socio-economic consequences of such decay (empoverishment of the
resident population, flight of the middle-class and of investors, long-term abandonment of the housing stock
and related low real-estate values, degraded public spaces and services) were very profound.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The PDO was revised in January 2004 to exclude the reference to "the consolidation of partnerships
between the private and public sectors". The reason for this revision was that the intended public and
private investments in the construction of parking facilities were considered unfeasible, given the low level
of interest of investors for such operations, the limited capacity of the Municipality to structure such
transactions, and the priority given to other investments benefiting the entire resident population as opposed
to the owners of private vehicles. It was considered however that this change did not affect the main focus
of the PDO, and hence the change was not reported to the Executive Directors.

3.3 Original Components:
The original project components were five: (i) Rehabilitation of built heritage, focusing on housing
rehabilitation and on the creation of tourism circuits and related facilities; project costs were of $3.7m at
appraisal and of $3.4m at closing; (ii) Improving critical access to the Medina, to facilitate better
vehicular access to some isolated neighborhoods and the circulation of small emergency vehicles within the
Medina; project costs were of $14.6m at appraisal and of $6.8m at closing; (iii) Improvement of the urban
environment, focusing on the collection of solid waste and the relocation of mildly polluting artisan
activities; project costs were of $3.5m at appraisal and of $0 at closing; (iv) Poverty alleviation, to be
pursued via the labor-intensive implementation of works on housing units threatening collapse and on the
removal of rubble ; project costs were of $3.5m at appraisal and of $2.4 at closing; and (v) Institutional
strengthening, aimed at the Fes Municipality and the implementing agency; project costs were of $2.3m at
appraisal and of $1.7 at closing.

3.4 Revised Components:
At MTR in January 2003 it was agreed with the project's Steering Committee to: a) drop the urban
environment component, given that the solid waste management collection had been contracted out to


                                                       - 2 -

private operators by the Municipality, and given the lack of interest of end users for the planned regrouping
of the mildly polluting artisan production workshops in new premises within the Medina; b) drop the
construction of the parking garages for the above-mentioned reasons; and c) reduce from four to three the
new vehicular access roads to the Medina in view of escalating construction costs resulting from the
preliminary design studies. These changes were however formalized only after the approval in December
2003 of the Borrowers' requests for a project extension, and after detailed agreements with the Borrowers
on a remedial action plan and a reduced scope of work. At project restructuring in January 2004, when the
changes were introduced in the Loan agreements, it was decided with the Borrowers to: d) further reduce
from three to one the vehicular access roads to be built; and e) further reduce the scope of the emergency
network within the Medina. These changes were motivated by the significant delays experienced during the
first three years of project implementation, and by the 30 percent reduction of loan proceeds that
accompanied the 23-month project extension. This reduction was based on the low disbursement ratio
(20%) and on the capacity of the implementing agencies.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory. This rating differs substantively from the one of the QAG panel,
that had found quality at entry satisfactory prior to implementation.

Consistency with CAS

Consistency of the project with the CAS objectives is considered high, on the basis of its second strategic
objective of increasing access to basic services by the poor and marginalized populations. The project is a
precursor of GOM's current commitments to the upgrading of the substandard housing stock of ancient
medinas, for which budgetary allocations of about $100m for the 2005-2010 period have been recently
made. The project is the only case of comprehensive urban rehabilitation of a historic city that has been
carried out so far in Morocco, and it provides a set of lessons learned and practical experience to refer to.
The GOM tourism growth objective of reaching the target of 10m visitors by 2010 relies significantly on
cultural destinations like Fes, which has during the project lifetime opened its international airport and
established air links with Paris and other European destinations.

Country ownership and commitment

The commitment of the Government to the preparation and approval of the project was modest, with
varying levels of support in different Ministries and varying expectations as to the involvement of the
Municipality. Project preparation took four and a half years on account of the complexity of the project,
but also because of the uncertainties of Government as to its willingness to go ahead with the operation.

Participation during project preparation

Participation was high, given the involvement of a number of local NGOs and foundations in the
development of the project concept and of many local stakeholders in the implementation of the social
assessment. This had a direct impact on project design, as it highlighted the expectations of the resident
population for poverty-alleviation activities, which were then incorporated, over the cultural heritage
rehabilitation aspects.

Project design

Project concept, objectives and approach are rated as overambitious at completion, while they had been
rated satisfactory by the QAG panel. Technical and economic aspects were also rated satisfactory at entry,



                                                      - 3 -

as the Bank had been able to mobilize two PHRD trust funds for a cumulative value of over $ 1m, which
were implemented by ADER-Fès and resulted in high quality technical studies. However, at completion it
appears that the stated economic rate of return of the project was based on overoptimistic assumptions as to
the short-term increase of property values, job creation, tourism revenues, and private sector investments in
the rehabilitation of the Medina, which lead to unrealistic expectations.

Arrangements for monitoring and evaluation

Arrangements for monitoring and evaluation of the project were rated marginal at entry, and are rated
unsatisfactory at completion. The lack of clear arrangements made it so that the responsibility for the
monitoring and evaluation was taken on by ADER-Fes only during the last two and a half years of project
implementation, and the involvement of the Municipality remained very limited.

Implementing agencies's readiness

The preparedness of both the Municipality and ADER-Fes to implement the project is rated as insufficient
and had been overestimated during preparation, while it was rated satisfactory by QAG. The precarious
financial standing and institutional support of ADER-Fes were underestimated or not properly reported in
the appraisal documentation. The institutional arrangements made to ensure the implementation of
labor-intensive works were insufficiently anchored in the implementation arrangements, and were later
rejected by the Municipality.

Risk assessment and mitigation measures

Borrower ownership and the financial viability of the implementing agency were highlighted as the main
risks by the QAG panel, and turned out in fact to be significant weaknesses in project implementation. The
risks related to the novelty for both Borrowers of carrying out comprehensive urban rehabilitation
operations as well as of complying with Bank procedures were not fully assessed or mitigated.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the project's development objective is rated unsatisfactory. As the PDO was not
formally revised, this ICR evaluates the outcomes of the project against the originally established PDO and
project description, using the original impact and output indicators. PDO indicators established at appraisal
were the following three: a) overall improvement of Medina housing stock; b) effective conservation of key
cultural assets along tourism itineraries; and c) public-to private leverage ratio of rehabilitation investments
to reach 1 to 3 in the long-term (10 to 15 years) and to be calculated as of 1998, date of project appraisal.
Investments carried out were significantly inferior to those originally planned, and the project's final value
is of $14.3m against the appraised $27.6m (see section 5.4 for more details). The 50 percent reduction of
project value was accompanied by a 40 percent increase in implementation delay, and the much-reduced
project did not achieve all of its forecasted objectives. In particular, the urban environmental, poverty
alleviation and public-private partnerships aspects of the PDO were not attained.

At project closing, the overall state of the housing stock of the Medina has not improved, with the exception
of the project interventions and of the private investments in the transformation of about thirty palatial
homes into up-scale boutique hotels. Indeed, the collapse of housing units due to decay and lack of
maintenance has continued, even causing some yearly deaths of residents who are caught under the rubble.
2005 is the first year on recent record showing no losses of human lives, due to the campaign of wooden



                                                      - 4 -

buttressing of the endangered buildings financed by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning and
carried out by ADER-Fès.

Effective conservation of key cultural assets along tourism itineraries by public entities and with the
financial backing of national foundations and of international donors has taken place. This has had a
significant impact on the attractiveness of the Medina to cultural tourism visitors, although the number of
nights per visitor has only marginally increased (2.2 in 2005, against 1.9 in 1998). Public to private
leverage of investments for the rehabilitation of the Medina is likely to remain well below the projected
target, at a 1 to 1 ratio until the end of the current decade (which is 13 years after the baseline calculation)
based on the investments that took place during project implementation and of those that are planned to
take place between 2006 and 2010 (see tables 1 and 2).

Table 1. Conservation and rehabilitation investments in the Medina of Fes, 1999 ­ 2005*

 Financing         Conservation and rehabilitation activities carried out     Value in $m         %


Project           Rehabilitation of built heritage, improving critical access,            14.3      25
                  poverty alleviation, institutional strengthening
Public             Restoration of four classified historic monuments and                  13.6      24
sector             interventions on housing threatening collapse
Private sector     Adaptive reuse of 33 palatial historic buildings as                    25.0      44
                   upscale boutique hotels
National           Restoration of two major classified monuments and 10                    1.8        3
Foundations        public fountains of historical, architectural importance
International      Restoration of a historical palace and of a major                       2.5        4
donors             classified monument
TOTAL                                                                                     57.2     100

Table 2. Projected conservation and rehabilitation investments in the Medina of Fes, 2006 ­ 2010*

 Financing         Conservation and rehabilitation activities projected       Value in $m         %


Ministry of        Rehabilitation of housing threatening collapse,                        10.1      17
Housing            demolition costs, and acquisition of housing units
Other public      Rehabilitation of mosques, medersas, foundouks, city                    18.3      30
sector            walls and expansion of tourism circuits
Private sector 4-star Hotel Vizir, 7 new boutique hotels, and real-estate                 29.7      48
                  investments in the renovation of palatial homes
National           Completion of the Jnane Sbil garden rehabilitation                      2.1        3
Foundations
International      Medersa Attarine rehabilitation                                         1.2        2
donors
TOTAL                                                                                     61.4     100
* estimated on the basis of data obtained from ADER-Fes and from the M&E consultant

These are very significant investment figures and a confirmation of the confidence of the private sector,
national foundations and public sector entities in the future of the Medina of Fes and of the importance and



                                                        - 5 -

profitability of its rehabilitation. During the years of project implementation, parallel investments in the
rehabilitation of the Medina had a cumulative value three times larger than the project itself, and
projections show a steady increase. Despite its shortcomings as measured against the stated PDO
indicators, the project has successfully enabled the Government and the Municipality to pursue and
accelerate the conservation and rehabilitation of the Medina of Fes, and has helped in attracting many other
economic actors in this on-going endeavor. At project closing, it is expected that this process will
accelerate.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The first component "rehabilitation of built heritage" is rated satisfactory. The quantitative output
established at appraisal was the rehabilitation of 250 individual housing units or workshops via the
issuance of matching grants to their legal owners. The project has accomplished 132 such interventions, but
in addition has carried out 107 interventions via the participatory rehabilitation of the communal parts of
private buildings (sheltering an average of 3 families each) based on the labor contributions of the residents
and the active support of 16 neighborhood associations. In liaison with these community organizations the
project has also enabled the rehabilitation of 26 pedestrian streets serving 547 buildings. These innovative
approaches have yielded highly appreciated and cost-effective results for the conservation of the historic
housing stock, but few individual housing rehabilitation interventions appear to have otherwise taken place
in the Medina. Project expectations of a major increase of individually financed rehabilitation efforts did
not materialize, and rehabilitation and repair permits have decreased on average by 17 % per year The
projected six tourism circuits have been carried out as planned, including extensive public space
rehabilitation in 2 key areas, the restoration of 3 historic gardens, a mapping system and 700 panels
installed throughout the Medina, and a related tourism guide published in 4 languages. The Heritage Center
has been set up in a rehabilitated historic building, although its operations are yet to be defined.

The second component "improving critical access to the Medina" is rated satisfactory. Outputs
established at appraisal were: a) improvements to the vehicular circulation around the Medina and to
logistic facilities at the Medina gates; b) the construction of four new access roads to the Medina; b) the
construction of four multi-storey parking garages; and d) the rehabilitation of 16.5 km of pedestrian road
network within the Medina, to facilitate the access of small emergency vehicles. The improvements to the
vehicular circulation around the Medina were accomplished as planned. The construction of bus terminals
close to the main Medina gate was taken over by the Regional authorities, but the project provided for the
rehabilitation of the Place Boujloud within the city walls, which has become the major pedestrian public
space of the historic city, and is now intensively used for public events and recreation. The construction of
the multi-storey parking garages was dropped, as explained in section 3.2. The rehabilitation of the street
network within the Medina was only partially accomplished for an overall length of 3.4 km, with a positive
impact on the local residents, artisans and retailers. The two most important and longest vehicular access
roads planned (Bin Lambdoun and Oued Zhoun) were built, greatly improving the accessibility of those
neighborhoods and the transport or raw materials and finished artisan goods to and from the Medina.
Compensation by the Municipality of the owners of five buildings that were demolished to make room for
the Bin Lambdoun access road was however not finalized before project closing.

The third component "improvement of Medina environment" was dropped. Outputs established at
appraisal were: a) improvements in the collection, transfer and final disposal of household waste; and b) the
creation of two facilities to regroup mildly polluting artisan activities (copperware manufacturers and
retailers) within the Medina. Prior to Board approval the Municipality had already signed a contract with a
private company for the collection and transfer of household waste from the Medina. At MTR it became
apparent that the copperware manufacturers and retailers were not interested in being regrouped in the
facilities to be provided under the project in the Medina, and preferred to eventually relocate to a new SME



                                                      - 6 -

industrial zone. The urban environment component was consequently entirely dropped and its resources
were reallocated.

The fourth component "poverty alleviation" is rated unsatisfactory. Outputs established at appraisal were:
a) the clearance of derelict sites and of solid waste stock; b) emergency works on housing threatening
collapse; c) urban landscaping; and d) the rehabilitation of community facilities. The Loan and Project
Agreements specified that the project was to "use the rehabilitation process to promote labor-intensive job
opportunities" and that ADER-Fes was to create a Community Development Department to hire and
remunerate crews under force-account arrangements to carry out these activities. However, the
Municipality that was financing this component         did not want to hand-over the procurement to the
implementing agency, and proceeded to engage contractors instead, which provided sub-optimal services in
a climate of limited competition and inflated prices. Nevertheless, 15 derelict sites and 1 major solid waste
stock accumulation were evacuated, and resulted in de facto public spaces that have been generally
appropriated by neighborhood associations; 56 housing units threatening collapse have been consolidated;
and two important historic public spaces, the foodstuff Souk Rcif and the artisan Souk Henna were
rehabilitated. Overall, 1,000 person-years of employment were generated throughout the project activities
against the projected 6,000 (which was probably an overestimated target). Besides the operational
modalities applied, this decrease is also due to the reduced scope of work, financial allocations, and
quantitative outputs of the restructured project.

The fifth component "institutional strengthening" is rated unsatisfactory. Outputs established at appraisal
were: a) a resource mobilization program in favor of the Municipality; b) the strengthening of ADER-Fes;
c) the acquisition of a conservation laboratory; and d) training activities in favor of all local actors involved
in the project. The municipal resources mobilization program was not considered an early implementation
priority and was considered redundant by the expanded Municipality of Fes after the amalgamation of the
local governments. The strengthening of ADER-Fes consisted primarily of the first phase of a
comprehensive strategic study of its mission, activities and comparative advantages (the second phase was
not implemented as decisions on the future of the agency were not taken by its Board of Directors). Its
management and technical capacity were also reinforced with training programs, the updating of its GIS
system, and the acquisition of management information systems and equipment. The conservation
laboratory equipment has been acquired but its use by ADER-Fes is still subject to the definition of clear
operational procedures. Training programs have been carried out for the benefit of 20 community
organizations, 10 micro-entreprises of the construction sector, 20 conservation and rehabilitation
professionals, and for about 150 participants from the staff of ADER-Fes, the Municipality and the
regional authorities.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic assessment of the project at appraisal was based on the economic valuation of the benefits of
the Medina access improvement, and of the mobilization of additional private investment for the
rehabilitation of buildings and the construction of parking garages. A cost-benefit analysis for the tourism
development program and a contingent valuation of the value of the Medina rehabilitation to international
visitors and to European households in general were also prepared. The main cost-benefit analysis was
however carried out by calculating the costs of the project and of the parallel private rehabilitation efforts
against the benefits of job creation and of increased real-estate values (with the benefit of land and building
value surpluses being accounted for at the end of the project lifetime). The estimated NPV of the project
was of $16.7m and its ERR of 13.6%.

At closing, it appears that these economic valuations were based on a number of overstated assumptions of
the short-term impacts that the project would have: a) nights per visitor of the medina, which were of 1.9 in



                                                     - 7 -

1998, were expected to increase to 3.5 by the year 2000 as a result of the tourism development program,
but have in fact only increased to 2.2 by 2005; b) the leverage ratio of public to private resources invested
in the rehabilitation was expected to be of 1 to 3 ten years after the start of the project, and of 1 to 5 by
2013, but the data currently available shows that it will at best remain at 1:1 for over ten years (see tables
1 and 2); c) the increase in real-estate values in the Medina resulting from the project implementation was
calculated on the basis of a one-time doubling of values at the outset, followed by yearly increases of
5.25% thereafter; available data, albeit fragmentary, shows instead that there has been a cumulative
increase of only 32% over the past ten years, with higher current values only for a small sub-set of
properties that could be transformed into upscale boutique hotels; and d) job creation under the project
turned out to be only of one sixth of the original projections.

In updating the main cost-benefit analysis at closing, it is apparent that while project costs have decreased
on account of its down-sizing, project benefits have decreased even more, given the stagnating real-estate
values in the Medina in real terms and the job creation that has been much lower than expected. Based on
the economic analysys that was carried out at closing, a conservative recalculation of the project costs and
benefits results in a negative NPV estimated at $ ­ 5.0m, and a negative ERR of ­ 26%. These figures
could be subject to adjustments related to additional variations in the performance of the real-estate market,
which is expected to improve as a consequence of the project's impact, but would in any case remain
negative. It should also be noted that even if the contingent valuation results were not factored into the
formal NPV and ERR stated at entry, the alleged willingness of European households to pay for the
rehabilitation of the Fès Medina had certainly reinforced the expectations as to the positive impacts of the
project, while no practical consequences of this valuation have materialized.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is rated as modest. The Fes Municipality underwent
major institutional and administrative transformations during the project's lifetime on account of the
amalgamation of six local governments into one, which occurred in 2003. Prior to such amalgamation, the
Municipality's ability to manage rehabilitation works was very limited. As the bulk of the project activities
took place after the amalgamation, the Municipality displayed an improved capacity to manage the
technical aspects of project implementation, but its ability to handle the financial management requirements
of the project and to provide quality financial reporting remained very limited.

ADER-Fes went from being an overstaffed and indebted technical agency in charge of force-account
restoration works in the Medina, to becoming a project management agency able to coordinate the
intervention of consultants, contractors and community organizations, and to communicate the results of
the rehabilitation.     Its project implementation effectiveness was however stymied by the slow
decision-making of the project coordination entities. Its future revenue streams as well as its institutional
mission are also still not clear, as future fees from its delegated project management contracts still appear
insufficient to cover its operating costs, and its identity as a local agency for the rehabilitation of the
Medina of Fès or as a national agency for the rehabilitation of historic cities is still undefined.

For the central Government, the project was the opportunity to test an approach that could be applied to
other historic cities across the country. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning has consequently
devoted a significant budget line to this topic in 2005. The lessons learned from the project's housing
rehabilitation component constitute a valuable capital for the local and national institutions involved with



                                                      - 8 -

the project, and should also inform the Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning's national approach to
historic housing rehabilitation.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The lack of private sector adherence to the construction of parking garages was the main factor in their
elimination from the project and had a partial impact on the implementation of the second component
"improving critical access to the Medina". Evidence of significant demand of garage parking was not
firmly established, and firms expressed reluctance at investing in the PPP operations in the absence of the
commitment by the Municipality to regulate vehicular access and to consequently enforce surface parking
prohibitions, which were perceived as unpopular. Changes introduced at MTR and during project
restructuring also gave priority to public investments directly affecting the overall Medina population, as
opposed to the owners of private vehicles able to afford paying parking rights.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The coordination of the numerous Government institutions that had a role in the implementation of the
project proved to be insufficient and had a substantial impact on the implementation of the project. The
Ministries of Interiors, of Finances, of Culture and of Economic Affairs played a distant and limited role in
representing the national Borrower, while the Municipality of Fes, the local Borrower, operated under the
direct tutelage of the regional representatives of the Ministry of Interiors and of Finances, which added
extra layers of lengthy approvals and clearances of critical operational decisions.

The project coordination structures (a Technical Committee and a Steering Committee) met insufficiently
and decision-making was consequently often deferred to the Wilaya by default. The Technical Committee,
after a fairly active phase, ceased to operate in July 2003 prior to the amalgamation of the local
governments, and the Steering Committee met only 4 times during the entire life of the project. The transfer
of loan proceeds and of counterpart funding to the implementing agencies suffered from systematic delays,
resulting in stoppages of works and sub-optimal performance of consultants and contractors. Municipal
procedures for the compensation of the few project-induced expropriations were extremely slow, and at
times threatened the respect of the Bank's safeguards policies. A serious violation to the integrity of the
Medina, the construction by a private entrepreneur of a 200-meter long concrete slab over the central
section of its main waterway, was carried out with no permits but with the tacit approval of the
Municipality in 2002, despite complaints from local and international institutions including the Bank. To
this day the concrete slab remains in place and the complaints have remained unaddressed.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Municipality acted as Borrower and implementing agency for the components financed by its Loan
agreement with the Bank, while ADER-Fes acted on behalf of the national Borrower under a Project
Agreement with the Bank, and had a mere technical assistance role in advising the Municipality. This dual
implementation arrangement had a negatively substantial impact on the project. Prior to the local
governments' amalgamation, the Municipality's performance was unsatisfactory, as both its technical and
financial departments struggled with the complexity of the project activities and with the size of the
investments, many times larger than their normal activities. The Municipality also refused to entrust
ADER-Fes with the labor-intensive implementation of the "poverty alleviation" component, as originally
planned. There was little competition for the tenders launched by the Municipality, and various attempts to
override Bank procurement procedures took place. After the 2003 amalgamation, the Municipality invested
new and more dedicated staff to the technical management of its revised project components, and
successfully completed its activities, but financial management remained overall unsatisfactory.




                                                     - 9 -

After the initial period of crisis and restructuring in 2000 and 2001, the performance of ADER-Fes was
satisfactory, in terms of technical competence, financial management, respect of procurement procedures,
environmental safeguards practices, monitoring and evaluation, and periodical reporting to the Bank.
However, decisions critical to the implementation of the project components under its responsibility were
often delayed by the ineffective coordination structures, as well as by ADER-Fes' Board of Directors'
limited involvement in the support of the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Project costs were of $27.6 at appraisal and of $14.3m at closing, of which Bank Loan proceeds amounted
respectively to $14.0m and $9.0m. Final closing figures are significantly lower than those of appraisal, and
this is primarily due to: the lack of grants to and financial contributions from the Fes-Djdid Municipality;
the lack of private sector investments in the project; the reduction of counterpart funds from both national
and local Borrowers; the reduction of Loan proceeds that was agreed to in December 2003 in view of the
project's delays and low disbursement rate; and the final disbursement ratio of 90% of the Loans.
Construction costs escalation was significant between appraisal and the main tenders. Operations within the
Medina were considered by bidders as risky and complicated, on account of technical uncertainties and
difficulties of access and site mobilization in a complex historic urban fabric. A climate of limited
competition and access to tenders launched by the Municipality prior to its amalgamation also accounted
considerably for price escalation. These factors further limited the scope of some project activities, such as
the number of access roads and the overall length of the emergency network that were implemented.

Implementation and disbursement delays were significant. The Loan Agreements signed in December 1998
specified five years of implementation, with a closing date of December 31, 2003. The extension of the
closing date brought the implementation period to seven years, with a closing date of November 30, 2005.
Significantly, 70 percent of disbursements occurred during the two years of project extension. The main
causes for these delays were: a) an unrealistic initial schedule that overestimated the capacity of the
implementing agencies and underestimated the difficulties of the rehabilitation process; b) delays in project
effectiveness, which only occurred 11 months after Board approval; c) the reorganization and the financial
restructuring of ADER-Fes, that lasted until mid-2001 and that had a crippling effect on its initial abilities
to implement the project; d) the poor performance of the project coordination structures and the dual
project implementation arrangements; and e) the central government control over transfers to, commitments
and disbursements by the Municipality.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is considered as likely. This assessment is based on the commitment of the
Municipality to maintain the infrastructure built and rehabilitated under the project, and on the sustained
levels of public and private investments for the broader rehabilitation of the Medina.

Contrary to the local government in charge of the project prior to amalgamation, which was only
responsible for the Medina and could therefore count on limited fiscal resources and technical and
managerial capacity, the Municipality of Fes (that took over Borrower responsibilities in January 2004)
comprises all of the urban agglomeration, including the wealthy, middle-class and industrial parts of the
city. Its revenue stream is commensurate to this much larger fiscal basis, and its administration has
inherited the technical services of the former Urban Community of Fes, a coordination body overseeing and
supporting the performance of the six local governments previously in place.

The Municipality recognizes fully the role of the Medina as the key factor of attractiveness of the city at



                                                    - 10 -

large, and wishes to capitalize on its rehabilitation to attract a larger number of visitors and greater
investments, especially in the tourism sector. As examples of such commitment, the Municipality is
continuing the clearance of derelict sites in the Medina via a labor-intensive approach; has financed with its
own resources the surfacing of the two access roads built under the project, which could not be carried out
under the Loan on account of insufficient funds for that sub-component; and is considering financing the
extension of the emergency pedestrian network, of the other two access roads designed but not built under
the project, and of the expansion of the facilities around the Place Boujloud.

Government commitment to the pursuit of the rehabilitation process is manifest in the continued
investments of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Planning in housing rehabilitation, of the Ministry of
Tourism in the promotion of a cultural tourism strategy, and of many other public and private sector
operators, foundations and donors, which are projected to invest about $ 60m in the next five years. Of
critical importance will be the continued public support to housing rehabilitation, which should focus as
much on the pre-emptive maintenance of the degrading housing stock as on interventions on housing units
that are threatening collapse, and which should minimize demolitions and transfers of households out of the
Medina.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Municipality has agreed to ensure the regular operation and maintenance of the following project
outputs: a) the parking areas along the two access roads; b) the commercial and artistic activities to take
place on the Place Boujloud; c) the complete signage system and public toilets located along the tourism
circuits; and d) the three restored historic gardens and related buildings. ADER-Fes will have to ensure the
regular operation and maintenance of the Heritage Center and of the conservation laboratory equipment, or
hand them over to independent agencies under clear management arrangements, depending of final
agreements to be stipulated with the relevant authorities.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during the lending phase is rated as unsatisfactory. The Bank was able to take into
account the many recommendations for the rehabilitation of the Medina that had been taking shape since
the early nineties, and to successfully involve numerous national and international stakeholders such as
UNESCO. This however required complex negotiations with the national and local Borrowers that lasted
over five years from concept to effectiveness, during which project design, size and objectives were
significantly revised various times. The amount of time and resources invested into project preparation
increased the local expectations and pushed the technical definition of the project components beyond the
capacity of the local agencies to implement them.

The Bank also agreed to a sub-optimal institutional arrangement, whereby each Borrower was to be
independently responsible for the implementation of discreet but interlocking project components or parts
thereof, and ADER-Fes was to be in charge only of implementing the components financed by the
Government, with limited technical assistance capacity over the ones financed by the Municipality. In this
context, the assessment of the main implementing agency was unrealistic, and assumptions as to the
expected volume of project outputs and beneficial impacts on the local economy are esteemed in retrospect
to have been excessively optimistic.


7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during the supervision phase is rated as unsatisfactory. The Bank supervision team



                                                      - 11 -

which took over from the one responsible for project preparation had fist of all to deal with the crisis of
ADER-Fes that was paralyzed by debts, accumulated unpaid wages, and a bloated staff resulting from
poor management and a superseded business model. Bank efforts were therefore initially concentrated on
supporting the restructuring of the agency by the Government institutions responsible, as a pre-condition
for the Agency's ability to implement the project. This phase lasted until July 2001, when its restructuring
plan was approved and fresh resources were allocated by the Government to the Agency under new
management.

During the following two years of project implementation the Bank team was confronted with the numerous
difficulties encountered by ADER-Fes and by the Municipality in applying the Bank's procurement and
financial procedures for the first time, while launching complex engineering studies and sensitive
interventions on the housing stock. The MTR of January 2003 occurred just one year before the original
closing date (but nearly three years before the revised closing date), given the need to assess the project's
tangible results during the first phase of implementation. The MTR simplified the project by eliminating
one component, reduced the quantitative targets of the other ones, reallocated loan proceeds, and introduced
social participation to the housing rehabilitation component that was otherwise faltering. The MTR was
however not followed by a project restructuring.

From the start of the implementation and until July 2003 when the supervision team was replaced, PSR
ratings were consistently positive for all aspects of the project,        despite the very poor progress in
implementation and disbursements, and the problems that the project was encountering since the start. This
delayed Bank management's involvement in addressing the fundamental issues that the project was facing,
which eventually occurred around the Borrowers' request of an extension of the closing date.

In December 2003, after the amalgamation of the local governments and the creation of the expanded Fes
Municipality, with loan disbursements at 20 percent, Bank management agreed to a 23 month extension
accompanied by a 30 percent reduction of loan proceeds, but made it conditional to the satisfactory
implementation of a short-term action plan. The extension was justified on the basis of the project activities
already launched and under way, whose completion was considered essential for the rehabilitation process,
and of the renewed commitment of the Municipality to the successful completion of the project. The project
was restructured on this basis, but while the Loan Agreements were revised, the restructuring was not
formally submitted to the Board for approval. The consultations between Government, the Municipality
and the implementing agency around the scaled-back scope of work and related priorities generated a
renewed interest in the project which sustained its implementation during the latter phase.

Since July 2003 and for the remainder of the project's life-time (2004 and 2005) very intense supervision
provided by the Bank assisted the Municipality and ADER-Fes in completing the implementation of the
revised project activities by the closing date of November 2005, and to disburse a total of 90 percent of the
loan proceeds. The supervision team carried out eight missions in two and a half years, and the involvement
of staff in the field office facilitated the support to the implementing agencies for the financial management
and disbursement aspects of the project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated, on balance, as unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government performance during project preparation is rated as unsatisfactory. The Government of
Morocco with its decision to invest public resources in the rehabilitation of the Medina of Fes showed



                                                        - 12 -

responsiveness to the local stakeholders that were promoting the initiative and to the international
community intent on protecting the World Heritage Site. The decision to share the ownership of the project
with the Municipality of Fès, while commendable in principle, was however not based on its adequate
financial and technical capacity. The performance of ADER-Fès in the implementation of the two PHRD
grants for the technical preparation of the project was satisfactory. Difficult coordination among the
national and local partners caused the preparation phase to be protracted and controversial, and continued
after Board approval with significantly delayed project effectiveness.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated as unsatisfactory. Government departments in charge of
the project did not ensure enough support of the project via their participation in the Technical and Steering
Committees (the latter having formally met only four times in the life of the project), and critical
decision-making was relinquished by default to the Wilaya which oversees all public investments in its
jurisdiction and is burdened with multiple responsibilities. The Board of Directors of ADER-Fes, while
significantly involved in the early restructuring of the Agency, was not responsive to the decisions to be
taken on the basis of the institutional strengthening study carried out under the project, thus impeding
further project actions to reinforce the Agency. The Fes Medina Municipality, despite clear agreements to
this effect prior to Board presentation, did not entrust the implementation of the poverty alleviation
component to ADER-Fes, thus partially compromising the labor-intensive objectives of the project.
Government representatives' oversight of the Municipality's financial management often contradicted Loan
agreements on the prevalence of the Bank's over national procurement guidelines, and greatly delayed the
allocation of resources, the issuance of payment orders, and the disbursements of project and counterpart
funds. The project restructuring, extension and reduction of Loan proceeds got Government support and
active participation, and thus performance improved during the last two years of the project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementation agencies performance is rated as unsatisfactory. The Fes Medina Municipality performed
with difficulty both in technical and in financial management terms; its procurement practices, while
scrutinized by the central government comptrollers, were tainted by a concerning proximity with some local
contracting companies. The amalgamation of the local governments and the creation of the new
Municipality caused at first a disruption in the management of the project, but eventually generated a
significant improvement in the technical management of the components financed by the Municipality.
Financial management remained however problematic throughout the implementation, and the
compensation for the project-induced expropriations were not completed before project closing. The crisis
of ADER-Fes in the first two years of project implementation caused major delays and a loss of credibility
which took long to overturn. In the last three years of project implementation its performance was however
overall good, in terms of technical and financial management, procurement practices, competence of its
staff and ability to pursue innovative modalities to the rehabilitation of the Medina, including the
participatory approaches applied to housing rehabilitation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated, on balance, as unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

1.       Reversing the urban decay of historic cities is a long-term endeavor. As the project came after the
national and international campaigns to salvage the Medina which took place throughout the eighties with
much awareness-raising and little action on the ground, expectations as to how much of the urban decay the
project could reverse, and how quickly, were unrealistic. The decay of the Medina of Fes is fundamentally
due to decades of flight of the middle-class and to the arrival of impoverished rural migrants in search of


                                                    - 13 -

cheap accommodation. Unless social development and poverty alleviation take place in favor of this
resident population, via economic growth and targeted interventions, it is impossible to fully reverse the
physical decay of historic cities and of Morocco's urban heritage in particular. If this negative economic
cycle is on the other hand reversed, the Medina of Fès can continue to provide benefits and values to its
residents, reinforce its role in the broader urban agglomeration, and establish a much needed continuity
between past, present and future of this unique city. Reversing the urban decay of historic cities depends on
the ability of the responsible agencies to secure a long-term commitment and concentrated efforts by all
economic actors involved, well beyond the life-time of a single project. In this absence of this long-term
vision, interventions risk over-promising results and disappointing stakeholders.

2.       Social participation is essential for the successful rehabilitation of the historic housing stock. The
project has demonstrated that reconciling the objectives of urban conservation and rehabilitation with the
housing needs of the impoverished inhabitants is feasible, through a process of consultation and social
participation in the design and implementation of the interventions on the historic housing stock.
Neighborhood associations that had previously remained external to the process of urban rehabilitation
became essential social actors, organizers and mediators between the implementing agencies and the
resident households. The mistrust of the residents towards the authorities can only be overcome with a
demonstrated public commitment to improving the safety and the living conditions of the poor households,
which also coincides with the objective of safeguarding the urban fabric and the historic housing stock as a
whole.

3        The tenure of land and buildings is a critical difficulty in the rehabilitation of historic cities.
Commercial transactions over historical properties are stymied by the lack of proper property records, the
multiple subdivisions of property due to inheritance, the scattering of absentee owners, the often conflicting
property rights over land and buildings, and the convoluted administrative procedures for the legal transfer
of property rights and expropriations. Insecure tenure is a major problem for poor families that let or sublet
or enter into a traditional transaction for the acquisition of a dwelling or part thereof, and is also a
significant disincentive to renewed investments in historic real-estate. Publicly funded interventions on
housing threatening collapse, while justified on grounds of public safety and of salvaging historic housing
stock, result in investments that remain the property of absentee landlords, who do not reimburse public
authorities for the expenses incurred. The communal use of spaces resulting from the clearance of derelict
sites remains illegal (but tolerated) given that the property of the land is private. Innovative solutions must
therefore be designed to circumvent such blockages, and simplified regulations must be introduced by local
governments. The participatory housing rehabilitation activities were successful as they internalized the
uncertain tenure status of the residents in their design.

4.       Municipalities should consider delegating urban rehabilitation operations to competent agencies.
Despite an on-going process of decentralization, Moroccan Municipalities still manage relatively small
investment budgets, and large infrastructure projects are generally conducted by line Ministries or
parastatal agencies, and thus the municipal capacity, both technical and financial, to manage directly urban
rehabilitation operations is very limited. In addition municipal procurement, financial commitments and
disbursements are subject to cumbersome central government controls that further reduce timeliness and
effectiveness. For these reasons, Municipalities seeking to carry out urban rehabilitation operations should
consider establishing delegated contract management agreements with competent agencies, able to carry out
such investments according to agreed-upon objectives, plans, calendars and budgets.

5.       Urban rehabilitation projects should be designed according to simple objectives and design. Given
the complexities of intervening in historic cities as described above, the related interventions should not try
and address all of the needs and opportunities under a single operation, but should rather support a


                                                      - 14 -

programmatic approach. A sequence of investments can be carried out progressively, in order to trigger and
accompany a long-term process of rehabilitation. Project outputs will have to be defined mainly on the
basis of the implementation capacity of the local actors; this might be improved with training and technical
assistance, but will remain substantially aligned with their original competence and abilities. Equal
attention should be given to the institutional and to the technical challenges of the interventions to be
carried out. A realistic assessment of expected impacts and appropriate performance indicators should be
also pursued, in order to maximize chances of success during project implementation.

6.      Project restructuring, when needed, should take place and be formalized as early as possible. The
Fes Medina Rehabilitation Project would have benefited from an earlier intervention aimed at addressing
some of its flaws which became apparent at implementation, and at adapting its design to the capacity of
the local agencies. This would have given it more chances to achieve its objectives within the time-frame
and resources available. In addition, the project restructuring should have been formalized with the Board,
so as to align the expectations of the Bank, the Borrowers, and the teams in charge of project
implementation. Had the project been formally restructured, this Implementation Completion Report would
have assessed its outcomes agains the revised objectives and scope of work, with more favorable final
outcome ratings.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Summary of the comments received from the General Direction of Local Governments, Ministry of
Interiors

Given that the project restructuring was not formalized, the project team had to assess the impact of the
project against the initially established indicators, despite the important changes that were introduced at
mid-term review in 2003. This has lead to underestimating the real impact of the project achievements in
the completion report.

The report points out the difficulties and delays in the project activities, and notes that the physical
implementation started in 2003 and was completed by the end of 2005. Given such recent completion, the
cost-benefit analysis seems premature on account of the intervening delays, and the fact that undoubtedly
the project outcomes will cause an increase in real estate values. The total amount of investments carried
out in the medina between 1999 and 2005 as quoted in the report seems underestimated, given that private
operators and residents have carried out repairs and maintenance beyond the project.

Finally, we are convinced that the Bank will make the most of the lessons from this unique project that
combined social and economic development objectives for a historic city with the conservation of its
cultural heritage, and will develop specific procedures for similar operations in terms of procurement and
evaluation methods.

(See annex 8 for the full text in French, and for the foreword and executive summary of the ADER-Fes
completion report, also in French)

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                     - 15 -

10. Additional Information

NA




                              - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Overall improvement of Medina housing         Rehabilitation permits should increase by 3% Rehabilitation and repair permits have
stock (referential rating from end 1996) and  a year and repair permits by 5% a year          decreased on average by 17 % per year.
effective conservation of key cultural assets starting CY2 of project.                        Conservation of 8 key cultural assets and 10
along tourism itineraries.                                                                    fountains has taken place.
Public-to-private leverage ratio of           Ratio to reach 1: 3 over the long run (10 to 15 Public-to-private leverage has been of 1:1
investments, including the financing of       years).                                         during project implementation and is likely to
historic buildings by private sponsors and                                                    remain such until 2010, or 13 years after the
Habous (religious charities).                                                                 baseline calculation




                                                                - 17 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                             Actual/Latest Estimate
Development of an incentive framework for    Demand for rehabilitation of historic            132 individual rehabilitations, 107
cultural heritage rehabilitation             properties and effective works on: 47 units      participatory rehabilitations of communal
                                             CY2; 56 units CY3; 65 units CY4 and 75           parts of private buildings, and of 26
                                             units CY5.                                       pedestrian streets carried out.
                                             Six tourism itineraries implemented as
                                             follows: CY1: first itinerary (IT); CY2: 2 ITs & Six tourism itineraries implemented, including
                                             Heritage Center in operation; CY3: one IT;       2 public spaces and 3 historic gardens
                                             CY4: 2 last Its. Number of historic buildings    rehabilitated, 700 panels, 10 public toilets,
                                             or monuments re-used for economic or social tourism guide published. Heritage Center has
                                             activities.                                      been set up in a rehabilitated historic
                                                                                              building.
Improvement of critical access to the medina Emergency access: 20% CY2; 40% CY3;              Improvements to vehicular circulation around
                                             20% CY4; 20% CY5.                                the Medina carried out. Place Boujloud
                                             Access links: 20% CY3; 40% CY4; 40%              rehabilitated as major pedestrian space.
                                             CY5.                                             Pedestrian network and emergency access:
                                             Main access roads: 35% CY3; 45% CY4;             3.4 Km rehabilitated instead of the 17.5
                                             20% CY5                                          projected at appraisal.
                                             Parking: 15% CY3; 25% CY4; 60% CY5;              Two vehicular access roads built, instead of
                                             First BOT bids for private sector: CY3           four projected at appraisal.
Improvement of medina environment            Reduction of solid waste stock by 40% end of No project activities were carried out under
                                             CY2; 40% end of CY3; 20% end of CY4.             this component
                                             Efficiency of garbage collection by 40% CY3
                                             (add. 5 tons per day), and 40% by CY4.
                                             Eight five artisan units operating under new
                                             environmental standards end of CY4.
                                             Satisfactory implementation of the "short term
                                             loss of occupancy" plan.
Use of rehabilitation process to alleviate   Number of direct labor-intensive jobs created 15 derelict sites and 1 major solid waste
poverty                                      through UDC cumulating as follows: 100           stock accumulation cleared.
                                             (CY1); 300 (CY2); 600 (CY3); 800 (CY4);
                                             and 900 (CY5). Specific indicators of cost       56 housing units (buildings) threatening
                                             per job created (should be less than             collapse consolidated and 2 public spaces in
                                             US$300).                                         the Medina rehabilitated.
                                             By CY3, emergency works on collapsed
                                             buildings should leave place to preventive       1,000 person/years of employment generated
                                             works (50% CY3; 75% CY4 & 100% CY5)              under the project instead of the 6,000
                                                                                              projected at appraisal.
Local institution strengthening              Monitoring of key Ader financial indicators.     First phase of comprehensive strategic study
                                             Monitoring of Fès-Médina Municipality            for the reinforcement of ADER-Fes carried
                                             revenue ratios.                                  out. Updated GIS and MIS systems and IT
                                                                                              equipment acquired. Conservation laboratory
                                             Training program as follows: high level staff: acquired.
                                             60 (2/3 by mid-term); micro-enterprises'
                                             managers: 20 (1/2 mid-term); staff of            Training program carried out for NGOs,
                                             micro-enterprises: 40 (1/2 mid-term).            micro-enterprises, professionals and public
                                                                                              agencies staff (total of 200).

1End of project




                                                                 - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
Rehabilitation of built heritage                             3.70            3.40              92
Improving critical access to the Medina                     14.60            6.80              46
Improvement of the urban environment                         3.50            0.00               0
Poverty alleviation                                          3.50            2.40              68
Institutional strengthening                                  2.30            1.70              74

Total Baseline Cost                                         27.60          14.30
                          Total Project Costs               27.60          14.30
                    Total Financing Required                27.60          14.30


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           10.00         6.00         0.56         16.56
                                   (0.00)          (6.00)      (2.40)         (0.00)       (8.40)
2. Goods                            0.00            1.24         1.24         0.00          2.48
                                   (0.00)          (1.00)      (0.26)         (0.00)       (1.26)
3. Services                         0.00            4.00         1.52         0.00          5.52
                                   (0.00)          (0.91)      (0.98)         (0.00)       (1.89)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            2.00         1.04         0.00          3.04
                                   (0.00)          (0.77)      (0.77)         (0.00)       (1.54)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.91)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.91)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            0.00           17.24         9.80         0.56         27.60
                                   (0.91)          (8.68)      (4.41)         (0.00)      (14.00)




                                                - 19 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               5.00              2.58             1.00              8.58
                                           (0.00)             (4.50)            (0.90)            (0.00)           (5.40)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               1.00              0.28             0.00              1.28
                                           (0.00)             (0.51)            (0.30)            (0.00)           (0.81)
   3. Services                              0.00               2.00              0.86             0.00              2.86
                                           (1.20)             (0.50)            (0.10)            (0.00)           (1.80)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.80              0.78             0.00              1.58
                                           (0.00)             (0.50)            (0.49)            (0.00)           (0.99)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.00               8.80              4.50             1.00             14.30
                                           (1.20)             (6.01)            (1.79)            (0.00)           (9.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Rehabilitation of built         2.70         1.00         0.00        2.30         1.10       0.00       85.2     110.0      0.0
heritage
Improving critical access to    5.40         1.10         8.10        4.10         1.10       1.60       75.9     100.0     19.8
the Medina
Improvement of the urban        2.40         0.60         0.50        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
environment
Poverty alleviation             1.80         0.00         1.70        1.50         0.00       0.90       83.3      0.0      52.9
Institutional strengthening     1.70         0.40         0.20        1.10         0.40       0.20       64.7     100.0    100.0




                                                           - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Final economic assessment of Fès Medina Rehabilitation Project

Given the problematic nature of many of the initial assumptions made in the economic assessment at appraisal, this
evaluation tries to correct some of the initial assumptions on the basis of the project outcomes and looks only at the
project performance from its start in 1999 to its end in 2006.

Project value in
USD                                        14,268,000 USD
Project lifetime:                                    15 years
Discount rate:                                    10% starting 1999

The project value includes USD 9 million of Bank Loan and USD 5.3 million of other funding.



Land value        real estate prices              1996                     2005 change (%)
assumptions:
                  MAD                             2230                     2944                    32%

                  USD                           245.92                   324.66                    32%

                  annual increase in                    project induced in
                  land and building                     project areas
                  values                 real           (according to PAD)      in non-project areas
                  1996-2005                     3.13%                     5.25%                  3.00%

               a) final land and building value surplus (according to PAD)                                             2,262,942

                  initial land and building value surplus (one-time doubling of land value)                            1,262,511

                  This value is equal to the initial land and building value, if we assume that this value increased once by 100% as stated in the PAD.

               b) We reduce the initial land and building value increase from 100% to 25%.

                  new initial land and building value surplus (25% of one-time value jump)                     25%       315,628

                  initial total land and building value (with first one-time jump)                                     1,578,139

                  annual additional surplus (due to difference in annual value increase) 1999-2006                        0.13%
               c) total land and building value at the end of project implementation in 2006 (with first one-time
                  jump and annual increases)                                                                           1,504,927

                  second value jump after project implementation (2007-2013)                                   50%       752,464

                  total land and buildings value after second value jump in 2006                                       2,257,391

                  annual additional surplus after implementation of World Bank project 2007-2013                          1.00%
               d) Within the project lifetime (1999-2013), we distinguish the project implementation period (8 years, 1999-2006) and the period after
                  project implementation (7 years, 2007-2013). We assume that there will be two jumps in land value, both being realized over each of
                  the two periods. The effect of the first one-time jump starts in 1999, although works only start in 2000 ("announcement effect"). We also
                  assume that annual additional surplus will change after project implementation.




                                                                                       - 21 -

Job creation assumptions:
                   1) Direct job creation through project disbursements
                      net value of new
                      jobs created 1999 -
                      2005                 MAD             USD                           exchange rate as of 02/03/2006:

                      1999-2005               30,000,000               3,308,344              1 USD =        9.06798 MAD

                      2006                                               638,470

                   a) The value of job creations is based on the final project implementation report. We assume that this value for the period 1999-2005 is
                      75% of the total value of new jobs created during the period 1999-2006 (according to the disbursement rate).
                   b) The 2006 value corresponds to the remaining 15% of disbursement in 2006.
                   c) The valuation of new jobs is made according to the disbursement rate from 1998 to 2006.


                   2) Job creation through private sector investments
excerpt from the PAD economic assessment spreadsheet

Year                                     0               1                      2                      3             4              5          6            7
value of new jobs
(PAD)                                    0            724                    724                   2,088       2,088           2,088       3,143        3,143
private investment in
buildings                                0         16,655                 16,655                  16,655      23,980         23,980      23,980        22,178


Year                                     8               9                    10                      11           12             13          14           15
value of new jobs
(PAD)                               3,143           3,198                  3,198                   3,198       2,943           2,943       2,943        2,543
private investment in
buildings                          22,178          22,178                 21,862                  21,862      21,862         19,559      19,559        19,559

                   a) The ratio of public to private investment has been around 1:0.9 between 1999 and 2005 against an initially estimated 1:3 by 2008
                      (PAD). We therefore assume that the private investment costs are only 30% of the volume stated in the PAD.
                   b) We assume that the value of jobs created mentioned in the PAD refers exclusively to those jobs created by private sector investment.
                      According to the level of private investment compared to the PAD assumptions, the number of new jobs created through the private
                      investment is set at 30% of the level stated in the PAD.
                                                                                                                                                          30%

Disbursement
assumption:

                                    1998             1999                  2000                    2001         2002            2003

                                      0%               0%                    2%                      3%          8%             20%


                                    2004             2005 2006 (03/31)           90% of the total project amount will be effectively
                                     40%              75%                  90% disbursed until 03/31/06.



                     disbursement rate per category:
                                                           CONSULTANTS'                                   UNALLO-
                      CIVIL WORKS          GOODS           SERVICE               MANAGEMENT FEE           CATED        GOM A/C
                                     54%              13%                   22%                       7%          5%             0%


Maintenance
cost                  % of private
assumptions:          investment           year 1-3        year 4-6              year 7-15

                                                       1%                    3%                      5%

                   a) We assume that there is no private investment in commercials enterprises (no component to improve the collection, transfer and final
                      disposal of household waste) and no liquidation value of other investments.




                                                                                        - 22 -

Years                           0          1                      2                      3          4          5          6          7

                             1998       1999                  2000                   2001        2002       2003       2004       2005

PROJECT BENEFITS (USD)
Land and Building
Value                           0     23,093                 25,148                27,205      29,264     31,326     33,391     35,459
Net Value of New
Jobs                            0        217               102,850                 25,604      217,368    539,610    859,362 1,567,533
TOTAL BENEFITS                  0     23,311               127,997                 52,808      246,632    570,936    892,754 1,602,992
TOTAL BENEFITS
DISCOUNTED                      0     21,191               105,783                 39,676      168,453    354,506    503,936    822,588

PROJECT COSTS (USD)

Civil Works                     0          0               198,643                 48,343      419,499  1,043,192 1,661,456  3,032,108

Goods                           0          0                 47,649                11,596      100,627    250,235    398,540    727,324
Consultants'
Services                        0          0                 80,041                19,479      169,032    420,342    669,464 1,221,752

Management Fee                  0          0                 26,138                  6,361     55,200     137,268    218,622    398,978

Unallocated                     0          0                 18,551                  4,515     39,177     97,423     155,162    283,166
Governement of
Morocco                         0          0                      0                      0          0          0          0          0
Private Investment in
Buildings                       0       4,997                 4,997                  4,997       7,194      7,194     7,194       6,653

Maintenance Costs               0         50                    100                    150        666        881      1,097       2,161

TOTAL COSTS                     0       5,046              376,120                 95,442      791,394  1,956,536 3,111,536  5,672,144
TOTAL COSTS
DISCOUNTED                      0       4,588              310,843                 71,707      540,533  1,214,855 1,756,381  2,910,707

NET BENEFITS                    0     18,264              -248,122                -42,633     -544,762 -1,385,600 -2,218,782 -4,069,151
NET BENEFITS
DISCOUNTED                      0     16,604              -205,060                -32,031     -372,080  -860,348  -1,252,444 -2,088,118



Years                           8          9                     10                     11         12         13         14         15

                             2006       2007                  2008                   2009        2010       2011       2012       2013

PROJECT BENEFITS (USD)
Land and Building
Value                      37,529     151,111              173,910                196,938      220,196    243,686    267,412    291,374
Net Value of New
Jobs                       639,413       959                    959                    959        883        883        883        763

TOTAL BENEFITS             676,943    152,070              174,870                197,897      221,079    244,569    268,295    292,137
TOTAL BENEFITS
DISCOUNTED                 315,799    64,493                 67,420                69,362      70,442     70,843     70,650     69,935

PROJECT COSTS (USD)

Civil Works              1,235,748

Goods                      296,424
Consultants'
Services                   497,930

Management Fee             162,605

Unallocated                115,406
Governement of
Morocco                         0
Private Investment in
Buildings                    6,653      6,653                 6,559                  6,559       6,559      5,868     5,868       5,868

Maintenance Costs            2,161      2,161                 2,161                  2,161       2,161      2,161     2,161       2,161

TOTAL COSTS              2,316,928      8,815                 8,720                  8,720       8,720      8,029     8,029       8,029
TOTAL COSTS
DISCOUNTED               1,080,864      3,738                 3,362                  3,056       2,778      2,326     2,114       1,922

NET BENEFITS            -1,639,985    143,255              166,150                189,177      212,359    236,540    260,266    284,108
NET BENEFITS
DISCOUNTED               -765,065     60,754                 64,058                66,306      67,664     68,517     68,536     68,013


NPV of TOTAL BENEFITS                                     2,815,078

NPV of TOTAL COSTS                                        7,909,773


                                              Initial NPV of net benefits (PAD, page 29: cumulative
NPV of NET BENEFITS                -5,094,695 flow of benefits = land value surplus in year 15)       16,672,258

ERR                                     -26% Initial ERR with annual flow of benefits (PAD, page 30)      13.62%




                                                                           - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/03/1994                5
              06/20/1994                1
              0/28/1994                 6
              03/08/1995                5

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/25/1996                5
              06/04/1997                7
              11/28/1997                3

 Supervision
              02/13/1999                4    PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST              S               S
                                             (1); TRANSPORT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SECTOR
                                             LEADER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              04/15/2000                3    LEAD URBAN SPECIALIST            S               S
                                             (1); SECTOR MANAGER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MGT SPEC. (1)
              06/30/2001                3    TTL (1); TRANSPORT               S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FIN. MGT.
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              10/11/2001                1    PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST           S               S
                                             (1)
              01/16/2002                1    LEAD URBAN SPECIALIST (1)        S               S
              04/27/2002                4     URBAN PLANNER (1);              S               S
                                             ENGINEER/PROCUREMENT
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); URBAN ENVIRONMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              11/05/2002                1    URBAN ENVIRONMENT                S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              01/22/2003                4    SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             URBAN ENVIRONMENT
                                             SPECIALIST(1);
                                             URBAN PLANNER (1)
              07/15/2003                2    URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL              U               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              10/23/2003                2    SR. URBAN SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              04/25/2004                1    PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST           U               S




                                              - 24 -

                                           (1)
               06/12/2004              3   SR. URBAN SPECIALIST (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); FINANCIAL MGT
                                           SPECIALIST (1)
               11/06/2004              1   PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST             U    U
                                           (1)
               02/28/2005              2   FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT               U    U
                                           SPECIALIST (1); SR. URBAN
                                           SPECIALIST
               05/31/2005              2   FINANCAL MANAGEMENT                U    U
                                           SPECIALIST (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1)

 ICR
               09/26/2005             1     SR. URBAN SPECIALIST              U    U



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                         448.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                              260.0
  Supervision                                                        542.0
  ICR                                                                  50.0
  Total                                                             1300.0




                                            - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

- Quality At Entry Review (QAG Report)
- Project Appraisal Document
- Legal documents
- Progress reports
- Mid-term review report
- PSRs and ISRs
- Monitoring and Evalutation final report, Naima Lahbil Tajmouati, January 2006
- Project Completion Report by ADER-Fès, February 2006.




                                                 - 28 -

Additional Annex 8. Partner Comments

                    Commentaires de la Direction Générale des Collectivités Locales

                            Ministère de l'Intérieur et des Collectivités Locales

                               Projet de Réhabilitation de la Médina de Fès

                                       (Prêts BIRD n° 4402 et 4403)

J'ai l'honneur de vous faire parvenir les commentaires sur le rapport d'achèvement préparé par la Banque
Mondiale :

1. Révision des objectifs de développement du projet

Comme cela a été clairement souligné dans le rapport, la revue à mi-parcours du projet survenue le mois de
janvier 2003 a donné lieu au réaménagement de certaines de ses composantes, à l'introduction de nouvelles
composantes absentes lors de l'évaluation initiale du projet et à l'annulation d'autres.

Cette revue du projet n'ayant pas été formalisée au niveau de la Banque, son équipe responsable du projet
s'est vue contrainte d'évaluer le projet révisé sur la base des indicateurs initiaux d'impact et de résultat
(dont une bonne partie est devenue caduque) au lieu de l'évaluer par rapport à de nouveaux indicateurs qui
auraient dû être établis en adéquation avec les nouvelles données du projet.

Cette situation n'a pas manqué de désavantager la portée réelle des réalisations du projet au moment de son
évaluation à l'achèvement.

2. Evaluation économique du projet :

Le rapport a essayé d'énumérer les différentes insuffisances et entraves qui ont participé aux retards
accusés au niveau de la réalisation de certaines composantes du projet. En raison de ces retards, le rapport
a fait ressortir que les actions les plus structurantes du projet et qui devaient, à priori, avoir un impact
direct sur le degré de réalisation des objectifs de développement du projet, n'ont en fait commencé à être
mises en oeuvre sur le terrain qu'à partir de l'année 2003 pour la composante « Aide à la réhabilitation » et
à partir de l'année 2004 pour les autres composantes (accès, voirie d'urgence, circuits touristiques) et n'ont
été effectivement achevées que vers la fin de l'année 2005.

Aussi, l'évaluation des retombées économiques du projet paraît prématurée, en raison de la faible durée
séparant la date d'entrée en exploitation des réalisations du projet et l'évaluation de leurs retombées
économiques.

Dans le même sens, la question se pose au sujet de la pertinence des calculs coût ­ avantages, réalisés à la
clôture du projet (VAN et TRE), sachant que le décalage survenu au niveau de l'achèvement des
composantes structurantes du projet n'a pas été tenu en compte et sachant aussi que l'impact attendu de ces
réalisations devra forcement induire une amélioration de la performance du marché de l'immobilier.

3. Calcul du ratio de levier public/privé des investissements :

Les données relatifs aux investissements consentis (tous secteurs confondus) pour la réhabilitation de la



                                                    - 29 -

médina de Fès entre 1999 et 2005, communiquées à la Banque Mondiale par l'ADER-Fès et par le
consultant chargé du monitoring du projet ne couvrent pas l'ensemble de l'investissement engagé au niveau
de la médina durant cette même période.

En effet, pour des raisons de délai, l'ADER-Fès a procédé à l'addition des montants correspondants aux
investissements les plus visibles et pour lesquels elle disposait déjà d'informations (restauration de
monuments, interventions d'urgence, maisons d'hôtes, etc.). En outre, lesdits montants n'englobent pas
l'ensemble des financements consentis par d'autres opérateurs privés (restauration de maisons par de
nouveaux arrivants à Fès nationaux et étrangers, réparation et réhabilitation de logements par leurs
propriétaires en dehors du projet, etc.).

Enfin, nous sommes convaincus que la Banque saisira l'opportunité des enseignements de ce projet
original, de par son caractère spécifique ralliant des objectifs de développement social et économique d'une
ville historique à ceux de la préservation de son patrimoine culturel, pour développer des procédures
spécifiques plus adaptées à ce type de contexte physique, social, et historique, et ce, en terme de méthodes
d'évaluation et de procédures de passation des marchés.




                                                     - 30 -

                          Rapport d'achèvement de projet établi par ADER-Fès
                                                 février 2006
PREAMBULE

Selon les directives et les procédures de la Banque Mondiale, l'emprunteur est tenu après l'achèvement des
projets financés par le(s) prêt(s) d'élaborer un rapport d'achèvement y afférant. C'est dans ce cadre que
l'ADER-Fès a été chargée de cette mission en tant qu'agence d'exécution du Projet de réhabilitation de la
Médina de Fès financé par l'Etat Marocain et la Commune Urbaine de Fès au titre de deux prêts :
respectivement, 4402-Mor et 4403-Mor.

Le présent rapport a été rédigé par le staff technique et administratif de l'ADER-Fès dans un esprit de
synthèse. Il reflète l'autoévaluation des personnes qui ont été au coeur de l'action, et traitera, à un autre
niveau, de l'insertion du PRMF dans son environnement technique, financier, institutionnel et social.
L'analyse menée dans ce document reflète les appréciations, les attitudes implicites ou explicites, les
expressions et les sentiments des équipes qui ont vécu le Projet dans tous ses contours et avec tous ses
aléas. Il ne serait pas possible de rendre autrement compte de la complexité des acteurs, des programmes,
des budgets, des catégories de bénéficiaires, etc. Au delà des données chiffrées, cette autoévaluation a tenu
compte d'une analyse multicritères. Telle est la difficulté et la pertinence de l'exercice que l'équipe de
l'agence d'exécution du Projet a choisi d'effectuer dans le cadre de ce rapport : fournir les données « sèches
» et les objectiver à travers un recadrage dans le contexte et l'environnement du Projet. D'où l'intérêt de ce
document qui synthétise, selon une vision globale, un processus complet : de l'idée à la mise en oeuvre, et
de la concrétisation à l'achèvement du programme.

On décèle aisément dans ce document une certaine fierté d'avoir pu mener un Projet complexe et inédit. Les
propos du rapport révéleront aussi la volonté de poursuivre une oeuvre et de faire voir une expérience qui
demeure de par sa démarche et son déroulement exceptionnels un espoir et une chance pour les villes
historiques. On verra enfin que ce rapport ne manquera pas de faire ressortir, à côté des points forts et des
succès, les points faibles et les carences. Celles-ci seront vues dans leur contexte. L'intérêt de cette
démarche est tout autant méthodologique qu'instructif dans la perspective de réinvestir cette expérience
dans des projets futurs visant la poursuite du processus de réhabilitation de la médina de Fès ou l'initiation
de programmes similaires dans d'autres centres historiques.

RESUME SYNTHETIQUE

1        Contexte général

Le concept du Projet de la médina de Fès est le fruit d'un long processus. Une brève incursion dans la
mémoire de la Sauvegarde de la Médina de Fès, permettra de faire remarquer que les actions réalisées dans
le cadre du Projet de Réhabilitation de la Médina de Fès (PRMF) sont venues renforcer le processus
déclenché par la stratégie tracée en 1985. En effet, les actions réalisées depuis cette date, de même que
l'appui des instances internationales en l'occurrence l'UNESCO , le PNUD et le FADES ont favorisé le
montage et l'initiation du PRMF.

La Banque Mondiale s'engage à partir de 1996 dans le processus de sauvegarde de la Médina de Fès. Le
projet de sauvegarde de la Médina de Fès avait atteint, avec l'initiation d'opérations de démarrage du
processus (Actions d'urgence, Monuments, quartier artisanal, etc.) et la création de l'ADER-Fès (1989),
un niveau qui rendait nécessaire la mise en place d'un financement structuré à même de renforcer une
dynamique se basant sur les potentialités intrinsèques de la médina.


                                                    - 31 -

En septembre 1993, la ville de Fès a vu naître l'Organisation des Villes du Patrimoine Mondial et
l'organisation du colloque sous le thème : « Le financement de la réhabilitation des villes historiques par
qui ? Comment ? Et pourquoi ? ». La Banque Mondiale a été représentée à cette manifestation. Trois ans
après (1996), son Président, M. James Wolfohnsen se rendit en visite officielle à Fès pour donner le signal
de l'engagement de la Banque Mondiale dans le processus de sauvegarde de Fès.

2        Déroulement du Projet

En 1996, et à la demande des autorités Marocaines, la Banque Mondiale a confié à l'ADER-Fès (Agence
pour la Dédensification et la Réhabilitation de la médina de Fès), la préparation d'un programme intégré
intitulé « Projet de Réhabilitation de la Médina de Fès », et ce, Grâce à un don du Gouvernement Japonais.
Ce programme a fait l'objet d'une évaluation technique, financière et institutionnelle de la part des experts
de la Banque Mondiale en mars 1997. Les négociations des accords de prêts ont eu lieu à Fès en novembre
1997 et le Projet a été approuvé par la Banque Mondiale le 7 Octobre 1998. Deux prêts ont été contractés
le 10 Décembre 1998 avec la Banque Mondiale pour sa mise en oeuvre, l'un par l'Etat et l'autre par la
Commune Urbaine Fès Médina (absorbée par la Commune Urbaine de Fès en Septembre 2003 dans le
cadre de l'unité de la ville). Un accord de Projet a été signé en même temps entre la Banque Mondiale et
l'ADER-Fès, définissant son rôle et ses compétences en tant qu'Agence d'exécution pour le compte de
l'Etat (prêt 4402 MOR) et fournisseur d'assistance technique à la Commune (prêt 4403 MOR). Des
ressources financières additionnelles aux prêts de la Banque ont été également engagées par l'Etat et la
Commune, qui ont signé une convention le 1er Septembre 1998 spécifiant les montants totaux affectés au
Projet ainsi que les rôles et les responsabilités des institutions concernées. Le Projet est formellement entré
en vigueur le 1er Septembre 1999 pour une durée de 5 années. Son démarrage effectif n'a eu lieu qu'en
Août 2000 avec les premiers décaissements sur les deux prêts.

La date prévue pour la clôture du Projet était le 31 Décembre 2003. Cependant, après la revue à
mi-parcours du Projet et suite aux retards de décaissement des fonds accumulés des deux prêts par les
différents acteurs du Projet, cette date a été reportée au 30 Novembre 2005, et ce, à la suite de requêtes
adressées à la Banque Mondiale par l'Etat et la Commune Urbaine de Fès. Ce report de la date de clôture a
été accompagné d'une réduction du montant du projet équivalente à 25 % de sa valeur initiale, réduction
jugée nécessaire par la Banque Mondiale et le Ministère des Finances et de la Privatisation Marocain pour
pouvoir consommer la totalité des fonds restants des deux prêts.

3        Les grandes caractéristiques du Projet :

3.1      Le Projet est en fait un ensemble de programmes extrêmement diversifiés ; ils sont conçus de façon
à agir en synergie. Son objectif principal est `'d'appuyer la conservation et la réhabilitation de la Médina
de Fès'. En tant que programme intégré, le Projet ne prétendait aucunement résoudre tous les problèmes de
la Médina. Il vise ainsi de soutenir un processus de développement urbain, économique et social au sein de
la médina de Fès, et de contrer les processus de dégradation de l'espace urbain ;

3.2      Le Projet est basé sur une      conception locale de développement et réhabilitation        des villes
historiques ralliée aux objectifs des instances internationales telles que l'UNESCO et de la Banque
Mondiale;

3.3      le Projet illustre un exemple édifiant d'une décentralisation soutenue par le pouvoir central. Prise
en charge du projet par les instances locales (municipalités et autorités locales) avec un appui financier de
l'Etat à hauteur de 50% (Prêt Commune et Prêt Etat).


                                                      - 32 -

4        Atteinte des objectifs du Projet

Cette question est de taille. La suite du Projet en est en bonne partie tributaire. En effet, réussite et
prouesses du Projet par rapport à quels référentiels ? Serait-ce par rapport à la taille de la Médina (160 000
habitants et 282 ha) ou serait-ce encore par rapport aux ambitions premières du Projet lui-même ? (près de
350 M MAD qui a été ramenée lors des négociations avec le Ministère chargé des Finances et la Banque
Mondiale à 167 M MAD)?Serait-ce par rapport aux montants fixés par les contrats et les conventions ?
Ou finalement, serait-ce, par rapport au montant révisé du Projet ayant ramené le budget global à 126 M
MAD ? On ne peut pas dans ce contexte de synthèse traiter dans le détail de ces différents niveaux de
relativité. Néanmoins et en réponse à cette question on peut considérer - pour les raisons qui vont suivre -
que `'le Projet a atteint une bonne partie de ses objectifs de développement. '' Les constats suivants
appuient cette attitude :

4.1      Le Projet a déclenché, dès sa mise en vigueur en 1999, l'intérêt des opérateurs publics et privés
pour la Médina de Fès. Ces derniers entreprirent des consultations auprès de l'ADER-Fès sur les accès et
les circuits touristiques pour connaître le degré de valorisation de l'espace par les pouvoirs publics. On fera
aussi remarquer le volume important des investissements publics et privés qui ont été opérés parallèlement
à l'exécution du Projet.

4.2      Au final, il est indéniable que les principales composantes du Projet ont connu une véritable
réussite :

a.       Aide à la réhabilitation : cette composante a connu un succès étonnant. Réalisations au-delà des
prévisions ; adhésion de la population et des amicales de quartiers ; instauration d'une démarche
participative réussie, etc.
b.       Les circuits touristiques : cette composante a été réalisée en totalité selon les options formalisées
dans le cadre de la revue à mi-parcours du projet.
c.       Les accès : bien que seuls deux accès aient été réalisés sur les quatre programmés, on peut dire
qu'ils ont été mis en oeuvre avec une grande qualité technique et urbanistique. La commune urbaine de Fès
a couronné ces deux projets en prenant en charge, hors du prêt, le revêtement des chaussées avec du pavage
au lieu du bitume qui a été choisi par contrainte budgétaire. Les impacts ne se sont pas fait attendre :
demandes d'autorisations d'aménagement de locaux riverains, satisfaction de la population, plus grande
proximité du centre névralgique de la médina de Fès (triangle Qaraouiyine, Sidi Ahmed Tijani et Moulay
Idriss). A noter que ces deux accès ont été réalisés dans l'une des zones les plus marginalisées de la médina.
d.       Le réseau de voirie d'urgence : cette composante a été tronquée de moitié au niveau du budget et a
été lancée très tardivement (mai 2005). Elle fut néanmoins réalisée dans des conditions exceptionnelles de
délais. La coordination avec la RADEEF et les autres opérateurs a été exemplaire grâce notamment aux
réunions bi-hebdomadaires assurées par les services de la Wilaya. Cette coordination a permis d'optimiser
les moyens financiers des intervenants et de réaliser le double du linéaire de voirie prévu selon le dernier
budget révisé. La méthodologie éprouvée de travail de nuit, et de livraison d'un tronçon de voirie praticable
dès la matinée suivante a reçu un écho très favorable auprès des habitants et des commerçants. Lors des
travaux, aucune réclamation n'a été enregistrée, sauf peut-être, pour étendre le projet à d'autres secteurs !
Le réseau est aujourd'hui praticable et fonctionnel quant à la pénétration des engins de secours à près de
70 %. Reste à élargir 12 coins de bâtiments et à acquérir les engins adaptés pour rendre le réseau de voirie
d'urgence praticable et fonctionnel à 100%.

4.3      Au niveau de la consommation du budget, le Projet a atteint 96 % du budget arrêté lors de son
redimentionnement en mars 2004 (121.86 M MAD sur 126.59 M MAD). Quant au budget arrêté en 1998,


                                                     - 33 -

il a été atteint à 73 % (121.86 M MAD sur 167.48 M MAD).

4.4      Une bonne partie des composantes du Projet a été relayée par les pouvoirs publics:

a.       l'action sur le bâti a déjà été relayée par des conventions liant les communes Urbaines de Fès et de
Méchouar Fès Jdid au Ministère chargé de l'Habitat et de l'Urbanisme pour un montant global de l'ordre
de 165 M MAD, soit plus que 5 fois ce qui a été réservé par le PRMF au bâti. Ces conventions sont en
cours de mise en oeuvre. Dans ce cadre, l'approche participative initiée par le Projet a été également
reconduite dans le contexte du confortement du bâti menaçant ruine, avec l'implication des amicales de
quartier, l'animation sociale et le soutien financier des pouvoirs publics aux citoyens désireux de mener des
opérations de consolidation de leurs logements à hauteur de 50%, seuil formellement adopté par les
autorités de Fès.
b.       Les circuits touristiques réalisés dans la Médina de Fès ont été adoptés par les opérateurs
touristiques et le Ministère du Tourisme. Ces circuits ont mis en valeur les potentialités patrimoniales et de
développement de la Médina de Fès. Ainsi le Plan de Développement Régional Tourisme (PDR T), signé à
Fès le 25 novembre 2005 sous la présidence de Monsieur le Premier Ministre, a consacré la Médina de Fès
comme l'élément central de tout développement touristique et culturel. Dans le cadre de ce PDR T, qui sera
réalisé sur 10 années, la médina bénéficiera d'un investissement public de l'ordre de      330 M MAD dont
un montant de 10M MAD est pris en charge par le Conseil préfectoral de Fès à court terme pour le
renforcement des circuits déjà réalisés.
c.       La Commune Urbaine de Fès poursuit un programme d'évacuation des ruines avec une approche
de proximité, et ce, en employant la main d'oeuvre locale (chômeurs et jeunes de quartiers). C'est ainsi
qu'une quarantaine de ruines ont été évacuées durant cette année.
d.       La Commune Urbaine de Fès est déterminée à poursuivre l'aménagement de la place Boujloud en
procédant à son extension. Le dossier d'expropriation est en cours d'instruction.

4.5      Le Projet a fourni une grande visibilité à la population quant à la réhabilitation de la Médina de
Fès. Depuis le classement de la médina de Fès sur la liste du patrimoine mondial par l'UNESCO en 1981,
et à l'exception de quelques opérations publiques ou menées par le mécénat, c'est la première fois que la
population est touchée par un programme intégré qui traite simultanément l'intérieur du bâti et les grandes
opérations à caractère urbain (accès, voirie, aménagements urbains, etc.)

4.6      Le Projet a nettement relevé le niveau technique des différents opérateurs à Fès.) ; En effet, outre
les différentes synergies créées entre les différents intervenants dans le cadre du Projet, les cadres
techniques de Fès, tant au niveau de l'ADER-Fès elle-même, qu'au niveau de la Wilaya, des Communes
que d'autres structures, ont acquis une expérience certaine dans les différents volets relatifs à la
réhabilitation d'une ville historique (bâti, infrastructure, aménagement urbain, restauration des monuments,
etc.). La ville de Fès est en mesure aujourd'hui d'assurer la continuité de ces actions avec des performances
améliorées au niveau des coûts, des délais et de la qualité. Pour sa part, l'ADER-Fès a pu lancer le Projet
en même temps que la mise en oeuvre de son plan de redressement.

4.7      Au niveau de l'environnement technique externe, on notera que le nombre d'entreprises spécialisées
a augmenté de trois à une douzaine, depuis le lancement du Projet jusqu'à son achèvement. Les architectes,
ingénieurs et chefs d'entreprises ont, quant à eux, bénéficié, à côté des cadres techniques des organismes
publics, de cycles de formation et de séminaires spécialisés.




                                                      - 34 -

- 35 -

