Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4402-MOR
Project Agreement
(Fes Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
AGENCE POUR LA DEDENSIFICATION ET LA 
REHABILITATION DE LA MEDINA DE FES
Dated December 10, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4402-MOR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 10, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and AGENCE POUR LA DEDENSIFICATION ET LA 
REHABILITATION DE LA MEDINA DE FES (ADER-Fes).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Kingdom of 
Morocco and the Bank (the Kingdom Loan Agreement), the Bank has agreed to lend to the 
Kingdom of Morocco an amount equal to forty million nine hundred thousand French 
Francs (FRF40,900,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that ADER-Fes agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a convention (the Convention) entered into between the Ministries in 
charge of the Interior, Culture and Finance of the Kingdom of Morocco, the Commune 
Urbaine of Fes-Medina, the Commune Urbaine of Mechouar Fes-Jedid and ADER-Fes, the 
proceeds of the Loans provided for under the Kingdom Loan Agreement will be made 
available to ADER-Fes on terms and conditions set forth in said Convention to assist 
ADER-Fes to carry out Parts A; B.1(a); C.2; E 1; E.3 and E.4 of the Project;
(C)
by a Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Commune Urbaine of Fes Medina (the Commune Urbaine Loan Agreement), the Bank has 
Page  2
agreed to lend to the Commune Urbaine of Fes Medina an amount equal to forty million 
nine hundred thousand French Francs (FRF40,900,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Loan Agreement, for the execution of Parts B.1(c), (d), and (e); B.2; 
C.1; D; and E.2 of the Project, with the assistance of ADER-Fes, under the terms of 
the Convention; and
WHEREAS ADER-Fes, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Kingdom Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following 
additional terms have the following meaning:
(a)
“Short Term Loss of Occupancy” means the loss of use, not exceeding 
twenty one days, of a building, or of a part thereof, by its occupants, due to the 
rehabilitation or repair of an infrastructure network or to an emergency situation.
(b)
“Short Term Loss of Occupancy Plan” means the plan satisfactory to the 
Bank, dated September 13, 1998, aimed at mitigating the adverse effects sustained by 
the occupants of the buildings referred to in (a) above.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Section 2.01. (a) ADER-Fes declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Kingdom Loan Agreement and, to this end, 
shall carry out Parts A; B.1(a) and (b); C.2; E.1; E.3 and E.4 of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, environmental, and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for Parts A; B.1 (a) and (b); C.2; E.1; E.3 and E.4 of the Project, all under 
the terms of the Convention.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Bank and ADER-Fes shall otherwise agree, ADER-Fes shall carry out 
Parts A; B.1(a) and (b); C.2; E.1; E.3 and E.4 of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for Parts A; B.1(a) and (b); C.2; E.1; 
E.3 and E.4 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Kingdom Loan, 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. ADER-Fes shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement and of Parts A; 
B.1(a) and (b); C.2; E.1; E.3 and E.4 of the Project.
Section 2.04. ADER-Fes shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Convention. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ADER-Fes shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Convention or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ADER-Fes shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts A; B.1(a) and (b); C.2; E.1; E.3 
and E.4 of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and 
under the Convention, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
Page  3
(b)
ADER-Fes shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere  with the progress of Parts A; B.1(a) and (b); C.2; E.1; E.3 
and E.4 of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the 
performance by ADER-Fes of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Convention.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ADER-Fes
Section 3.01. ADER-Fes shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative and financial practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ADER-Fes shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.
(b)
ADER-Fes shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Kingdom Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of ADER-Fes 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Kingdom Loan Agreement shall 
terminate.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
Page  4
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For ADER-Fes:
4 Avenue Zaid Ibn Harita
Fes 30 000
Royaume du Maroc
Fax:
Telex:
212 5 653 883
51066M
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ADER-Fes, may 
be taken or executed by its Director General, or by such other person or persons as 
ADER-Fes shall designate in writing, and ADER-Fes shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Rabat, Morocco, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier P. Godron
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
AGENCE POUR LA DEDENSIFICATION ET 
  LA REHABILITATION DE LA MEDINA DE FES
By /s/ Abdellatif El Hajjami
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
1.
ADER-Fes, acting as the executing agency for the purposes of Parts A; B.1(a) and 
Page  5
(b); C.2; E 1; E.3 and E.4 of the Project, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Convention, and in particular its Article II shall, inter alia:
(a)
implement the Short Term Loss of Occupancy Plan under terms of reference 
and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
establish, within its new organizational framework, a CDD, not later than 
February 28, 1998 with a separate accounting system, which will be in charge, under 
ADER-Fes management, of Part (D) of the Project, and, as may be required, of the works 
components of Parts A1, A2, B1(a), B1(b) and C1;
(c)
act as the delegate of the Commune Urbaine of Mechouar Fes-Jedid and 
provide its assistance to the Commune Urbaine of Fes Medina, all under the terms of 
the Convention;
(d)
act, under the Convention, as the permanent secretariat of the Technical 
and the Steering Committees;
(e)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of Parts A; B.1(a) and (b); C.2; E.1; E.3 and E.4 of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(f)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about April 30, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (e) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Parts A; B.1(a) and (b); C.2; 
E 1; E.3 and E.4 of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Parts 
B.1(c), (d) and (e); B.2; C.1; D and E.2 of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(g)
review with the Bank, by October 30, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (f) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Parts 
B.1(c), (d) and (e); B.2; C.1; D and E.2 of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Bank views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants' Services for Parts A; 
B.1(a) and (b); C.2; E.1; E.3 and E.4 of the Project
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Page  6
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$1,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not exceeding $3,000,000 equivalent may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provision of paragraph 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for Parts A; B.1(a) and (b); C.2; E 1; E.3 
and E.4 of the Project shall be furnished to the Bank, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of  
$1,000,000 or more, and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September, 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Page  7
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for the training program under Part E of 
the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications:  Contracts for services under 
Parts E.1; E.3 and E.4 of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection:  Contracts for services under Parts E.1; E.3 and E.4 of 
the Project up to an aggregate amount of $150,000 may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants:  Contracts for services under Part E.1; E.3 and E.4 of 
the Project up to an aggregate amount of $150,000 shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under Parts A; B.1(a) and (b); C.2; E.1; E.3 and 
E.4 of the Project. shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such selection plan and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
