Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 18462-MOR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON PROPOSED LOANS
IN THE AMOUNTS
OF
FRF 40.9 MILLION
TO
THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AND
FRF 40.9 MILLION
TO
THE MUNICIPALITY OF FES-MEDINA
FOR A
FES-MEDINA REHABILITATION PROJECT
October 7, 1998
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of September 1, 1998)
Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham (MAD)
US$1.00 = 9.3 MD
MAD 1 = US$0.107
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ADER-Fes    Agence pour la Dedensification et la Rehabilitation de la Medina de Fes
(Agency for the Rehabilitation of Fes Medina)
BITS         Board for Investment and Technical Support
(Conseil a l 'investissement et a I 'appui technique)
BOT          Build, Operate, Transfer (Construction, exploitation, transfert, CET)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy (Strateigie d'assistance aupays)
CDG          Caisse de dcp6t et gestion (Savings Management Fund)
CIH          Cre'dit immobilier et h6telier (Real Estate and Hotel Credit Institution)
CUF          Communaute urbaine de Fes (Urban Community of Fes)
FADES        Fonds arabe pour le deiveloppement &conomique et social
(Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development)
FEC          Fonds d'equipement communal (Municipal Fund)
FES-SAIS    Association pour le developpement culturel, social et economique de Fes
(Association for Cultural, Social, and Economic Development of Fes)
FIAHS        Fund for Innovative Approaches in Human and Social Development (Fonds pour la
promotion d'approches novatrices en matiere de developpement humain et social)
GIS          Geographical Information System (Systeme d 'information geographique, SIG)
GoM          Government of Morocco (Gouvernement du Maroc)
MCA          Ministry of Cultural Affairs (Ministere des Affaires Culturelles)
NGO          Nongovernmental Organization (Agence non-gouvernementale)
OFPPT        Office de laformation professionnelle et de la promotion du travail
(Vocational Training and Labor Promotion Office)
RADEF        Regie autonome de distribution d'eau et d'electricite de Fes
(Water Supply and Electricity Public Utility of Fes)
UDC          Unite de developpement communautaire (Local Development Unit)
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
(Programme des Nations Unies pour le Developpement, PNUD)
UNESCO       United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization
(Organisation des Nations Unies pour l 'education, les sciences et la culture)
VAT          Value Added Tax (Taxe a la valeur ajoutee, TVA)
Vice President  Kemal Dervi,
Country Director Christian Delvoie
Sector Director Jean-Claude Villiard
Team Leader  Frangois Amiot



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Fes-Medina Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Contents
Page No.
BLOCK 1:  PROJECT DESCRIPTION ....................................................................2
1.    Project Development Objectives .....................................................................2
2.    Project Components ....................................................................2
3.    Benefits and Target Population ....................................................................3
4.    Institutional and Implementation Arrangements ....................................................................                         3
BLOCK  2:   PROJECT  RATIONALE  ...................................................................                                              4
5. CAS Objective(s) Supported by the Project                                                          .4
6. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy                                                          .4
7.  Sector Issues To Be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices.                                                                          5
8. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection.                                                                                    6
9.  Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies                                                                6
10.  Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design ...........................................................                             6
11.  Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership ..........................................................                                 7
12. Value Added of Bank Support ..................................7
BLOCK 3:  SUMMARY PROJECT ASSESSMENTS ...........................................................                                                7
13.  Economic Assessment .....................................................................7
14.  Financial Assessment .....................................................................8
15.  Technical Assessment .....................................................................9
16.  Institutional Assessment .....................................................................9
17.   Social Assessment ....................................................................                                                     9
18.  Environmental Assessment ....................................................................                                             10
19.  Participatory Approach ....................................................................                                               10
20.  Sustainability ....................................................................                                                         11
21.  Critical Risks ....................................................................                                                         11
22.  Possible Controversial Aspects ....................................................................                                        12
BLOCK 4: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS                                                    .. .............................  12
23.  Effectiveness Conditions ...................................................................                                               12
24.  Other   ...................................................................                                                                12
BLOCK 5: COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ........................................................   13
ANNEXES
Annex  1:  Project Design Summary ....................................................................                                          14
Annex 2:  Detailed Project Description ....................................................................                                     17
Annex 3:  Project Cost Summary ....................................................................                                            21
Annex 4:  Cost Benefit Analysis Summary ....................................................................                                   25
Annex 5:  Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities ...........................................                                   36
Annex 6:  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ............................................................                               40
Annex 7:  Project Processing Budget and Schedule ....................................................................                          43
Annex 8:  Documents in the Project File ....................................................................                                   44
Annex 9:  Status of Bank Group Operations in Morocco .............................................................                             46
Annex  10: Morocco at a Glance ....................................................................                                             48
Map: IBRD No. 29303



INTERNATIONAL BANK FoR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATiONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Infrastructure Development Group
Project Appraisal Document
Kingdom of Morocco
Fes-Medina Rehabilitation Project
Date: October 7, 1998                                    Team Leader: Francois Amiot
Country Director: Christian Delvoie                      Sector Director: Jean-Claude Villiard
Project ID: MA-PE-5524                                   Sector: Urban
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan             PTI:        [X] Yes             [ I No
Project Financing Data                   [X] Loan       []  Credit       [I  [I   Other [Specify]
Amount FRF 81.8 million in two loans of 40.9 million each (US$14.0 million equivalent in two loans)
Proposed Terms:                            [    Multicurrency       [x ] Single currency (French Francs)
Grace period:      5 years         [    Standard variable    [   Fixed             [XI PIBOR-based
Years to maturity:    20
Commitment fee:    0.75%
Service charge:    n/a
Financing plan (US$m): 27.59 million
Source                                                        Local             Foreign            Total
Govermment                                                     3.08                0                3.08
Municipality of Fbs-Mddina                                     3.37                0                3.37
IBRD                                                           5.80                8.20            14.00
Grants to municipality of Fs-Jdid                              0.59                0.54             1.13
Municipality of Fes-Jdid                                       0.22                0                0.22
Private beneficiaries                                          3.76                2.03             5.79
Total           16.82               10.77            27.59
Borrower: Government of Morocco for FRF 40.9 million and Municipality of Rs-Medina for FRF 40.9 million
Responsible agency: ADER-Fes
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$):         1999        2000       2001       2002       2003
Annual      1.5        3.2         4.2        2.6        2.5
Cumulative      1.5        4.7        8.9        11.5      14.0
Expected effectiveness date: 01/31/1999                              Closing date: 12/31/2003



Project Appraisal Dorument                                    Page 2                                     Fes-Medina Rehabilitation Project
Kingdom of Morocco
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex I for key performance indicators):
Fes-Medina, a UNESCO World Heritage site since 1976 and center of Moroccan commerce and culture, also has a high concentration
of poverty and substandard living conditions.
Under a comprehensive defnition of cultural heritage as the historically built environment and the social structures which support it,
the primary objective of the proposed project is to assist in the conservation and rehabilitation of the Fes-Medina, especially the
historic housing stock and urban environment. To reach this objective, the project will: (a) expand and accelerate ongoing
conservation efforts; (b) consolidate partnerships among the public and private sectors, World Bank, and other donors; and (c) use the
rehabilitation process to alleviate poverty.
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
The proposed project will support the above development objectives by: (a) conserving cultural heritage through a variety of priority
rehabilitation activities aimed at upgrading the historic housing stock and expanding the tourism offering; (b) providing priority access for
emergency public services extending to the center of the medina, and facilitating logistical activiffes for residents and businesses, thereby
creating favorable conditions for efficient urban development and private sector investment; (c) improving the urban environment by
instituting programs for solid waste collection and pollution reduction for small-scale industries; (d) reducing poverty by creating
employment through a labor-intensive public works program linked with the rehabilitation process and a specific training program; and
(e) strengthening the capacity of the municipality and responsible local agencies to plan and carry out proposed improvements.
Component (including private sector)               Category (main)           US$ million incl.          % of
Contingencies           Total
Rehabilitation of built heritage                   Civil Works & Goods             3.7                  14
Infrastructure rehabilitation
- Historic and emergency network                 Civil Works                     2.7                  10
- Medina gates and logistic facilities           Civil Works                     11.9                 42
Improvement of medina environment                  Civil Works & Goods             3.5                  13
Poverty alleviation                                Civil Works                     3.5                  13
Institutional strengthening                        Consultants Services & Goods    2.3                   8
Total                                           27.6                 100
The loans will be shared between the State and the municipality of Fes-Medina as follows:
A. STATE
US$M                     Share by component (%)
Rehabilitation of built heritage                   2.7                                100
Infrastructure rehabilitation                      1.8                                 33
Improvement of medina environment                  1.2                                 50
Institutional strengthening                        1.3                                 77
Total                    7.0                                 50
B. MUNICIPALITY
Infrastructure rehabilitation                      3.6                                67
Improvement of medina environment                  1.2                                50
Poverty alleviation                                 1.8                               100
Institutional strengthening                        0.4                                 23
Total                    7.0                                 50



Project Appraisal Document                              Page 3                                  Fes-Medina Rehabilitation Project
Kingdom of Morocco
3. Benefits and target population:
Extensive information on the composition, status, and income of the Fes-Medina's population and the actual physical condition of the
built environment, integrated into a Geographic Information System (GIS), provides the basic data for the proposed project.
Development and analysis of this social and urban data undertaken during project preparation have dispelled earlier assumptions and
allowed a targeted approach to problem solving.
A 1995 project survey indicates that 36 percent of the medina's population is below the poverty threshold, a proportion far exceeding
the national average for both urban (10.4 percent) and rural (28.7 percent). Moreover, half of the housing stock is seriously decayed
and housing occupancy levels surpass acceptable levels. This cycle of decline also affects the architectural heritage of Fes, despite
recent efforts by Moroccan authorities to preserve selected monuments. However, data collected on the demand for building permits
to rehabilitate the housing stock, as well as on land transactions, indicate a potential for reversing the cycle of decline among all
segments of the medina's population. A good indicator of the long-term benefits expected from the project is the leveraging ratio
computed under the project's economic analysis. It shows that for every dollar of public funds invested under the project, more than
US$3.0 will be invested by the medina's population over the long term.
The target population is the residents of the medina (150,500 inhabitants), with special attention to those living below the poverty
threshold (52,700 inhabitants). About one third of the residents would benefit directly from improved infrastructure network,
including an emergency network of some 14 km which would improve access to the medina for medical emergencies, fire brigades,
security services, solid waste collection, etc. Another direct benefit would be the creation of some 10,000 jobs over the next fifteen
years, in part targeted to the poor under a specific poverty alleviation component.  Benefits of the project would also accrue to
various professional and artisan groups working in the medina; those individuals receiving training and technical assistance; local
institutions, universities, NGOs, and neighborhood associations involved in rehabilitation of the medina; and the tourism industry. A
related institutional benefit would be the sharing of the Geographic Information System (GIS), which has been expanded during the
preparation of the project among local institutions, including the agency in charge of the water and sewerage projects, and the medina
municipality. The ultimate beneficiary, of course, would be the World Heritage city of FRs, which would benefit from the new
rhythm of maintenance and rehabilitation and resulting inward investment. There would also be benefits at the national level, since
the Fes experience would serve as a demonstration project that could be replicated in other medinas of Morocco.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
An agreement has been signed among State representatives (Ministers of Interior, Finance, and Cultural Affairs), the two
municipalities (Fes-Medina and Fes Jdid), and ADER-FES which includes the following: role of ADER as executive agency; project
coordination; project cost sharing between the State and the municipalities; procurement; and disbursement procedures. Under this
agreement, ADER will execute the State's components on its behalf and will assist the municipality of Fes Medina on all technical
aiatters (including control over technical studies and civil works) to implement its related components. To facilitate the flow of funds,
the State will open a specific Treasury account located in Fes and in the name of ADER's managing director, while the Municipality
of Fes-Medina will open a revolving fund (Compte d'affectation special), funded by the budget under a specific line, and identifying
all sources and application of counter-part funds. To facilitate control over implementation, ADER's management information and
accounting system will be reinforced, allowing the detail monitoring of each operation. Policy and overall project supervision will be
performed by two separate steering committees (see below). Any operation directly related to the cultural and historic heritage will
have to receive clearance from the Ministry of Cultural Affairs.
Implementation period: Four years (FY 1999-FY 2003).
Executing agency: ADER-Fes was the main agency in charge of preparing the project, and will act as executing agency for the
project. For the State and the Fes Jdid components, it will be in charge- of preparing the bidding documents; and controlling and
monitoring all rehabilitation projects, studies and training activities. For the Fes-Medina municipality, ADER will act as technical and
monitoring agency (Assistance a la maitrise d'ouvrage), and will manage the poverty alleviation component under a specific unit
(Unite de developpement communautaire, or UDC), with a separate accounting system. ADER's institutional, financial, and technical
assessments are presented in block 3 below.
Project coordination: A Technical Committee, chaired by the Governor of Fes-Medina, and comprising the two municipalities'
chairmen and the regional representative of the Ministry of Culture, will have overall responsibility for project coordination and
supervision in the following areas: project implementation, bidding procedures, selection of beneficiaries under the grant
rehabilitation scheme (Annex 2).



Project Appraisal Document                             Page 4                                Fes-Medina Rehabilitaion Project
Kingdom of Morocco
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.): A consultative steering committee (Comite de suivi), under the chairmanship of the Wali of
Fes, and composed of representatives of local governments, central government main agencies (Agence urbaine, Ministere de la
culture, Minist&re des habous, Ministrre des finances, RADEF etc.), University of Fes, UNESCO, and the World Bank has been
formed to solve policy issues, particularly in conservation heritage. ADER-Fes will act as permanent secretariat for the two above
committees.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: All of ADER's accounting documents will be made available to Bank
missions. Its financial statements will be audited annually by an independent auditor and certain specific and detailed information on
all project operations. The municipality of Fes-Medina will make available to Bank missions its annual expenditure and investment
budget, cleared by the Ministry of Interior (Direction des finances locales).
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Quarterly reports done by ADER-Fes, on the basis of agreed key performance indicators,
cleared by the municipalities and by the Governor of Fes-Medina; annual indicators on the indebtedness of the Fes-Medina
municipality (debt to receipts ratio); and final evaluation report to be submitted by ADER-Fes within six months of the loan closing
date.
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objective(s) supported by the Project: Yes Document number and date of latest CAS discussion: N° R97-2 of 01/30/1997
The proposed project provides a window of :pportunity and necessity to support the CAS objectives, with particular focus on social
development and environmental management. The former will be particularly enhanced by the launching of a component on urban
poverty alleviation, which will be pilot in Morocco. The latter will encompass traditional activities such as solid waste management
and reduction of pollution from traditional industries. It will extend to new areas such as conservation of cultural heritage resources.
The project also emphasizes the importance of partnerships with other donors and the private sector.
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Conditions prevailing in the medinas: Morocco's 30 medinas have been largely overlooked for much of the 20th century, since
investment has been concentrated in areas outside the traditional urban centers. The result has been a serious deterioration of the
historic building stock, urban infrastructure, and the urban environment. This decline has been compounded by rural migration and
the exodus of the original inhabitants of the medina so that population density in the medinas is high and income levels are often
below national averages. The absence of a focused Government policy towards these historic cities and relatively low levels of
investment have deterred their ability to provide satisfactory living conditions for their inhabitants.
Cultural heritage conservation: Cultural heritage activity in Morocco is characterized by work on individual monuments, with little
attention to the remaining built environment. Major constraints to developing an overall strategy for managing and utilizing the
heritage, particularly the medinas include: the lack of a comprehensive and accessible inventory; cumbersome legal tools (particularly
on listing); inadequate laboratory facilities for conservation works; weak understanding of the economic underpinnings of
conservation policy; and the relative isolation of the Ministry of Culture from other Government agencies. The Ministry of Culture
receives low levels of funding and is thinly staffed in its regional offices. Related issues of particular significance for the medinas are
property rental and ownership issues, and the integration of the habous (religious trust) into the rehabilitation process. De facto
residential rent control (ref. Decree no. 280-552, dated 1980) has resulted in very low rents which leave owners unable to afford
proper maintenance, while offering no incentives for renters to carry out necessary repairs (some 10 percent of traditional buildings in
the medina are on the verge of collapse). Until this law is changed, private investors are likely to prefer investing in commercial
rather than residential space.
Urban environment and infrastructure: Urban centers in Morocco, in particular the medinas, are typically the location of small-scale
polluting industries. Air and water quality is frequently deficient in urban centers, with important negative health impacts including
cholera. For the medinas, which are a subset of urban areas, there is a need to redress the imbalance of the last decades when medinas
were overlooked in favor of new built areas, through increased allocation of expenditures to reduce the infrastructure and
conservation backlog. In the medinas, infrastructure is often in need of replacement or modernization, particularly water supply,
sewerage and solid waste disposal, telecommunications, and transport. Age and overloading are factors which put stress on
infrastructure. The Government has made efforts to improve urban infrastructure, although a serious backlog of unmet needs remains.
Progress on environmental work in Morocco has been slow: the Ministry of Environment is technically weak; the basic environmental
legislation and regulatory framework are lacking; and incentives for improved resource conservation and use of clean technologies are
not yet in place.



Project Appraisal Document                                Page 5                                   Fes-Medina Rehablitallon Project
Kingdom of Morocco
Decentralization: Morocco is beginning to decentralize responsibility for urban management, especially in major cities. Local
governments are now more likely to take greater responsibility for provision of services and resource allocation decisions.
Considerable strengthening of local institutions is necessary to support the move to decentralization. Resource allocation to match
new requirements is beginning through the Value Added Tax (VAT) transfer. Since the main criteria for the VAT allocation relies
primarily on both population and commercial activities criteria, the municipality of Fes-Medina will benefit substantially from the
VAT (up to about 35 percent of total source of funds), while the municipality of Fes Jdid will share only a residual portion of the
VAT allocated among the poorest municipalities.
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The strategic choices which led to the proposed development objective are summarized in Annex 1: Project Design Summary, using
the logical framework approach.
To empower the medina's inhabitants, as well as local institutions, to conserve and rehabilitate their historic city, the project aims at
successfully achieve five expected outputs, which are also the five components of the project. Among these outputs, four address the
above-mentioned sector issues, while one is targeted to alleviate the unusual level of poverty.
The output related to public infrastructure improvements is key to providing rehabilitated or new public facilities, enabling the
residents to invest in either residential or commercial space. The strategic approach adopted for selecting and designing the proposed
infrastructure was to improve access to the medina, while minimizing resettlements, addressing traffic congestion, facilitating the
fmancing of logistical activities by the private sector through small BOT schemes, avoiding the destruction or the modification of the
historic built heritage, and improving key urban services. The underlying assumption was that such public and private investments
would raise the medina property values, at least along or just around major works, enabling the medina residents to invest in the
historic housing stock. Surveys on past building permits, on current housing renovation process, and on some 2,300 land transactions
were conducted to document this assumption, which was ultimately confirmed by economic analysis. Arbitrage from an economic
point of view is, however, not sufficient in this case, since maximization of benefits would lead to the rapid diminution of residents, to
the advantage of commercial activities. Such a scenario would distort the fragile demo-economic balance that the medina enjoys, and
would accelerate the pernicious effects of national legislation on the housing rent system. Beyond the goal of improving the medina
infrastructure, the success of the project still hinges on the capacity to stimulate private investment in the rehabilitation of dwellings.
The output related to cultural heritage conservation issues relies, first, on a pilot program (frontal grants to households) which is
intended to create incentives, complementary to the rehabilitation program of public infrastructure, targeted to the medina's
inhabitants, to encourage investment in the historic built stock. If successful, this program will be the starting point for a self-
rehabilitation process. The heritage conservation strategy also includes a tourism program aimed at integrating the medina into a
regional tourist network, while developing within the medina new tourist itineraries, implying rehabilitation works of historic
buildings along tourist routes. This operation might also be labeled pilot, since its economic analysis provides a justification for the
Bank or other donors to finance the rehabilitation of historic buildings, including the establishment of an Heritage and Cultural
Animation Center.
The output addressing environmental issues was designed to complement past or current actions undertaken by local authorities
(resettlement of polluting activities in an area outside the medina, contracting solid waste collection to the private sector, etc.), without
being in potential conflict with planned regulations to be issued by the Ministry of Environment. The underlying strategy of this
component is to tackle simple activities which can benefit a large portion of inhabitants. This is the case for rendering more efficient
the current solid waste collection system through the provision of specific equipment adapted to the new street network implemented
by the project, and for the voluntary resettlement of traditional artisans willing to regroup together in view of pollution abatement.
Beyond these rather simple activities, the project will launch a study aimed at defining specific environmental standards for the
medinas.
The fourth output addresses institutional strengthening at the local level, taking into account the active leadership of ADER-Fes as an
institution specialized in heritage conservation. The strategic approach for the project is threefold: support the decentralization
process; develop partnerships among local authorities, with the objective of rendering ADER more accountable to these authorities;
involve private and possibly trained operators and existing associations in the provision of services to the bulk of the population
willing to rehabilitate their dwellings. The strategy also aims at strengthening ADER's managerial and technical capacities in heritage
conservation, with the long term view of providing assistance to other medinas of Morocco.
As for the poverty alleviation component, the strategic choice was straightforward: use the rehabilitation process to alleviate poverty
by creating a maximum number of labor-intensive jobs. The sustainability of such a program should benefit from the natural
constraints imposed by the medina, which limit the use of capital-intensive methods, as well as from the commitment of the two
municipalities to rehabilitate the medina.



Project Appraisal Document                             Page 6                                Fes-Medina Rehabilitation Project
Kingdom of Morcco
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The proposed project benefited from the studies carried out under two PHRD grants, which have enabled activities to be tailored to
respond to the specific conditions of the medina. Significant adjustments in preliminary design (UNDP prefeasibility study) were
made in the choice of heritage conservation activities, road access, and the project's borrowing requirements.
The accessibility of the medina has been closely studied, with the objective of maximizing the positive impact of access on the self-
rehabilitation dynamic and minimizing resettlement. This led to the rejection of UNDP's prefeasibility study proposal for major new
access routes in favor of improving emergency access network with a minimum of demolition. Two further grounds for preferring the
revised project are: the sensitivity of the historic city to major new construction, and a sustained dialogue with UNESCO.
A further change in the project was necessitated by the limitation on borrowing set by the Government of Morocco. The initial
project cost of US$65 million was reduced, after extensive discussions with GoM, to the proposed core project cost. The latter is the
base case scenario and is the minimum necessary for launching the rehabilitation process.
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and planned):
Several Bank projects have contributed to the preconditions necessary for the rehabilitation of the medina. These projects include:
the Fifth Water Supply (Loan 3664), which is helping to supply water to the medina; the Second National Sewerage Project (Loan
4010), in which the French, through the Agencefrancaise de developpement, are cofinancing work to rehabilitate the sewerage system
in the medina; and the planned Low Income Housing Project (FY99) which would reduce the density of housing occupation. The
proposed Sebou Watershed Project would have a direct impact on the water quality of FRs, while the Environment Management
Project would have an indirect effect on Fes in terms of increasing institutional capacity to manage environmental resources.
Other agencies which have been involved in Fes are UNESCO, UNDP, Fonds arabe pour le developpement economique et social
(FADES), and several bilateral donors. FRs was put on the World Heritage List in 1976 and in 1980 UNESCO launched an
intemational safeguarding campaign. The campaign raised awareness of the importance of FRs but did not succeed in generating the
financial support needed to carry out significant rehabilitation works. UNDP financed the above-mentioned prefeasibility study in
1991. FADES has financed conservation of segments of the city walls, gateways, and parts of the traditional sewerage network. The
Swedish Board for Investment and Technical Support (BITS) has done work on industrial pollution abatement. US-AID is carrying
out studies on the medina's artisans.
Under the PHRD grants, an expanded program of rehabilitation was prepared and will be presented to a donors conference after
effectiveness, with the aim of supplementing the base case scenario and financing the Rs Jdid components. During this conference,
particular focus will be put on financing activities which relate directly to the poverty alleviation component, as well as on the
rehabilitation of historical buildings or monuments along the six tourism itineraries included in the project.
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Through an iterative process of analysis and consensus building, the project team, with its Moroccan counterparts, defned a program
of strategic actions that are most likely to overcome existing constraints to the process of rehabilitating the medina.
A first PHRD grant and FIAHS funds enabled a social assessment to be carried out, with the objective of establishing a forum for
dialogue between residents and institutional stakeholders and identifying needs and concerns. Fes University, Harvard University
(USA) and Association Fes Sais also participated in these actions. It is a pioneering example of the use of social assessment and
participation techniques to measure community preferences in regard to the rehabilitation of the historic built environment. and has
informed project conservation priorities. The high incidence of poverty revealed in the initial social assessment led, in turn, to a
poverty assessment and the extension of the project boundaries to include Rs Jdid.
The project also demonstrates the importance of collecting data on the physical condition of the historic and social structures in
targeting interventions to maximize benefit to the residents of the medina. This data made possible an alternative design for
improving emergency access to the center of the medina, which greatly reduces resettlement of residents.
Through a variety of institutional audits and assessment of training needs, the project has considered ways to strengthen local
govemment's ability to improve selection of development priorities, deliver services, and manage resources. Administrative and
operational efficiency will be addressed by introducing a computerized GIS database on the medina into local govermnent
administration, and by strengthening organizational structures for ADER and other related institutions.



Project Appraisal Document                               Page 7                                 Fes-Medina Rehabilitation Project
Kingdom of Morocco
I1. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership:
Fes is one of Morocco's three World Heritage sites, and the King has shown particular interest in the city's preservation. The GoM
sent a letter of interest to the Bank on the subject of a rehabilitation project for Fes. The Borrower and the Bank have engaged in
continuous discussions on the design of the project during project preparation; discussions have been held with the national, regional,
and local levels of government. In 1996 the Bank's president, Mr. Wolfensohn, visited Fes when the basic concept of the project was
presented. Moroccan institutions, including ADER and Fes University, have carried out a good deal of the background preparation
work. After open discussion with its Council, the municipality of Fes sent to the Bank its agreement on a proposed program to help
mobilize local revenues and strengthen municipal management. Before negotiations, the municipality's council has voted for its
institutional and financial participation in the proposed project. The commitment of the GoM to the project was reaffirmed by the
signature of an Agreement, dated September 1, 1998, between the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of
Culture, the two municipalities, and ADER-Fes, specifying the respective role of each entity during project implementation. Delays
between negotiations and Board presentation have occurred, however, due mainly to the setting up of a new government after general
elections.
12. Value added of Bank support:
The Bank has assisted the GoM for the last 25 years and has been active in the infrastructure and urban sectors, and more recently in
environmental matters. The GoM asked the Bank to finance the proposed project so that the Bank would: (a) break the long standing
deadlock which has deterred any comprehensive rehabilitation project in FRs; (b) encourage interagency coordination; (c) promote
mobilization of other sources of support; (d) ensure that effort is invested in identifying the key issues requiring action and that
measures to create an environment conducive to private participation would be implemented; and (e) provide professional advice. In
so doing the Bank is initiating a dialogue to develop cultural heritage conservation policy and to reevaluate current assistance to other
medinas in Morocco.
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8)
13. Economic Assessment:  [X] Cost-Benefit Analysis:  [] Cost Effectiveness Analysis      [ Other [Specify]
(see Annex 4)             NPV=MAD 155.0 million;
ERR= 13.6%
Several economic analyses were done to help design the project. First, an initial cost-benefit analysis was done on the medina access
issue, using standard criteria of transport or circulation analysis to calculate the benefits. With an ERR of 17 percent, the key economic
justification for improving the medina access (including the Boucle douch as a main access south of the medina and the emergency
network) stemmed from introducing small motorized vehicles for solid waste collection in lieu of donkeys. This first assessment was
helpful in justifying the emergency network, but not, however, in finding an optimum or balanced approach between improving
accessibility and conserving cultural heritage (the medina is unique as a pedestrian historic city).
Second, since the medina is facing serious congestion costs due to inadequate or insufficient parking spaces, another related economic
analysis was done to help design the access component. Among the main results were: a careful screening of parking locations; a
proposed strategy of mixing the construction of garages with commercial spaces to increase the return on investment; and a scheme to
manage these parking lots through concessions or BOT schemes.
Third, a specific cost-benefit analysis was conducted, in two stages, for the proposed tourism development program, under the constraint
that all benefits should be captured locally (to avoid externalities). First, an internal rate of return was calculated under the assumption that
the proposed program would increase the average number of nights per tourist visiting the medina, from the current low ratio of 1.9 to 3.5
by year 2000. The second stage consisted of interviewing tourism operators, either international or local, to validate the above key
assumption. The result was an ERR of 17.3 percent, with an investment level reaching MAD 40.5 million, which includes rehabilitation
of selected historic buildings to be financed by potential donors.
Fourth, an overall economic assessment of the project was done by developing two overall approaches: (a) assessing the mobilization of
private resources as a result of the project by calculating the leverage ratio of any amount invested by the public sector during project
implementation. The two building blocks for such a calculation were: (i) a conservative assumption on the spatial impact of the project
(mainly abutting properties along the improved access route, leaving aside habous properties); and (ii) an extensive survey of housing
rehabilitation works, either legal or not, by owners and renters in the medina. Works investigated ranged from minor repairs to significant
improvements (structural repairs). The result was a leverage ratio of 1:3 about fifteen years after the start of the project, increasing to 1:5
over fifteen years; and (b) a cost-benefit analysis based, as a proxy for the benefits, on the increase in property values attributable to the
project. Data on land prices and transactions were provided by an exhaustive processing of all real estate transactions (notarial records) in
the medina over the 1990-1996 period, supplemented by interviews with real estate brokers. Data on commercial activities (workshops,
retail, and services) were derived from an exhaustive 1988 survey. Assuming, the flow of benefits is captured only at the end of a 15-year



Project Appraisal Document                             Page 8                               Fes-Medina RehabiltatIOn Projed
Kingdom of Morocco
period, under a discounted rate of 10 per cent, but under the constraint that legal caps on rent and tenant protection would not change, the
IRR would be on the order of 13.65 percent. Should these benefits be captured annually, the IRR would be greater and would indicate that
a 10 year period is sufficient to fully recover costs with a 10 percent discount rate, even with a cost increase of 20 percent. In both cases,
benefits expected from tourism activities have been captured only by the increased land value due to new tourist itineraries.
Finally, and using the project as a case study, new approaches were explored to better determine the benefits related to the intrinsic value
of conserving the cultural heritage of mankind. A first exercise, the Contingent Valuation (CV) study, was undertaken to estimate, first,
the direct benefits to foreign tourists visiting Fes of the proposed project and, second, the passive use (existence/preservation) values
of foreign tourists visiting Moro,cco, but not visiting Fes. Another study (the Delphi study) was undertaken in Europe to estimate the
non use value of European households to rehabilitate the Fes-Medina. All these three estimates are expressed in terms of consumer
surplus/willingness to pay and these benefits are not captured by a study looking at the impact of the proposed project on Fes
residents, or from a traditional benefits-costs analysis. The contingent valuation method has been often used to value environmental
goods, but it has almost never been used to value cultural heritage sites. This exercise sets the stage for a wider utilization of this
powerful method given the similar economic nature of environmental goods and cultural heritage sites.
Once the use and non use values of this cultural heritage are considered the economic benefits deriving from the project are very
high. Extremely conservative estimates show that:
> for foreign visitors to Fes the total annual value of the Fes-Mddina is equal to US$11,233,000.
> for non Fes foreign visitors to Morocco the total annual value of the Fes-Medina is equal to US$46,880,000.
=> for European (plus Norway and Switzerland) households the total annual value of the Fes-Medina is at least equal to
US$310,335,000.
For more details, see Attachment to Annex 4, and references on CV studies in Annex 8.
14. Financial Assessment:
(a) Financial situation of ADER-Fes:
Background: ADER's funds to operate within the medina come mainly from the development of public land outside the medina and
the sale of plots at market prices. This scheme, based on a cross-subsidy principle (perequation), has been developed for years by
Moroccan public developers. Sales in advance to future owners enable developers to operate under minimal self-financing. ADER
started such an operation in 1992 to finance the resettlement of polluting industries out of the medina. This first operation turned out
to be a serious threat to ADER's financial viability when the land title supporting it was repealed, despite important works in progress
at both sites. By the end of 1995, ADER's cumulative losses had reached a peak of MAD 18.2 million, or 3.6 times its capital base.
In early 1996, ADER started its financial restructuring under another per&quation scheme, after the allocation of two development
sites by the Ministry of Housing.
Current situation and prospects: ADER's financial and institutional situation was reviewed in early 1997 and again in early 1998 by
independent auditors. On the liability side, its past three years' balance sheets (Annex 5) show important purchasers' advances (MAD
35.1 million at end 1996). AD]ER has, therefore, to quickly complete its works in progress, and conclude the corresponding sales.
According to last estimates, ADER's cashflow will turn positive under favorable conditions of sale after 1998. ADER will then have
to settle all arrears on its salaries (MAD 16.0 million), and part of its debt on the first land development operation. Once this debt is
fully repaid, ADER will enjoy a cash surplus of some MAD 20 million. Beyond such operations, ADER's financial sustainability will
come mainly from contractual fees-for technical services (design, engineering, procurement, and supervision) or from implementation
of specific operations (emergency building repairs, community development, architectural supervision of historical monuments), most
of which are part of the proposed project.
Financial management, accounting and audit: A detailed assessment of ADER's management, staff, and organization is available in
the project files. During project preparation, ADER management capacity has been strengthened through: (i) more efficient use of its
GIS database; (ii) developing a project management system; (iii) internalizing the Costab system; and (iv) technical assistance from
Harvard University. During the course of the project, each subproject will be monitored through standardized monitoring indicators
(fiches de suivi) with direct links to ADER's accounting system, while ADER management capacity will be strengthened by
establishing a management committee, with delegation of power from the ADER board. Finally, for all operations directly issuing
from the Bank-financed project, ADER's manager will have to report to the Governor of Fes-Medina, who will act as president of the
managing committee. The fnancial management will be reassessed at the end of 1998, taking into account the recommendation of the
auditor.



Project Appraisal Document                              Page 9                                  Fes-Medina Rehabilftalofn Projed
Kingdom of Morocco
(b) The municipality of Fes-Medina:
General: FRs-Mddina shares three generic constraints with the two other local entities involved (Fes Jdid and the Communaute
urbaine de Fes or CUF): (i) a high dependency on central government collection of local business tax and transfer of the value added
tax, averaging 73 percent of their fiscal resources; (ii) low yield on the local fiscal base (10 percent); (iii) a low level of non-fiscal
resources, due mainly to a lack of administrative or real estate properties; and (iv) a low nominal increase of resources since 1992.
Specific constraints are the following: (i) for the CUF, a high level of indebtedness equivalent to 58 percent of its annual resources.
The CUF will partly restore its borrowing capacity in FY2001; (ii) for the Fes-Medina municipality, a progressive erosion of its fiscal
resources since 1994, which will be counterbalanced by the VAT transfer, fully allocated in FY98. Its current level of debt and
arrears is rather low (26 percent of total receipts), and the municipality enjoyed cumulative savings up to FY97, which was the year
of new municipal elections; and (iii) for the Fes Jdid municipality, a low level of indebtedness but a very low level of collected taxes
(5 percent), and a VAT transfer which will be cut in half starting in 1998. The impact of the VAT cut (due to strict application of
allocation rules at the national level) is such that the borrowing capacity of Fes Jdid is extremely low. The consolidated budget of the
three entities reached MAD 88.3 million in FY95 (US$10 million), with the following distribution: 41.6 percent for CUF, 39.1 for
Fes-Medina, and 19.3 percent for Fes Jdid.
Prospects: Applying the Fonds d'equipement communal (FEC) criteria for assessing the borrowing capacity of a municipality (the
annual payment of the outstanding debt to current revenue ratio should not exceed 40 percent), the municipality of Fes-Medina will
not only be in a position to fully face its debt burden linked to the project, but will be able to self-invest or to borrow for additional
operations (Annex 5). Two main factors are contributing to this situation: savings in expenditures starting in FY98, and the VAT
transfer. These prospects do not take into account the municipality's potential for mobilizing additional resources. According to a
proposed and agreed-upon Resource Mobilization Plan, Fes-Medina's municipal revenue could be increased by 40 percent in
nominal terms over the medium term (four years). This plan encompasses management and institutional strengthening, such as
training of key municipal staff, computerization of municipal services, and management assistance for concessions.
15. Technical assessment:
The technical viability of subcomponents is assessed by ADER-Fes staff with inputs from various municipal agencies and Bank
review. Part of project implementation will depend on scientific and cost-effective techniques. A conservation laboratory will be
established, and a citizen's advisory service will be set up for owners and renters of historic properties who wish to improve their
housing, shops, or workshops. Training will be provided for architects and craftspeople to improve their conservation awareness and
skills.
16. Institutional assessment:
Executing agency status: ADER-Fes was created in June 1989 as a joint stock company with a capital of MAD 5.0 million, and as the
main executive agency for the rehabilitation of Fes-Medina. The State is the predominant stockholder (99.9 percent), along with the
Communaute urbaine de Fes, the Caisse de dep6t et gestion (CDG), the Credit immobilier et hdtelier (CIH), Association FES-SAIS,
and the two municipalities (Fes-Medina and Fes Jdid). In addition to each shareholder, eight ministers or their representative are
members of the board. Since its creation, the Minister of Interior has been the president of the board. ADER's general manager has
been appointed by the Minister of Interior, with a large degree of autonomy for managmig the company. ADER is, however, under the
strict accounting and financial control of the Minister of Finance (ministerial instruction dated November 10, 1992, and ministerial
order dated December 22, 1992, with the appointment of a financial inspector and an accounting officer). As of December 1997,
there were 42 permanent staff working for ADER, of which 14 are high-level staff and 14 are short-term staff.
Activities: (i) architectural, scientific and technical studies related to conservation heritage within the medina; setting up and
monitoring the medina's GIS database; (ii) monitoring the rehabilitation of historic monuments with grant funds from various
sponsors; (iii) emergency actions on decayed housing, whenever occupants are threatened and at the request of the municipality; (iv)
delocalization of polluting activities; and (v) land development outside the medina, as a source of cross-subsidized activities for the
financing of points i, ii, and iv.
17. Social assessment:
The social assessment consisted of a social analysis of current behavior of the inhabitants of the medina and a participatory evaluation
of the expected effects of the project. The aim of the assessment was to understand the dynarxiic behavior of medina residents with a
view to maintaining and amplifying the positive effects to be induced by the proposed project, while minimizing negative impacts.
Methodological choices made by the investigators gave priority to discovering the dynamic of the behavior of the medina residents,



Project Appraisal Docutient                          Page 10                               Fes-Medina Rehabilfteion Project
Kingdom of Morocco
positive and negative, and seeking out those dynamics on which improvement programs can be based. The assessment was carried
out by a multidisciplinary team of researchers from Fes, divided into three subteams on housing, cultural heritage, and business. The
assessment was based on an analysis of existing data in order to refme hypotheses and improve sample selection for surveys. The
team used participatory surveying methods and workshops as the techniques of research and communication. Finally, a panel was
convened to react to the findings and advise the research team. The social assessment was helpful in engaging the population and
Government representatives in dialogue and beginning the process of consensus building.
The main findings related to the priority placed by residents were as follows: creation of employment, provision of water and
drainage, the elimination of ruined buildings, the need for improved street access, and better public security. The assessment revealed
that the deteriorated state of housing is a central problem experienced by many families. Residents view the difficult access for
vehicles in parts of the medina as a serious problem and an obstacle to improving living conditions. The social assessment
demonstrates the strong ties that artisans have to the medina. These findings have been used to adjust and modify the composition of
the project so as to respond more effectively to critical deficiencies in urban living conditions.
18. Environmental assessment:                   Environmental Category [ ] A           [X] B             [ ]C
The environmental category of the project is rated B. The new project design avoids disruption of the historic fabric of the Medina,
and minimizes negative impact on residents and economic activities. Under the project, basic services such as first aid, fire protection
and security will be provided through the development of an emergency network within the old city. Currently, the pedestrian network
of alleyways encompasses some of the narrowest pathways in urban settlements and are depriving residents of access to emergency
services, devalorizing the historical, cultural and architectural heritage of the Medina. Minor adjustments to corners and facades on
the ground of 33 buildings and 26 economic activities along the network will allow the creation of a comprehensive emergency
network. Among these 33 buildings, which currently house 60 families, only three are of "significant" cultural value, and nine of
"medium" value. Special care will be taken to ensure that they are restored to their original condition, or better, following the
modification work. All structures affected by the project have been surveyed and a preliminary estimation of the modification works
to be undertaken has been included in the project's cost. Interviews of households have been undertaken in coordination with the
local authorities, the Wali of Fes, and the Govemor of Fes-Mddina. Data available on each household include: the number of
members and relationship to the head of the household; employment information, including place of work; household income; and
location of educational establishment attended by school-age children.
Temporary Affected Buildings and Dwellings
Buildings             Dwelling Units
Fes Bali          29                      42
Fes Jdid           4                       18
Total            33                      60
Given the possibility of structural instability in structures to be modified, some households could be subject to short term loss of
occupancy. Most of the works involving modification of commercial buildings will be done at night, and therefore do not require
temporary move. There is no loss of income anticipated with potential temporary move of households. Should a temporary move
occur, accommodations will be provided by local authorities who have already anticipated such accommodations for 29 households.
This number covers contingencies by a very safe margin, since average temporary move, if any, should not last more than three
weeks. A full environmental assessment, which includes detailed information on the affected households, is available in the project
files.
19. Participatory approach:   Identification/Preparation        Implementation               Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups          IS                      COL                          COL
Intermediary NGOs          IS/CON                     COL                          COL
Academic institutions:
Harvard and Fes universities       COL                       COL                          COL
Local government       IS/CON/COL                   COL
Ministry of Cultural Affairs   IS/CON/COL                   COL
Ministry of Habous          CON                      CON
Ministry of Tourism, Hotels &
Tour Operators          CON                    CON/COL
UNESCO            IS/CON                    IS/CON                       IS/CON
Other Donors         IS/CON                     COL                          COL



Project Appraisal Document                                 Page 1 1                                  Fes-Medina Rehabilitation Project
Kingdom of Morocco
20. Sustainability:
The sustainability of project benefits will be dependent on two main factors: (a) the reaction of the medina's residents to overall
improvements brought about by the project. According to this criteria, a sustainable project would imply an increasing level of private
investment in the medina, particularly in the housing stock and in commercial and tourism activity. Over the long term, reaching a
leverage ratio of three for each dollar of project funds would ensure this sustainability. The participatory approach adopted during project
preparation should contribute to this goal. The current law on housing rent, however, may impede it; and (b) the strengthening and
effective participation of local entities, in particular the municipalities of Fes-Medina and FHs Jdid. Should the relationship between
ADER-Fes and the municipalities be strengthened, as planned under the project, these key local entities would be in a better position to
facilitate the empowerment of the medina's inhabitants in the self-rehabilitation process of the historic city.
21. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
Project outputs to development objectives
Risk                    Risk Rating                   Risk Minimization Measure
Development Objectives
National rent policy inhibiting private  High to moderate Caps on rent increase, limitations on rent termination and other terms of Dahir 1-80-315
investment in housing                                (25/12/80) aimed at protecting renters are disincentives for owners to maintain and
rehabilitate their properties. A draft reform law has been under consideration by the
National Assembly for years. Mitigation under the project will come from supporting
specific partnerships between owners and renters to rehabilitate historic properties. The
impact of current laws and mitigation measures on project objectives will be assessed at
mid-term review, with a full report to GoM.
Cooperation with the habous          Moderate to high The Ministry of Habous is the largest property owner in the medina. Public or private
habous are involved in some 4,500 co-ownerships and own all religious buildings.
Given the habous' internal rules and organization, conflicts with civil society may occur
and impede their participation in the project. Since their commitment to cooperate has
been partly reached, mitigation would only come by developing partnerships for selected
operations, on a case by case basis.
Project Components to Output
Implementation of national law on    Low to moderate Implementation of the law (Dahir 1-80-341 dated 12/25119980) is impeded by lack of
heritage conservation                                management capacity and funds from the Ministry of Cultural Affairs (MCA).
Mitigation would come from international pressure to apply World Heritage Convention
(in coordination with UNESCO), by establishing specific incentives under the project,
and by reinforcing the partnership between the MCA and ADER-Fes.
Delays or time lag in upgrading key  Low to moderate Most anticipated delays may come from lack of competent enterprises willing to work in
infrastructures                                     the medina's difficult urban environment. Part of this risk has been anticipated by
dividing civil works operations into small packages. Another risk may come from the
implementation of the BOT scheme for building and operating most of the medina's
planned parking facilities, since the number of potential operators or concessionaires is
unknown. Carefully reviewed bidding documents and concession agreements, imposing
reasonable risk burdens upon the concessionaire, along with sound financial return,
should encourage potential operators.
Environmental policies either not yet  Low to moderate Basic environmental legislation and a corresponding regulatory framework are lacking.
defined at national level or not enforced           The issue is, however, currently under consideration by the Government, with Bank
at local level, particularly in medina              assistance. A specific study on the medinas' environmental standards, to be conducted
environment                                         during the project, will help define an appropriate policy.
Availability of grant and counterpart  Low to moderate  While the risks of the non-availability of counterpart funds is low, availability of grant
funds                                                funds from donors, particularly for the poverty alleviation component, is still unknown.
The proposed donors' conference, with leading roles by UNESCO and the Bank, may
moderate this risk.



Project Appraisal Document                                Page 12                                 Fes-Medina RehabiliRation Project
Kingdom of Morocco
Financial sustainability of ADER-Fes   Moderate    ADER's funds will come mainly from fees paid by the State or the municipalities to
implement project activities on their behalf. Assurance of effective payments would
come from the contractual agreements linking the parties.
Overall project risk rating            Moderate    To lower project risk, especially with regard to the central development objective, the
Bank will use the mid-termn review to reassess the participatory approach and strengthen
the institutional aspects of the project. The setting up of a Fes-Medina Foundation for
Cultural Heritage, which would help to secure funding and partnership, will be
discussed.
22. Possible controversial aspects: The project preparation period has allowed much discussion and consensus to take place.
Controversial aspects may come from the dominant role of ADER-Fes. It is also possible that other Moroccan cities will see the
project as favoring Fes over other cities.
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions
23. Planned actions:
*   By December 31, 1998 (and each subsequent year thereafter): all land acquisition related to the work program of the coming
fiscal year should be either completed or at a satisfactory stage.
*   By mid-term review (October 2000): ADER will issue a comprehensive mid-term review of the project, in consultation with
the two steering committees and the two municipalities, with particular focus on parallel financing activities, relationships
between owners and tenants, habous participation, the setting up of a Fes-Medina foundation, and a progressive shift in equity
from the State to the municipalities to better ensure the sustainability of ADER-Fes.
24. Other:
*  As primary obligor, the Govermment will guarantee the due and punctual payment of the loan made to the municipality of
Fes-Medina;
*   Establishment within ADER-Fes of a unit of community development satisfactory to the Bank, in charge ofthe poverty
alleviation component (elffective).
*   Local authorities should provide temporary shelters to households affected by a short term  loss of occupancy during
rehabilitation works (commitment letter has been received).
*   Project records, accounts and Special Accounts should be audited each year;
*   ADER's fnancial statements should be audited each year by an independent audit;
*   Audit reports should be made available to the Bank no later than six months after each Fiscal Year;
*   Retroactive financing is authorized under each loan, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$700,00 equivalent for
expenditures made after November 15, 1997.
*   Special Accounts under the Government and municipality loans are limited to US$700,000 and US$1.0 million equivalent,
respectively. The Special Account for the municipality will be open in the Regional Treasury of Fes.
*   Withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditures are authorized for goods, civil works, consultants' fmns, and
individual consultants, with contracts not exceeding US$100,000, US$150,000, US$50,000 and US$25,000, respectively.
*   ADER's unit in charge of the poverty alleviation component (CDU) should have a separate accounting system;
*   A mid-term review will be hold by October 30, 2000 on the basis of a report prepared by ADER-Fes on or about April 30,
2,000.
*   A plan for the future operation of the project will be presented to the Bank not later than six months after the closing date, set
for December 31, 2003.



Project Appraisal Document                                           Page 13                                          Fes-Medina Rehabilitaton Project
Kihgdom of Morocco
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
[XI   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader: Francois Amiot                                                            Sector Director: Jean-Claude Villiard
Country Director, Christian Delvoie



Project Appraisal Docment                                      Page 14                                       Fes-Medina Rehabilitation Project
Kingdom of Morocco                                                                                                             Annex 1
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary             Key Performance Indicators1        Monitoring and Supervision      Critical Assumptions and
_ ____________________                                                          Risks
CAS Objective                                                                                         (CAS objective to Bank
mission)
Fes-Medina, as a pilot operation in  Coordination within the medina of  Fes wilaya steering committee,    International aid is mobilized
cultural heritage and conservation,  related donors and Bank projects  Bank missions, UNESCO reports  (success of donors'
with development of local and    (water, sewerage, Sebou Basin), with                                 conference) and partnerships
intemational partnerships        impact assessment on social,                                         are consolidated
environmental, and cultural
conditions
Project Development Objectives                                                                        (Development Objectives to
CAS Objective)
Conserve and rehabilitate the    Overall improvement of medina        GIS database: review of demand   National rent policy
historic Medina of Fes through   housing stock (referential rating from   for rehabilitation permits (V2),    inhibiting private investment
empowerment of inhabitants and    end 1996) and effective conservation   and review of other construction   in housing rehabilitation and
local institutions.              of key cultural assets along tourism  permits through the munici-    cooperation with habous
itineraries. To stop the cycle of   palities' files. Ministry of
decline, rehabilitation permits should   Cultural Affairs' and ADER's
increase by 3% a year and repair    data on effective funds mobilized
permits by 5% a year starting CY2.    for conservation of key cultural
Key indicator over the long run (10    assets.
to 15 years) is the public-to-private
leverage ratio, including the
financing of historic buildings by
private sponsors and Habous, which
should reach 1: 3.
Project Outputs                                                                                       (Outputs to Development
Objectives)
1. Development of an incentive   Demand for rehabilitation of historic   GIS database, quarterly reports,   Implementation of the
framework for cultural heritage  properties and effective works on: 47  tourism office statistics; Tours  national law on cultural
rehabilitation                   units CY2; 56 units CY3; 65 units    Operators; number of entries in    heritage conservation
CY4 and 75 units CY5.               the Cultural Heritage Center.
Six tourism itineraries implemented
as follows: CYI: first itinerary (IT);
CY2: 2 ITs & Heritage Center in
operation; CY3: one IT; CY4: 2 last
Its. Number of historic buildings or
monuments re-used for economic or
social activities.
2. Improvement of critical access   Emergency access: 20% CY2; 40%   Quarterly reports, Bank          Delays or time lag in
to the medina                    CY3; 20% CY4; 20% CY5.              supervision reports, medina      upgrading key infrastructures
Access links: 20% CY3; 40% CY4;   technical committee               (water & sewerage). Efficient
40% CY5.                                                            procurement procedures
Main access roads: 35% CY3; 45%                                     under the tri-partite
CY4; 20% CY5                                                        agreement (Convention).
Parking: 15% CY3; 25% CY4, 60%
CY5; First BOT bids for private
sector: CY3
Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at midterm, end of project, and full impact.



Project Appraisal Document                                  Page 15                                    Fes-Medina Rehablitation Project
Kingdom of Morocco                                                                                                       Annex I
Narrative Summary            Key Performance Indicators'      Monitoring and Supervision     Critical Assumptions and
Risks
3. Improvement of medina        Reduction of solid waste stock by  Management contract with      Environmental policies either
environment                     40% end of CY2; 40% end of CY3;   municipalities and operators,   not yet defined at national
20% end of CY4. Efficiency of     ADER's quarterly reports.      level or not enforced at local
garbage collection by 40% CY3                                    level, particularly in the
(add. 5 tons per day), and 40%/o by                              medina environment
CY4.
Eight five artisan units operating  Monitoring indicators of
under new environmental standards    pollution abatement.
end of CY4. Satisfactory
implementation of the "short termn
loss of occupancy" plan.
4. Use of rehabilitation process to   Number of direct labor-intensive  Directorate for community  Counterpart and grant funds
alleviate poverty              jobs created through UDC           development (ADER-Fes).        available in sustainable way
cumulating as follows: 100 (CYI);    Monitoring indicators should
300 (CY2); 600 (CY3); 800 (CY4);   include: social impact (no. of
and 900 (CY5). Specific indicators    beneficiaries from the medina);
of cost per job created (should be  average no. of bids per call for
less than US$300).                bids; average time of processing
By CY3, emergency works on        contracts (days following bids);
collapsed buildings should leave  percentage of payments to
place to preventive works (50%    contractors within 15 days of
CY3; 75% CY4 & 100% CY5)          invoice receipt.
5. Local institution strengthening   Monitoring of ADER financial  Annual analysis of municipal   Financial restructuring plan
indicators according to Annex 5;  budgets and ADER balance       of ADER completed by
Monitoring of Fes-Medina          sheet, expert reports, OFPTT   effectiveness.
municipality indicators according to
revenue ratios in Annex 5;
Training program as follows: high
level staff: 60 (2/3 by mid-term);
micro-enterprises' managers: 20 (1/2
mid-term); staff micro-enterprises:
40 (1/2 mid-term).



Project Appraisal Document                                   Page 16                                      Fes-Medina Rehabiilttion Project
Kingdom of Morocco                                                                                                         Annex 1
Project Activities                     Loan Amount (US$'000)
(See Annex 2 for a detailed
description).
Satisfactory disbursement,
according to estimated schedule:
1. Rehabilitation of built
heritage
1.1     Rehab. facility            GoMI                487.0       ADER & Direction regionale du
Ministere de la culture
1.2     Tourism and Heritage       GoM               2,181.0       ADER & Direction regionale du
Ministere de la culture
2. Rehab. of infrastructure        Satisfactory disbursement,
according to estimated schedule:
2.1     Emergency access networl   GoM                 1,812.0     ADER & Direction regionale des
Travaux publics
2.3     Improvement of access      LGF                 1,880.0     id
2.4     Transfer facilities        LGF                  539.0      Municipality
2.5     Traffic management         LGF                  343.0      id
2.6     Parking facilities         LGF                  891.0      id
3. Environment                     Satisfactory disbursement,
according to estimated schedule:
3.1     Pollution abatement
for traditional
industries                 LGF                1,077.0      ADER & Association of Artisans
3.2     Solid waste collection     LGF                1,152.0      Municipality (concession)
3.3     Community education        LGF                  155.0      Municipality and ADER
4. Community development           Satisfactory disbursement,
(labor-intensive works)          according to estimated schedule:
4.1     Clearance of derelict
sites                       LGF                 452.0       Directorate for Community
4.2     Urban landscape            LGF                 310.0       Development (ADER)
4.3     Emergency works            LGF                1,005.0      id
5. Institutional                   Satisfactory disbursement,
according to estimated schedule:
5.1     Support to Fes
municipalities             LGF                 460.0       Municipality (President)
5.2     Support to ADER-Fes        GoM                 457.0       ADER
5.3     Laboratories               GoM                 300.0       ADER
5.4     Training                   GoM                 219.0       OPPRT, ADER
5.5     Further studies            GoM                 280.0       ADER
TOTAL                      14,000.0
1/      NOTE:  The name of the financier appears in front of each activity: GoM (central govemment); LGF (local govemments of
Fes-Medina and Rs Jdid); P (private sector).



Projec Appraisal Document                      Page 17                          Fes-Medina Rehabilitatlon Project
Kingdom of Morocco                                                                             Annex 2
Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Project Component 1 - Rehabilitation of Built Heritage
This component includes the following complementary activities, which are described below: (a) establishment of a
rehabilitation or grant facility to support private initiatives in historic building conservation, including innovative
rehabilitation of historic housing; and (b) the development of new tourism itineraries, coupled with the conservation
or rehabilitation of historic buildings.
(a)    Rehabilitation facility (State fnancing): This facility would amount to MAD 6.0 million (with potential
extension under parallel financing) and is expected to induce private investment for the rehabilitation of about 250
historic domestic or commercial premises (souks, fondouks, workshops), according to the following pilot scheme:
(a) a grant of 20 percent of total rehabilitation cost estimate (with an upward limit of MAD 40,000) will be allocated
to any owner willing to: (i) rehabilitate a building listed as historically significant; or (ii) enter in a partnership
agreement with co-owners or renters, including the habous, to facilitate such operation; (b) a grant of 10 percent of
the estimated cost (with an upward limit of MAD 20,000 to improve or introduce amenities in dwellings (e.g.,
bathrooms, kitchen, independent entrance). Selection of units to be rehabilitated would start in the areas benefiting
from infrastructure improvement, and would proceed over the longer term from quarter to quarter, with the
assistance of local associations (associations de quartier).
The selection process will be the following: any potential beneficiary will send three documents simultaneously to
the municipality: a building permit issued after design and techniques are certified by a private expert; a demand
for registration under the heritage list; and a demand for grant. These documents are then reviewed by an enlarged
municipal building committee, with representatives of the Ministry of Culture, and the Governor of Fes-Medina and
ADER-Fes as technical advisers. The list of selected beneficiaries is then sent to the Governor for approval. The
grant may be used up front to pay for this expertise, and is then distributed according to the progress of the works.
If demand exceeds available fumds, priority will be given to social considerations, particularly when local
associations have been able to raise funds for the beneficiary. If, on the contrary, the demand is low, the project
would provide partial funding for innovative operations aimed at improving renovation designs and techniques, and
reducing costs by introducing new building materials. Priority would be given to key historic buildings in strategic
locations, with potential reuse by community activities (training centers, crafts centers, children or women centers).
Complementary funds may also be provided from proceeds of commercial lots sold along the new access network.
(b)    Tourism and preservation of cultural heritage (State financing): This critical activity, amounting to MAD
26.0 million, includes: (i) the creation of six new tourism and thematic itineraries within the medina; and (ii) the
creation of a Heritage and Cultural Animation Center (Centre de patrimoine et d'animation culturelle). The former
would lead to targeted investments in historic buildings (palaces, medersa, mosques, fountains), improvement of
signs in the medina, and development of historic gardens. The center would be located in a rehabilitated palace
(MAD 2.5 million) and would serve multiple functions such as information center, research center, international
training on cultural heritage conservation, etc. It would be launched by ADER, then managed as an associative
organization, with bylaws similar to those of the National Trust of Great Britain. The Centre de patrimoine would
be self-financing. Along with this activity, several supporting actions would be implemented: establishing a
monitoring and coordination unit to liaise with public and private partners; training professional guides and
launching of information campaigns for the medina's residents; the marketing of the Medina of Fes among tour
operators; etc. (see project document). Specific economic analysis of the tourism component is available in the
project files.



Project Appraisal Docurnent                     Page 18                          Fes-Medina Rehabilitation Project
Kingdom of Morocco                                                                               Annex 2
Project Component 2 - Improving Critical Access to the Medina
This key component, which represents 50 percent of total project cost, will: (a) provide access for emergency
public services extending to the center of the medina; (b) improve critical links with medina entrances (there are
eighteen gates along the medina wall, which delineates a pedestrian area of 270 ha, with the exception of some
roads built at the beginning of the century); (c) facilitate ease of movement for residents, businesses, tourists, and
goods; (d) increase parking spaces to the level of demand: and (e) increase traffic safety and improve traffic
management.
(a)    Emergency Netvork and connecting links (State financing).  Almost one quarter of Fes El Bali is
inaccessible by motorized vehicles, i.e., located more than 200m from a street. Emergency vehicles (police, fire,
ambulances) and public works vehicles (sanitary, waste collection) cannot access those areas. Street porters and
animals are used for transporting goods within the medina, including the collection of solid waste, the transport of
construction materials, and the disposal of scrapped materials. The presence of animals is a source of sanitary
problems, not counting their abysmal living conditions. The project would finance the establishment of an
emergency network that would be accessible to narrow vehicles, less than 1.7 m wide. Such vehicles could also be
adapted as transport vans, and would replace animals in most instances. In addition, 15 kilometers of pedestrian
streets would be improved, in coordination with RADEF in charge of improving the water and sewerage system of
the Medina's network with Bank support.
(b)    Access network (Municipalityfinancing). The project would also finance the construction of four streets
accessible to motorized vehicles, with widths of 6.0 m or more and proper sidewalks, to improve the traffic pattern
within the medina, segregate pedestrian and vehicular flows, and reduce the area inaccessible to motorized vehicles.
The following access streets were identified as showing the most acute problems of congestion and/or accessibility,
and are included in the project: Ain Azliten, Oued Zhoun, Bin Lamdoun, and Andalus Axis. All of these streets
have no outlets, to discourage through traffic within the medina (see maps).
(c)    Transfer (logistic) facilities (Municipality financing). There is a lack of proper passenger and goods
transfer facilities at the gates of the medina, hence the congestion and the delays incurred by all traffic at those
locations: taxis, buses, trucks, and pedestrians The project would finance the establishment of facilities such as
goods transfer areas, pedestrian waiting facilities, and bus and taxi stations for the main Medina gate (place
Boujloud), while private investors would be sought to finance the construction of commercial spaces and
warehouses in the vicinity of the transfer facilities to increase their productivity. Such facilities would have to be
built not only at Place Boujloud, but also at Bin Lamdoun, Talaa Kbira, and Place Fes Jdid.
(d)    Parkingfacilities (Municipality andprivate sectorfinancing). There were approximately 3,100 parking
spaces in the medina and vicinity, excluding the 250 illegally parked vehicles on sidewalks and other public
property, at the time of the surveys. Analysis showed that there is a need for 400 additional spaces to satisfy the
current demand, and that this figure will increase to 600 by the year 2000. Currently there is no incentive, for
instance through an adequate fare structure, to utilize the available parking spaces in a more efficient manner. This
results in parking facilities, especially within the medina, being saturated and crumbling from lack of maintenance.
The project would finance the construction and/or the rehabilitation of three strategic parking lots or garages (Talaa
Kebira, Derb Ameur and Place R'Cif), while six other parking areas (Oued Zhoun, Ben Lamdoun, My R'Chid,
Makhfia, Bab J'Did, and Fes-Jdid) would be financed by private operators under Build, Operate and Transfer
(BOT) or concession schemes. These parking lots and garages have been selected to provide the highest level of
service possible to their users, the inhabitants of the medina, its visitors, and the people who work there.
Under the BOT schemes, property acquisition and design of facilities would be the responsibility of the
municipality, and construction, maintenance and operation would be the responsibility of the concessionaire.
Concession packages should be small enough to be of interest to local entrepreneurs. Although foreign operators
should not be prevented from bidding for a concession, the size of the operation is not large enough to generate
much interest from foreign bidders. In some cases, the Municipality could develop a concession package in which
one clearly financially viable parking concession would help subsidize a marginal operation that has some other
benefits from the point of view of the municipality.



Project Appraisal Document                    Page 19                        Fes-Medina Rehabilitation Project
Kingdom of Morocco                                                                           Annex 2
(e)    Traffic management (Municipality financing).  The lack of local expertise in traffic planning and
operations often prevents the solution of even the simplest problems. There is also the problem of traffic safety
within the medina itself, especially with regard to pedestrians. On the highway loop that circles the medina,
numerous conflicts among passenger cars, buses, and trucks, especially at intersections, are a major cause of
accidents involving pedestrians, and a source of delays. The project would recommend simple interventions to
improve traffic safety: horizontal and vertical traffic signing, pedestrian markings, traffic signals, and channeling of
traffic flows. The establishment of a Traffic Bureau within the Public Works Department of the Fbs-Medina
municipality would support small projects that would take into account local particularities: street, alley and
intersection design, traffic signing and traffic signals; parking entrances and exits; bus stops; truck loading and
unloading facilities; pedestrian waiting areas. The Traffic Bureau could also propose improvements to the RATF
bus network, with a view to optimizing bus service to and from the medina.
Project Component 3 - Improvement of the Urban Environment
In addition to ongoing water and sewerage rehabilitation (Loans 3664-, 4010-MOR, and FADES), the project aims
to: (a) improve solid waste collection through provision of equipment; and (b) minimize polluting industry within
the medina by providing improved workshop facilities (fondouk) for the most polluting traditional activities
(copperware manufacturers and retailers) within the medina. The construction of two planned fondouks would
provide space for customary activities, such as metal working, an exhibition space for arts and crafts, and a training
center to ensure the continuity of the city's handicrafts. This last activity has been investigated by the Swedish
Cooperation and would be financed by the State.
Solid Waste Disposal (Municipalityfinancing) The production of household waste in the medina is 75.2 tons a
day, and that of the craft industry is 63.7 tons a day. It is expected that this last figure will drop to 20.55 tons a day
once the polluting activities are transferred to Ain Nokbi (works in progress). This would result in 95 tons of solid
waste being generated in the medina each day. The collection would be done by a private contractor, under
concession arrangements, with the municipality (currently under discussion).
The topography of the city and the narrowness of the streets impose considerable constraints on the collection of
household wastes. Collection must be adapted to the existing and projected circulation network, depending on its
category: access, emergency roadway, pedestrian link. Households will be expected to set out their waste in plastic
bags at a fixed hour every evening, immediately prior to collection. This will take place either with carts, in the
areas where descending slopes are gentle, or with donkeys, where slopes are steep (step 1). The collected bags will
then be deposited along the emergency roadway network and the access roads in rolling plastic bins (step 2). Small
dump trucks that are no wider than 1.4m will unload the bins and deposit them in waste compactors or open
containers (step 3). Trucks will then pick up their loads and transport them to the public waste dump. Changes or
extensions planned for the existing dump will be carried out by the Urban Community of FRs (step 4). Total
investment in equipment will be approximately MAD 27.0 million, of which 14.5 million of basic equipment will be
fmanced by the project. Most of the equipment will be leased to the contractor. In addition to these actions, a
public awareness campaign around the environmental problems will be launched among the inhabitants of the
medina, as well as among the artisans.
Project Component 4 - Poverty Alleviation (Municipality financing)
The goal of this component is to use the rehabilitation process to promote labor-intensive job opportunities,
particularly among the unemployed and poor population of the medina and surrounding areas. It will also promote
small-scale private sector contractors. Partly built on current experience in ADER rehabilitating the medina wall
and launching emergency action for occupied housing falling in ruins, the component would be managed by a
specific directorate of ADER-Fes (CDU, or Community Development Unit), under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. The proposed program to be implemented by the CDU would cover the following activities: clearance
of derelict sites; emergency works on housing; clearance of solid waste stock, particularly in the historic sewerage
system and in the medina rivers (oueds); urban landscape; and rehabilitation of community facilities. Subprojects
were selected on the basis of the following eligibility criteria: to reflect priority needs (as reviewed by the social
assessment); labor intensive (equivalent to 70 percent of project costs); to be easily divided into work packages
averaging MAD200,000 each; a potential for the creation of micro-enterprises; to involve mainly basic
rehabilitation works and routine maintenance. Taking into account other labor-intensive works financed under the



Project Appraisal Document                        Page 20                          Fes-Medina Rehabilitation Project
Kingdom of Morocco                                                                                  Annex 2
project or through agreed-upon parallel financing, it is estimated that the proposed program would culminate in
providing 900 persons/year with job opportunities. This figure represents almost 30 percent of the employment
needs of the poor and unemployed active population in the medina of FRs. The expected average monthly cost per
job created is estimated at US$290, which is largely below the current cost of standard employment-generation
programs run by the Government. Training for staff of micro-enterprises will be provided under the Institutional
component. If the results match expectations, this component could be used as a pilot project for poverty alleviation
in other urban centers and medinas of Morocco.
Component 5 - Institutional Strengthening (mostly State financing)
This component encompasses the following four activities: (a) resource mobilization program for the two involved
municipalities (Fes-Medina will finance its own program), with focus on municipal management and organization
(computerization of key municipal services, monitoring system for concessions, addressing tariff issues, etc.),
municipal finances (fiscal policies and para-fiscal resources), and training of municipal agents; (b) strengthening of
ADER-Fes through management assistance, and technical assistance; (c) setting up of a conservation laboratory to
improve conservation teclmiques in the medina, and also at the national level; and (d) training programs managed
by OFPPT and ADER, and adapted to various professional skills involved into the rehabilitation process in three
priority areas: (i) construction and rehabilitation, with three workshops (architects, engineers, archeologists;
technical staff; and unskilled workers); (ii) traditional craft industries, with particular focus on women; and
(iii) labor-intensive methods, with training of managers of micro or small enterprises. Each training program will
be implemented under a tripartite agreement among the ADER-Fes, the OFPPT regional office, and the trainers.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FES MEDINA REHABILITATION PROJECT (07/13/97)
Components Project Cost Summary
(DH 000)                                   (US$ '000)
%    % Total                               %     % Total 
Foreign   Base                             Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign    Total  Exchange Costs   Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange Costs
A. Rehabilitation of built heritage               17,626    11,298    28,924      39      13    1,895    1,215    3,110       39      13
B. Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation
1. Historic and Emergency Networks              13,337     7,512    20,849      36      10    1,434     808    2,242       36      10
2. Iniprovement ofAccess to Medina              17,964     7,760    25,724      30      12    1,932      834    2,766      30       12
3. Equipment of access ways                      3,688     2,222     5,910      38       3      397      239      635      38       3
4. Parkings                                     35,518    19,608    55,125      36      26    3,819    2,108    5,927       36      26
5. Traffic Improvements                          3,064     1,788    4,852       37       2      329      192      522      37        2
Subtotal Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation       73,571    38,889   112,461      35      52    7,911    4,182   12.093      35      52
C. Medina Environment Improvement                 14,042    13,788    27,829      50      13    1,510    1,483    2,992      50       13
D. Community Development                          16,510    10,511    27,021      39      13    1,775    1,130    2,905       39      13
E. Institutional Strenghtening                     7,659    10,359    18,018      57       8      824    1,114    1,937       57       8
Total BASELINE COSTS                              129,407    84,845   214,253     40     100   13,915    9,123   23,038       40     100
Physical Contingencies                          12,941     8,485    21,425      40      10    1,391      912    2,304       40      10   N2
Price Contingencies                             22,550    12,176    34,726      35      16    1,520      730    2,251       32      10
Total PROJECT COSTS                              164,898   105,506   270,404      39     126   16,826   10,766   27,592       39    120
i
g
h1



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FES MEDINA REHABILITATION PROJECT (07/13/97)                                               p
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary                                              St
(DH '000)                                   (USS '000)           iT
%     % Total                                %     % Total 
Loca  ForignForelgn   Bass                                        Foreign   Bass 
Local    Foreign    Total  Exchange Costs   Local   Foreign   Total  Exchange Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Land acquisition
1. Govemment of Morocco                    3,592         -     3,592        -       2      386        -      386         -       2
2. Municipality of Fes Medina              5,812         -     5,812        -       3      625         -     625         -       3
3. Private Beneficiaries                   2,250         -     2,250        -       1      242         -     242         -       1
Subtotal Land acquisition                   11,655         -    11,655        -       5    1,253         -    1,253        -       5
B. Civil Works
1. Civil Works
Government of Morocco                   30,142    16,230    46,373       35      22    3,241    1,745    4,986        35      22
Municipality of Fes Medina              31,031    16,709    47,740       35      22    3,337    1,797    5,133        35      22
Private Beneficiaries                   23,012    12,391    35,404       35      17    2,474    1,332    3,807        35      17
Municipality of Fes Jdid                 4,499     2,422     6,921       35       3      484      260      744        35       3
Subtotal Civil Works                      88,685    47,753   136,438       35      64    9,536    5,135   14,671        35      64
C. Goods
1. Government of Morocco                   2,913     5,929     8,842       67       4      313      638      951        67       4
2. Municipality of Fes Medina              2,931     7,805    10,736       73       5      315      839    1,154        73       5
4. Municipality of Fes Jdid                  81       215        296       73       -        9       23       32        73       -
Subtotal Goods                               5,925    13,949    19,874       70       9      637    1,500    2,137        70       9
D. Consultant Services
1. Govemment of Morocco                    7,167     7,167    14,333       50       7      771      771    1,541        50       7
2. Municipality of Fes Medina              5,164     5,164    10,329       50       5      555      555    1,111        50       5
3. Private Beneficiaries                   2,079     2,079     4,157       50       2      224      224      447        50       2
4. Municipality of Fes Jdid                 912       912      1,825       50       1       98       98       196       50       1
Subtotal Consultant Services                15,322    15,322    30,644       50      14    1,648    1,648    3,295        50      14
E. Management Fees
Govemment of Morocco                       2,671     2,671     5,342       50       2      287      287       574       50       2
Municipality of Fes Medina                 2,950     2,950     5,901       50       3      317      317      634        50       3
Private Beneficiaries                      1,450     1,450     2,900       50       1      156      156      312        50       1
Municipality of Fes Jdid                    750       750      1,500       50       1       81       81       161       50       1
Subtotal Management Fees                     7,821     7,821    15,642       50       7      841      841    1,682        50       7
Total BASELINE COSTS                         129,407    84,845   214,253       40     100   13,915    9,123   23,038        40     100
Physical Contingencies                      12,941     8,485    21,425       40      10    1,391      912    2,304        40      10                     i
Price Contingencies                         22,550    12,176    34,728       35      16    1,520      730    2,251        32      10 
Total PROJECT COSTS                          164,898   105,506   270,404       39     126   16,826   10,766   27,592        39      120
Price Coningencies22,550    12176    34,76  35  16    1520      730    2251        32       1



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                                                                                 X y
FES MEDINA REHABILITATION PROJECT (07113197)                                                                   o
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs                                                               3 a
(US$ '000)
0 w
Road Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Historic                                                                                                                              o 
Rehabilitation   and   Improvement Equipment                           Medina                                        Physical                           2
of built    Emergency  of Access  of access             Traffic    Environment Community  Institutional        Contingencies                        eD
heritage    Networks  to Medina    ways   Parkings Improvements Improvement Development Strenghtening   Total        %    Amount
1. Investment Costs
A. Land acquisition
1. Government of Morocco                           -        94            -         -        -            -         292                          -      386    10.0       39
2. Municipality of Fes Medina                      -          -        553          -       72            -           -            -             -      625    10.0       62
3. Private Beneficiaries                                      -           -                242            -           -            -             -      242    10.0       24
Subtotal Land acquisition                            -        94         553          -      314            -         292            -             -    1,253    10.0    125
B. Civil Works
1. Clvil Works
Govemment of Morocco                         2,344      1,774           -         -        -            -         869            -             -    4,986    10.0    499
Municipality of Fes Medina                       -          -       1,815      526       849          356           -        1,522            66    5,133    10.0    513
Private Beneficiaries                            -          -           -         -    3,807            -           -            -             -    3,807    10.0    381
MunicipalityofFesJdid                            -          -           -         -        -          101           -         628             15      744    10.0       74
Subtotal Civil Works                           2,344      1,774       1,815      526    4,656           457         869        2,150            81   14,671    10.0   1,467
C. Goods
1. Govemment of Morocco                          115          -           -         -        -            -         308            -           528      951    10.0       95
2. Municipaiity of Fes Medina                      -          -           -         -        -            -        1,021           -           133    1,154    10.0    115                     n
4. Municipality of Fes Jdid                         -         -           -         -        -            -           -            -            32       32    10.0        3
Subtotal Goods                                     115          -           -         -        -            -        1,329           -           693    2,137    10.0    214
D. Consultant Services
1. Govemment of Morocco                          368       233            -         -        -            -          97            -           843    1,541    10.0    154
2. MunicipalityofFesMedina                         -          -        261         70      134           23         152         275            195    1,111    10.0    111
3. Private Beneficiaries                           -          -           -         -      447            -            -           -             -      447    10.0       45
4. Municipality of Fes Jdid                         -         -           -         -        -            -          51          105            40      196    10.0       20
Subtotal Consultant Services                       368       233         261         70      581           23         300          380         1,078    3,295    10.0    330
E. Management Fees
Government of Morocco                            284       141            -         -        -            -          97            -            53      574    10.0       57
Municipality of Fes Medina                         -          -         137        39       65           28          80         259             25      634    10.0       63
Private Beneficiaries                              -          -           -         -      312            -            -           -             -      312    10.0       31
Municipality of Fes Jdid                           -         -            -         -        -           14          25          116             6      161    10.0       16
Subtotal Management Fees                           284       141          137        39      377           42         202          375            85    1,682    10.0    168
Total BASELINECOSTS                                 3,110     2,242       2,766       635    5,927          522        2,992       2,905          1,937   23,038    10.0   2,304
Physical Contingencies                             311       224         277         64      593           52         299          291           194    2,304        -
Price Contingencies                                                                                                                                                                              m
Inflation 
Local                                          318       235         333         67      669           57         217          292           116    2,305        -       -
Foreign                                         97        60          67         19      175           16         119           89            88      730        -       -                   0
Subtotal Inflation                               416       296         400         86      844           73         335          381           205    3,036        -       -
Devaluation                                     -108        -84        -116       -23     -225          -19          -74        -101           -33      -785       -        
Subtotal Price Contingencies                       307       212         284         63      619           54         261          279           171    2,251      9.1    205
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 3,728     2,678       3,326       762    7,139          628        3,553       3,475          2,302   27,592     9.1   2,508
6
Taxes                                              577       388         417        115    1,025           93         589          540           485    4,227      9.1    384                   >
Foreign Exchange                                  1,434      949         985        282    2,494          227        1,749       1,332          1,314   10,766     9.1    979



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                                                                                    X V
FES MEDINA REHABILITATION PROJECT (07/13197)
Disbursement Accounts by Financien                                                                         -t
(OH 000)                                                                       (US$ 000)
Municipality  Municipality                                                       Municipality  Municipality             0
Govemment Municipality    Private     of Fes-Jdid   of Fes-Jdid           World  Govemment Municipality      Private    of Fes-Jdid   of Fes-Jdid   To_
World Bank of Morocco of Fes-Medina Beneficiaries    (grant)    (taxes)     Total    Bank  of Morocco of Fes-Medina Beneficiaries    (grant)     (taxes)     Total
Amount   Amount    Amount          Amount        Amount      Amount    Amount  Amount  Amount    Amount              Amount       Amount       Amount   Amount
A. Land Acqulsitlon
1 Govemment of Morocco                    -      4,418                                                         4,418       -        451            -             -            -                  451
2. Municipality of Fes Medina                       0         7,442            -            -            -    7,442        -          0          759                   -                   -     759
3 Private Beneficiaries                   -         0             -        2,826            -            -    2,826        -          0            -          288                          -     288
Subtotal Land Acquisition                   -      4,418        7,442        2,826            -            -    14,686       -        451          759          288             -           -    1,499
B. Clvil Works
1 Government of Morocco              40.373     18,309           -             -            -                 58,681    4,120     1,868            -             -            -           -    5,988
2. MunicipalityofFesMedina           41,563         0        18,848            -            -            -   60,412    4,241          0        1,923             -                         -   6,164
3 Private Beneficiaries                   -         0            -        45,092            -            -   45,092        -         0             -         4,601            -           -   4,601
4 MunicipalityofFesJdid                   -         0            -             -        7,506        1,222     8,727                  0            -             -         766          125      891
Subtotal Civil Works                   81,936     18,309      18,848        45,092        7,506        1,222   172,913    8,361     1,868        1,923         4,601         766          125   17,644
C. Goods
1. Govemment of Morocco               8,535      2,501                                      -           -    11,035      871       255                    -            -                  -    1,126
2. Municipality of Fes Medina        i0,710         0        2,675             -            -            -    13,385    1,093        0          273                           -                1,366
4 Municipality of Fes Jdid                -         0            -             -          288          72       361                  0             -             -          29            7       37
Subtotal Goods                         19,245      2,501       2,675                       288           72    24,781    1,964       255          273              -          29            7    2,529
3. Consultant Services
1. Govemment of Morocco              14,320      3,580           -             -            -            -    17,900    1,461      365             -             -            -           -    1.826
2. MunicipalRy of Fes Medina         10,390         0         2,598            -            -            -    12,988    1,060         0          265             -            -                 1,325
3 Private Beneficiaries                   -         0             -        5,226            -                  5,226       -          0            -          533             -            -     533
4. Municipality of Fes Jdid               -         0             -            -        1,805         451      2,257       -          0                          -          184          46      230        0
Subtotal Consultant Services           24,710      3,580        2.598        5,226        1,805         451    38,369    2,521        365         265           533          184           46    3,915        N,
E. Management Fees
1. Govemment of Morocco               5,373      1,343                        6-            -            -     ,717      548        137            -                                      -      685
2 Municipalty of Fes Medina           5,936         0         1,484            -            -            -    7,420      606          0          151                          -           -      757
3 Private Beneficiaries                             0            -         3,643            -            -    3,643        -          0            -          372             -           -      372
4 Municipalityof Fes Jdid                 -         0            -             -        1,500         375      1,875       -          0            -             -         153           38      191
Subtotal Management Fees               11.309      1,343        1,484        3,643        1.500         375    19,655    1,154       137          151           372          153           38    2,006
Total                                 137.200     30,151       33,047        56,787      11,099        2,120   270.404   14,000     3,077        3,372         5,795        1,133         216   27,592
oa
a,



Project Appraisal Document                        Page 25                            Fes-Medina Rehabilitation Project
Kingdom of Morocco                                                                                   Annex 4
Annex 4
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
MAD million, mid-1997
Present Value of Flows                   Fiscal Impact
Economic          Financial
Analysis          Analysis            Taxes           Subsidies
Benefits                         564.9
Costs                            409.8
Net Benefits                     155.1
IRR                              13.62
Main assumption:
1.      The underlying assumption of the cost benefit analysis is that property values, either residential or
commercial, would rise as a result of improved accessibility, the creation of an emergency network with fire
hydrants and first aid stations, the repaving of streets, installation of additional street lights, collection of solid
wastes, landscaping of new spaces, the availability of parking facilities matching demand, and new nonpolluting
activities. Under the base case scenario, the flow of benefits is treated as a stock appreciating over a fifteen year
period.
2.      The impact area of the project is delineated only by abutting properties or parcels along the improved
network (including the tourism network), as well as by pedestrian alleys opening onto the improved streets.
However, a combination of physical factors, including steep grades, sudden narrowing of the alley, etc., would tend
to restrict the positive benefits of the improved access (see attached map).
3.      The incremental value attributed to the project is computed as the difference between the projected value of
land in the impact area and the value of land outside the area, plus the value of the improvements to the property
(rehabilitation works). Data on the evolution of land prices in Fes and the information on the sale and rental market in the
Medina obtained through interviews with real estate brokers provided were supplemented by the exhaustive processing of
all real estate transactions in the Medina over the 1990-1996 period for which notarial records were deposited at the
registry. The data show appreciating values rather than disinflation even in the presence of deterioration and inadequate
maintenance. It also clearly shows the impact of rent control on residential values, artificially deflating them. Because
there is no vacant land other than ruins, transactions concern apartments (approximately 180 to 240 per year), commercial
properties and shops (25 to 30 per year), and buildings (40 to 60 per year). This detailed data provided a solid statistical
base for the computation of property values (Table is presented below).
4.      The analysis was carried out on the premise that relative prices would remain constant through the 15 year
timeframe of expected benefits.
5.      The official exchange rate is assumed to reflect the opportunity cost of foreign exchange in Morocco.
6.      The market price for each input adjusted for taxes and subsidies is assumed to represent a reasonable
estimate of the economic cost. This assumption applies to property values recorded in official transaction
documents, presumably underreported to avoid taxes.
7.      The discount rate is the expected real interest rate of 10 percent.



Project Appraisal Document                       Page 26                          Fes-Medina Rehabilitation Project
Kingdom of Morocco                                                                                Annex 4
8.      Maintenance costs are based on a schedule of I percent for the first three years, 2 percent for the second
three years, and 5 percent thereafter. They applied to the value of completed public works and building
improvements.
10.    The base case scenario (cumulative flow of benefits) leads to an average growth of land prices of 5.25
percent in real terns for properties impacted by the project (versus 3 percent for those not impacted, as shown by
the analysis of 2,288 transactions), and an average one-time jump in land value of 2 times the current value. Under
these assumptions the project would reach a satisfactory IRR of 13.6 percent, despite additional costs in
implementing civil works in the medina (mainly due to transport costs and archeological constraints).
Switching values of critical items
11.    The following critical assumptions were scrutinized through a sensitivity analysis: (a) an increase in costs
by 10 percent and 20 percent; (b) a real growth in land prices for impacted properties decreasing to 5 percent, or
increasing to 6 percent; (c) variation in the rising factor of properties impacted by the project versus those not
impacted, established between 1.7 and 3; and (d) switching from a cumulative flow of benefits to an annual flow.
12.    The sensitivity analysis of the base case scenario shows remarkable robustness to change in costs, meaning
that inadequate access is a critical constraint on economic potential. The project is more sensitive to changes in the
appreciation of property values: the low case (combination of two negative factors) would decrease the IRR down to
10.5, while the high case would raise the IRR up to 19.6 percent. The low case would occur if delays in the
implementation of public works are significant. In any case, the average IRR would be much higher if a change in
national housing policy were applied to the current tenant protection system. Results are presented in the following
pages.
13.    If the flow of benefits is annualized, the IRR would be higher and would reach 23.8 percent by year ten,
when the development impact of the project has only reached 68 percent of its potential. As shown below, the
annualized method is also very robust to change in costs.
Year              Base Cost                Cost Increase of 10%           Cost Increase of 20%
____ |_ NPV (MAD 000)   IRR (%)   NPV (MAD 000)  IRR (%)    NPV (MAD 000)   IRR (%)
Year 6       (12,550)         4.9
Year 8        31,182          18.4           9,402           12.3        (12,379)          7.2
Year 10       68,105          23.8          45,166           18.3          22,227          13.8
Year 15 |    155,052      l  28.81          132,683      |   24.3         110,314          20.7
* Value of land made accessible rises to 2,000 MAD/m2 and grows at an annual rate of 5.25%.
14.    The above results indicate that tradeoffs between conservation heritage and economic development in such
historic cities as the Medina can be solved by developing appropriate incentives to induce private investment both in
housing and economic activities.  Improvement of legal procedures to facilitate such investment, but also
progressive actions to simplify complex tenure and occupancy should support the objective of improving
accessibility while alleviating poverty and preserving the cultural heritage of the Fes-Medina.



Project Appraisal Document                               Page 27                                Fes-Medain Rehab1Uton Prjec
Kingdom of Morocco                                                                                                 Annex 4
Real Estate Values 1990-1996
1990      1991      1992       1993      1994      1995      1996      Total
Buildings
Mean Value Dh/m-           1,730     1,526     1.669  |  1.410      3.332      1.908     2.233    1.884
Average area m-             125       119       170        128   |   91         86        71        121
Transactions            [44    1   63            62    I   53    1   43 _    [49          12       326
Dwelling Units/Apartments                                                  .
Mean Value Ditm-           1,186     1.250      1,804     1.630     1.595  |  1,716      1,621     1,532
Average arca m-             60        60         80        50         56   |   52         38        57
Transactions                169       246       123        231       244       270        82       1,365
Shares in Undivided State
Mean Value Dh/mr        [  1.531     1,540     2.262      2.005     1.892  | 2.176       1,448  |  1,857
Average area m-             37        41   ]   63          52         33        39        36        42
Transactions                34        42         21        45         58        46        18        264
Part in Joint Ownership
Mcan Value Dh/m-        |  1.185  3 3.244      3.500      2.290     1.727      1.846     3.582  r 2,310
Averagearea rn'             20    |   26        20         18        44         21        10        23
Transactions                 6    J    8         1         13         6         7          4    J 45
Stable
Mean Value Dh/m-        f  1.657     1,052  1             1,497  | 2.254  T           | 1          1,520
Averageareamm-              30        29               j   25    1   36        j      1         j  28
Transactions                 2         2                    3         1   j           7___8
Commercial Premises
Mean Value Dh/m-r          5.676  f 5.646      6,253      8,043  | 7,611      8,687    5j828| 6,981
Averageaream-1   34                   23         45        21    |   26   |   26          10   1   27
Transactions            f   26    1 24 1   25 133                     27   1 29            15       179
Commercial Properny in Individual Estate
Mean Value Dh/m-        1  2,250  | 5.777      2.996      6.373     10.428  | 5.343      8.681     5,698
Averageareamn m             40        4 47       44   1 32            1 7       1 4          2   7 33
Transactions            ]   2    [   8    [   2             6    [   2    |   3    |   2          _ 25
Commercial Property -zina" Status
MeanValue Dh/m-         |12.918  f 5.727       9.343      9.813     11.802    10.502  { 28.751    13,732
Average area m-             I i3_ 1   9       _    _13   ____5___                          4 _       S
Transactions                 7         3         5          6         6         6          7        40
Commercial Ground Floor + Residential Floor
Mean Value Dhim-                                I .  1.278   916     8 867   |        |         |  978
Average area m-         T           f       1   90         187       44   1           1             139
Transactions            [ _         C            I      __ 3_  _      I      ______S
Shop
Mean Value Dhimn          17.292     5.444   _          3  6.099               2.500               7,968
Average area m-         |    I    T   I I                  29      _         _  8    |          |   17
Transactions            [   2          3         3             1                                     9_   1   3     i  i    I     i:   j 9
Other Activitn Space     _        
Mcan Value Dh/rm-        _          8.508       3.333  3  3.250     3.700  T  6,528  1 9.298       7,171
|     _Average area m _   [        |   6    |   6    |   20            10   [   12    |   10   |   10
Transactions            [        ]    3          I    [    I          I         2    [   4           _12
Storage/Varehouse
Mean Value Dh/mr'          1.071      .000  1  1 096   __1 775   j _                   I           1.986
Averageaream'           |   140   r   6    |  178   [            |   129   |           |_  |_ 113
Transactiorns                I    ]    I    J    I                                                   4 |  I  !_____4
Ruins
Mean ValueDh/m-          _         7  1.247     700        983   L         |  571    _          |9SS 3
Average area m-            ___    211   3200   {    0        ___ I 01-140   3___ 3162
Transactions            r_        T   2    T                2    1_         i_   1    1         1   6
TOTAL
Mean Value Dh/mrn          4,650     3.980  T 3.130.     3.692     4.038     4 4178    7.680  3 4.319
Average area m'                       37 2983   3 56                  46        40        24   T   60
Transactions          A     294   3  408   3245   j 401   j 91 j 415   j 144   32,298



SL
Uulit fur lluusbisi  &  tUrbasiztui/stt               Ageole te dc  l)densirkucalati             . :                     '   v'z
(I raduate Schoolof Desigy                           e*{lRhhltlhl :l  ?ilet-AOs5**
lirai   iicst                                      d    aNiitnd     i



Economiiic Asscss,iieiit
CII,I,,I.Ifiv'c Plowl, of  lle fllts
DIltlnItIslk U¢vtfptt ttiSvarIn'                                                                                                                                   . -        -
IIASE   YE.Alt I VE.l 2  YEAR 3  YEiAt. 4 V.AR 5   l'EAl 6  'EIAR 7 VlEAR f YEAR 9 VI'ARl IU   iiI 1YEAIl12 YEARIi YEAR 14 YEAR IS
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   Y E A   ___ _   _ _ _
HIF:NEFITS (D1) FM01).
I.mlnuI anattl llttIlttIhIg V altir    _                      |                  |                               -         -._ 26,62,942
Liquidaltio Value of        ,           _   .       .   _         _              .                                                                                 -      24,941
Otlhr Inves5nenls.
Valuae of New .Jtti,                    724      721     2.108X    2,08X8    2,088     3, 1i    3,143   3,143     3,1 '8    3,198     3,198     2,943     2,943    2,943     2,543
TOTAl. IIENEFi:S                   724      724    2i,i88    2,088      2,088     3,1.i3    3,'143    3,143   3,198   3.198      3,198     2,943     2,943     2,943 2,289,977
'r1o-1'Ai. iENEIT S      _         65       598      1,569    1,426    1,297      1,774    1,613   1I,166     1,356     1,233    1,121       938      852       775  548,202
I)lSCOUN I FI)
(:)S I'S I)l~Il0}      '_.__._.___..
Projecl Coilst _s___
Sludikl                 3,964     9,019    59O        5,1 19    1,60i                                                               
Cvil Vork                825   27,695   48,670    45,054   30,573                          _                              _        _                                      _
lVork Supervlslon       3,108     4,376    4,281      3,553    2,560                                                      __
Equlptailt               3,931    12,684     404        98         _                  _              _                                  - -
'lelunicilt               354       832     1,109      277        _        .   .            _                                                                               _ -
Asslstuic-e                            I
Orgunizaltlun             184       276      369        92         _                                                                                                     -
Irsinilug                 5406      38 8I     i        273       273                        _        _
I'rlvate IniveslInteul In            _                                . .                      _                                                   . .
Illullnlltgs                         16,655    16,655    16,655   23,980   23,981)   23,980   22,178   22,178   22,178   21,S62   21,S62   21,862    19,559   19,559    19,559
8rivale Invts1iitnt In
Conuanerclil Enlerprlses              1,3331    1,333    3,116    3,116    3,116       4,938    4,938    4,938     5,479    5,479    5,479      5,479     5,479    5,479     5,479
Mlalntenonce Coss ts
l('ublic antd 'rIivat)                  1 57     601      1,254    2,028    3,018      3,911    5,239    7,337     9,759    12,071    14,148    15,308    16,468  1 7,548    18.627
TOIA  tOSDS I     13,1 7Z3,845    80,19   i75,491   64,1i      30,113    32,829   32,355  34,453   37,415    39,412    41,489   42,648    41,506   42,585    43,665
l ItI.C(:SI'    13,112   67,132   66,272    56,718   '13,61.1   18,698    18,531   16,603   16,073    15,863    15,195    14,542    13,589    12,023    11,214    10,453
I)ISCOUJNTIM )
1/ SWI= /                                                                    =    =1  =    -   -                              ___ .. - . =   , 
NE'IT IIENEI:IrIS           (13,112)  (73,121) (79,465)  (73,103) (62,016)  (28,025)  (29,686) (29,213) (31,310)  (34,218)  (36,214)  (38,291)1 (39,705)  (38,563) (39,642) 2,246,312
NE'' IIENEFIS               (13,112)  (66.474) (65,671)  (55,149) (42,378) (17,401)  (16,757) (1l4,991) (14,607)  (14,512) (13,962)  (13,421)  (12,651)  (11,170)  (10,439)  537,749
I)ISCOUNrED                _
NI'V a'l'otil BIenefits  564,878
NrV o'l'olatl Cosis  409,826
NP'V of Net lienenlis  135,052
ElRlt   13.62%
I'tilIte of hrl,n  mnole atccessible rise;s io 2, 000 D)h/n t tmndgroais ai (In a,lnatil raIle of5 .25%,



Prjec Appraisal Docurent                                Page 30                               Fes-Medina Rehabilitation Project
Kingdom of Morocco                                                                                               Annex 4
Economic Assessment
Annual Flow of Benefits
ReYaistic Development Scenario*
BASE   YEAR I YEAR 2 YEAR 3  YEAR 4 VEAR S  YEAR 6 |FYEAR 7 YEAR 8 YEAR 9 I-EAR 10
YEAR
BENEFITS (Dh 000)
Land and Building Value     -      48.397   48.559   49.017   75,336   76,727   78,553   73,579  76,252   79,543   82,124
Liquidation Value of            -            -         -        -        -        -        -             -
Other Investments
Value of New Jobs           -         724      724    2.088    2.088    2.088     3,143    3,143   3,143    3,196    3,196
TOTAL BENEFITS         -      49.121   49.282   51,106   77,425   78.816   81,695   76,722  79.395   82,741   86.321
COSTS (Dh 000)
Project Costs
Studies                 3.964    9,019    5,950    5.119    1,604
Civil Work               S25   27.695   48.670   45.054   30,573            _         _
Work Supervision       3,108    4.376    4,281    3.553    2,560
Equipment              3,931    12,684     404        98    .
Tecbnical                554       832    1,109      277     -
Assistance
Organization             184      276       369       92    -         -
Training                 546      818       S18      273      273     -
Private Investment in                                                       _
Buildings                          16.655   16.655    16.655   23.980   23.980   23.980   22,178  22.178   22.178   21,862
Private Investment in                                                         _
Commercial Enterprises              1.333    1.333    3.116    3.116    3.116      4.938    4.938   4.938    5.479    5.479
Mlaintenance Costs
(Public and Private)                  157      6011    1.254    2,028    3.018    3.911    5.239   7,337    9.759   12,071
TOTAL COSTS    13.1121  73.845   80.1891  75,491   64.134   30,113   32.829   32.355  34.453   37,4 I         9,41
NET BENEFITS            J (13.112) (24.724)| (30.907)1 (24,385)   13.2911  48,7021  48.867   44.367  44,941   45-3     45,910
NPV    68.105
EIRR   23.82%
Ialze of land made accessible rises to 2,000 Dhlm  and growvs at an annuial rate of /.25%.



Unil for hlousing & Urbaitizullon         Agence tie 0):deinsullmali
(.ruluadle Scool of D)eslgn               ci de ltl [bllilt aoll'                                                  .   '..
Iturvard Unilversity          die la NMeiliati Fle ias Jr
+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
FES - BALI.,'
IMIPACTSURl LE DEVELOPP~EMFINT                                                                                           
Thsu Rh-ddinIiati
El~~~~~I I,~*
jl S)t41  ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ .
~~*\'$s ~    -~               ~~                                           ~, .V               -                   0L'INFRAsTRUCTURE VIAIRE
2            .                                                                                                                          Arcds EItlsSaaI &Aaitiliurar
".11    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~/    ,II  Prsionpemeni d'Atcch
~~~~~~4'i~~~~~~~d   :~~~~~~~..&j.~~~~~~~~~~''W ~~~~~~REsesu de VWrid d'tJrgence                                                                   _Lr
Velrd de IJ.ioso 



PJet Appraisal Document                        Page 32                        Fes-Medina RehabiltaWon Pject
Khigdom of Morcco                                                                             Annex 4
Economic Assessment - Cumulative Flow of Benefiis
NARROW RANIGE OF VARIATION
SCENARIO 1: COST INCREASES 0%
NPV (Dh 000)                  _                       EIRR (%)
Difference in    Growth in Land Prices            Difference in    Growth in Land Prices
Land Prices    3-5'%    3-5.25% I 3-5.50%         Land Prices    3-5%   3-5.25%  3-5.50%
1000-1750    67,086   85,735   105,015            1000-1750      11.7      12.2    12.6
1000-2000    133,739   155,052  177,086           1000-2000       13.2     13.6    14.0
1000-2250    200,392  224,370  249,157            1000-2250       14.5     14.9    15.3
SCENARIO 2: COST INCREASES 10%
NPV (Dh 000)                 _                        EIRR (%)
COST INCREASES 10%                               COST INCREASES 10%
Difference in    Growth in Land Prices            Difference in    Growth in Land Prices
Land Prices    3-5%Yo  3-5.25%  3-5.50%           Land Prices    3-5%    3-5.25%  3-5.50%
1000-1750    44,717   63,366   82,646             1000-1750      11.1      11.5     11.9
1000-2000    1 11,3,70  132,683   154,717         1000-2000      12.5      12.9     13.3
1000-2250    178,023  202,000  226,788            1000-2250      13.7     14.2      14.6
SCENARIO 3: COST INCREASES 20%
NPV lDh 000)                                          EIRR (%)
Difference in    Growth in Land Prices            Difference in    Growth in Land Prices
Land Prices    3-5%    3-5.25%  3-5.50%           Land Prices    3-5%   3-5.25%  3-5.50%
1000-1750    22,348   40,997   60,277             1000-1750      10.5      10.9     11.3
1000-2000       O 89,001   110,314  132,348       1000-2000       11.9     12.3    12.7
1000-2250    155=,654  179,631  204,419           1000-2250       13.1     13.5 _  13.9
_________             ~WIDE RANGE OF VARIATION
SCENARIO 1: COST ]INCREASES 0%
NPV (Dh 000)               _                          EIRR (%)
Difference in    Growth in Land Prices            Difference in    Growth in Land Prices
Land Prices    3-5%   | 3-5.5%    3-6%            Land Prices    3-5%   13-5.5%    3-6%
1000-2000    149,748  195,135  243,635            1000-2000      13.5      14.4  j  15.2
1000-2500   j289,3128  346,061  406,687           1000-2500      16.0  [ 16.8  1  17.7
1000-3000   1428,908  496,988  569,739            1000-3000       I 8.0    I 8.T  19.6
SCENARIO 2: COST INCREASES 10%
NPV Dh 000)         _               _                  EIRR (%)
COST INCREASES 10%                               COST INCREASES 10%
Difference in    Growth in Land Prices            Difference in    Growth in Land Prices
Land Prices J 3-5%    3-5.5%    3-6%              Land Prices J 3-55%    3-5.5% 1 3-6%
1000-2000  J 127,379   172,766  221,266 1         1000-2000       12.8     13.6  j  14.5
1000-2500    266,959  323,692  384,318            1000-2500       15.2     16.0    16.9
1000-2250  [406,539  474,619  547,369             1000-3000   r  17.1      18.0     18.8
SCENARIO 3: COST INCREASES 20%
NPV (Dh 000)                                           EIRR (%)
Difference in    Growth in Land Prices          [Difference in |  Growth in Land Prices
Land Prices    3-5%    3-5.5%    3-6%          [ Land Prices  | 3-5%    3-5.5%    3-6%
1000-2000    105,010   150,397 (198,897        [  1000-2000       12.2     13.0     13.8
1000-2500    244,590 f 301,323  361,949           1000-2500       14.5     15.3     16.1
1000-3000  ,384,169  452,250 (525,000             i j  1000-3000  16.4     17.2     18.0
iVotes:
(1) Discount rate - expected iral interest rate of 10. 00%



Projed Appraisal Document                       Page 33                          Fes-Medina Rehabiltation Project
Kingdom of Morocco                                                                               Annex 4
Attachment to Annex 4
Non-Moroccan Values for Rehabilitating the Fes-Medina
Using Contingent Valuation to Value the Medina's Cultural Heritage
A contingent valuation (CV) method and a Delphi exercise were used to measure some of the economic
benefits that would be created by the project in order to capture use and nonuse benefits deriving from the project. The
contingent valuation method has often been used to determine the value of environmental goods, but it has almost
never been used to value cultural heritage sites. This exercise sets the stage for a wider utilization of this method
given the similar economic nature of environmental goods and cultural heritage sites. The method is aimed at
eliciting the willingness to pay (WTP) of the medina's users, in dollars, if the proposed rehabilitation program is
implemented.
One interesting feature of CV is that it captures both the use and nonuse class of benefits that an agent
expects to enjoy from the public good. The use class of benefits consists of all the current direct and indirect ways
in which an agent expects to make physical use of a public good. These benefits can be measured by observing
changes in market prices. Nonuse benefits are also referred to as "existence" values. Here people often obtain
utility from an amenity for various reason other than their expected personal use. In contrast to use values,
existence values involve the notion that a person does not have to visit a recreational site or a cultural site to gain
utility from its maintenance or improvement. The capability of generalization is a powerful feature of the sample
survey method. In this way the responses given by, say, 500 people can be used to represent the responses that
everybody in a region or a country would give if they were all interviewed.
Overview of Economic Benefits
Economic benefits accruing from the project involving the Fbs-Medina can be divided into five beneficiary
categories (see Table 1.1). In category I are those benefits which accrue directly to residents of Fbs. In category 2 are
those benefits which accrue to Moroccans who are not residents of Fbs. In category 3, benefits accrue to foreign
visitors to Fes. In category 4 are the benefits accruing to the foreign visitors to Morocco who do not visit Fes during
their current trip. In category 5 are benefits accruing to non-Moroccans who do not visit Morocco. This exercise does
not consider any of the potential benefits to Moroccans (categories I and 2) but rather attempts to quantify to various
degrees the benefits likely to accrue to non-Moroccans if the project is undertaken.
Table 1.1           Categories of Economic Benefits
Category   Beneficiary Source
I      Fbs Residents
2      Other Moroccans
3      Foreign Visitors to Fbs
4      Other Foreign Visitors to Morocco
5      Foreigners Not Visiting Morocco
In fact, the project involves a rapidly deteriorating UNESCO World Heritage site which is an important tourist
destination. In such instances it has long been known (Dixon and Sherman, 1990) that a substantial portion of the
benefits of an improvement project may accrue not to local residents but rather to foreign visitors to the site.
Less frequently measured are the potential benefits accruing to other foreign visitors to the country (category
4) and to those not living in or visiting the country where the project is being considered (category 5). Benefits may
accrue to agents in these two categories due to passive use considerations (Krutilla, 1967; Carson, Flores, and Mitchell,
1997). These considerations include an appreciation for the existence of the cultural resources in Fbs or a possible
desire to visit Fbs in the future.



Proect Appraisa Document                       Page 34                         Fes-Medina Rehabilitation Project
Kingdom of Morocco                                                                             Annex 4
Attachment to Annex 4
Methodology of CV Survey
A multi-stage sample of 600 adult visitors was designed to represent visitors (including both tourists and those
visiting for business or other purposes) to Morocco who visited the country during June-July,1997. Of the total of 600
interviews, 400 interviews were allotted to be completed in Fes. One hundred and twenty of the remaining 200
interviews were allotted to Casablanca and 80 to Tangier on the basis of their respective visitor flows. Equivalent
subsamples received a different payment amount in the willingness-to-pay question. This design makes it possible to
use the pattern of answers to the WTP question to trace the demand curve.
The first section of the survey consists of 16 questions about the person's visit to Morocco and to Fes. The
material in the second section contains the FRs scenario, which consists of a short narrative supplemented by showcards
featuring colored photographs of the Medina. The purpose is to provide each respondent with a standardized set of
information about the character and condition of the Fes-Medina today. It concludes by saying that without a major
rehabilitation effort, the Medina will continue to decline. The third section of the instrument describes the conditions of
the willingness-to-pay choice the respondents were asked to make. It presents a plan to rehabilitate the Fes-Medina,
which is described as having been developed by "the Moroccan Government in collaboration with experts from
international agencies' to accomplish three goals:
First, improve the Medina's condition. Buildings, streets, sewers, public spaces, and monuments will be
repaired and cleaned up.
Second, preserve the Medina's traditional character and cultural heritage for future generations.
Third, ensure that the Medina will continue to be a productive and vibrant living city.
These prospective accomplishments represent the public goods that the proposed rehabilitation plan will
provide.
The respondent is then told that "one way to help pay for it" would be for visitors such as him or her to pay a
special fee. Fes visitors were then asked what decision they, as consumers, would have taken about including Fes in
their itinerary, if they had to pay a Fes preservation fee of a specified amount when they register at their Fes hotel.
Each respondent was randomly assigned to one of six price-point subsamples, which varied between 25 and 2000
dirhams (between $25 and $200). The six amounts were chosen to bracket the anticipated range of median willingness
to pay and to give information about the tails of the WTP distribution. It was assumed that those who were visiting Fes
would be willing to pay more than those who are not visiting Fes. The upper ranges for these two groups were fuxed at
the equivalents of $200 and $100, $200 for the hotel fee for the Fes visitors and $100 for the departure fee for the non-
FRs visitors. These were likely to be the highest plausible amounts the Government might contemplate charging for
hotel and departure fees.
Interviewing began in Fis on June 16, 1997 and continued until July 3. The Casablanca and Tangier
interviews were conducted between July 15-25.



Project Appraisal Document                    Page 35                        Fes-Medina Rehabaion Proed
Kingdom of Morocco                                                                           Annex 4
Attachment to Annex 4
Methodology of the Delphi Exercise
In its simplest formulation, the Delphi method is a solicitation of the opinions of experts. Most Delphi
exercises administer one or more questionnaires interspersed with information to a group of experts. Typically, the
experts are polled one or more times; and between pollings, information about the opinions of the group of experts as a
whole is disseminated among the group. Given budget constraints to carry out a CV survey in Europe, the very
practical approach was to carry out a Delphi analysis asking European CV experts what are, in their opinion, the mean
and median WTP for the rehabilitation of the Fes-Medina in Europe.
This Delphi exercise was conducted using a stratified random sample of 30 attendees at the June, 1997
meeting of the European Association of Environmental and Resource Economists (EAERE) in Tilburg, Netherlands.
This meeting was chosen because it was likely to contain the largest concentration of European economists familiar
with contingent valuation. After the first round, when data had been collected and examined, the participants were
contacted by e-mail and fax and asked to reassess their earlier answers in light of the results of the first round.
Results
Aggregate Estimates for Foreign Visitors to Fes. An aggregate estimate of the annual benefits to foreign visitors to Fes
can be obtained by multiplying the desired statistic (mean and median WTP) by the number of foreign visitors to Fes.
An estimnate of 161,419 adult visitors to Fes who stayed overnight in hotels was provided by the Ministry of Tourism.
Multiplying the estimated number of adult visitors, 161,419, by the estimated lower bound on mean WTP ($69.5)
yields an annual aggregate estimate of $11,233,148.
Aggregate Estimatefor Non-Fes Foreign Visitors to Morocco. The World Tourism Organization estimates that in
1996 there were 1,516,169 adult foreign tourists arriving in Morocco who stayed in hotels and similar establishments.
This number multiplied by the estimated lower bound on mean WTP ($30.9) yields a benefit estimate of $46,879,945.
Probably the most important factor in determining the aggregate estimate for the non-FFs foreign visitors is the number
of years over which individual WTP should be aggregated. The key issue is whether there is effectively additional
competition for the amount of value for the Fes project held by foreign visitors to Morocco. Over one year the answer
is likely to be no. Over a longer time period there are likely to other similar rehabilitation projects put forth by the
Moroccan Government and/or international organizations. Thus aggregation of the point estimate over many years
would likely overestimate total benefits by a substantial amount. One very conservative way to avoid this issue is to
only use the first year.
Quantitative Results of the Delphi Exercise. The results of the second round of the Delphi exercise, aimed at estimating
the mean and median WTP for a Fes contingent valuation in Europe, provided a range of values from $12.1 (the mean
WTP) to $2.1 (the median WTP). To be as conservative as possible, the estimate of the median ($2.15), which is the
lower estimated value, was used. These estimates were applied to 144,342,000 households (Eurostat, 1991). This
implies an estimnate for the total value of Fes-Medina to European households of at least US$310,335,300 (it could
be 6 times higher if the estimate of the mean WTP were used). This figure indicates that Europe has a fairly high
magnitude of WTP for restoration of the Fes-Medina. Furthermore, even though the Delphi estimates of mean WTP
are reasonably large, the responses of the Delphi participants indicate that the distribution of public WTP would be very
highly skewed. About 30 percent of the participants expect the median to be zero. While a highly skewed distribution
of public values for a nonlocal cultural resource that few will ever visit seems reasonable, it poses certain difficulties in
fashioning an appropriate payment mechanism. This amount of skew indicates that the values for the rehabilitation of
the Fes-Medina are not likely to be broadbased. This lack of broad-based value will make it difficult to design any
compulsory payment mechanism that would have widespread public support.
The only alternative to some sort of compulsory mechanism would be voluntary
contribution. While such a mechanism may enjoy widespread public support, it is not a practical
way to collect Europe's WTP for restoring the Fes-Medina, since it invites massive free-riding.



Proect Appraisal Do-ren                           Page 36                           F-edIha RehablWton Project
KW*dom o Moo                                                                                         Annex 5
Annex 5
Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities
ADER-Fes Balance Sheet and Income Statement
(000 MAD)
ASSETS                          1994           1995           1996
Cash in bank                   1,133.6       7,734.2         1,782.3
Accounts receivable           10,302.5      10,814.9         15,153.9
Total current assets   11,436.1    18,549.1        16,936.2
Work in progress              7.781.0        7,391.3         14,323.1
Other assets (net of dep.)     2,565.2       2,421.8          2,685.4
Total Assets   21,782.3      28,362.2        33,944.7
LIAB]ILITIES
Accounts payable               7,430.1       7,160.1          8,404.2
Purchasers advances           16,042.6      26,407.3         35,105.7
Total current liabilities     23,472.7      33,567.4         43,509.
Long-term liabilities           201.5           12.8              5.1
Provisions for losses         10,377.6      12,978.5         15,548.6
Quasi equity                    168.6          84.3           -
Paid in capital                5,000.0       5,000.0          5,000.0
Retained earnings            (11,932.7)    (17,438.1)       (23,280.8)
Net earnings ofthe year       (5,505.4)     (5,842.7)        (6,838.1)
Total Liabilities and Equity    21,782.3  28,362.2        33,944.7
FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Debt mtio                          1.08          1.18             1.28
Equity ratio                       0.22          0.16             0.14
Liquidity ratio (acid test)        0.44          0.32             0.35
Note - Definitions
Debt ratio =           Total liabilities / total assets
Equity ratio           Total stockholders equity / total assets
Liquidity ratio (acid test)   Cash + marketable securities + accounts receivable + other liquid assets
(excluding inventories) / current liabilities.



Proect Appraisal Docuernt                             Page 37                              Fes-Medina RehabiItioln ProecI
Kkgdomn of Morocco                                                                                            Annex S
Budget of the FRs-MWdina municipality
OPERATING EXPENSES
RECETTES                              FY93        FY94        FY95       FY96 8 first
Semes. 97
IMPOTS ETTAXES RETROCEDES               5,185,537  5,443,227    4.783,292    5,587,345
TAXES LOCALES PROPRES                   1,133,671  1,305,178    1,169,483    2.807,046
PRODUITS DES SERVICES                  3,104,115  3,431,411    4,458,236     6,200,153
PRODUITS DOMANIAUX                       376,132   312,440     376,655         360,192
OCCUPATION DE LA VOIE PUBLIQUE          1,798,286  1,770,903    2,308,803    3,189,346
PRODUITS DES CONCESSIONS                      0         0           0               0
RECETTES DIVERSES ET                     653,005  1,007,060    1,141,926     1,251,183
ACCIDENTELLES
ATTRIBUTION DES PATENTES               17,537,803 19,640,039   20,314,819   20,715,913
PARTS DE TVA                                  0         0           0        6,560,930
COTE PART DES HABBOUS                         0         0           0               0
TOTAL DES RECETTES COURANTES           29,788,549 32,910,258   34,553,214   46,672,108
PRELEVEMENT SUR EXCEDENTS PRECEDENTS                                         1,626,284
TOTAL RECETTES COURANTES DISPONIBLES                         36,793,430     48,298,392
RESULTATS 96
DEPENSES                          RESULTATS 93 RESULTAT  RESULTATS   ET 1ER SEM 97
S 94         95
CONSEIL MUNICIPAL                        154,891    86,400     178,335         215,000
DEPENSES DE PERSONNEL                  10,803,993 10,925,203   14,711,499   23,148,166
FRAIS DIVERS DE GESTION                  739,486   428,855     858,664       1,326,727
AUTRES DEPENSES                          242,120    99,994     245,286         546,728
FONCTIONNEMENT DES VEHICULES             601,202   549,445    1,272,370      1,167,592
EAU ET ELECTRICITE PUBLIQUES           2,500,000  5,725,000    5,942,940     4,851,170
VOlES ETTRAVAUX ENTRETIEN              7,442,025  7,161,404    7,519,243     9,113,157
EXPLOITATIONS EN REGIE DIRECTE            54,328    14,850      61,790          41,984
CHARGES ET ENT.DES PROPRIETES COMMUNALES                      1,306,535        101,618
ASSISTANCE SOCIALE                        50,000    89,892      98,410          74,833
SUBVENTIONS ACCORDEES                     30,000    85,500      92,500         137,500
DEPENSES DIVERSES ET IMPREVUES           219,097    85,500      35,814          49,325
DETTE RADEEF                           2,969,367  2,969,400    4,470,044     4,470,044
AMORTISSEMENT DES AUTRES                      0         0           0        3,054,548
CREDITS
TOTAL DES DEPENSES COURANTES           26,809.826 29,043,481   36,793,430   48,298,392
VERSEMENTS A LA DEUXIEME PARTIE DU BUDGET                           0               0
TOTAL DEPENSES COURANTES BUDGETISEES                         36,793,430     48,298,392



PROJECTIONS
COMMUNE URBAINE DE FES-MEDINA                                                                                                        I,'
Assessment of Project Costs on the Municipality's Budget
(assuming no variation on Interest rate)
Dirhems                                     Annual                   Counterpart                    Security
Payment                   Funds
Loan amount:                              65,100,000 -1                                  8,271,883              |    27S
Interest rate:                              60%                                                                 of disbursed loan           of loan amount
ConuStnwnt fees
Maturity lyeara)                      |affter 5 years grace period
FISCAL     DISBURS.       ANUAL       CUMULATIVE  COMMITMENT    INTERET               LOAN          TOTAL       COUNTER-  GUARANTEE            LAND          TOTAL
YEAR      PERCENT       DISBURS.       DISBURS.          FEE           PAID         AMORT.          LOAN          PART        DEPOSIT    ACQUISITION       PROJECT
REPAYMENT   COMMUN.                                       CHARGES
1997/98     3%            1,905,000       1,905,000      158,750              0             0        158,750      514,350      3,175,000      2,673.822      6,521,922
1998199     39%          24,765,000      26,670,000      153,988        127,635             0        281,623     6,686,550                    2,673,822      9,641,996
1999100     27%          17,145,000      43.815,000       92,075       1,786,890            0       1,878,965    4,629,150                                   6,508,115
2000/01     20%          12,700,000      56,515,000       49,213       2,935,605            0       2,984,818    3,429.000                                   6,413,818
2001/02     11%           6,985,000      63,500,000       17,463       3,786,505            0       3,803,968    1,885,950                                   5,689,918
2002/17                                                                              6,271.883      6,271,883                                                6,271,883
&
U_



Assessment of the Municipality's financial capacity to payback the Bank Loan                                                          "i
(without project benefits)
Accumulated savings
of current revenue
Starting 1997198
Incrse  3_               3S           3S__        3S                       3S          6%         1000
DIRHAMS
Statng:    EX. 1995    FX. 1995     EX 1995    EX. 2001102               EX. 1995    EX.1995
FISCAL  CG TRANSF      LOCAL      BUSINESS      VALUE        TOTAL       STAFF       OTHER  OUTSTAND.       TOTAL      PROJECT    CAPACITY      ANNUAL     CUMUL.       SELF
YEAR      TAXES TAXES & MISC       TAXES       ADDED    REVENUES   EXPENDIT.   EXPENDIT.       LOANS    CURRENT      CHARGES      FOR NEW      SAVING     SAVING    FINANCE
TAXE (VAT)                                       Repayment   EXPENDIT.               PROJECTS                             RATIO
1,993      5,185       7,067        17,537          0       29,789      10,804       13,037      2,969      26,810           0           0       2,979      2,979     9.97%
1,994      5,443       7,827        19,640          0       32,910      10,925       14,468      3,650      29,043           0           0       3,867      6,846    11.09%
1,995      4,783       9,455        20,315          0       34,553      14,711       17,612      4,470      36,793           0           0      -2,240      4,606    12.94%
9811S.97      5,687      13,809        20,715      6,581       46,672      23,361       17,412     7,526      48,298            0           0      -1,626      2,980    16.12%
1997/98      3,836       9,482        21,336     13,500       48,156      16,041       12,304      8,245      36,591       7,198        7,346     -2,980          0    47.32%          ;
1998199      3,951       9,767        21,977     13,905       49,600      16,522       13,043      9,201      38,766       6,134        4,700          0          0    40.39%
1999/00      4,070      10,060        22.836     14,322       51,088       17,018      13,825      7,700      38,543        4,295       8,249          0          0    39.63%
2000/01      4,192      10,361        23,315      14,752       62,620      17,529      14,655      6,414      38,598        4,577       9,446          0          0    38.84%
2001/02      4,318       10,672       24,014      15,194       64,199      18,055      15,534      3,466      37,055        4,371      12,773          0          0    38.03%
2002/03      4,447       10,992       24,735      15,650      56,825       18,596      16,466      3,350      38,412        6,272      11,141          0          0    37.19%
2003/04      4,581       11,322       25,477      16,120       57,500      19,154      17,454      3,350      39,958        8,272      11,270          0          0    36.33%
2004/05      4,718       11,662       26,241      16,603      59,225       19,729      18,501      3.350      41,580        6,272      11,373          0          0    35.45%
2005106      4,860      12,012        27,028     17,101       61,001      20,321       19,611      3,350      43,282        6,272      11,447          0          0    34.54%
2006/07      5,006      12,372        27,839     17,614       62,831      20,930       20,788      2,867      44,585        6,272      11,974          0          0    33.60%
2007108      6,156      12,743        28,674     18,143       64,716      21,558       22,035      1,377      44,971        6,272      13,474          0          0    32.64%
2008/09      5,310      13,126        29,535      18,687      66,658      22,205       23,358                 45,562        6,272      14,824          0          0    31.65%
2009110      5,470      13,519        30,421      19,248      68,658       22,871      24,759                 47,630        6,272      14,756          0          0    30.63%
2010/11      5,634      13,925        31,333      19,825      70,717       23,557      26,245                 49,802        6,272      14,644          0          0    29.58%
2011/12      5,803       14,343       32,273     20,420       72,839       24,264      27,819                 52,083        6,272      14,484          0          0    28.50%
2012t13      5,977      14,773        33,241     21.033       75,024       24,992      29,488                 54,480        6,272      14.272          0          0    27.38%           a
2013/14      6,156      15,216        34,239     21,664       77,27S       25,741      31,258                 56,999        6,272      14,004          0          0    26.24%
2014/15      6,341       15,673       35,266     22,313       79,593       26,514      33,133                 59,647        6,272      13,674          0          0    25.06%
2015/16      6,531       16,143       36,324     22,983       81,981       27,309      35,121                 62,430        6,272      13,279          0          0    23.85%
2016/17      6,727      16,627        37,414     23,672       84,440       28,128      37,228                 65,367        6,272      12,811          0          0    22.60%           V



PMJe AppMaIl Doumeno                         Page 40                       Fes-Medina Rehabilitation Pject
K-hgdom of Morocco                                                                         Annex 6
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The Loans will finance the procurement of goods (including laboratory equipment, waste collection vehicles, etc.),
civil works for infrastructure or housing rehabilitation subprojects, and consultants' services, according to
arrangements agreed during appraisal. Procurement under the Loan will be carried out in accordance with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines. The Bank's standard bidding documents will be used for all procurement under
International Competitive Bidding (1CB).
Civil Works
ICB will apply to all contracts exceeding USSI million. Works contracts below US$1 million will be awarded
following National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. Given the specificity of the
medina, and based on recent experience under the Fifth Water Project implementation in FRs, it is likely that most
contracts will fall under NCB procedures. Grouping the contracts into large packages to attract intemational bidders
would not be feasible. For contracts below US$150,000, quotations shall be obtained from at least three contractors.
Goods
All contracts for goods costing US$300,000 or more will be awarded following ICB procedures. Contracts below
US$300,000 will be awarded following NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts costing less than
US$150,000 may be awarded through local shopping after receiving quotations from at least three suppliers.
Consultants' Services
Consultant activities will consist mainly of technical assistance to the municipalities and ADER-Fes, and training.
Consultant services will be contracted on terms and conditions in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency - January 1997. About half the
contracts would be procured under quality and cost-based selection, while the following three other procedures
would apply for the remaining contracts: selection based on qualifications (mostly for the laboratory and for the
taining program); single source (Harvard University, and fees paid to the executive agency); and individual
consultants (mostly for management assistance to the municipalities, and part of the training program).
Review of Contracts
All contracts for civil works costing US$1 million and above, goods valued at US$300,000 and above, consultant
contracts awarded to firms valued at US$100,000 and above (US$50,000 for individuals consultants), and sole
source contracts, as well as the first two contracts under each of the works, goods, and consultant categories,
irrespective of the values, will be subject to prior Bank review. All other contracts will be subject to random post-
review during supervision missions by Bank staff.
Procurement Monitoring and Supervision
General responsibility for procurement activities will lie with the Governor of Fes-Medina, acting as chairman of
the Technical Committee. He will be, inter alia, in charge of supervising the procurement methods. For each
operation, a designated and ad hoc local procurement committee will be in charge of reviewing and evaluating the
bids, on the basis of ADER's analyses. Labor intensive works, implemented by the ADER-FRs directorate of
Community Development, will be procured according to agreed conditions spelled out in a specific document
cahier des charges.



Project ApprIDoal D                           Page 41                        Fos-Medna Rehabitin Projet
Kindo of Maocco                                                                              Annex 6
Disbursement
The proceeds of the two Bank loans will be disbursed against similar conditions for goods and consultants'
expenditures, and separate conditions for civil works:
(a)    civil works: 80 percent of contract amounts for eligible subprojects;
(b)    goods: 100 percent of foreign expenditures, and 100 percent of local ex-factory costs and/or
80 percent of local expenditures, for items procured locally; and
(c)    consultants' services: 100 percent of expenditures
Disbursements against civil works contracts exceeding US$150,000 equivalent, goods contracts exceeding
US$100,000, and consultants' contracts exceeding US$50,000 for finms and US$25,000 for individuals, will be fully
documented. For all other expenditures, disbursement can be made against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs).
Supporting documents for SOEs will not be submitted to the Bank, but will be retained by ADER-Fes and made
available to Bank staff during supervision. ADER will record all contracts so that the Bank can monitor them for
prior or ex-post review as needed.
To facilitate project implementation and disbursement, the following has been agreed upon during negotiations, and
is part of the tripartite agreement to be signed among the State, the municipalities, and ADER-Fes (the Convention).
First, and under the loan to the Government, the Ministry of Finance will open a revolving account to the regional
Treasury of Fes in the name of ADER-Fes (compte particulier), and will make periodic transfers from the public
expenditures budget to this account, in amounts equivalent to the total cost of the Governnnent's project.
Disbursements, fully documented, will be made directly out of this account by ADER's general manager. Second, a
Special Account will be established at the General Treasury with an authorized allocation of US$ 0.7 million, to be
withdrawn as eligible expenditures are incurred and prefinanced by the Government. ADER will be charged to
prepare all relevant documentation for the central Treasury, which will in turn submit relevant applications to the
Bank under procedures specified in the Convention and the loan agreement, which include SOEs for labor intensive
works.
Second, and under the loan for the municipality of Fes-Medina, related counterpart funds will be funded by the
budget and made available in a separate revolving account or compte d'affectation special, while a Special Account
will be established at the regional Treasury, under the responsibility of the President of the Municipal Council. The
Special Account will cover eligible expenses under the municipality loan, up to US$1.0 million, and will be used as
a revolving account to disburse the loan to the municipality. Applications for withdrawal will be send to the Bank
by the municipality, with a possible delegation to ADER, and will include SOEs, particularly for the poverty
alleviation component (numerous small contracts).



Project Appraisal Document                        Page 42                           Fes-Medina Rehabilitation Project
Kingdom of Morocco                                                                                   Annex 6
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category    Contract Value (Threshold)    Procurement         Contracts Subject to Prior
US$ Equivalent              Method                    Review
Expenditure
Category
1. Civil Works           150,000 & less                Local Shopping           First two contracts
150,000 to I million          NCB                     First two contracts
above I million               ICB                     Yes
2. Goods
150,000 & less                Local Shopping          First two contracts
150,000 to 300,000            NCB                     First two contracts
above 300,000                ICB                      Yes
3. Services              100,000 & above for firms                              Yes
50,000 & above for                                    Yes
individuals
4. Miscellaneous         n.a.                          n.a.                     n.a.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        -   Amount in French Francs (000)           Financing Percentage
A. Loan to the Government
Civil Works                                    24,500                     80%
Goods                                           2,340                    100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local (ex-factory costs); and
80% of local expenditures
Consultants' services                           7,000                    100%
Management fees                                 2,920                    100%
Unallocated                                     4,140
Total                          40,900
B. Loan to Fes-Mddina municipality
Civil Works                                    24,500                     80% civil works
Goods                                           5,250                    100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local (ex-factory costs); and
80% of local expenditures
Consultants' services                           4,090                    100%
Management fees                                 2,920                    100%
Unallocated                                     4,140
Total                          40,900



Proeof AppraIl Doae Pi43                                                              FeAdw* RaehebOMon Prae 
Kigdom of MAoAmex 7
Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                                  Planned                    Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Bank Budget                                                   544                       586
B. Project Schedule                                          Planned                   Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)                        04/01/1994                04/01/1994
Appraisal mission departure                                03/15/1997                06/04/1997
Negotiations                                               05/15/1997                11/28/1997
Planned date of effectiveness                              10/31/1999
Prepared by:    ADER-Fes, Governorate of Fes-M6dina, Harvard University, Fes University and the World Bank
Preparation assistance: [PPF, trust funds, cofinanciers, etc.]
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Francois Amiot (Team Leader), Claude Archambault (MNSID),
Kathleen So Ting Fong (MNSPF), Yoko Eguchi (MNSRE)1, Dan Aronson (ENVSP)I, June Taboroff(ENVSP).
1/ Note: Up to pre-appraisal stage.



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 44                        FesMedina Rehablllaion Projec
Kingdom of Morocco                                                                         Annex S
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File*
A.    Project Implementation Plan
Al    ADER-Fes Rapport de Strategie et Plan de mise en oeuvre, Dec. 1996
A2    ADER-Fes: Microsoft Project: Planning of civil works and studies.
A3    ADER-Fes: Rapport de Synthese (Mars 1997);
B.     Bank Staff Assessments
Bl.    Mission Supervision reports: April and Sept.1994; March 1995; February and June 1996; April  and June
1997.
B2.    Assessment on the circulation and parking feasibility study (April 1996); Notes on concessioning parking
facilities in the Medina (June 1997).
B3.    Social Assessment (FIAHS Fund): Feb-May 1995 (4 reports, in French, in partnership with Fes University:
Synthese; Habitat; Patrimoine: Activites);
B4.    Costab and Microsoft Project, in partnership with ADER-Fes.
C.     Other
Cl.    Resume de l'Evaluation Sociale. Francoise Navez Bouchanine (June 1995).
C2.    Harvard University and ADER-Fes: Strategie d'allegement de la Pauvrete dans la Medina
de Fes (August 1995); Profil des Revenus et de la Pauvrete en Medina (Nov. 1995);
Dynamique de la rdhabilitation: Enquete sur la Strategie des Menages (Janv.1995);
Examen du Contexte Institutionnel (March 1996); Examen du Contexte Juridique et
Reglementaire (March 1996); Enquete Renovation (March 1996); Dynamique Fonciere et Rehabilitation
de I'Habitat (Mars 1997); Environmental Assessment (June 1997).
C3.    Bernard Tagournet:Mobilisation des Ressources Locales (Nov.1994-Dec.1996); simulation du
budget de la commune de Fes-Medina (June 1997).
C4.    Sati Arnaout: Community Development Component (July 1996).
C5.    ECOGES: Audit Institutionnel d'ADER-Fes (July 1994); Montage et Renforcement Institutionnel
(March 1995).
C6.    Dominique Achour: Rapport d'Expertise (Oct.1994 and March 1995).
C7.    Groupe Huit: Etude des Acces, Circulations, Stationnement et Collecte des Ordures
Menageres. Rapport Final. December 1996.
C8.    Michel Couillaud: Valorisation du Patrimoine de Fes par le Tourisme. Rapport Provisoire
(Jan. 1997) et Rapport Final (June 1997).
C9.    Cooper & Lybrand: Evaluation du redressement fmancier et administratif d'ADER-Fes
(Jan. 1997).
C 10.  Catherine Ecolivet: "Fes, un Projet d'Espoir" (a ten-minute video film on the project),
with collaboration of UNESCO.
*Including electronic files.



Project Appraisal Document                    Page 45                        Fes-Medina RehabilitinUon Project
Klngdom of Morocco                                                                           Annex 8
REFERENCES ON CONTINGENT VALUATION STUDIES AND DELPHI METHOD
Carson, R.T., N.E. Flores, and R.C. Mitchell (1997), "The Theory and Measurement of Passive Use Value," in 1.
Bateman and K. Willis, eds., Valuing Environmental Preferences: Theory and Practice of the Contingent Valuation
Method in the US, EC and Developing Countries (New York: Oxford University Press.)
Carson, R.T., RC. Mitchell, M.B. Conaway, and S. Navrud (1997), "Non-Moroccan Values for Rehabilitating the Fes-
Medina", World Bank Report, Washington DC.
Dixon, J. and R Sherman (1990), Economics of Protected Areas: A New Look at Benefits and Costs (Washington:
Island Press).
Krutilla, J. (1967), "Conservation Reconsidered," American Economic Review, 57, 787-796.
Mitchell, RC. and RT. Carson (1989), Using Surveys to Value Public Goods: 7he Contingent Valuation Method
(Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press).
Navrud, S., Pedersen, P.E., and J. Strand (1995), Valuing our Culuual Heritage: A Contingent Valuation Study of the
Nidaros Cathedral, Landbruksoekonomisk Forum, 2-95, 53-65, summarised in English in Navrud, S., ed. (1992),
Pricing the European Environment, Scandinavian University Press/Oxford University Press, 110-111.
Zigio, E. (1996), "The Delphi Method and its Contribution to Decision-Making," in Adler, M. and E. Ziglio, eds.,
Gazing into the Oracle: The Delphi Method and its Application to Social Policy and Public Health (London: Jessica
Kingsley).



Status of Bank Group Operations in Morocco
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                  and actual 
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                         disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit       Year               Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                               IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 198
Active Loans
MA-PE-42414   IBRD4026A             GOVT OF MOROCCO                   COOR/MON SOCIAL PRO              26.58       0.00            0.00         25.90        2.42       0.00
MA-PE-42415   IBRD4025A             GOVT OF MOROCCO                   SPI - HEALTH                     62.26       0.00            0.00         55.98         -.31      0.00
MA-PE-5435    IBRD3664A             KINGDOM OF MOROCCO/ONEP           WATER SUPPLY V                   57.30       0.00            0.00         53.30       64.38       2.15
MA-PE-5435    IBRD36650             KINGDOM OF MOROCCO/ONEP           WATER SUPPLY V                   32.00        0.00           0.00 -       26.20        64.38      2.15
MA-PE-5440    IBRD3171A             KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                HEALTH SECTOR INVEST             13.36        0.00            5.00          8.36       13.35       0.00
MA-PE-5462    IBRD3587A             GOVERNMENT                        SECOND LSI IMPROVEME             96.74        0.00           19.12         61.81       33.48       3.69
MA-PE-5489    IBRD3901A             KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                SECONDARY ROADS                  55.28        0.00            0.00         53.67       38.13       0.00
MA-PE-5495    IBRD33660             MOROCCAN BANKS                    FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV             29.50        0.00            0.00         16.49       33.30      16.47
MA-PE-5499    IBRD3688A             GOV. OF MOROCCO                   IRR. AREAS AGR. SERV             16.51        0.00            0.00         15.50       16.28       6.59
MA-PE-5501    IBRD4024A             GOV. OF MOROCCO                   SPI - EDUCATION                  41.95        0.00            0.00         36.85        2.99       0.00
MA-PE-5504    IBRD3647A             KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                ENVIRONMENT MANAGEME              4.09        0.00            0.00          3.99        3.32       0.00
MA-PE-5514    IBRD3618A             GOV. OF MOROCCO                   LAND DEVELOPMENT                 48.91        0.00            0.00         46.86       62.93     39.82
MA-PE-40566   IBRD42540    1998   GOVT OF MOROCCO                     RURAL W.S.& SANITATN              5.00       0.00             0.00          5.00        1.67      0.00          3
MA-PE-40566   IBRD42541    1998   GOVT OF MOROCCO                     RURAL W.S.& SANITATN              5.00       0.00             0.00          4.86        1.67      0.00
MA-PE-5521    IBRD42890    1998   GOVT OF MOROCCO                     WATER RESOURCE MGMT.             10.00       0.00             0.00        10.00         1.17      0.00
MA-PE-5521    IBRD42891    1998   GOVT OF MOROCCO                     WATER RESOURCE MGMT.             10.00       0.00             0.00          9.73        1.17      0.00
MA-PE-5523    IBRD42310    1998   FEC                                 MUNICIPAL FINANCE II             35.00        0.00            0.00        25.49        14.66      0.00
MA-PE-5523    IBRD42311    1998   FEC                                 MUNICIPAL FINANCE II             35.00       0.00             0.00        33.81        14.66      0.00
MA-PE-38978   IBRD40910    1997   GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO               PSD III-VOC TRG.                 11.50        0.00            0.00         10.62        7.79        .54
MA-PE-38978   IBRD40911    1997   GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO               PSD III-VOC TRG.                 11.50        0.00            0.00          9.45        7.79        .54
MA-PE-43725   IBRD41280    1997   ONCF                                RAILWAY RESTR & PRIV             42.50        0.00            0.00         31.21        -.92      0.00
MA-PE-43725   IBRD41281    1997   ONCF                                RAILWAY RESTR & PRIV             42.50        0.00            0.00         35.45        -.92       0.00
MA-PE-5503    IBRD40100    1996   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                  SEW.& WATER REUSE II             40.00        0.00            0.00         39.21        4.27       0.00
MA-PE-5517    IBRD36170    1993   GOV.OF MOROCCO/FEC                  MUNICIPAL FINANCE I             100.00        0.00            0.00          3.96        7.64     -2.49
Total                                                                                                 832.48        0.00          24.12        623.70      395.30      69.46
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 167.00            6,171.75            6,338.75
of which has been repaid:                   2.28           2,951.76            2,954.04                                                                                         m
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 806.08            3,284.54            4,090.62
Amount sold                      :                0.00               20.11               20.11
Of which repaid              :                 0.00               20.11               20.11                                                                                        3
Total Undisbursed                :              623.70               51.34              675.04                                                                                        U
I
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPPI, a
letter based system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 47                       FesMedlna RehablIlton Projet
Kingdom of Moroco                                                                         Annex 9
Morocco
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Aug-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company           Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1987/90               CIH                     21.56    0.00    0.00    1.58   21.56    0.00    0.00    1.58
1987/93               SETAFIL                  2.93    1.20    0.00    0.00    2.93     1.20    0.00    0.00
1990                  ENNASR                   .94    0.00    0.00    0.00       .94    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/96               Mediafmance              0.00    1.16    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.16    0.00    0.00
1995                  Attijari                 0.00     .49    0.00    0.00    0.00      .26    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   25.43    2.85    0.00    1.58   25.43    2.62    0.00    1.58
Approvals Pending Conunitment
Loan   Equity  -Qu      Partic
Total Pending Commitment:           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 10/05/98



Project Appraisal Document                                Page 48                                 Fes-Medina Rehabilitation Project
Kingdom of Moroco                                                                                                   Annex 10
Morocco at a glance                                                      10/1/98
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL  '                                     & North   middle-
Morocco     Africa  Income      Developmentdiamond
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                     27.5      283     2,285                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                 1,250     2,060     1,230
GNP (Atlas method, US$ bilions)                     34.4      583     2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Populabon tX)                                        1.9       2.3       1.2
Labor force t%)                                      2.5       3.2       1.3    GNP                             Gross
per                  /        primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                           capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below nathonal poverty line)  13
Urban population (% of total population)             53        57        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     67        67        89
Infant mortality (per 1,O0 live births)             51        48        36
Child malnutritbon (% of children under 5)           10         ..        ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)               52        71        84
illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                 56        39        19
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  83      97       111              Moilcco
Male                                               94       102       116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                             71        91       113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996      1997
Economic ratlos
GDP (USS billions)                          9.3    17.0       36.7      33.5
Gross domestic investmentUGDP              28.1    22.8       19.8      20.6                    Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP          18.5    22.1       25.7     30.4
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  8.7    16.7       15.9      16.8
Gross national savings/GDP                 14.6    17.4       19.0     20.0
Current account balance/GDP               -14.9    -1.0       -1.1      -0.4    Domestic                      vsmn
Interest paymentslGDP                       1.2      3.8       3.6      3.8     Savings                     Investment
Total debVGDP                              33.2   103.6       59.2      57.0
Total debt servicelexports                   ..       ..      27.7      24.4
Present value of debtWGDP                    ..       ..      53.8
Present value of debtlexports                ..       ..    189.7        ..
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997   198-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                4.3      2.6    12.6       -2.0      4.6               Morocco
GNP per capita                     1.6      0.7    10.9       4.4       2.9              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and serviess      4.3      6.9      8.4       6.3      7.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997     Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                      20
Agriculture                                19.2    19.1       19.3      15.3
Industry                                   32.5    32.3       30.3     33.2    10
Manufacturing                            16.5    17.2       17.0      17.6
Services                                   48.3    48.6       50.4      51.5     o 09s
Private consumpbon                         68.9    68.0       68.0     65.3    -Ia
General govemment consumption              22.5    15.4       16.7      17.9                   GDI    --*-GDP
Imports of goods and services              37.9    28.2       30.0     33.9
(average annual growth)                 197646  1987-97      1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and Imports 1%)
Agriculture                                 3.6    -0.2       78.0    -25.6   is
Industry                                    2.5      3.0       3.4      8.4   10
Manufacturing                             4.3      3.3       3.0       3.1
Services                                    5.6      3.2       4.9      0.0 \
Private consumpbon                          3.1      3.3      19.3    -10.1     a
General govemment consumpton                5.0      1.1     -15.2      5.2       .    92         4   95
Gross domestic investment                   0.6      2.1      12.1      2.2
Imports of goods and services              -1.1      5.9      -4.0      1.6            -     Exports    rImports
Gross national product                      3.9      2.7      13.2     -2.0
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estmates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (n bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be inoomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                 Page 49                                 Fes-Medina Rehabilhation Project
Kingdom of Morocco                                                                                                    Annex 10
Morocco
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996     1997      Inflation
Domestfc prices                                                                  1
(% change)                                                                      10
Consumer pices                                ..      ..        3.0      1.0
Implicit GDP deflator                        1.5    10.3        0.8      2.0     4
Government finance                                                               2
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                              o,,
Current revenue                             20.3    18.8       24.3     26.2            92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                       0.8    -1.7        0.9      1.6                  GDP deflator    r  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                    -18.1    -8.6       -3A      -3.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1976   i198        1S9B      i97      Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                           ..   2,608      6,893    7,039    12,500
Other agricutture                           ..    792       1,646    1,374
Phosphorus                                  ..    412         348      435     1000
Manufactures                                 ..    654      1,531     1,469     7.500
Total imports (cif)                           ..   3,925      9,728    9,521     siU
Food                                        ..    476       1,287    1,065
Fuel and energy                              ..    596      1,294    1,296      2500
Capital goods                                ..    906      1,781     1,660       o
Export price index (1995=t00)                 ..      67        80        84           01  92  93  94  ss  9s  97
Import price index (1995100)                  ..      76        95        89               *Exponts        Imports
Terrs of trade (1995=100)                     ..      89        85        95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                             1976    1986       1996      199      Current account balance to GDP ratlo (%)
Exports of goods and services              1,696    3,757     9,433    9,483     o
Imports of goods and services             3,450    4,796    10,991    10,632                        _
Resource balance                          -1,754   -1,039    -1,559   -1,148
Netincome                                  -127    -688    -1,211   -1,179
Netcurrenttransfers                         499    1,549      2,352    2,205       
Current account balance                   -1,382    -178       -418     -123     4
Financing items (net)                      1,365     545       485       679    -s
Changes in net reserves                      18    -367         -47     -556 48
memo:
Reserves including gold (USs millions)        ..      ..    3,968    4,154
Conversion rate (DEC, local4USS)'            4.4      9.1       8.7      9.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996     1997
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       3,084   17,601    21,710   19,096
IBRD                                      289    1,859      3,732    3,271
IDA                                        35       42        32        31               G: 2,053       A: 3,271
Total debt service                             .       ..    3,219    2,817      Composto                        Ions)
IBRD                                       34      233       599       532
IDA                                         0        1         2         2
Composition of net resource flows                                                 F: s.074
Oficial grants                             47       57       356       100
OfMicial creditors                          ..      ..       124      -490
Private creditors                           ..      ..      -190      -140
Foreign direct investment                  38       89       397    1,210
Portforloequity                             ,,       0       134         0                                  .667
World Bank program
Commitments                               150      366       213       155    A-18RD                       E-Bilateral
Disbursements                              84      383       380       141     B-IDA    D - Oler mutibteral   F - Private
Principalrepayments                        15      109       342       295     C-IMF                       G-Short-tenn
Net fows                                   49      254        38      -154
Interest payments                          20      125       258      238
Net transfers                              29      128      -221      -392
Development Economics                                                                                             10/1/98



I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
;.rT-  s..                       Mediterranean Sea
f~~~~~~~~"f
MOROCCO                                                 ,
FES REHABILITATION PROJECT                                            /               ;A.A4/r.,mo
HISTORIC MEDINAS                                                                                                         /
A  T L A  N  T I C                                        '1.1               l;                       
O  C E A  N                                                                    L       Is a, Khmlssti  E  '  t   X 0
A.-0~~~~~~~~~ 
S  /                                                9^   +    i    <    9   9 K7fo Ben\\,   M -e
> t e- @ B<zffi _ V _ _ _ ) 32~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
! X H3;~~~~TL NTI                                                                       i"",,            LL                  l j*2  >rrod --  -        /
. X tell l;t ( t~~~~~~-                                         0    _  
-32,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
7,9A~~~~
Essoouirqu
K~ ~~~~F -  HISTORIC MEDWNAS AND WORfLD HERrTAG E SITES
'C                          Z.n1 l   WSTORIC MEDINAS
' o $ @ F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROVINCE CAPITALS
Tizn,t      ^eho                                                         Ftfi   NATIONAL CAP°ITAL
,oo To    " 4-   RrVERS
*                                                                                         /PROVINCE 80UNDARIES
_,                                                                    -.-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
/                                                     _  _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATI)ONM 8<)UNDARIFS
sGuelmime~~~~~~~~~~~ 50                                1         S                                       (APPROXIMUATE)
_- '..o               K                                                                  LtrMETERS
O~ ~~~~~sour Ton-on   - _
mi'^eD v .b .i 9                                              O v                                     -.4
_A.g; r                                    r d,r  0- . o
o~~~~~~



