Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4402-MOR
Loan Agreement
(Fes Rehabilitation Project)
between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 10, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4402-MOR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 10, 1998, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement of even date herewith (the Commune Urbaine of Fes-Medina 
Loan Agreement, as hereinafter defined in Section 1.02 (d)) between the Bank and the 
Commune Urbaine of Fes-Medina, the Bank has agreed to make a loan (the Commune Urbaine 
Loan) to said Commune Urbaine in an aggregate principal amount of forty million nine 
hundred thousand French Francs (FRF40,900,000) to assist in the financing of Parts 
B.1, (c), (d), and (e), B.2; C.1; D; and E.2 of the Project under terms and conditions 
set forth in the Commune Urbaine of Fes-Medina Loan Agreement;
(C)
Parts A; B.1(a) and (b); C.2; E.1; E.3 and E.4 of the Project shall be 
carried out by the Agency for De-densification and Rehabilitation of the Medina of Fes 
(ADER-Fes) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to ADER-Fes the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this 
Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
ADER-Fes;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty (30) days, or (b) 
at any time, the Bank 
determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or 
(c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or 
the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and 
appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or 
(d) at any time, the Bank determines that the  procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent 
with the procedures set 
forth or referred to in the Development Loan Agreement and 
establishes the 
amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have 
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing 
Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the 
Bank 
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with 
respect to an 
amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and 
the Guarantor, terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with 
respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Loan 
shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ADER-Fes" means the Agency of De-Densification and Rehabilitation of the 
Medina of Fes (Agence pour la Dedensification et la Rehabilitation de la medina de 
Fes), a Joint Stock Company established pursuant to its Statutes dated June 23, 1989 
and registered in the Registry of Commerce under the No. 16775-Fes;
(b)
“CDS” means the Community Development Structure (Structure de 
Developpement Communautaire de Fes) of ADERS-Fes, in charge of managing labor 
intensive works and contracts aiming at supplying jobs to the poor in the Medina;
(c)
“Commune Urbaine” means an administrative municipal sub-division of the 
Borrower;
(d)
“Commune Urbaine of Fes Medina Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement 
of even date herewith between the Bank and the Commune Urbaine of Fes Medina for the 
Project;
(e)
"Convention” means the agreement entered into between the Borrower’s 
Ministries in charge of the Interior, Culture and Economy and Finance, the Commune 
Urbaine of Fes-Medina, the Commune Urbaine of Fes-Jedid and ADER-Fes, dated September 
1, 1998, pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Convention;
Page  3
(f)
"Dirham" and "DH" mean the lawful currency of the Borrower;
(g)
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve month period corresponding to any of the 
Borrower’s fiscal years, which period starts on July 1st and ends on June 30th in each 
calendar year;
(h)
“French Francs” and “FRF” mean the lawful currency of the Republic of 
France;
(i)
“Heritage Center” means the Fes Heritage Center for the promotion of 
cultural, touristic and heritage activities;
(j)
“Management Fee” means the fees that will be paid to ADER-Fes as the 
executing agency of the Project, out of the proceeds of the Loan, for technical 
assistance provided to the Borrower, as provided for in the Convention.
(k)
“Medina of Fes” means the historic city of Fes, including the Communes 
Urbaines of  Fes-Medina and Mechouar Fes-Jedid;
(l)
“MoC” means the Ministry in charge of Culture of the Borrower or any 
successor thereto;
(m)
“MoF” means the Ministry in charge of Economy and Finance of the Borrower 
or any successor thereto;
(n)
“MoI” means the Ministry in charge of the Interior of the Borrower or any 
successor thereto;
(o)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and ADER-Fes of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(p)
“Rehabilitation Facility” means a grant facility to assist eligible 
owners of multi-family dwellings and commercial premises to undertake the upgrading of 
their buildings within the framework of pilot operations;
(q)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(r)
“Statutes" means the statutes of ADER-Fes, dated June 23, 1989, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement;
(s)
“Steering Committee” means a committee established, functioning and 
maintained pursuant to Annex 3 of the Convention, as hereinafter defined; and
(t)
"Technical Committee” means a committee established, functioning and 
maintained pursuant to Annex 4 of the Convention.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to forty 
million nine hundred thousand French Francs (FRF40,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for Parts A; B.1 (a) and (b); C.2; E 1; E.3 and E.4 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A; B.1(a) and (b); C.2; E.1; 
E.3 and E.4 of the Project, open and maintain in Dirham a special deposit account in 
its General Treasury on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, 
Page  4
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to PIBOR Base Rate plus PIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
"PIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the Paris 
interbank offered 
rate for six-month deposits in French Francs for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
"PIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the Paris 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of PIBOR Base Rate and PIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Page  5
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause ADER-Fes to carry out Parts A; B.1 (a) and (b); C.2; E.1; E.3 and E.4 of 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
engineering, environmental, and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Parts A; B.1 
(a) and (b); C.2; E.1; E.3 and E.4 of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, under the Convention and on terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Bank, make available to ADER-Fes the proceeds of 
the Loan allocated from time to time to Parts A; B.1 (a) and (b); C.2; E.1; E.3 and 
E.4 of the Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Convention in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive the Convention or any provision thereof.
(d)
Without limitations to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the  
Borrower shall take all measures necessary on its part to enable ADER-Fes to perform  
the obligations referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement 
of even date between the Bank and ADER-Fes, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants' services required for Parts A; B.1 (a) and (b); C.2; 
E.1; E.3 and E.4 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of  Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A; B.1 
(a) and (b); C.2; E.1; E.3 and E.4 of the Project shall be carried out by ADER-Fes 
pursuant to Section 2.04 of the  Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall, through ADER Fes:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower, through ADER-Fes, on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and all 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
(1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
Page  6
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this 
Section, and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such details as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditures 
submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with 
the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that:
(a)
ADER-Fes shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
ADER-Fes Project Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that ADER-Fes will be able to perform its obligations under the ADER-Fes Project 
Agreement;
(c)
the Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or financial condition 
of ADER-Fes or its ability to carry out Parts A; B.1(a) and (b); C.2; E.1; E.3 and E.4 
of the Project or the ability of ADER-Fes to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement; and
(d)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken, 
during the time of Project implementation, any action for the dissolution or 
disestablishment of ADER-Fes or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Bank within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Commune 
Urbaine of Fes Medina Loan Agreement have been fulfilled other than the effectiveness 
of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, namely that the Project 
Page  7
Agreement has been duly Authorized or ratified by ADER-Fes, and is legally binding 
upon ADER-Fes in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Rabat
Kingdom of  Morocco
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFIN      
36715
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Rabat, Morocco, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By /s/ Fathallah Oualalou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier P. Godron 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Page  8
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
French Francs)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
  24,500,000
80%
(2)
Goods
   2,340,000
100% of foreign
expenditures; 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
and 80% of local
expenditures for 
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)
Consultants'
   7,000,000
100%
services
(4)
Management Fee
   2,920,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated
   4,140,000
TOTAL
  40,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed FRF4,090,000, may be 
made in respect of the Categories set in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after November 16, 
1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000, equivalent, for civil works under contracts not exceeding $150,000 
equivalent and under contracts for consultants not exceeding $50,000 for firms and 
$25,000 for individual consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are  to assist in the conservation and 
rehabilitation of the Medina of Fes, with particular attention to its historic built 
heritage and urban environment, through the expansion and acceleration of ongoing 
conservation efforts, the consolidation of partnerships between the private and public 
sectors, and the alleviation of poverty through community development and the 
promotion of new growth oriented activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
Page  9
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Rehabilitation of built heritage
1.
Establishment of a grant facility to support private initiatives in historic 
building conservation, including private investments for the rehabilitation of about 
250 historic domestic or commercial premises (souks, fondouks, workshops).
2.
Promotion of tourism and preservation of cultural heritage through:
(a)
the creation of six new tourism thematic itineraries within the Medina, 
including targeted investments in historic buildings, improvement of signage in the 
Medina and development of historic gardens; and
(b)
establishment of a Heritage Center serving the functions of a center for 
information and cultural activities.
Part B:
Improving critical access to the Medina
1.
Development and construction of:
(a)
an emergency access network in order to facilitate access of emergency 
motor vehicles, services and municipal works;
(b)
an access network of pedestrian streets;
(c)
four streets to allow access to motorized vehicles and proper sidewalks 
in order to improve the traffic patterns at the entrance of the Medina, namely Ain 
Zetlen access, Oued Zhoun access and Bin Lamdoun access;
(d)
transfer facilities at the gates of the Medina, such as bus and taxi 
stations, and pedestrian waiting facilities; and
(e)
three (3) parking facilities in the Medina.
2.
Establishment of a traffic bureau entrusted with management of safe vehicle and 
pedestrian traffic.
Part C:
Improvement of Urban Environment
1.
Improvement of solid waste collection, including clearance of solid waste stock 
and derelict sites and launching of a campaign aimed at sensitizing the population.
2.
Regrouping of the crafts polluting artifacts industries within the Medina by 
providing two (2) improved workshop facilities to neutralize their nuisance.
Part D:
Community Development
1.
Promotion of labor-intensive job opportunities, particularly among the 
unemployed population of the Medina and surrounding areas.
2.
Carrying out of emergency works on housing and commercial premises, clearance of 
solid waste stock, rehabilitation of community facilities through the contracting out 
of such works to small scale private enterprises.
Part E:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Support to ADER-Fes through the provision of technical assistance in areas of 
management, accounting, geographic information system and rehabilitation techniques.
2.
Establishment of a resource mobilization program for the benefit of the 
Municipalities of Fes Medina and Fes Jedid and provision of technical assistance in 
municipal management and organization.
3.
Setting up of a laboratory network to improve architectural and urban 
conservation methods and techniques in the Medina.
Page  10
4.
Development and implementation of a training program adapted to the following 
relevant professional skills for the rehabilitation of the Medina:  architecture, 
archeology, rehabilitation, urban management and planning, and engineering, to be 
provided for technical staff, builders, craftsmen and workers with skills in 
traditional building preservation and rehabilitation, municipal and other staff 
relevant to the implementation of the project, owners of polluting traditional 
activities and handicrafts with particular emphasis on women.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Date Payment Due
   Payment of Principal 
(Expressed in French Francs)*
April 15, 2004
1,020,000 
October 15, 2004
1,040,000 
April 15, 2005
1,060,000 
October 15, 2005
1,080,000 
April 15, 2006
1,105,000 
October 15, 2006
1,125,000
April 15, 2007
1,145,000 
October 15, 2007
1,165,000
April 15, 2008
1,190,000 
October 15, 2008
1,210,000 
April 15, 2009
1,235,000 
October 15, 2009
1,260,000 
April 15, 2010
1,285,000 
October 15, 2010
1,310,000 
April 15, 2011
1,335,000 
October 15, 2011
1,360,000 
April 15, 2012
1,385,000 
October 15, 2012
1,410,000 
April 15, 2013
1,435,000 
October 15, 2013
1,465,000 
April 15, 2014
1,495,000 
October 15, 2014
1,520,000 
April 15, 2015
1,550,000 
October 15, 2015
1,580,000 
April 15, 2016
1,610,000 
October 15, 2016
1,640,000 
April 15, 2017
1,670,000 
October 15, 2017
1,705,000 
April 15, 2018
1,735,000 
October 15, 2018
1,775,000
_____________________ 
*
The figures in the column represent the amount in French Franc equivalents 
determined as of 
the respective dates of withdrawal.  See the General conditions, 
Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
Page  11
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for Parts A; B.1 (a) and (b); 
C.2; E.1; E.3 and E.4 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
FRF4,090,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. provided however that, unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to FRF2,300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of FRF17,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
for withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
Page  12
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
