Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF025177
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Fes Environment Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
on its own behalf and as Administrator
of Grant Funds provided by JAPAN
and
AGENCE POUR LA DEDENSIFICATION
ET LA REHABILITATION DE LA MEDINA DE FES
Dated December 5, 1994
TF025177
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 5, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT acting on its own behalf (the Bank) and as Administrator (the 
Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan) and AGENCE POUR LA 
DEDENSIFICATION ET LA REHABILITATION DE LA MEDINA DE FES (the Recipient).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
the Bank and International Development Association (the Association), Japan has 
requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, 
to administer grant funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain 
programs and projects supported by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, 
in accordance with the provisions of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of 
said grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical 
assistance described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the 
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth; 
WHEREAS (C) pursuant to a letter of agreement of even date herewith between the 
Kingdom of Morocco (the Kingdom) and the Bank, the Kindgom has agreed to undertake 
certain obligations in respect of the Grant as set forth in such letter of agreement;
WHEREAS (D) the Kingdom has requested the Bank to carry out the Technical 
Assistance;
Page  2
WHEREAS (E) the Bank has agreed to carry out the Technical Assistance on the 
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions; Term of Technical Assistance
Section 1.01. The Technical Assistance shall be undertaken by consultants (the 
Consultants) who shall, as far as practicable, include Consultants with expertise in 
the following areas:
(a)
environment;
(b)
infrastructure;
(c)
heritage conservation; and
(d)
environmental and social assessment.
Section 1.02. As used in this Agreement, the terms "yen" and "¥" mean the 
currency of Japan, the term "ADER-FES" means the Agence pour la Dédensification et la 
Réhabilitation de la Médina de Fes, an agency of the Kingdom established on June 23, 
1989, and the term "Consultants" includes individual consultants as well as any 
consulting firm that provides any of the experts referred to in Section 1.01.
Section 1.03. The Consultants are expected to commence their services on October 
1, 1994 and to provide a total of 35 man-months of service between that time and 
December 31, 1995. 
ARTICLE II
Responsibilities of the Bank
and the Administrator
Section 2.01. The Grant to be provided by Japan for the Technical Assistance 
shall be in an amount of fifty nine million two hundred thousand yen (¥59,200,000).
Section 2.02. The Administrator shall utilize the Grant to finance the following 
expenditures in connection with the services of the Consultants:
(a)
remuneration, per diem and other allowances;
(b)
international and local travel expenses; and
(c)
out-of-pocket expenses, including communications and reports, incurred by 
the Consultants in foreign and local currency in the performance of their services.
Section 2.03. The Bank shall make reasonable efforts to secure the services of 
the Consultants.
Section 2.04. The recruitment, engagement and supervision of the Consultants 
shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done according to the 
Bank's applicable procedures, including preparing, in conjunction with the Governor of 
Fes-Medina, the terms of reference and the short list of consultants.
ARTICLE III
Responsibilities of the Recipient
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall cooperate with the Administrator, the Bank and 
the Consultants to ensure that the Technical Assistance is carried out promptly and 
effectively and, for this purpose, shall issue appropriate instructions to its 
officials, agents and representatives.
Section 3.02. The Recipient shall:
(a)
make arrangements for all personnel of the Consultants assigned to the 
Technical Assistance (other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of 
the Recipient's territories) and all dependents of such personnel promptly to be 
Page  3
provided with any necessary entry and exit visas, residence and work permits, exchange 
documents and travel documents required for their stay in the Recipient's territories 
during the duration of the Technical Assistance;
(b)
facilitate clearance through its customs of any equipment, materials and 
supplies required for the Technical Assistance and any personal effects of the 
personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical Assistance (other than 
nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) and 
the dependents of such personnel;
(c)
permit the Consultants to bring into, and withdraw from, the Recipient's 
territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for purposes related to the 
Technical Assistance;
(d)
permit the personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical 
Assistance (other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the 
Recipient's territories) and the dependents of such personnel to bring into, and 
withdraw from, the Recipient's territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for 
their personal use; and
(e)
exempt the Consultants and the personnel of the Consultants assigned to 
the Technical Assistance from (or the Recipient shall pay on behalf of the Consultants 
and such personnel) any taxes, duties, fees, levies and other impositions imposed 
under the laws and regulations in effect in the Recipient's territories on the 
Consultants and such personnel in respect of:
(i)
any payments whatsoever made to the Consultants and such personnel 
(other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of 
the Recipient's territories) in connection with the carrying out 
of the Technical Assistance;
     (ii)
any equipment, materials and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by the Consultants for the purpose of carrying out the 
Technical Assistance and which, after having been brought into 
such territories, will be subsequently withdrawn therefrom by 
them;
    (iii)
any equipment, material and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by the Consultants for the purpose of carrying out the 
Technical Assistance and which will be consumed therein or become 
the property of the Recipient; and
     (iv)
any property brought into the Recipient's territories by the 
Consultants or such personnel (other than nationals of the 
Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) 
or the dependents of such personnel for their personal use and 
which will be consumed therein or subsequently withdrawn therefrom 
by them upon their respective departure from the Recipient's 
territories, provided that the Consultants, such personnel and 
their dependents shall follow the usual customs procedures of the 
Recipient in importing property into the Recipient's territories.
Section 3.03. The Recipient shall be responsible for dealing with any claims 
arising out of, or resulting from, the Technical Assistance that may be brought by 
third parties against the Administrator or the Bank. The Recipient shall indemnify the 
Administrator and the Bank against any costs, claims, damages or liabilities arising 
out of, or resulting from, any acts or omissions in connection with the Technical 
Assistance, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of 
the Administrator or the Bank, as the case may be.
Section 3.04. For purposes of carrying out the Technical Assistance, the 
Recipient shall make available to the Consultants, free of charge, the data, services, 
facilities and equipment set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Reports and Other Matters
Section 4.01. The Recipient, the Bank and the Administrator shall, from time to 
time, at the request of any party, exchange views on the Technical Assistance and 
consult on any reports prepared by the Consultants and the implementation of any 
recommendations made in those reports.  The draft and final reports of the Technical 
Page  4
Assistance shall be submitted to the Recipient through the Governor of Fes-Medina, who 
shall communicate his comments, if any, within thirty (30) calendar days from receipt 
of said reports.
Section 4.02. The Bank and the Administrator may use any reports prepared by the 
Consultants for any purpose that the Bank or the Administrator, as the case may be, 
may consider appropriate but those reports may not be made public except by agreement 
between the Recipient, the Bank and the Administrator.
ARTICLE V
Enforceability of Agreement; Failure
to Exercise Rights; Arbitration
Section 5.01. The rights and obligations of the Bank, the Administrator and the 
Recipient under this Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance with their 
terms notwithstanding the law of any State or political subdivision thereof to the 
contrary. Neither the Bank nor the Administrator nor the Recipient shall be entitled 
in any proceeding under this Article to assert any claim that any provision of this 
Agreement is invalid or unenforceable because of any provision of the Articles of 
Agreement of the Bank.
Section 5.02. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power 
or remedy accruing to any party under this Agreement upon any default shall impair any 
such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence 
in such default. No action of such party in respect of any default, or any 
acquiescence by it in any default, shall affect or impair any right, power or remedy 
of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 5.03. Any dispute arising out of or related to this Agreement which is 
not settled by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled by arbitration in 
accordance with the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules in force on the date of this Agreement. 
The place of arbitration shall be Washington, D.C. In the event of a conflict between 
the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules and the terms of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall govern.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date, Suspension
and Termination
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties.
Section 6.02. The Recipient may at any time request the Bank and the 
Administrator in writing to terminate the Technical Assistance. Whether or not the 
Recipient has made such a request, the Administrator may at any time suspend or, after 
consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant 
funds for the Technical Assistance if any of the following circumstances shall have 
occurred and be continuing:
(a)
The Kingdom shall have failed to make payment of principal or interest or 
any other amount due to the Bank or the Association: (i) under any loan or guarantee 
agreement between the Kingdom and the Bank, or (ii) under any development credit 
agreement between the Kingdom and the Association, or (iii) in consequence of any 
guarantee or other financial obligation of any kind extended by the Bank to any third 
party with the agreement of the Kingdom.
(b)
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any  obligation under this 
Agreement.
(c)
The Bank or the Association shall have suspended in whole or in part the 
right of the Kingdom to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any 
development credit agreement with the Association because of a failure by the Kingdom 
to perform any of its obligations under such agreement or any guarantee agreement with 
the Bank.
(d)
Any event shall have arisen that, in the opinion of the Bank or the 
Administrator, as the case may be, interferes or threatens to interfere with the 
successful implementation of the Technical Assistance, the accomplishment of its 
purposes, or the execution of the Technical Assistance in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of this Agreement.
Page  5
(e)
The Kingdom: (i) shall have been suspended from membership in or ceased 
to be a member of the Bank or (ii) shall have ceased to be a member of the 
International Monetary Fund.
(f)
A representation made by the Recipient in or pursuant to this Agreement, 
or any statement furnished in connection therewith, and intended to be relied upon by 
the Administrator in making the Grant, shall have been incorrect in any material 
respect.
Section 6.03. If the Technical Assistance is suspended or terminated, the 
Recipient and the Administrator shall consult with each other concerning any further 
action that may be necessary or desirable.
Section 6.04. The Administrator is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient 
and shall not have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall 
have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Administrator 
pursuant to this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Representation
Section 7.01. All communications with respect to this Agreement shall be 
addressed as follows:
For the Recipient:
ADER-FES
FES
Kingdom of Morocco
Telex:
51066
For the Administrator and the Bank:
Infrastructure Division,
Maghreb and Iran Department (MN1IN)
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
on its own behalf and as Administrator
of the Grant
By /s/ Daniel G. Ritchie
Acting Regional Vice President
Page  6
Middle East and North Africa
AGENCE POUR LA DEDENSIFICATION ET LA 
   REHABILITATION DE LA MEDINA DE FES
By /s/ Abdellatif El Hajjami
Director General
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Description of Technical Assistance
The Technical Assistance consists of the following activities, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Administrator and the Recipient may agree upon from time 
to time:
Part A:
Carrying out of detailed feasibility studies for environmental improvements, 
including: (i) new solid waste management system, from collection to disposal and 
elimination of waste from both households and craft industries; (ii) transfer and 
relocation plan for polluting craft industries, including regulatory measures for 
toxic chemical and dangerous substances; and (iii) formulation of a policy and action 
plan for relocating Medina residents living in unsafe or unsanitary housing, including 
a pilot operation of housing rehabilitation and financing for the poor.
Part B:
Assessment of the technical, financial and economic feasibility of the first 
phase of an urban infrastructure rehabilitation and development program in the Medina 
and its surrounding area, comprising access routes in the Medina, social facilities, 
and a public transport terminal.
Part C:
Assessment of the current organization of cultural heritage conservation works 
and future development of a training and technology transfer program.
Part D:
Carrying out of an environmental and social assessment, including formulation of 
mitigation plans, and an institutional audit to identify project execution capacity, 
and socio-economic studies to assess beneficiaries participation.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Services, Facilities and Equipment
to be Made Available by the Recipient
The Recipient shall provide the Consultants with logistical and office support, 
facilitate access to relevant documentation, ensure that counterpart working groups 
team up with the Consultants, and provide transportation services.
