Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14841
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(LOAN 3428, AND CREDITS 2323-0, 2323-1, AND 2323-2-IVC)
JUNE 29, 1995
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(February 28, 1995)
Currency Unit    =    CFAF
US$    -    515.40 CFAF
CFAF 1 million            US$1,943.63
SDR I    =       US$1.49
US$1     =     SDR.67
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER                                        SCHOOL YEAR
January 1 - December 31                                        September - June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                 African Development Bank
CNOU                 Centre national des oeuvres universitaires
COGES                Comite de gestion
COP                  Comite' des operations
DCGTx                Direction et contr6le des grands travaux
EEC                  European Economic Community
ESAF                 Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
EU                   European Union
FDFP                 Fonds de developpement de la formation professionnelle
FNR                  Fonds national de regulation
HRDP                 Human Resources Development Program
HRMP                 Human Resources Management Project
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
KfW                  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MESRS                Ministere de l'enseignement superieur et de la recherchie scientifique
MSPAS                Ministere de la santg publique et des affaires sociales
OMOCI                Office de la main-d'oeuvre de la Cote d'lvoire
ONFP                 Office national de la formation professionnelle
SDA                  Social Dimensions of Adjustment
SIR                  Socie't ivorienne de raffinage
SECAL                Sector Adjustment Loan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ..............................................                                   i
PART 1. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A .  Introduction  ......................................................                         I
B. Macroeconomic Background and Country Assistance Strategy .......................................................1
C. Human Resources Development Policies in Cote d'lvoire ....................................................... 2
D. Preparation of the Human Resources Development Program .......................................................3
E. The Human Resources Development Program and its Implementation .............................................5
(i)  An Overview of the Accomplishlnenlts of the HRDP                   .6
(ii)   An Assessment Of HRDP Achievemenits And Shortcomings .10
(iii) Borrower Performance                                 .12
(iv) Bank Perfornance .15
(v) Lessons Leaned .17
PART II. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.      Standard Implementation Completion Report Tables and Matrices
Table A (1):     Swumary of Assessments
Table A (2):     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table A (3):     Program Timetable
Table A (4):     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table A (5):     Studies Included in Program
Table A (6):     Program Financing
Table A (7):     Status of Legal Covenants
Table A (8):     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table A (9):     Bank Resources: Missions
B.      Special Tables and Matrices Unique to this Implementation Completion Report
Table B (1):     Actions and Measures taken under the Human Resources Development
Program
Table B (2):     Matrix of Program  Actions under the Borrower's Policy Letter, and
Implementation Review
Table B (3):     Sectoral Budgetary Performance Matrices
Table B (4):     Budgetary Indices
Table B (5):     Evolution of Human Resources Expenditure 1994-97
Table B (6):     Key Sectoral Norms and Performance Indicators
Table B (7):     Cote d'lvoire and the '20-20' Targets for Social Expenditures
APPENDIXES
A. Completion mission aide-memoire
B. Program Review from the Borrower's Perspective
C. Map IBRD 14699R5
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their    I
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMIPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(Loan 3428, and Credits 2323-0, 2323-1, and 2323-2-IVC)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Human Resources
Development Program in C6te d'lvoire for which Loan 3428 and Credits 2323-0, 2323-1, and
2323-2-IVC in the amount of US$125 million equivalent (SDR 90.3 million) and US$25
million equivalent (SDR 18.5 million) were approved on December 23, 1991 and made
effective on January 8, 1992.
Loan 3428 was closed on December 31, 1994, compared to the original closing date of
December 31, 1993. Credit 2323-0 was closed in December 21, 1992, 2323-1 on September
30, 1994, and 2323-2 on February 28, 1995. The first tranche, released upon effectiveness,
was fully disbursed in January 1992; subsequent tranches were released in February 1994, and
June 1994, and the credit was fully disbursed by July 1994. Cofinancing for the program was
provided by KfW, AfDB, and the EEC.
The ICR was prepared by A. Edward Elmendorf (AFTHR), with the assistance of
Yannick Poivey, and reviewed by Ian Porter, Division Chief (AF4PH), and Franz Kaps,
Operations Advisor (AF4DR).
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission, which took place in November 1994. It is based on material in the project file. The
contribution of the Government of C6te d'Ivoire (draft ICR from the point of view of the
Borrower) has been taken into account in the preparation of the ICR. The borrower
contributed to preparation of the ICR by cooperating with the completion mission and
submitting its draft report, which is included among the appendices. The lessons learned were
discussed with Ivorian officials informally, in April 1994. Following official submission of a
draft to the authorities, discussions were held on it in June 1995.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(Loan 3428, and Credits 2323-0, 2323-1, and 2323-2-IVC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    The Bank's Role in the Country and Sectors. Until the early 1980s, Bank lending
in C6te d'Ivoire was investment-oriented.  However, with the deterioration of the
country's economic situation in the 1980s, including a low level of savings and poor export
performance, Bank lending shifted substantially toward structural adjustment. Three
Structural Adjustment Loans were approved between 1981 and 1986, for a total amount of
US$600 million. Bank lending to Cote d'lvoire was interrupted for almost two years
(1987-89). Following the conclusion of an agreement in mid-1989 between the
Government and the IMF on a new stand-by arrangement, the conditions for resumption of
Bank lending were met.
2.    In December 1991 the Executive Directors approved an IBRD loan and an IDA
credit which were designed as an adjustment program, in amounts equivalent, respectively,
to US$125 million and US$25 million, to support the Human Resources Development
Program (HRDP) of C6te d'lvoire. The loan and credit were to be disbursed in three
tranches. Subsequently, in January 1994, in connection with the devaluation of the CFA
franc, at the Governments request the undisbursed balance of the loan amounting to
US$100 million was cancelled. In February 1994, the Executive Directors approved
additional allocations to the credit equivalent to the canceled amount of the loan plus
US$86 million in IDA reflows ("the Fifth Dimension"), for a total of US$186 million in
new IDA funds.
3.    Program Objectives. The HRDP was intended to reverse the unfavorable trends
in human resources which threatened to compromise the country's human resources
development efforts. As set out in the Government's policy letter, the ultimate goals of the
HRDP were to improve the country's "productivity and competitiveness" and to 'extend
to more and more segments of the population the benefits of the policy of justice which
guides the Government's action". The Bank's President's Report articulated the principal
aim as "increasing the quality of service delivery, while broadening the coverage at the
primary levels in education and health and offering more demand-driven training
opportunities".
4.    Evaluation of Program Objectives. In retrospect, it appears that the HRDP was
extremely - indeed excessively - ambitious in its objectives, for they represent the
development task of a generation or more. During Program execution attention was
focused on the many pages of budgetary matrices; this work, by itself, posed formidable
challenges, and often forced attention on short-term issues at the expense of the underlying
problems. As one Ivorian official appropriately observed, execution of the HRDP was
beyond the capacity of the Ivorian civil service. It seems that, within the time made



ii
available, effective supervision and support of the HRDP were beyond the Bank's capacity
also.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Assessment of Program Success and Sustainability. While the ambitions of the
HRDP were excessive, its accomplishments should not be underestimated. The principal
achievements of the HRDP, by sub-sector, are set out in Part II, Table B (1).
6.    In Primary Education, the Government's reduction in the wage bill by about two
percent per year compared with the one percent which was planned, has permitted a higher
recruitment level to address staffing needs while remaining within the overall budget.
However, the Government was less successful in establishing the conditions for an increase
in enrollment rates, and in establishing a sustainable primary school construction program.
In Higher Education, the Government was successful in reducing unit costs, but an
explosion in the number of students has undoubtedly negatively affected quality and made
achievement of the HRDP goals impossible. While progress has been made on cost
recovery in education, the Government has had little success in reforming budgetary
allocations, and higher education continues to receive an excessively large share of the
budget.
7.    Under the HRDP some progress was made on a series of health services issues,
including cost recovery, pharmaceuticals, the first elements of a strategy based on primary
care, decentralization, and region-level management. Most fundamentally, in October
1994, cost recovery became fully effective for pharmaceuticals and medical consultations
throughout the public sector health system. While these reforms are promising, their
implementation has been slow and flaws exist; their impact on the health status of local
populations remains to be seen. It is clear that the effective development and universal
availability of an appropriate, cost-effective basic package of health services of a minimum
quality will require many more years.
8.    Financing Arrangements and Implementation Timetable.  At appraisal and
negotiations, the HRDP was expected to lead to financial transfers from the Bank of
US$150 million; estimates of donor financing were not then available. In the end, total
transfers from the Bank Group amounted to over US$230 million (the difference is due to
the allocation of US$86 million in IDA reflows), and other donor financing amounted to
approximately US$130 million (KfW in the amount of US$19.1 million, AfDB for
US$79.7 million and the European Union for US$26.5 million) for total financing of the
equivalent of about US$360 million, or nearly two and one-half times the amount
specifically known at the time of appraisal. The estimated and actual disbursements are
given in Table (A) 4. Thus it is clear that the HRDP served as an effective tool for
external resource mobilization.
9.    Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives. Because of the focus of attention on the
specific conditions for tranche release, insufficient attention was devoted to longer term
issues, particularly increasing primary recurrent expenditure and the level of execution of
programmed budgets.



iii
10.   Assessment of the Borrower's and the Bank's Performance.   Borrower
performance issues related principally to the Comite des operations (COP), monitoring of
HRDP execution, and an excessive focus on tranche release conditions to the detriment of
other parts of the Program. The COP has been a successful institutional innovation.
Monitoring of the HRDP appears to have taken place largely, but not exclusively, in
connection with Bank supervision missions.  As execution of the HRDP continued,
attention in the dialogue between the Government and the Bank came to concentrate on the
specific conditions for tranche release to the detriment of the earlier dialogue on the full
range of human resource development issues. By the beginning of 1994 the attention of
the authorities and of the Bank's management was focused overwhelmingly on the
macroeconomic situation and on responding to the CFA  franc devaluation.  Since
preliminary discussions on a possible waiver of some third tranche release conditions had
taken place, by then the authorities had come to expect that its release would be virtually
automatic. In the months that followed it proved difficult to focus on the full breadth of
the Program, and the third tranche supervision mission concentrated almost exclusively on
reviewing progress on the specific conditions for tranche release and aiding the authorities
to meet them.
11.   The audit of the first tranche release took place soon after it was released. When it
was sent to the Bank in January 1993, the audit revealed that documentary justification on
the US$25 million IBRD component of the tranche had apparently not been provided to the
auditor. The Bank wrote to the authorities requesting further audit work, but there was no
follow-up on that matter. The audits of the second and third tranches were undertaken
together and submitted to the Bank, with minor delay, in March 1995.
12.   One problem  in Bank supervision was discontinuity of task managers, which
created some problems in the dialogue with the Ivorian authorities, particularly at the time
of third tranche release.  In retrospect, it appears that the staff weeks allocated for as
complex an operation were nowhere near enough time on supervision, and that - once the
decision was taken to commit financial resources for an operation of the complexity of the
HRDP - the Bank should have invested much more substantially in program supervision
time and inputs.
13.   Assessment of the Program's Outcome. The following paragraphs address the
progress made under the HRDP in addressing the four underlying constraints to human
resource development identified at the 1989 HRDP planning workshop.
14.   Lack of commitment and poor budget and program design. Preparatory work
on the HRDP continued through three changes in Government in C6te d'Ivoire, suggesting
that the process of consultation which characterized the Program became fairly well built
into civil service routines. However, despite this gradual progress towards internalization
and the progress in cutting unit costs in education, it is hard to conclude that human
resources budget and program design have significantly improved. Comments of Bank staff
on the initial draft report of the April 1989 workshop have much validity as an assessment
on the entirety of Ivorian performance under the HRDP: a tendency to focus on short-
term cost savings rather than strategic resource reallocation; stronger analysis in education
than in health; need for greater clarity on the time horizon for change; unnecessarily



iv
ambitious studies; and a need to address the Program's impact on the poor and vulnerable.
However, it must be recognized that, while the HRDP is complete as a Bank-financed
adjustment program, it is not complete as an Ivorian process. A positive feature is that the
commitment to continue the HRDP among large numbers of Ivorian officials is evident and
genuine.
15.   Weak implementation capacity. Implementation capacity remains as important an
issue as it was at the inception of the HRDP.  The extremely complex and highly
centralized decision-making procedures of the Ivorian public service continue to hamper
implementation of agreed human resource development policies and programs, especially
at the periphery. The result is that human and financial resources arrive with great delay,
or not at all, at the primary levels where they are most needed and where policy says they
should be. Despite recent progress, non-salary recurrent budget allocations for primary
health and education services continue to be a major problem; more radical approaches to
decentralization are likely to be needed, on a government-wide basis, to facilitate delivery
of human services.
16.   Cost structures reducing ftnancial sustainability of human resources programs.
Much progress has been made in reducing unit but not total costs in the field of education,
at some expense to education quality. The issue of unit costs was somewhat less important
in the field of health, with the significant exception of pharmaceuticals.  Substantial
progress has been made in cost recovery in the field of health, with potential to facilitate
the increasingly critical reallocation of public financial resources from the higher levels of
the Ivorian health care system to a basic package of health services to be made available to
the entire population.  Much remains to be done to strengthen financial management,
especially at the sectoral level; this will require work on improving the flow of financial
information, to make it possible for sectoral managers to assume increasing responsibility
for the wage bill and overhead services for which the financial resources flow directly
from the core agencies to the users.
17.   Ineffective personnel management.  A considerable number of teachers were
redeployed from office jobs to teaching positions under the HRDP. The Government took
courageous decisions on the compensation program for primary school teachers, and
effectively cut costs significantly.  But, fundamental weakness in human resources for
health and education services remain to be tackled; even the information base on public
sector staff is weak, though action is being taken to address this problem under the Human
Resources Management Project (HRMP) (Credit 2505-CI). Staffing patterns appropriate
to different levels of institutions have yet to be determined; the Government is initiating a
review of the curricula of health personnel training programs, and norms for nursing care.
This work will compel a highly desirable re-examination of the country's health personnel
profile. Under present arrangements, the responsible sectoral ministries continue to have
little authority or accountability for the staff that they supervise; these are issues which
touch on broader civil service reform problems, being addressed under the Economic
Management Project (Cr. 2503-IVC). An ongoing review of public expenditures in the
health sector, sponsored by the European Union, may also help in the regard.



v
Important Findings of Program Implementation Experience
18.   The Bank attached great importance to the process of HRDP preparation and to a
frank and constructive dialogue, and considered that a national consensus based on such a
dialogue would be the only guarantee of substantial reforms in the human resources sectors
in C6te d'Ivoire. It is noteworthy that, according to Ivorian calculations, nearly 80 percent
of the financial transfers under the HRDP took place in 1994. This suggests that, in its
financial expression, the HRDP became a vehicle to support the Ivorian balance of
payments, more than a response to, and facilitator of, adjustments in the human resources
sectors.
19.   In retrospect, the focus of monitoring and evaluation of the HRDP at the level of
the Finance Ministry was unfortunate: it reduced the engagement of the sectoral ministries,
and their sense of accountability for anything but the purely sectoral tasks of the HRDP.
The Bank should have taken a less central role in Program monitoring. If the Ivorians,
rather than the Bank, had assumed the responsibility for collecting and collating the data in
the budgetary matrices from the time of their initial design, Ivorian ownership would have
been much greater. The action taken at negotiations to mitigate the risk of under-funding
of human resource services by establishing sectoral norms appears to have had no
beneficial effect.
Lessons for Future Operations in CMte d'Ivoire
20.   The following appear to be the principal lessons to be learned from  the HRDP
experience:
(a)   Importance of macroeconomic-sector links and balance.  The great importance of
sound, well-balanced links between the human resource sectors and the macroeconomy
and macroeconomic policies was clearly demonstrated by the HRDP. But, establishing
and maintaining a sound balance between them proved to be more difficult than initially
estimated. In retrospect it appears that the dynamics of the HRDP gave inappropriate
weight to the central ministries, at the expense of the sectoral departments. In effect,
the HRDP became the victim of macroeconomic circumstances: Balance of payments
issues calling for quick-disbursing funds, delays in execution because of the real
appreciation of the CFA franc and delays in meeting the macroeconomic conditionality,
rapid injection of additional funds following the devaluation, and belated relaunch of the
Program at that time without substantial reconsideration of outstanding human resources
sector issues, including the continuing relevance of the conditions of third tranche
release.
(b)   Extreme difficulty of operationalizing budget understandings. Bank reviews of draft
human resource budgets in both 1992 and 1994 led to understandings that were not fully
taken into account in the final budgets, partly because information did not circulate
appropriately within the Ivorian administration. The tranche release mechanism proved
to be an extremely powerful but simultaneously blunt tool to address human resource
budgets. This tool did not achieve its objective of substantially increasing the level and
share of primary education and health services, and of carefully improving resource



vi
allocation in the Government's human resources budgets. In the future, more dialogue
and less rigid formal conditions linking budgets to tranche release may be appropriate.
(c)    Closer linkage required between financing and disbursement and substantial program
issues and objectives; the potential irrelevance of adjustment lending.  The inherent
dynamics of adjustment lending pushed towards individual, high-profile and centralized
decisions. Yet, the HRDP needed not just a series of individual, one-time decisions,
but a process of dialogue and intensive monitoring between macroeconomic and sectoral
managers that would continue over an extended time and reach out to the periphery.
Use of the adjustment instrument focused the dialogue away from sectoral issues and
long-term  institutional development problems.   The Bank's decision to extend
adjustment operations to the human resource sectors in C6te d'lvoire seems to have
been driven as much by its assessment of the country's macroeconomic conditions as by
its specific substantial concerns in the humani resources sectors. The Bank staff have
concluded that a series of sector investment and development operations would be more
appropriate vehicles to continue and deepen the long-term  dialogue, particularly with
the sectoral agencies.  Most Ivorian staff, in both the Ministry of Finance and the
sectoral agencies, appear to agree with this assessment.
(d)    The importance of sequencing. The HRMP should have preceded the HRDP by at least
12 months, in order to build capacity. Furthermore, with the exception of the budget
issues, the tranche release conditions appear not to have followed any particular logic.
It might have been appropriate to relate them more carefully to critical, monitorable
actions to address the fundamental constraints to lhuman resource development identified
during HRDP preparation, including not just budgets but finallcial and human resource
management.
(e)    The importance of not losinig sight of poverty and equity concerns, and of keeping
balance in the face of popular trenids. The initial discussions on the HRDP took place
at the height of the Bank's work on the social dimensions of adjustment (SDA). SDA
concerns, including gender, clearly influenced the identification stages of work on the
HRDP, but gradually fell inlto the background during preparation and were largely
ignored during HRDP implementation.  In addition, the SDA program was widely
perceived to have an inadequately operational poverty focus. Poverty and equity issues
are essentially macroeconomic in their analytical foundation, but sectoral at the level of
application. This suggests that the HRDP organizational framework might be a good
vehicle to address them. Yet, the delay in both C6te d'lvoire and the Bank in doing so,
reflected in the late start-up on1 a poverty assessment, suggests that the HRDP
adjustment operation, but not necessarily the COP, was an inappropriate vehicle.
(f)    The critical importance of ownershzip of the HRDP by the Borrower AND the many
Borrower agencies concerned. As indicated by the tone of the President's Report, it
seemed at the time of negotiations that ownership of the HRDP by the many Ivorian
institutions concerned had been assured by their heavy engagement in preparation and
by avoidance of long-term  expatriate technical assistance for the Program.  In
retrospect, it is clear that ownership varied greatly, and that ownership, once assured as
it was thought to have been during preparation, required nurturing to be sustained. The
only "champions" of the HRDP were in the Finance Ministry. New senior staff in the
Ministries of Health and Education took office after the HRDP had been negotiated;



vii
while they acknowledged responsibility for the HRDP as Ivorian officials, they felt little
personal commitment to the Program.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(Loan 3428, and Credits 2323-0, 2323-1, and 2323-2-IVC)
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Introduction
1.   In December 1991 the Executive Directors approved an IBRD loan and an IDA
credit, in amounts equivalent to US$125 million and US$25 million, respectively, to
support the Human Resources Development Program (HRDP) of C6te d'lvoire. The loan
and credit, designed as an adjustment program, were to be disbursed in three tranches.
Subsequently, in January 1994, in connection with the devaluation of the CFA franc, the
Government requested the cancellation of the undisbursed balance of the loan amounting to
US$100 million.  In February 1994, the Executive Directors approved additional
allocations to the credit equivalent to the canceled amount of the loan plus US$86 million
in IDA reflows ("the Fifth Dimension"), for a total of US$186 million in new IDA funds.
2.    The present Implementation Completion Report reviews the Human Resources
Development Program from the perspective of the Bank (Part I) and the Borrower (see
Appendix). Statistical information on the Program is at Part II. The present report is
based on the President's Report on the Program, on review of the Bank's project files, on
data received from the Borrower, on material prepared by the Ivorian authorities for the
June 1995 meeting of the Consultative Group for C6te d'Ivoire, and discussions with Bank
and Ivorian officials, as well as with personnel in other donor agencies concerned.
B.    Macroeconomic Background and Country Assistance Strategy
3.    C6te d'lvoire has faced several fiscal and balance of payments crises since the early
1980s.  They reflected inadequate macroeconomic policies as well as fundamental
distortions in trade, finance, pricing and public management policies. These policies in
turn affected the efficient allocation of resources and limited the country's prospects for
economic growth and social development.
4.    Until the early 1980s, Bank lending in C6te d'lvoire was investment-oriented.
However, with the deterioration of the country's economic situation in the 1980s, Bank
lending shifted substantially toward structural adjustment. Three Structural Adjustment
Loans were approved between 1981 and 1986, for a total of US$600 million. Bank
lending to C6te d'lvoire was interrupted for almost two years (1987-89). Following the
conclusion of an agreement in mid-1989 between the Government and the IMF on a new
stand-by arrangement, the conditions for resumption of Bank lending were met.
5.    In August 1991 the Government adopted the second phase of the program, in a
Medium Term Economic Framework. This was supported by another IMF program and
three further SECALs, for competitiveness and regulatory reform, for financial sector
reform, and for human resources development - the HRDP which is the subject of the
present report.



2
6.    The 1991 stabilization program reversed the deteriorating fiscal imbalance through
tight expenditure controls. However, it did not achieve all its objectives, particularly those
related to the reduction of internal and external arrears. This led to substantial delays in
execution of the Human Resources Development Program, and in release of the second and
third tranches.
7.    In January 1994, with the realignment of the CFA  franc, the Government
reformulated its medium-term adjustment program in a Policy Framework Paper (PFP). It
expected that with the parity change and the implementation of the accompanying fiscal,
monetary, and structural adjustment policies, the Ivorian economy would be able to
strengthen its international competitiveness and return to a sustainable growth path. The
Government's 1994 program was supported by the IMF, through an Extended Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF), and by IDA lending. A new PFP was approved in 1995, and
a meeting of the Consultative Group for C6te d'lvoire was held in June 1995.
8.    Major priorities in the proposed IDA strategy through FY97 are to help the
Government: (a) maintain macroeconomic stability and strengthen public sector finances,
(b) promote private sector development, (c) increase the effectiveness of human resources
development programs through increased focus on primary health care, AIDS, basic
education, and population policies and programs, as well as the introduction of nutrition
programs; (d) strengthen institutional capacity; and (e) intensify environmental work. This
is to be achieved by the development of a diversified portfolio of projects in agriculture,
industry and energy, transport, infrastructure, and human resources.
C.    Human Resources Development Policies in C8te d'Ivoire
9.    Cote d'lvoire has consistently given high priority to human resources, particularly
to education. Major progress was made in the generation following independence in
improving basic health and education indicators. More than 50 percent of budget outlays
were consistently devoted to human resources in the 1980s. However, by the late 1980s the
deteriorating economic situation and inappropriate human resources policies led the
country to have social indicators generally worse than those for countries with lower
average per capita income levels, and which spent significantly less on health and
education.
10.   By 1990 the deepening budgetary problems in CMte d'lvoire had revealed structural
rigidities and inefficiencies in the delivery of human services. The Government was not
able to reduce significantly the cost of education and health services; education alone
accounted for 45 percent of the government's recurrent expenditure in 1990. As in some
other countries in Africa, the Government found itself unable to reduce (i) costs associated
with staffing (particularly teachers' pay, which accounted for about 50 percent of the total
public sector wage bill), and (ii) subsidies for students at the secondary and university
levels. As a consequence, the funding of non-personnel operating costs was negatively
affected. By 1991, the cost and dysfunctioning of human services were considered to be
major issues requiring urgent attention in the context of CMte d'lvoire's overall medium-
term macroeconomic framework for financial and economic recovery.



3
D.    Preparation of the Human Resources Development Program
11.   In mid-1988 an internal Bank review concluded that it would be appropriate to
change the dialogue on human resources with Ivorian officials in three ways:
(a)    The time horizon should be extended and the focus of the dialogue should shift from
points of disagreement to points of agreement.
(b)   The debate should be centered on human resources policies geared to social equity and
inter-action among the human resources sectors and sub-sectors.
(c)    The process should be fully participatory.
12.   These conclusions led to preparation of an IBRD discussion paper, and to a
workshop with Ivorian officials in April 1989. Four ministers participated, 40 Ivorian
officials attended, and II different Ivorian agencies were represented. Other donors active
in human resources also attended. Sectoral sub-committees were established, and the total
program was coordinated by a Permanent Secretariat in the Prime Minister's Office. A
monitoring committee (Comitg de suivi) was established, and the final report of the
workshop became the basis for the Human Resources Development Program.
13.   The Bank attached great importance to the process of HRDP preparation, including
a frank and constructive dialogue, and considered that a national consensus based on such a
dialogue would be the only guarantee of substantial reforms in the human resources sectors
in C6te d'lvoire. The evidence presented in this report suggests that such a national
consensus has yet to be achieved to a level which will permit many difficult and
contentious issues to be addressed successfully.
14.   The 1989 workshope led to agreement on the following diagnosis:
(a)    A sense of commitment to attainable human resources objectives had not been
developed in C6te d'lvoire, so that narrowly defined interests and poor budget and
program design prevailed;
(b)   the capacity to implement policy decisions by translating them into sound plans and
defensible budget proposals was weak;
(c)   the structure of costs seriously reduced the financial sustainability of human resources
programs; and
(d)   personnel were not effectively managed, but simply administered, following civil
service regulations, with little accountability, incentives or sanctions for poor
performance.
15.   Understandings were reached with the authorities following the workshop that the
Program being prepared would be an adjustment program, and not an investment program;
however, there were differences of opinion among the Bank staff as to whether the issues
were appropriate to resolution by an adjustment program. Many of the policy measures
were conceived to be the result of dialogue rather than formal adjustment program



4
conditionalities. It was also understood that the Program should be an Ivorian Program
prepared and executed by Ivorians, and that recourse to external consultants should be the
exception.
16.   It was understood from  the outset that the HRDP had to be embedded in the
country's macroeconomic strategy. The Bank staff thought that the HRDP should lead
macroeconomic policies to take into account their possible impact on vulnerable groups,
and to remove barriers to human services impeding access by the poor and disadvantaged.
This hope was not achieved, nor, in retrospect, was it a feasible goal for the HRDP.
17.   Objectives of the HRDP.   As formulated  in the President's Report and
accompanying documents, the HRDP was intended by the Government to reverse the
unfavorable trends in human resources development which threatened to compromise the
country's efforts in this area. As set out in the Government's policy letter, the ultimate
goals of the HRDP were to improve the country's "productivity and competitiveness" and
to "extend to more and more segments of the population the benefits of the policy of
justice which guides the Government's action". The Bank's President's Report articulated
the principal aim as 'increasing the quality of service delivery, while broadening the
coverage at the primary levels in education and health and offering more demand-driven
training opportunities". The objectives were translated into a matrix of program actions,
and a set of technical norms and indicators for different sectors and programs. A series of
budgetary program matrices costed on the basis of the technical norms translated the
program actions, norms, and indicators into operational programs for the period through
1995.'
18.   In retrospect, it appears that the HRDP was extremely, indeed excessively
ambitious in its objectives. It is difficult to see how the goals set out above could have
been achieved through one adjustment operation, for they represent the development task
of a generation or more.2 Furthermore, they required basic changes in the functioning of
the Ivorian civil service, such as greater openness, horizontal communication, and
flexibility. These changes were practiced intensively during preparation of the Program
but have not been fully internalized, not to mention institutionalized.' As a practical
matter, attention was focused during Program execution on the many pages of budgetary
matrices annexed to the President's Report, often at the expense of the underlying
problems.  Even addressing the issues in the budgetary matrices posed formidable
challenges. As one Ivorian official appropriately observed, execution of the HRDP was
beyond the capacity of the Ivorian civil service. It seems that, within the time made
available, effective supervision and support of the HRDP were beyond the Bank's capacity
also.
19.   Expected benefits of the HRDP. Full implementation of the Program was judged
in the President's Report as expected to bring "control and management to sectors which
currently account for a major share of public expenditures", and to ensure that "resources
committed to the human resources sectors contribute to improved competitiveness of the
economy and quality of life," with services of "improved quality and greater equity." The
actual results and benefits of the HRDP are discussed below.



5
20.   Risks of the HRDP: A Prospective and Retrospective View.  The three main
risks of the operation and the actions taken to manage them, as set out in the President's
Report, and the perspectives of hindsight on these risks, are:
(a)    "Possible negative reactions of well organized interest groups." The President's Report
stated that the Government had addressed this issue through a comprehensive policy
statement, dissemination of information, and public debate, which the Government
intended to continue. The public debate appears to have lost much of its intensity after
HRDP approval.
(b)    "Possible inertia in the civil service in adopting improved planning, programming,
budgeting and monitoring practices." This problem was found in the President's
Report to have been managed by putting the Program under the Office of the Prime
Minister and providing training and support to the technical ministries and the Ministry
of Economy, Finance, Commerce and Planning. A Human Resources Management
Project was soon deemed necessary to support HRDP execution, and was approved by
the Executive Directors in June 1993. In retrospect it appears that, while a number of
improvements were made in plapning, the difficulties involved in putting into effect
improved management practices, and the time horizon over which such changes could
be made, were seriously underestimated. While cost-cutting measures appear not to
have been successfully resisted, opposition or inertia appears to have impeded the
expected budget reallocations.
(c)    Finally, the President's Report stated that "financial austerity might prevent full funding
of human services", as required for their effective operation. This risk was thought to
have been mitigated by designing the action program on the basis of technical norms
which would permit expansion or contraction of services but preserve a minimal level
of functioning of those services offered. In retrospect, it is clear that both full funding
of "human services" and the effective functioning of those services offered, remain
serious issues. The technical norms did not receive enough attention during Program
implementation and require some degree of review and reformulation. Whether
resolution of these problems by adjustment measures was feasible is discussed below.
E.    The Human Resources Development Program and its Implementation
21.   At the time of appraisal and negotiations the HRDP was expected to lead to
financial transfers from the IBRD and IDA of US$150 million dollars, associated with
unspecified amounts from other donors. As it turned out (see Part 11, Table A6), the total
transfers were substantially higher: transfers from the Bank Group amounted to over
US$230 million (including the US$86 million of IDA reflows), and other donor financing
amounted to approximately US$130 million, for total financing of the equivalent of about
US$360 million, or nearly two and one-half times the amount specifically known at the
time of appraisal. Thus it is clear that the HRDP was a success in mobilizing external
financial resources.
22.   It is noteworthy that, according to Ivorian calculations, nearly 80 percent of the
financial transfers under the HRDP took place in 1994. The weighting of disbursements in
1994 was appropriate from the standpoint of economic policy, since support for the
country's balance of payments was greatly needed following the CFA franc devaluation.
However, balance of payments assistance was detrimental to the role of the HRDP as a



6
response to, and facilitator of, adjustments in the human resources sectors. Since the
macro-economic conditionality was an essential element in tranche release and the human
resources sectoral conditions were relatively less specific, the dynamics of the operation
permitted the Government to give less attention than was merited to the specific sectoral
targets and issues, and to expect 'understanding' from the Bank.
(i)    An Overview of the Accomplishments of the HRDP
23.   While the ambitions of the HRDP were excessive, its accomplishments should not
be underestimated. The principal achievements of the HRDP, by sub-sector, are set out in
Part 11, Tables B (1) and (2), and summarized below.
Education
24.   Prinmary & Secondary Education. The Government has taken a number of actions to
control the cost structure of education, including re-linking teacher pay to the general civil
service pay scale in order to reduce the average cost per teacher. This action reduced the
education bill by about two percent per year on average compared to the one percent
planned. The decline in salary expenditure permitted a higher level of recruitment to
address teaching staff needs, while remaining within the overall budget envelope.
Redeployment of non-administrative personnel was effected: 2,500 at the start of the
1993/94 school year. However, the training of new primary teachers consistently lagged
behind the increase in need.
25.   The Government was much less successful in establishing the conditions for an
increase in enrollment rates. The Government and the Bank significantly underestimated
the size of the school age population while preparing the HRDP. The 90 percent primary
gross enrollment rate targeted for 2000/2001, starting from 74 percent in 1989/90, could
require an annual increase of 1,000 in the number of classrooms and 1,200 in the number
of primary teachers; the Government estimates that only about 600 new primary teachers
would be required each year. The number of primary classrooms has hardly increased,
however, from 1989/1990 to 1992/1993. As outlined in the Government's sector strategy
submitted to the Consultative Group, an eight percent annual increase in the number of
primary school pupils would be needed.
26.   A sustainable school construction program has yet to be established. Indeed, the
gap between programmed and actual expenditures on education investments proved very
high (see Part II, Tables B(3) and B(4)). Government staff consider that the discrepancies
between programmed and actual expenditures are principally the result of a high level of
dependency on external financing to support education, and difficulties in mobilizing these
external funds.
27.   The Government has retained its long-term objective of achieving a 90 percent
gross primary enrollment rate in 2000, but has scaled back its 1995/1996 objective from
77 percent to 71 percent. To achieve the 90 percent enrollment target, the Government
will need to take major new policy initiatives and decisive measures to strengthen
implementation. Its plans include measures to sensitize the population, make available



7
financial assistance in areas where enrollment rates are below 50 percent, suppress fees for
the poorest populations, and conduct studies and research.
28.   Under the HRDP the Government achieved little success in reforming budgetary
allocations for education. Non-salary operating expenditures have stagnated at very low
levels compared with expectations laid out in the budgetary matrices agreed upon at
negotiations. However, the Government made progress on cost recovery in education.
The cost recovery system at the secondary level proved successful in its first year of
operation. Cost-recovery stagnated at a low level in primary education, probably
appropriately, and has been effectively abandoned. Even after a major budget reallocation
benefiting non-salary expenditures at the primary level, in 1994 non-salary operating
expenditures were only 55 percent and 30 percent, respectively, of  the amounts
programmed in the budget performance matrices for primary and secondary education.
Higher education still receives an excessively large share of public expenditures when
public budget funds are actually allocated (as distinct from budgeted). Draft human
resources budgetary projections for 1996 and 1997, prepared for the Consultative group
and the Policy Framework Paper, suggest a slight increase in the share of primary
education, up to 49 percent of the overall budget for education.
29.   Higher Education.4 In a context of budgetary constraints and occasional unrest at
the university, the Government was successful in reducing unit costs of higher education.
But, the explosion in the number of students has undoubtedly negatively affected quality
and made achievement of the HRDP cost containment and budget reallocation goals
impossible.
30.   Starting in 1992, a number of reforms were introduced in higher education. Salary
expenditure remained stable following actions to optimize the use of teaching personnel:
during HRDP execution, instructor:student ratios rose in the Grandes ecoles from 1:5 to
1:8, and in the university from 1:20 to 1:40. The Government's reforms include
contentious cost-controlling measures such as the limitation of transfer payments to
students, the suppression of automatic rights of entry of secondary school graduates into
the university, the streamlining of the Grandes &coles (audits of the structures and
reallocation of personnel), the capping of scholarships and subsidies, and the abolition of
the Centre national des oeuvres universitaires (CNOU) and the integration of its functions
into the management of the university. The global cost of the university system was
reduced by 10 percent from 1991 to December 1993, in spite of growth in the number of
students. The average cost per student fell from 1.2 million CFA franc to 0.7 million CFA
franc a year. This reduction in unit cost resulted from cost containment (adjustment)
measures, actions to revitalize higher education, and higher enrollment.
31.   Relatively little has been achieved in controlling the expansion of university student
enrollment, although this was a condition of second and third tranche release and widely
considered to be critical to controlling the size of the civil service and the growth and
structure of the education budget. The Government took some measures aimed at curbing
the growth of the student body: it enacted new rules governing promotions, the number of
repetitions and transfers between faculties, and the baccalaur4at. However in 1993 the



8
number of bacheliers was 40 percent higher than expected, largely due to fraud on the
examinations.
32.   As an alternative to public university education, to cope with the explosion of the
student population the Government also resorted to private higher education institutions,
where unit costs are lower than in the public university and the budgetary burden
substantially less; 4,500 students are currently in private universities, with their study costs
paid by the Government. A distance-learning project has been designed in order to
supplement the university system.
33.   Cost recovery in the tertiary sector has been higher than expected. In 1993 and
1994 cost recovery amounted to more than 200 percent of the targets laid out in the Budget
Performance Matrices.
Vocational Training
34.   The reform  of in-service training represents a significant achievement of the
HRDP. A number of positive measures were taken:
(a)    Dismantling of the Office national de la formation professionnelle (ONFP - National
Vocational Training Bureau) and the Fonds national de regulation (FNR - National
Regulation Fund), replaced by the FDFP (see below). Non-formal training, managed
by the ONFP and the FNR, had previously been seriously compromised by delayed
disbursements of funds collected through the payroll levies.
(b)    Unification of the management of the two payroll taxes (Apprenticeship Tax and the
Continuing Vocational Training Tax) under the auspices of a newly established
autonomous institution (Fonds de developpement de la formation professionelle, FDFP),
run jointly by employers, employees, and the Government.
(c)    Earmarking of the payroll taxes and their direct transfer to the FDFP's accounts at the
Caisse autonome d'amortissement; this assures the availability of the funds to the
FDFP.
35.   Financing for continuing training in the informal sector remain-, limited. This issue
is being addressed under the Bank-financed Labor Force Training Support Project (Credit
2637-CI), which provides resources for training with a special focus on the informal sector
and women. The labor market monopoly of the OMOCI (Government labor placement
office) has been abolished. Its placement function has been taken over by the functioning
of the labor market itself, while an Observatoire de l'emploi, des me'tiers et de la formation
was created in order to provide statistical information on the labor market.
36.   There were no effective attempts to reform pre-service vocational and technical
education: the system remains as remote from the labor market as it was before the HRDP.
The Government's decision in January 1992 to abolish the Ministry of Professional and
Vocational Training, and split the responsibilities for vocational and technical education
program  between the new Ministry of Higher Education and the Ministry of National
Education reduced attention to issues of vocational training at the secondary level, and



9
confused responsibilities for HRDP monitoring.  Funding of technical and vocational
schools remains a critical issue.
Health, Population, and Nutrition'
37.   Health services and budgets.  Under the HRDP the Government has made some
progress on a series of health services issues, including cost recovery, pharmaceuticals, the
first elements of a strategy based on primary care, decentralization, and region-level
management. Most fundamentally, cost recovery became effective for pharmaceuticals
and medical consultations, in October 1994, throughout the public sector health system.
Public health facilities are now allowed to recover the costs of medicines and curative
medical interventions and, in rural areas, to retain 65 percent of these revenues in blocked
accounts at the local level to replenish drugs used in public sector facilities, and for locally
determined operating and maintenance costs. Local Comites de gestion (COGES) are to be
established  to  manage  these funds.   While  these  reforms are promising, their
implementation has been slow and flaws exist; their impact on the health status of local
populations remains to be seen. It is clear that the effective development and universal
availability of an appropriate, cost-effective basic package of health services of a minimum
quality will require many more years.
38.   The HRDP led to progress on availability of low-cost medicines and consumables
for the population. Reforms initiated by the Government led to the application of a revised
essential drugs list. Generic products are gradually assuming a larger place in public and
even private sector supply, and a law was adopted permitting pharmacists to substitute
equivalent and lower cost generic drugs for brand name specialty drugs prescribed by
health care providers. International competitive bidding is assuming an increasing role in
drug imports for the public and private sectors. The "national preference" granted to a
local producer, CIPHARM, which had the effect of raising domestic prices, was reduced
and will be phased out over four years, starting in 1994; this should contribute, through
import competition, to lower prices for Ivorian consumers. However, the goal of making
key pharmaceutical products available to the entire population, at affordable prices to
consumers, will require much further policy action and development work. These issues
form an important part of the agenda for the Bank's future work in the health sector.
39.   There continue to be distortions in the allocation of Government budgetary
resources between primary and preventive health service functions and tertiary service
functions, and in health budget execution, particularly at the periphery.  The HRDP
budgetary program foresaw the primary share in recurrent expenditures for health
gradually rising from 35 percent in 1991 to 42 percent in 1995. However, the primary
share fell well below expectations, and was only 25 percent in 1994. Recent PFP
discussions with the authorities have confirmed an understanding that the primary share
will rise to 36 percent in 1996 and 1997. While encouraging, the latest developments will
require close monitoring if effective implementation is to be achieved. Furthermore, even
the 36 percent target of the PFP remains below the HRDP budget matrix goal of 42
percent in 1995.



10
40.   Reproductive health and nutrition: The Health and Demographic Project provided a
foundation for work on population issues undertaken under the HRDP. A program of
demographic data collection and analysis was implemented by strengthening the National
Institute of Statistics (INS). In addition, a national census was completed and published.
The Government defined a population policy which first admitted the need to manage the
population growth rate in 1991, as part of the HRDP. An interministerial commission
adopted quantitative targets, including reduction in the total fertility rate to 4.5 by 2015.
The Government has launched two population projects. The population program aimed at
reaching a 10 percent contraceptive prevalence rate over three years, starting in 1993. The
issue of AIDS received little attention under the HRDP and during HRDP implementation
reviews: During the first two years of the Program, the Government devoted only
$250,000 a year to the issue. The matter is now being addressed in connection with a new
health sector operation in preparation.
41.   Work on nutrition was complicated by the general feeling in the administration that
this is not a health issue, but rather an agricultural and food security issue. No action in
this area was taken or foreseen under the HRDP; the issue is now being addressed in
connection with the new health sector operation.
(ii) An Assessment Of HRDP Achievements and Shortcomings
42.   Under the HRDP, a restructuring of the education and health budgets was expected.
As reflected in the tables annexed to this report, the budgets adopted by the authorities
only generally reflected the priorities (and certainly not the amounts) agreed in the
budgetary performance matrices. Contrary to HRDP expectations, the primary level share
of total government recurrent and investment budgets has fallen in both education (from 52
to 47 percent) and health (from 32 to 25 percent), from 1991 to 1994. Executed budgets
showed important divergences from  plans.  There have been consistent overruns on
primary and secondary education salaries and consistent shortfalls in other operating
expenditures. Fiscally regressive social transfers have generally exceeded voted budgets at
all levels of education. Investment expenditures have lagged behind voted budgets by wide
margins, especially in education. Reinforcing budget plans and monitoring, with provision
for feedback and adjustment during the year, should be important parts of the
Government's and the Bank's future agenda in the human resources sectors.
43.   Institutional Development and Change. The following paragraphs address the
progress made under the HRDP in addressing the four underlying constraints to human
resource development identified at the 1989 HRDP planning workshop.6
44.   Lack of commnitment and poor budget and progran design. Preparatory work on the
HRDP continued through three changes in Government in Cote d'lvoire, suggesting that the
process of consultation which characterized the Progran becarne fairly well built into civil
service routines. The HRDP has come to serve as an organizing framework for the thinking on
human resources issues of senior Ivorian officials in both the core finance and planning
agencies of Government as well as in sectoral institutions. However, despite this gradual
progress towards internalization and despite the progress in cutting unit costs in education, it is
hard to conclude that human resources budget and program design have significantly improved.
Furthermore, little action has been taken on the equity aspects and concerns for the social



11
dimensions of adjustment which figured prominently, at least verbally, on both the
Government's and the Bank's agenda during HRDP preparation. Comments of Bank staff on
the initial draft report of the 1989 workshop have much validity as an assessment on the
entirety of Ivorian performance under the HRDP: a tendency to focus on short-term cost
savings rather than strategic resource reallocation; stronger analysis in education than in health;
need for greater clarity on the time horizon for change; unnecessarily ambitious studies; and a
need to address the Program's impact on the poor and vulnerable. However, it must be
recognized that, while the HRDP is complete as a Bank-financed adjustment program, it is not
complete as an Ivorian process. The commitment to continue the HRDP among large numbers
of Ivorian officials is evident and genuine. This is evidenced by the understanding reached
when the draft ICR was discussed; that a workshop with all COP members and HRDP donors
would be held to discuss lessons learned and next stpes from the Borrower's perspective.
45.    Weak implementation capacity. Progress has been made in selected areas, particularly
in the field of education, but implementation capacity remains as important an issue as it was at
the inception of the HRDP.  School and health facilities mapping exercises promise to
strengthen the basis for operational planning. However, the extremely complex and highly
centralized decision-making procedures of the Ivorian public service continue to hamper
implementation of agreed human resource development policies and programs, especially at the
periphery. The result is that human and financial resources arrive with great delay, or not at
all, at the primary levels where they are most needed. Despite recent progress, non-salary
recurrent budget allocations for primary health and education services continue to be a major
problem. The Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs (MSPAS) has taken some initiatives
for deconcentration, and is progressing with the establishment of district-based health services.
More radical approaches to decentralization are likely to be needed, on a government-wide
basis, to facilitate delivery of human services.
46.    Cost structures reducing financial sustainability of human resources programs. Much
progress has been made in reducing unit but not total costs in the field of education (see above),
at some expense to education quality. The issue of unit costs was somewhat less important in
the field of health, with the significant exception of pharmaceuticals. Substantial progress has
been made in cost recovery in the field of health, with potential to facilitate the increasingly
critical reallocation of public financial resources from the higher levels of the Ivorian health
care system to a basic package of health services to be made available to the entire population;
tertiary care received 71 percent of recurrent public budget resources for health in 1991, and
this share must be sharply reduced in the future with new initiatives for the non-governmental
financing of hospital care. Much remains to be done to strengthen financial management,
especially at the sectoral level; this will require work on improving the flow of financial
information, to make it possible for sectoral managers to assume increasing responsibility for
the wage bill and overhead services for which the financial resources flow directly from the
core agencies to the users.
47.   Ineffective personnel management. A considerable number of teachers were redeployed
from office jobs to teaching positions under the HRDP. The Government took courageous
decisions on the compensation program for primary school teachers, and effectively cut costs
significantly.  But, fundamental weaknesses in human resources for health and education
services remain to be tackled; even the information base on public sector staff is weak, though
action is being taken to address this problem under the HRMP. Staffing patterns appropriate to
different levels of institutions have yet to be determined; the Government is initiating a review



12
of the curricula of health personnel training programs, and norms for nursing care. This work
will compel a highly desirable re-examination of the country's health personnel profile. Under
present arrangements, the responsible sectoral ministries continue to have little authority or
accountability for the staff that they supervise; these are issues which touch on broader civil
service reform problems, being addressed under the Economic Management Project (Cr. 2503-
IVC).
48.   The  Environment for HRDP  Implementation:    Economic  decline  and
macroeconomic policy stress. The macroeconomic environment for implementation of
the HRDP was poor, and Government officials attribute many of the HRDP problems to
this fact.  Per capita income continued its long slide through 1994 but is expected to
increase starting in 1995 with effective implementation of measures adopted following the
1994 devaluation of the CFA franc. These factors in the environment reduced the capacity
of the civil service and political authorities to take difficult decisions, such as on budgetary
reallocation, and reduced the Government's ability to respect the macroeconomic links
built into the Program. Specific issues are discussed below:
(a)   It proved difficult to ensure respect for the budgetary program set out in the matrices
(see Part 11, Tables B(3) and B(4)).  Difficulties arose in the dialogue on human
resources budgets: The Bank staff considered that the final budgets for 1992 and 1994
did not fully take into account the understandings reached with the Ivorian staff, and a
budget reallocation in 1994 had to be requested by Bank staff to ensure greater
compliance with negotiated agreements.
(b)    Within the Ivorian administration the HRDP seems, in some respects, to have been
perceived, particularly in the early stages, more to be a Program of the Finance
Ministry than of the sectoral agencies. The fact that the external financial resources
made available under the HRDP supported the country's balance of payments, rather
than sectoral expenditure programs, reinforced this perception.  Only recently, the
importance of maintaining and strengthening the links between macroeconomic policies
and human resources policies appears to be increasingly recognized among Ivorian
officials in both core and sectoral agencies.
(iii) Borrower Performance
49.   Borrower performance issues related principally to the Comite des operations,
monitoring of HRDP execution, excessive focus on tranche release conditions to the
detriment of other parts of the Program, and insufficient follow-through on issues raised
in connection with the audit of the first tranche.
50.   The Comiti des op6rations (COP): A Success Story. The arrangements made at
the 1989 workshop for preparation of the HRDP by a Comite de suivi were
institutionalized in an Interministerial Human Resources Operations Committee (Comit'
des operations - COP).  The COP, and its sub-committees chaired by the sectoral
ministries, have led to a generally more interactive relationship between the technical
ministries and the core agencies.  However, as was pointed out at the time of second
tranche release, the activities of the COP will require time to mature.  It serves as a



13
framework for the implementation of the HRMP, and other donors are increasingly
working under its umbrella.   The authorities intend to continue with  the COP
arrangements, which clearly meet a need that existed before the HRDP but had not been
met. However, there are costs to the COP: it creates a layer between the ministries on
HRDP and HRMP issues that is sometimes counterproductive and always time consuming.
51.   Monitoring of the HRDP: A Weakness. The Permanent Secretariat of the COP
has had the principal responsibility for HRDP monitoring. Its main activity in this area
appears largely, but not exclusively, to have taken place in connection with Bank
supervision missions. Unfortunately, this work tended to concentrate on the budgetary
matrices, and the specific conditions for tranche release; this was particularly true in
connection with release of the third tranche. Incentives for participation in the reforms
were weak, leading to difficulties in mobilizing working groups within the COP.  In
addition, a low level of budget ownership, combined with a limited capacity to manage the
basic figures on budget targets, undermined the Government's ability to comply with loan
and credit conditions. The Bank played a major role, directly, in HRDP monitoring,
through a local consultant who joined numerous supervision missions; he personally
prepared matrices that gathered and reconciled large amounts of data from different
sources in the Ivorian administration, to make an extremely valuable compilation. Work is
still underway to transfer this critical tool to the Ivorian administration under the HRMP.
In early 1994 it took the initiative to commission an independent review of the HRDP by
an Ivorian consultant. This consultant's review formed the basis for the serious, frank and
comprehensive Ivorian perspective on execution of the Program set out in Appendix B to
this report; officials expect to complete their draft report with further material on skills
transfer issues, and reflections for the future, and use the report internally. Both the COP
Secretariat and the Bank were deficient in monitoring the sectoral norms and performance
indicators to which particular importance had been attached during negotiations, because of
their complexity.  During the implementation completion discussions the COP Chair
recognized this weakness, and it has been agreed that the norms should be reviewed and, if
necessary, simplified as a basis for future monitoring, in connection with new education
and PHN operations now in preparation.
52.   Excessive focus on tranche release conditions.  As execution  of the  HRDP
continued, attention in the dialogue between the Government and the Bank came to
concentrate on the specific conditions for tranche release, to the detriment of the earlier
dialogue on the full range of human resource development issues. At the time of first
tranche release, on effectiveness in early 1992, it became apparent that, while the agreed
trends were respected, there were deviations between the Government's final budget for
1992 and the results of the budget discussions that had taken place on the HRDP. The
Bank staff discovered that those concerned with preparation of the final budget had not
been informed of the HRDP understandings. During 1992 the dialogue advanced on these
points, but the information requested by the Bank appears not to have been provided. It
also became apparent that, while the Government might be able to meet the formal sector-
specific conditions for tranche release, the conditions were poor for favorable evolution of
at least some of the global indicators which could be considered a "litmus test" for the
program, including recruitment of many more primary school teachers and construction or
rehabilitation of many more primary school classrooms. During 1993 there was increasing



14
pressure from the Government to disburse on all adjustment operations prior to and then,
in 1994, increasingly following the devaluation. This significantly reduced the possibility
for dialogue on human resources issues.  Since preliminary discussions on a possible
waiver of some third tranche release discussions had taken place, by early 1994 the
authorities had come to expect that its release would be virtually automatic. In the months
that followed it proved virtually impossible to focus on the full breadth of the Program,
and the third tranche supervision mission concentrated almost exclusively on reviewing
progress on the specific conditions for tranche release and aiding the authorities to meet
them.
53.   In retrospect, the focus of monitoring and evaluation of the HRDP at the level of
the Finance Ministry was unfortunate: It reduced the engagement of the sectoral ministries,
and their sense of accountability for anything but the purely sectoral tasks of the HRDP.
Rotating the chairmanship among the various participating agencies might have given the
group as a whole a greater sense of responsibility and accountability for the results of the
entire Program. Furthermore, the Bank should have taken a less central role in Program
monitoring.  If the Ivorians, rather than the Bank, had assumed the responsibility for
collecting and collating the data in the budgetary matrices from the time of their initial
design, Ivorian ownership would have been much greater. Furthermore, the monitoring
work gave insufficient attention to the sectoral norms that were agreed as key variables
during negotiations but not integrated into the matrices for review. Thus, the action taken
at negotiations to mitigate the risk of under-funding of human resource services by
establishing sectoral norms appears to have had no beneficial effect.
54.   Audits and reporting. The audit of the first tranche took place, along with the
audits of the other SECALS, soon after it was released.  The audit revealed that
documentary justification on the $25 million IBRD component of the tranche had
apparently not been provided to the auditor. The Bank wrote to the authorities requesting
further audit work, but there was no follow-up.  The audits of the second and third
tranches, whose release was separated only by five months, were undertaken together, and
submitted to the Bank, with minor delay, in March 1995.
55.   Procurement and disbursement.  There were few issues in procurement and
disbursement. At one point (see Part 11, Table A7) the Ivorian administration submitted
disbursement requests under the three SECALS amounting to US$30 million for petroleum
products purchased without previous approval of the procurement procedures by the Bank.
The Bank showed appropriate flexibility in dealing with this problem: Examination by the
staff led to the conclusion that the buyer, Societe ivoirienne de raginage (SIR), was one of
the best and most transparent public enterprises, and that the contracts to be financed were
based on the lowest evaluated bid; on this basis the Bank agreed to finance them.
56.   Use of private consulting firms. It was agreed at the time of the third tranche
release that private consulting firms would be used, in place of the public service, to carry
out pre-investment studies on small-scale construction and rehabilitation of primary
education and health infrastructure, but the Government has not yet put this measure into
practice. The Government's principal contracting agency (Direction et contr6le des grands
travaux-DCGTx) has agreed that ways to accelerate execution of widely dispersed and



15
small works need to be examined. Bank staff intend to pursue this matter in connection
with ongoing and future education, health, and other operations.
(iv) Bank Performance
57.   Preparation. As indicated above, initiation of work on the HRDP took place in an
environment of great openness by the Bank towards change in the dialogue with the CMte
d'Ivoire on human resource development. In the period of HRDP preparation a vast
amount of sectoral analysis had been undertaken in the Bank, largely on the social
dimensions of adjustment (SDA) rather than traditional sectoral issues in education and
health.7  The Bank staff endeavored to integrate a series of new SDA studies into the
dialogue.  Missions were fully staffed, and the dialogue on the policy and budgetary
matrices extended over many months.  However, the preparation work lacked clear
objectives and timetables; it took over three years to come to closure, which was too long,
especially for an adjustment operation. An acceptable policy matrix and definition of the
areas for conditions emerged only late in the work. A clearly articulated "preparation
plan" might have helped. In addition, the issue of the Government capacity to execute the
Program should have been more carefully and objectively addressed: The Bank was too
optimistic in assessing the capacity of the Ivorian administration to implement the HRDP.
Bank preparation missions took most of the initiatives, at the expense of Ivorian initiative.
This naturally introduced a bias in the staff's assessment of the capacity of the Ivorian
administration to execute the Program. The matrices were "owned" by the Bank staff, and
not transferred to the Ivorians as a tool for them to use to manage their own programs.
58.   Supervision.  Supervision started in the spirit of the preparatory dialogue, and
gradually narrowed to focus on the specific conditions for tranche release. Supervision
missions were generally well staffed with sectoral specialists, and there was reasonable
staff continuity at the technical level. Nearly 90 staff weeks were devoted to supervision,
including preparation of this report, over about three years, or about 30 staff weeks per
year.
59.   One problem in Bank supervision was discontinuity of task management. During
the entirety of the preparatory period, through negotiations and effectiveness, for nearly
four years a single task manager was responsible for the operation, with support from
other colleagues. A second task manager assumed responsibility in the middle of 1992; he
was transferred early in 1994 at the time of second tranche release, and a third task
manager had to assume responsibility for the third tranche mission and for the preparation
of the present report. These discontinuities created some problems in the dialogue with the
Ivorian authorities, particularly at the time of third tranche release, because the new task
manager was unfamiliar with the detailed history of the operation and could not overcome
this weakness with briefings in the short period before going to the field. One practical
consequence of the problem was that supervision missions spent almost no time in the field
and outside of Abidjan to obtain a personal appreciation of the impact of the HRDP at the
level of service delivery. In retrospect, it appears that 30 staff weeks was nowhere near
enough time on supervision, and that - once the decision was taken to commit financial
resources for an operation of the complexity of the HRDP - the Bank should have invested
much more substantially in program supervision time and inputs.



16
60.   Links to creditworthiness.  Concern for Ivorian creditworthiness for IBRD
lending, and the risk that the country might fall into non-accrual status, underlay actions
by the Bank at several times during work on the HRDP and risked influencing its positions
on the substance of the Program. At the time of Loan Committee review, it was decided
to front load the IDA funding, rather than disburse the Credit and Loan pari passu, to
reduce IBRD exposure; it was also argued that C6te d'lvoire would return to
creditworthiness by the time of second tranche release.  The desire to reduce IBRD
exposure was a factor in the decision not to accept a- proposal by the Ivorian Prime
Minister to the President of the Bank to de-link the second tranche release from
macroeconomic conditionality, and in the decisions to replace the US$100 million IBRD
loan with an equivalent IDA credit and to provide "Fifth Dimension" resources.
Furthermore, in early 1994, following devaluation of the CFA franc and the addition of
'Fifth Dimension" resources to the HRDP, the pressure was great on the staff, in both the
Ivorian civil service and the Bank, to accelerate work on release of the third tranche. In
retrospect, it seems most unfortunate that the financial relations between C6te d'lvoire and
the Bank came to drive the Program during execution, at the expense of the substantial
dialogue which had been so rich during its preparation.
61.   Relations to other operations.  Links with both the IMF and other Bank
operations were close. Thanks to a staff initiative during negotiations on the Municipal
Development Project (Loan 3128 -IVC), funds were provided under that operation for
HRDP preparation studies. The need for flexible project funds to support human resource
management improvements became apparent early in HRDP execution, and the staff
rapidly processed the Human Resource Management Project (Credit 2505-CI) to Board
approval in June 1993. Unfortunately, it did not become effective until December 1993,
only six months before release of the third tranche of the HRDP.  The various
management improvement initiatives in the MSPAS under the Health and Demographic
Project (Loan 2619-IVC) made it unnecessary to concentrate attention on these issues
under the HRMP. The Management Project will continue in execution for several more
years, and it is already clear that the authorities and the Bank staff perceive a need for this
type of funding to continue. Whether the 'crutch" of the HRMP impeded internalization
of the HRDP by the Ivorian administration, as has been argued, is doubtful. In hindsight,
it appears that the HRMP should have come before the HRDP. The HRDP was also
related to the 'PASCO" Competitiveness SECAL, which provided for elimination of non-
tariff barriers to trade.  The arrangements for regulatory reform  in pharmaceuticals,
required for third tranche release of the HRDP, also touched on non-tariff barriers to trade
and thus were related to PASCO conditionality. They required a delicate dialogue, both
among the Bank staff and with the Ivorian authorities, because of the complexity of the
issues and the number of parties involved.
62.   Cooperation with other donors.  The African Development Bank (AfDB) and
Germany, through KfW, provided parallel financing for the HRDP, with identical tranche
release conditions.  AfDB and especially KfW  staff participated in joint supervision
missions. KfW staff - whose loan had only one tranche - were critical of the Bank's
position on release of the third tranche, and would have appreciated waiver or a more
demanding posture on tranche release conditions. The AfDB followed the Bank's lead on
tranche release. These arrangements reduced the burden on the Borrower and reduced the



17
staff work in the co-financing agencies; the latter tended to rely on the Bank for substantial
supervision of the HRDP. The European Union (EU) provided adjustment support to the
health sector on substantial conditions similar to the HRDP; cooperative links with the EU
were also close. The IMF and France pressed actively for early disbursement at the time
of the second and third tranche release discussions in connection with the devaluation of
the CFA franc.
(v) Lessons Learned
63.   The following appear to be the principal lessons to be leamned from the HRDP
experience:
(a)   Importance of macroeconomic/sectoral links and balance. The great importance of
sound, well-balanced links between the human resource sectors and the macroeconomy
and macroeconomic policies was clearly demonstrated by the HRDP. But, establishing
and maintaining a sound balance between them proved to be more difficult than initially
estimated. In retrospect it appears that the dynamics of the HRDP process, dominated
by the Finance Ministry, and the use of the adjustment mechanism with negative list
financing by the Bank, gave inappropriate weight to the central ministries, at the
expense of the sectoral departments; the latter were unable to progress as rapidly as was
- and continues to be - needed on the basic constraints to human resource development
outlined above. These elements affected not just the human resource sectors but the
entirety of the public administration, and hence needed to be addressed by
macroeconomic management measures and structural actions as well as implementation
actions at the sectoral level. In effect, the HRDP became the victim of macroeconomic
circumstances: Balance of payments issues calling for quick-disbursing funds, delays in
execution because of the real appreciation of the CFA franc and delays in meeting the
macroeconomic conditionality, rapid injection of additional funds following the
devaluation, and belated relaunch of the Program at that time without substantial
reconsideration of outstanding human resources sector issues, including the continuing
relevance of the conditions of third tranche release. The Bank staff considered the
possibility of proposing a waiver of key third tranche release conditions; this would
have reflected the underlying reality that the financial dimension of the HRDP was
driven by macroeconomic variables. While such action would not have facilitated
progress on human resources issues as much as the budgetary reallocation that was
ultimately arranged, in retrospect it appears that it might have been a more honest
and direct approach to tranche release. The discussions on a waiver, and the
processing of the documentation for Board approval might, however, have taken so
long that the value of quickly disbursing funds shortly after the CFA franc
devaluation would have been undermined.
(b)   Exreme difficulty of operationalizing budget understandings. Bank reviews of draft
human resource budgets in both 1992 and 1994 led to understandings that were not fully
taken into account in the final budgets. The tranche release mechanism proved to be an
extremely powerful but simultaneously blunt tool to address human resource budgets.
It is clear that this tool did not achieve its objective of substantially increasing the level
and share of primary education and health services, and of improving resource



18
allocation, in the Government's human resources budgets. In the future more dialogue
and less rigid formal conditions linking budgets to tranche release may be appropriate.
(c)    Closer linkage required between financing and disbursement and substantial program
issues and objectives; the potential irrelevance of adjustmnent lending. The inherent
dynamics of adjustment lending pushed towards individual, high-profile and centralized
decisions. Yet, the HRDP needed not just a series of individual, one-time decisions,
but a process of dialogue and intensive monitoring between macroeconomic and sectoral
managers that would continue over an extended time and reach out to the periphery.
Use of the adjustment instrument focused the dialogue away from sectoral issues and
long-term  institutional development problems.   The Bank's decision to extend
adjustment operations to the human resource sectors in Cote d'lvoire seems to have
been driven as much by its assessment of the country's macroeconomic conditions (and
particularly by the need for balance of payments support as the HRDP preparation
process came to a close) as by its specific substantial concerns in the human resources
sectors.  The Bank staff have concluded that a series of sector investment and
development operations would be more appropriate vehicles to continue and deepen the
long-term dialogue, particularly with the sectoral agencies. Most Ivorian staff, in both
the Ministry of Finance and the sectoral agencies, appear to agree with this assessment.
However, some senior Ivorian officials seem to be considering the idea of a second
HRDP operation, with negative list financing, to assist in providing clearly needed
balance of payments support. The experience documented in this report suggest that
such an operation, which may well be needed from a macroeconomic perspective,
would be inappropriate as a vehicle to address human resource concerns.  The
appropriateness of providing 'negative list' balance of payments support for
countries that have a fiscal, not a balance of payments problem, merits further
consideration. Under the HRDP, there was a discrepancy between the massive
financial means, in the form of negative list balance of payments financing, and the
sectoral issues; as a result, there were pressures to release the funds, while sectoral
issues were neglected. The newer sector investment programs, in Sierra Leone
(health) and Zambia (health and agriculture) provide models that may be worth
emulating in C6te d'Ivoire.
(d)    The importance of sequencing. The HRMP should have preceded the HRDP by at least
12 months, in order to build capacity. Furthermore, with the exception of the budget
issues, the tranche release conditions - reported in the implementation review of the
Government's program of actions set out in the annexes of-this report - appear not to
have followed any particular logic. It might have been appropriate to relate them more
carefully to critical, monitorable actions to address the fundamental constraints to
human resource development identified during HRDP preparation, including not just
budgets but financial and human resource management.
(e)    The importance of not losing sight of poverty and equity concerns, and of keeping
balance in theface of popular trends. The initial discussions on the HRDP took place
at the height of the Bank's work on the social dimensions of adjustment (SDA). SDA
concerns, including gender, clearly influenced the identification stages of work on the
HRDP, but gradually fell into the background during preparation and were largely
ignored during HRDP implementation. In addition, the SDA program was widely



19
perceived to have an inadequately operational poverty focus. Poverty and equity issues
are essentially macroeconomic in their analytical foundation, but largely sectoral at the
level of application. This suggests that the HRDP organizational framework would be a
good vehicle to address them. Yet, the delay in both C6te d'lvoire and the Bank in
doing so, reflected in the late start-up on a poverty assessment, suggests that the HRDP
adjustment operation was an inappropriate vehicle.
(f)    The critical importance of ownership of the HRDP by the Borrower and the many
Borrower agencies concerned. As indicated by the tone of the President's Report, it
seemed at the time of negotiations that ownership of the HRDP by the many Ivorian
institutions concerned had been assured by their heavy engagement in preparation and
by avoidance of long-term expatriate technical assistance for the Program. In
retrospect, it is clear that ownership varied greatly, and that ownership, once assured as
it was thought to have been during preparation, required nurturing to be sustained. The
only "champions" of the HRDP were in the Finance Ministry. New senior staff in the
Ministries of Health and Education took office after the HRDP had been negotiated;
while they acknowledged responsibility for the HRDP as Ivorian officials, they felt little
personal commitment to the Program.



20
PART II. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.    Standard Implementation Completion Report Tables and Matrices
Table A (1):  Summary of Assessments
Table A (2):  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table A (3):  Program Timetable
Table A (4):  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table A (5):  Studies Included in Program
Table A (6):  Progran Financing
Table A (7):  Status of Legal Covenants
Table A (8):  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table A (9):  Bank Resources: Missions
B.    Special Tables and Matrices Unique to this Implementation Completion
Report
Table B (1)   Actions and Measures taken under the Human Resources
Development Programn
Table B (2)   Matrix of Program Actions under the Borrower's Policy Letter,
and Implementation Review
Table B (3)   Sectoral Budgetary Performance Matrices
Table B (4)   Budgetary Indices
Table B (5)   Evolution of Human Resources Expenditure 1994-97
Table B (6)   Key Sectoral Norms and Performance Indicators
Table B (7)   C6te d'lvoire and the '20-20' Targets for Social Expenditures
APPENDIXES
A. Completion mission aide-memoire
B. Program Review from the Borrower's Perspective
C. Map IBRD 14699R5



21
ENDNOTES
The statistical information in Part II contains these matrices and data, along with actual
or estimated figures collected in preparation of this report.
2 The plans of the Bank initially provided for a series of human resources adjustment
operations.
3 The Human Resources Management Project (Credit 2505-Cl) and the Macroeconomic
Management Project (Credit 2503-Cl) are now addressing related issues.
4 The following paragraphs take into account the April 1995 working paper of the
Ministere de l'Enseignement Superieur et de la Recherche Scientifique entitled
uEnseignement Superieur: presentation des reformes entreprises au cours de la pe'riode
1992-1995 .
5 Under the Health and Demographic Project, which preceded the HRDP, the efficiency of
health services was somewhat improved through actions to strengthen management capacity in
the MSPAS. In addition, the nurse training and pedagogical capacity at three nursing schools
were improved, and new work on manpower planning was initiated.
6 The Human Resources Management Project (HRMP) currently in execution should help to
compensate for weaknesses displayed in the three sectoral ministries with principal
responsibility for implementation of the HRDP. The objectives of the HRMP are: (1) to
support the execution of essential elements of the HRDP at the governmental level; (2) to
reinforce the budgeting, programming, and planning capacities of the ministries responsible for
primary and secondary education (MEN), higher education and scientific research (MESRS)
and public health and social affairs (MSPAS).
' See: (a) C6te d'Ivoire: Public Expenditure Review, July, 1990, which has analyses of
public expenditures in the education and health sectors, as well as chapters on
simplification of budget procedures and elements of a medium term civil service policy;
(b) Applelton, Simon, Paul Collier and Paul Horsnell, Gender, Education and Employment
in C6te d'Ivoire, September, 1990, Social Dimensions of Adjustment in Sub-Saharan
Africa; (c) Chia, Ngee-Choon, Sadek M. Wahba, and John Walley, A General
Equilibrium-Based Social Policy Modelfor C6te d'lvoire, October, 1992, Poverty and
Social Policy Series, No. 2; (d) Grootaert, Christiaan, The Evolution of Welfare and
Poverty under Structural Chnage and Economic Recession in Cote dI'voire, 1985-88,
January, 1993, WPS 1078; and (e) Grootaert, Christiaan, How Useful are Integrated
Household Survey Data for Policy-Oriented Analyses of Poverty?, January, 1993, WPS
1079.



22
Table A (1): Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives        Substantial       Partial         Negligible      Not applicable
(V)       ()                     (V')              (V)
Budg. reallocation for primary       C1      0               0                          0
education and health
Increase in primary non- salary      E l                     0                          0
recurrent expenditures
Control of teachers'salary cost      0       0               0                          0
Implem. of a cost-recovery           El              0                0                 0
system in Health
Implem. of a cost-recovery           0E 0                             0                 0
system in Education
Implem. of a population policy       0               0                0                 0
and program
Implem. of drugs policies            0               El               0                 0
Physical investments in primary      0               0                0                 0
school classrooms
Limitation of transfers to           0               0                0                 0
students
Control on the number of             0               0                0l                0
university students
Reduction in unit costs of           0               0                0                 0
university students
Reform of vocational and             0               0                0                 0
technical education)
B. Project Sustainabiliry              Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
(V)                       (1)                       (/)
01                        01                        0
C. Bank Performance                     Hihly
satisfactory         Satisfactory                Deficient
(/)                      (/)                       (')
Identification                      0                         0                         0
Preparation Assistance              0                        0                          0
Appraisal                           0                          l                        0
Supervision                         00                                                  0
D. Borrower Performance                         Highiy
satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
(/)            (1)             (1)
Preparation                                   0               0               0
Implementation                                0               0               0
Covenant Compliance                           0               0               0
Operation (if applicable)                     0               0               0
Highly                                            Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactory   Satisfactorv   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
(V)             (VI)             (V)               (VI)
0              10               2E0                0
I In some respects (see text)          2. In many respects (see text)



23
Table A (2): Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title            Purose                              Year of approval         Status
Preceding operations
1.L26190-lVC         Heath and Demography                        FY86             Closed 6/92
2. L3408             Financial Sector Adjustment                 FY92             Closed 6/94
3. L3429             Regulatory Reforrn Adjustment               FY92             Closed 6/94
Following operations
I.Cr.2637-0          Labor Force Training Support Project        FY94             Effectiveness dste: 1/16/95
Closing Dae: 2128/99
2. Cr.2503           Economic Management Project                 FY93              Effectiveness dste: 9/13/93
Closing Date: 6/30/99
3.Cr.2505            Human Resoures Management Project           FY93             Effectiveness Dase: 1231/93
Cbosing Dase: 12/31/96
Table A (3): Project  imetable 
Steps in project cycle                Date planned                 Date actual
Identification                                      August 1988 (3)         August 1988 (3)
Preparation                                            May 1989                June 1990
Appraisal                                         November 1989 (2)           June 1991 (3)
Negotiations                                        February 1990          November 1991 (3)
Letter of development policy                         January 1990             October 1991
Board presentation                                3rd quarter 1990 (2)       December 1991
Signing                                             December 1991            December 1991
Effectiveness/ First tranche release              December 1991 (3)           January 1992
Second tranche release                               May 1992 (3)            February 1994
Third tranche release                             November 1992 (3)            June, 1994
Loan closing                                      December 31, 1993         34280 12/31/94
(3)                  2323 1/92
2323-1 09/30/94
2323-2 02128195
2. Source: Initial Executive Project Summnary, July 29, 1988.
3. Source: Prsident's Report.



Table A (4): Loan/Credit Disbursements: Estimated and Actual (million)
FY:        :                         92 . ::.:  ::::                        :; FY93  FY 94 ::95.  TOTAL
Ln 3428  Cr 2323   Ln 3428/Cr 2323  Cr 23231   Cr 23232 Cr 23231   Cr 23232   AMOUNT
(US $)    (US S)       (US $)        (US $)    (US $)    (US S)    (US $)   (US S)
Appraisal estimate            25       25 (1)        100            0          0          0          0         150
Actual                        25       25 (1)        0 (2)       100.7 (3)   87.4 (4)    0.9 (5)   0.2 (6)    239.2
Actual as % of estimate     100%       100%          0%             -           -          -                  159%
Date of final disbursement  Jan-92    Jan-92          -                                 7/19/94  | 7/19/94
(1) 18.5 million SDR.             (3) 71.8 million SDR.       (5) 0.6 million SDR.
(2) Loan cancelled.               (4) 61.9 million SDR.        (6) 0.1 million SDR.



25
Table A (5): Studies Included in Matrix of Program Actions
Study                           Status            Impact of study
.Tracer studies for technical and    Completed          Contributod to the rmtionalizuiion of
professional training                                    technical and professional high schools and
univenities.
2.Development of models of                               Governmcnt developed initial family
population dynamics. Socio-                              planning and AlDS/STD programs.
cultural analysis of constraints on                      Population policy document developed and
the implementation of a population                       taken to the UN Conference on Population
policy.                                                  and Development in Cairo.
3.Studies on the futurc of social  Underway.             Commission on social security established
security.                                                on the issue in 1995.
4.Statisaical study of the number of  CompIcted.         Government abolished the National
students by faculty and by year                          Oricntation Commission; authorized
during the 1987-91 period.                               faculties to admit diectly; applied new
Scenarios using various rules of                         promotion, repetition and inter-faculty
selection, rcpetition and promotion.                     trnsfer rules.
5. Feasibility study on the       Completed.             Study completed under the AIDB
subsidization of textbooks                               Education IV project; textbooks prices
purchases for poor families                              stabilizcd in nominal tcrms and declined in
real terms.
6.Analysis of staffing pattems for   Initial studies     Priaury teachenr in administrative post
the three key HRD ministries.     completed.             redeployed. Secondary and university staff
redeployed with new hours. Further studies
ongoing under HRMP.



26
Table A (6): Project Financing
Appraisal estimate                       Actual
Source            SDR M          us $ M                 SDR M    US S M
IBRD                             -              125.00              -               25.00
IDA
Cr 2323                         18.5             25.00            18.5               25
Cr 2323-1                       NA               NA               72.4             100.00
Cr 2323-2                       NA                NA             62.00              85.6
KfW                           NA (1)            NA (1)              -              19.1 (2)
AfDB                          NA (I)            NA (1)              -             79.7 (3)
European Union                NA (1)            NA (1)              -              26.5 (4)
TOTAL                        18.5 (1)          150 (1)             -              360.9
1. Donor funding was expccted to be forthcoming at the tirne of approval but no figures wcre known.
2. Original amount of DM 30 million. Applicable exchange rate: SI1DM 1.5732 (1/15/92).
3. Original amount of 50 million UCB and 8 million UCF. Applicable exchange rate (1993): 1 UC - US S
1.37356.
4. Original amout of ECU 18 million (1993) and ECU 28 million (1994). It is estimated that 50%1* of the
funding was devoted to the health sector and 50%1/ to decentralization (i.e. an estimated ECU 23 million
was commnitted by the EU under the HRDP). Applicable exchange rates: 1 ECU=S1.20183 (1/15193) and
1 ECU=S1.11667 (1/15/94).



27
Table A (7): Status of Legal Covenants
Agrccment  Section   Covenant   Prcscnt    Original         Actual          Dcscription                   Comnments
type        status2   fulfillmcnt  fulfillmcnt date   of covcnant
datc
Ln 3428       3.01       1t2        C    May 1992       February 1994 Joint review  of the The delay  in  meeting  the macro-
Cr 2323                                   (Second       (Second       conditions   for  the economic conditions led to one year
Tranche)      Tranche)      rclease of the second slippage in tanche relecase  nd hence
November    Junc 1994       and third tranches of review  of 1993  and  1994  budget
1992 (Third   (Third       the Loan/Credit       instead of 1992 and 1993 as a condition
Tranche)      Tranche)                            for third tanche releae.
3.02       3         CP         N.A.          N.A.      Procurement:    Loan Govcrnment  submitted   withdrawal
Agreement provides for application  for petrolum   products
financing of commonly procured without prior Bank approval
traded    commoditics of  procurremnt  procedures.  Bank
procured in accordance disbursement    approved      after
with       procedures determining that Societe Ivoirienne de
acceptabic to the Bank  Raffinagc (SIR) was among the best
managed and most tmansparent public
Cnterprises of Cote d'lvoire and that it
had accepted the lowest bid.
At another point, ovcr $30 million in
dizbursement requests for the SECALs
had to be rejected.
3.04 b      4         CP         NA.           N.A.      Audit of each tranche   Audit of the first tranche received with
required             minor delay. The audit revealed that
documcntary justification on the $25
million IBRD component of the tranchc
had apparently not been provided to the
author. Because of the limited time
bctween second and third tanche
release, the rcmainig audits were
requested simultaneously. Expected by
the end of 1994, they were received in
IA April, 1995.
1. Covenant types:
1 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other reource allocation
2 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds
4  = Accounts/audits
2. Prsent status:
C = covenant complied with
CP = complied with partiaUy



28
Table A (8): Bank Resources: Staff Inputsl
Stage of project cycle    Actual
weeks
Pre-Appraisal            133.6
Appraisal               40.5
Negotiation              12.8
Supervision             88.2
Completion               13.7
TOTAL                  288.8
10. Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants.



Table A (9): Bank Resources: Supervision Missions.
Performance Rating
Supervision      Month/year Number of Days In Specialized staff  Implementation Development             Types of problems
persons   field    skills represented  status          Imparst
I                 March '92     6        7.7   PE - E - HPS - Ed -       2          2        Review of 1992 budget
PO-C          '
=I         October '92    4      X__       PE - PO - CFI - OA           _              Not documented In Form 590
III               March '93     3        3.4   PE - PO - CFI             2          2        Macro-economic conditionality not satisfied
IV                June '93      2         11   PE - PO                   3           3       Government experiencing serious difficulty
In meeting budget performance targets
Education sector: new evidence on the expected
growth of the school-aged population and new
evidence on repetition rates
V                  Nov. '93     6        1.5   PE - ES - HPS -           2           2       Much to be done In the fields of education and
CE/E- CFI - PO                                population, especially on budgets and numbers
of students In universIles                            e
VI                April '94      5        10   MS - ES - PHS -        S (1)        S (1)     Low government commitment to the HROP;
HPS - CFI                                     Tranche release waivers expected by the
Government but not accepted by the Bank;
Bank proposed and Govemment subsequently
adopted reallocations In favor of non-salary
__________                                                            recurrent Inputs In primary sector
Completion         Nov. '94      3        11   MS- CFI - PO                                   Delay In audi reports on 2nd and 3rd tranche;
delay In Implementing decision on use of
consuhlng firms to prepare small scale works
I______  l_____ in pdmary education and health
Symbols used: (C) Consultant; (CEIE) EducatIon/Economics Consultant; (CFI) Financial Analyst Consultant; (E) Economist; (Ed) Educator;
(ES) Education Speciallst; (HPS) Heafth & Populatlon Specialist; ((MS) Management Specialist; (OA) Operations Analyst;
(PE) Principal Economist; (PHS) Public Health Speciallst; (PO) Project Officer.
(1) As found In 09/21/94 Form 590.



30
Part II, B (1)                       C6te d'Ivoire-HRDP
MEASURES TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION MEASURES TAKEN AFTER BOARD PRESENTATION
(I)
Education
* Reduction of num'oer and cost of French techriical assistanice
personnel and renegotiation of conditions rclated to thLis
assistanee.
* Execution of a study on textbooks-
*  Price of primary school textbooks lowered by 25%.      *  Reduction in the textbook price for 1992-93. For the 1993-94
school year the prices remained unchanged, which
represented a further reduction in real terms.
*  Redeployment of prirnary school teachers.              *  Redeployment of personnel away from administrative
positions to primary classrooms.
*  Measures taken to retrain secondary school teachers in  *  Ecoles-temoin (schools initiative). Two-fold objective:
French, rnaths and physics in public secondary education, in  imnprove teacher performance and educational quality at the
order to improve quality of secondary education.          local level.
*  Recruitment of teachers in September 1989 and January 1991  *  Hiring of new teachers.
to counteract the influx in pfirary education.
* Elimination of the first part of the Baccalaureat and
requirement of the BEPC for transition into the secondary
cycle so as to ease the flow in secondary education.
*  Limiting parallel recruitment in public secondary education  *  Elimination of subsidies to private educational institutions
so as to curtail overcrowded classrooms.                  for students who have twice failed to pass their examinations.
*  Audit of the CNOU.                                     *  Integration  of the functions of the CNOU  into the
management of the University.
* Reductions in the levels of transport subsidies and
scholarships.
* Limitation of transfer payments to students.
* Privatization of University restaurants and housing.
*  Joining of two ministries in charge of education into one  *  Creation of a new Higher Education Ministry.
ministry responsible for national education (primary and
secon    level).
*  Limitation of access to public sector employment by  *  Suppression of the automatic employment of University
instituting public testing instead of automatic recruitment  graduates by the civil service.
after graduation from the "Grandes Ecoles".
(1) Source: President's Report.



31
MEASURES TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION MEASURES TAKEN AFTER BOARD PRESENTATION
I                  ~        ~       ~       ~~(1)  l                                                           l____________________________________
(Continued)
Transfer of certain faculties from  the University to the  *  Statistical analysis and scenarios on higher education
previous ENSA facilities in order to limit overcrowding in  participation rates.
university facilities.                                 *  Suppression of automatic rights of entry of secondary school
graduates into the university.
*  Reform of the pedagogic management of the university
system: responsibilities for student selection, curriculum and
promotion returned to Universities and faculties.
* Implementation of a new system to manage student numbers.
* Pedagogic capacity of universities enhanced by the
renovation of existing, under-utilized university buildings.
*  New rules govering promotions, the number of repetitions
.    and transfers between faculties.
*  Reinforcing selection criteria for grants.
*  Payment of arrears to private secondary schools.        *  Encouragement to students to enroll in private institutions.
*  New tuition fees introduced at all education and training  *  Enforcement of cost recovery in higher education.
levels.
*  Linking of primary teachers' wages to public service sector *  Completion of a census of primary and secondary teachers.
wages.                                                     Census cross-referenced with the civil service payroll.
*  Teachers' pay re-linked to the general civil service pay scale-
*  Redeployment of about 250 teachers leaving administrative
positions.
Other measures
* 3.7 billion CFAF budgetary reallocation for non-salary
recurrent expenditures at the primary level (1994 budget).
*  Management of the  baccalaureat exam  strengthened,
following widespread fraud in 1993-94.
*  Rationalization of the 6 'Grandes Ecoles": completion of
financial and management audits of the facilities -
harmonization of basic course requirements - increase in
faculty teaching loads - reduction in administrative staff
I    relative to teaching staff and student numbers.
(1) Source: President's Report.
2



32
MEASURES TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION  MEASURES TAKEN AFTER BOARD PRESENTATION
_                .~~~~~~~~1
(Continued)
Vocational and Technical Education
*  Grouping of all the higher level technical schools (Grandes  *  January 1992: suppression of the Ministry of Professional
Ecoles) under the tutelage of the Ministry of Scientific  and Vocational Training; responsibilities for the Vocational
Research and Vocational and Technical Education.          & Educational Training program  split between the new
Ministry of Higher Education (actions related to the
"Grandes Ecoles") and the Ministry of National Education
(actions related to technical high schools).
* Payment of arrears owed by the Public Treasury to the FNR
and the ONFP.
*  Principle accepted of system reform as outlined in the Bank's  *  Rationalization at the central administration level.
policy study on Vocational and Technical Education.   *  Rationalization/improvement in the cost-effectiveness of the
specialized technical universities C'Grandes Ecoles"),
through a reduction in the schools' budgets and a full
management audit.
*  Analysis of the cost-effectiveness and relevance of the
technical and professional high schools.
*  Elimination of unnecessary boarding facilities in Abidjan.
*  Increase in teacher work loads.
* Cancellation of marginal courses offered more effectively by
private schools.
__________________________________ _    *  Labor Force Training Support Project effective January 1995.
*  Decision to combine and place apprenticeship and in-service  *  Unification of the Apprenticeship Tax and the Continuing
training tax under the control of tri-partite management.  Vocational Training Tax under a new agency (FDFP - Fonds
de Developpement de la Formation Professionnclle), jointly
managed by representatives of the govermment, labor and
induistry. It replaoed the FNR and the ONFP.
*  Acceptance of feeze for period  1991-95 for public
investment in technical training.
*  Draft law and dee enhancing the management of the  *  Successfil implementation.
apprenticeship and professional taining tax.                         ._       _
Labor Market
* Principle accepted of limiting the OMOCI (government labor * Abolition of the OMOCI.
placement office) monopoly. Principle accepted to accelerate
works requiring demand for manual labor.
(1) Source: President's Report.
3



33
MEASURES TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION   MEASURES TAKEN AFTER BOARD PRESENTATION
(Continued)
Health
*  Construction of the H6pital de Jour du Plateau halted.  ___
* Fusion of the Ministry of Population and Health with the
Ministry of Social Affairs in order to constitute one Ministry
of Health and Social Affairs.
*  List of pharmaceuticals categorized by type adopted.  *  Regulatory actions affecting the private pharnaceutical
market: (I) adoption of essential drugs lists; (H) extension of
the use of essential and generic drugs; (m) pricing and trade
measures (reduction in profit margins of private pharmacies);
international  competitive  bidding  established);  (IV)
immediate reduction and gradual phasing out of the "national
preference" granted to CIPHARM over 4 years (starting
1994).
*  Competitive bidding and consequent substantial decrease in   *  Completion  of the  audit of the  Central Pharmacy.
price for pharmaceuticals procured by the Central Pharmacy.  Restructuring of the agency.
*  Acceptance on freeze for 1991-95 period of public    *  1.3 billion CFAF budgetary reallocation for non-salary
investments for tertiary level health care.             recurrent expenditures at the primary level (1994 budget).
*  Principle of cost-recovery accepted.                 *  Publication of all the required legal texts allowing for a cost
recovery system applicable to the costs of medicines and
curative medical interventions. 65% of these revenues are
retained at the local level. System became operational in July
1993, and applicable nationally at primary care level in 1994.
The government has also authorized the use of these revenues
by local management committees for replenishment of drugs
used in public sector facilities, and for locally determined
operating and maintenance costs.
*  Audit of Caisse Nationale de Prevoyance Sociale (CNPS)  *  Studies on ways to reform the CNPS.
completed.
*  CNPS operating costs cut by 300/a.
*  National Commnittee to fight AIDS constituted.       *  Expansion of government's AIDS prevention program to
include social communication and prevention strategies
among the general population.
Other measures
*  Recruitment and deployment of nurses to the primary level.
Establishment of patient care norms at first entry points into.
the system.
*  Census of staff, cross-referenced with the civil servce
payroll.
(l) Source: President's Report.
4



34
MEASURES TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION MEASURES TAKEN AFTER BOARD PRESENTATION
(I)
(Continued)
Population
Principle accepted of constituting a policy revolving around    *  Two population projects launched through the Ministry of
population isssues. First measures taken (conference,    Health:  information  distribution  and  distnbution  of
televised events, general population policy orientation  contraceptives.
defined and accepted by government).                  *  Population programs organized by UNFPA and USAID with
government support.
*  Technical committee established to develop faniiliy planning.  *  Creation of a "Bureau National de la Coordination de la
*  Start of training of Ivorians in family planning techniques.  Planification Familiale" as a project coordination unit.
* Completion of a draft national faimily planning program
(1994).
Budget and Macro-economic Equilibrium and Social Dimensions of
Adjustment
*  Model integrating income distribution and poverty analysis    *  Poverty assessment re-launched in 1995.
in the macro-economic framework.
*  Priority household surveys planned for the near fiture.  *  Survey deferred to 1995, now underway.
Institutional Structure.
*  Creation of a Committee of Operations (COP) responsible for  *  The government organized in early 1992 a program
the follow-up of the HRDP and attached to the Prime      management workshop with about 200 persons from 5
Minister's Office.                                       ministries, facilitating information exchange and
*  Format for reporting on execution of program and sector   organization for execution of the HRDP.
budgets developed.                                    *  COP served as framework for donor support to HRDP.
*  Cellule Technique and Secrdtariat Permanent operational.    *  COP organized work in government on tranche release
*  Ministeial Consultative Groups (College des Directeurs)   conditions.
constituted.                                          *  COP managed HRJMP.
* Cellule Commune - Organigramme operational.
* Transfer of simplified model on budgetary planning
completed.
* Nomination of a special advisor to the Prime Minister for
Economy and Finance, responsible for the follow-up of the
HRDP.
(1) Source: President's Report.
5



35
MEASURES TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION MEASURES TAKEN AFTER BOARD PRESENTATION
(1)
(Continued)
Public Acceptance Campaign
First phase of campaign prepared and launched in 1991
(radio, television, newspaper, meetings with various social
groups).
Donor Coordination
*  EEC Projects on Pharmaceuticals and Social Dimensions of   *  Joint supervision and discussions by KiW, AFDB and World
Adjustment implemented.                                   Bank.
*  French Ministry of Cooperation-funded project of       *  Continuous coordination with EU
revitalization and adjustment of national education appraised  *  Total donor financing was substantially in excess of 110
and implemented.                                          billion CFAF (about SDR 256 million).
*  UNFPA project - providing support to the government for the  *  MSPAS has instituted donor meetings.
development of a national population policy.
* African Development Bank project for the rehabilitation of
health facilities being implemented.
* Discussions and coordinating efforts with donors held on a
regular basis (leading to a common stance between
government and donors in interested sectors).
* A donor roundtable for the government's HRDP held in June
1991. Total commitments for the program expected to reach
110 billion CFAF.
Budget
*  1991 budget (Loi de Finances) revised to reflect the targets
inthe Budgetary Perfonnance Matrix.
*  Budgetary Performance Matrix for the 1991-96 period
prepared on the basis of agreed technical norms.
*  Draft 1992 budget prepared corresponding to the Budgetary    *  Joint review of 1992 budget execution and of the 1993 draft
Performance Matrix.                                       budgets for the human resources sectors.
*  Joint review of 1993 budget execution and of the 1994 draft
budgets for the human resources sectors.
*   1994 budget adjusted at Bank request.
*  Review of draft 1995 budgets for the human resources sectors
and of 1995-1997 PIP.
(1) Source: President's Report.
6



Part 1I B (2)                                                                                 Cote d'Ivoire
Human Resources Development Program
Matrix of Prosram Actions
OBJECTIVES'                                         TIMING'                           MEANS OF IMPLEMENTATION'  MONITORABLE TARGET                         IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
INDICATOR
A. CONTROL EVOLUTION OF RECURRENT AND
INVESTMENT EXPENDITURES IN THE
HUMAN RESOURCES SECTOR
I. Prepare precise annual HRD prograrns and budgets    Annual, 1992-1995              Presentation of projected budgets, in  Budgetary performance matrix  Budget for 1992 agreed for
which provide evidence of program effectiveness,                                   relation to budget matrix targets,    including adopted budgets for year   effectiveness. Review of execution
past budget perfortance and annual targets in                                      and annual budget performance      n+l (n = December) and actual     of 1991 budget concluded
relation to medium tern objectives.                                                revues.'                           expenditures for year n+I (n+2    satisfactorily. Reviews of budget
April)  ,                         execution and projected budget for
the next year satisfactorily carried
out in 1992, 1993 and 1994.
Budget rnatrix targets gradually
became less relevant over time.
While generally satisfactory,
especially in process, performance
fell well short of the ambitious
substantial goals of the HRDP for
budgetary reallocation.
B. MAKE GOVERNMENT POLICY MORE                                                                                                                                                                      w
RESPONSIVE TO HUMAN RESOURCES NEEDS:
I. Formal government adoption of an HRD policy      August 1991                       Council of Ministers              Reception by the Bank of the       Done.
statement recognizing present constraints in the                                   Communication                      Government's attestation (October
HRD sector and proposing a strategy aimed at                                                                          1991)
meeting the medium term targets.
2. Production of technical documents translating the  October 1991                    Transmission of documents          Presentation to and agreement of  Done.
government's policy statement into sectoral                                                                           the Bank (October 1991)
strategies and programs for general education,
technical and professional education, health, social
security and employment
'Taken verbatim from President's Report.
Effectiveness condition
Second tranche condition
bThird tranche condition



-(2)-
OBJECTIVES                                          TIMING                            MEANS OF IMPLEMENTATION    MONrTORABLE TARGET                        lMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
INDICATOR
3. Establish institutional mechanisms for managing  December 1991                     Ministerial decrees                Presentation to and agreement of  Done - one of the most successful
and evaluating the implementation of the                                                                              the Bank (December 1991)          aspects of the program.
govemment's HRD program
4. Institute a system for supervising and evaluating                                  Establish baseline Indicators for the                                Baseline indicators agreed during
performance in the HRD sectors:                                                    different sectors                                                    negotiations and set out as "sectoral
norms" and "performance
indicators" in Annexes LX and Xl of
President's Report (P-5663-IVC).
Sectoral normis and performance
indicators received almost no
monitoring, and are to be reviewed
and updated under sectoral
operation in preparation- Budgetary
performance monitored reasonably
well.
- Define a system for education                  December 1991                     -for education: initiate and monitor  Presentation of the methodology  System being prepared under
- Implementation                                 September 1992                    the results of standardized tests for   (December 1991). First test results   Human Resources Management
levels CM2, 3eme, Bac.            (September 1992)                  Project
- Define parameters and indicators for health iector   July 1992                   -for health: monitor the evolution    Presentation ofbaseline indicators    Health Management Infomation
- Implementation                                 December 1992                     ofepidemiological profiles for     (July 1992). First statistical results   System (MIS) developed under
priority programs: primary health   (December 1992).                Health and Demography Project
care, maternal and child health,                                    (Ln 2619-IVC). Mixed results
family planning and STD-AIDS.                                       obtained: the MIS experienced
serious delays and is still in the
early stages of design and
development.
- Define a system for technical and professional  December 1991                    - for technical and professional   Presentation of the methodology   Institutional changes placing
education                                                                       training: initiate tracer studies.  (December 1991) First results of    Vocational Training under Ministry
-Implementation                                  December 1992                                                       the studies (December 1992)        of Education completed
Rationalization of tectnical and
professional high schools underway.



-(4)-          
Duration of the program            Control of growth of number of      See budgetary performance          Total number of secondary teachers
secondary and university teachers.   indicators Al.                   substantially exceeded HRDP
targets [Table B (3)]. Data on
number of university teachers not
available.
Duration of the program.           Freeze nominal wage rates at 1991    See budgetary performance         Higher education wage bill
levels.                            indicators Al.                     substantially lower than expected.
School year 1991-1992              Increase the effective hourly       Application of standardized        Done.
workload for teachers.             workload norms for secondary (Oct.  In effect starting 1992/93.
91) and for university level (January
1992).
2. Reform of the university system                    Beginning in university school year   Statistical study of the numbers of    Study results (Dec. 1991 )   Studies completed. The government
1992-1993                          students by faculty and by year                                        abolished the National Orientation
- Control the numbers of university students                                             during the past four years, based on                                   Commission; authorized faculties to
this information, scenarios                                            admit directly; and applied new
presented using various rules of                                      promotion, repetition and inter-
selecion, rxpetition and promotion.                                   faculty transfer rules. However,
numbers of students rose rapidly
through 1993, and levelled off in
1994.
Organizational and pedagogic reform                                                      Adoption of new tules to be applied   May 1992'                        Rules for admnission in effedc New
for the next school year.                                              rules for Baccalaureat (starting        w4
1994) limited the number of             
graduates, following examination
fraud in 1993.
3. Reduce the operating costs of the specialized higher   1991-1992 for the university   For the university: transfer of     Capacity utilization rate of the   Done; audit completed for each
education institutions (Grande Ecoles) and the                                        students to under-utilized facilities    different schools and facilities  Grande Ecole, with follow-up
university support center (CNOU) by strengthening                                     (principally from Abidjan to the ex-  (January 1992).                  actions to rationalize the use of
their management on the basis of completed and                                        ENSA and CAFOP in                                                      infrastructure. The CNOU has been
ongoing audits; make more efficient use of                                             Yamoussoukro.                                                          abolished and integrated into
university level infrastructure,                                                                                                                             teaching structures.
1992-1993 for the other            For the specialized institutions:   Finalize financial management
establishments (Grande Ecoles)     management consolidation and        audit for the specialized institutions
more efficient use of facilities.  (March 1992)' Reduction of non-
pedagogic operating expenditures
(as a percentage of total expend,).



-(5)-
OBJECTIVES                                         TlwONe                            MEANS OF IMPLEMENTATION    MONrTORABLE TARGET                      IMLEMENTATION REVIEW
INDICATOR
4. Control growth of traner pyes to secondary      Beginning 11-12                   Reducation in nd tansrers thmugh   See budgday performance         Printization of university
and university studes                                                             CNOU.                             indicators Al.                   restaurants .
Duatbn of the Ptogram            Progrssive rationalizaton of the  See budety performance           Dope; free transportation of
award of lury  and higher kve  lndicato;s Al.                      tunis endec4 and wlolarships
fdlowships aid of the trarEot of                                   and tansfes reducedu
pnmary ad seondwy students.
5. Freeze new co _stfution of trrh     facilibies    Durati  of the pagan           Invegmct Budgt (BS9E)            See udgetay perfaoan              Dae    consructio of tertiafy
aod of specialized oiatl instit        (Grm                                                                        indicars Al.                      health fadlites. Rehabilitation
Ecuks). wite dnrctin  bn s  t.e rt fi                                                                                                                av iatment for primr  health
low s  '          le.k                                                                                                                               higher than e d   in the marix
Inwesment in pimary educatiaon
nmch bwer than expectal.
6. Extend wt reamery In public healh and duration   Ocitber 1991                     For education:                    Decree or ministerial decision   Cost twry much butr than
fadlitis                                                                          - Instithie adtdmimlansd am fees   ((fcdker 1"1). See bdgetr        epeed in pimay and secdary
at all kles                      perfamna    idmkaton Al.          ahaa  slightly higvr than
epwected for higher education          w
'.0
December 1l                      For heath:                        Govermental attestation          Done; coad frNy for duap and
- Gomnntcri's aothazion for    (Decenber 191)                      medical consltations filly effctive
the Minis  of Health and Social                                    frcn Octioer 1994.
Security to institute a cost reqvry
In public health falities and for
these facilities to retain and manage
the praoms at the evel or each
facility.
March 1992                       - EvaluatLion of cost rouvery     Evaluation results (March 1992).    Analysis made by the Europan
Initiatives currently under way                                    Union under its Health Sector Loan.



First half 1992                   - Preparation of a study on cost  Results of the Study (May 1992)   AgreDent re ached on methodology
rweery based on decentalrd                                          amd managent rsem.
management.
October I992                      - Test cost rewvefy sstem         From October to December 1992     Done
recommended by study.
Beginning 1993                    Generalization or the cost rewvery   Institution of regulatory or
for essential drugs and ervices In    legislative texts (Beginning January   Done: legal frimewerk for cost
all health facilities In accordance  1993                           recovery defined In 1994 Budget
with test results                                                   Laws.
7. Continue to reduce textbook prices in 1992-1993  1992-1993                         Negotiate official prices payble by   Official prices published for the  Done: 15% reduction In textbook
with a goal of 10% fiarther reduction following the                                parents to Ubraries.              1992-1993 school year (October    prices for 1992/93; nominal prices
reduction or 25% obtained in 1990-1991                                                                               1992)                             remained unchanged, implying
further redution In real terms in
1994.
Establish a mechanism to ubidize textbook        1992-1993                         FeasibilIty sudy.                 Agreement with the Bank on the    Study financed by AfDB
purchases for poor families,                                                                                         modalities of implementation (July
1992).
S. Initiate adions to reduce the costs of essential drugs   Decmber l991              For public heaith services:       Adoption of audit recommendations  Done: anlysi undertaken by the
based on a wider use of generic drugs, strengtened                                 Institutonal and 1991 fnancl      (une 192).                        Eumpean Union *s part of its
regultions relating to prscrdptions an measur  to                                  audit of the Pharmacie de to Snnte                                  Health Sector LOa. Plan to
Increase competiton at wholesale and reil kvels.                                   Publiaue                                                            rmtionalize management in               4
execution.                             O
For private pharmacs:             Ministerial orders and circulars  Done: meass taken In 1994 to
Introduction of essential drus In    (Mach 1992). Publication of new    promote generic &us and
generic fom as alterntives to     prices (April 1992).              substitution of specialty drup by
brand name drugs.                                                   generics when prescriptions are
filled.
Introduction of measures to increase  Market analysis (June 1992).  Establishment of a legal framework
competition at wholesale and retail   Adoption of new regulatory    to secure competitiWve bids for drug
levels,                           frameorks. (Dec. 1992)P           procurement. Information
campaigns initiated.



41)-
oBJECTIvEs                                         TnMNG                            MEANS OF iMPLEMENTAT1ON    MONITORABLE TARGET                      IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
INDICATOR
D. "IPROVE tMPLEMENTAllON CAPACITY:
I. Installation of improved .mJgement nd           Duration of the progam           Implementation of needed          December 1991                    ProJcts developed to specifically
monitoring systems In technical ministries.                                      Institutional development Including                                 addrss technical needs of
gtrengthened systems for                                          mninistries being financed under the
monitorinLg evaluating, budgeting                                  Human Resources Management
And trining.                                                       Project
E. "MPROVE FERSONNKL MANAGEMENT:
1. New public hiring prociedures                   Sept4en4er 1991                  Eliminale utomatic recn,tment to   Transmission of Government       Done.
the cvil service.                attestation (October 1992)
2. Redeploy undenstilzed health and education      Duration of the program          Complete analysi of stffing       Number of staff reassigned (oct. 92)  Census of pfimay and secondary
personnel in line with revised norms nd produru.                                  patterns for the three key HRD   Identification of staff to be    teachm cmpleted.
ministries based on the public   reassigned (Dec. 91).             Analysis of needs and distrtbution
service consensus; analysis aimed at  Follow-up on redeployment (Dec.    achieved.
enforcing a more eqWtable        92 and annually).                 Primary teachers in administrative
geographic distribution and more                                   posts redeployed. Seondary and
effective skills mix by level of                                   university staT redeployed for 
scrvice. Deploy personnel to                                       1992/93 withl new bours.
understaffed facilities while
remedying imbalanca between
vilable skills.
Re-orient personnel in the different   Admission goals by professional  See Quality Scbools ad Patient
training facilities in line with the  stream (Oct. 92).            Cae Norms Initiatie below.
needs of the HRD setors.
Within the context of the plannied  Analysis of regulations and    Addressed in context of Economic
civil service reform, review existing  identification of distortions (June  Management Project. The proect
regulations applicable to education    92). Institution of new regulations    aims at strengthening institutional
and health setor staff ad identify   for staff deploymnent.        capacity In civil service
and modify the regulations which .                                 administration while preparing the



-(8)-
impede optimal deployment of                                        pround for reducing the government
personnel.                                                          wage bill.
Improve the content of retrmining  Analysis of the effectiveness of  Quality Schools Initiative launched
snd traiing programs for primary   schools (Dec. 92).               under HRMP. Two-fold objective:
and secondary education stff and    Establishment of a program to   improve teacher performance and
strengthen the teacher supervision    improve pedagogic techniques (Dec. educational quality at the local
system.                           92).                             level.
Determine needs amd pmepare a plan  Document presenting proposed in-   Initiative in Health Ministry to
for in-sevice training of health  service training program (Oct 92).  improve patient management norms
rteor sltff.                      Start-up ot the progrm (March 93).  and practices, as panl of a Health
and Demographic Project (Ln
2619-IVC). In-service training is a
major future issue in connection
with mrinimum package of health
serives.
N1



Part 11, B (4)                                                                                                                                   Page 4
Sante (suite)
Normes de Prestations de Services
Interventions (A oldne caoacftAe & recowuremnrit des coOs
Nombre d'interventions                                           Prix pour recouvrement coOt FCAF
Jours chospltallsatlon  Consultatlons        Accouchements       Jours crhospfallsallon   Consuflations        Accouchemenis
Program     Actual     Program     Actual    Program    Actual    Program    Actual    Program      Actual      Program       Actual
1991-95      1994      1991-95     1994     1991-95    1994      1991-95     1994      1991-95       1994       1991-95       1994
Primalre
BSSR                   27000                  21 120                                                            500
Dlspensalre rural                              2 640                                                            100
Maternhft rurale                                                     660                                                                1 000
PMI                     100                   30 80                                                             100
SSSU                    126                   52800                                                              0                                                           -
Dlspensalre CSU                               30 800                                                            200                                                          w
Matenmlt CSU                                                        3 960                                                               2 000
Secondalre
H2                     21 802                  7 040                3 300                1 000                  500                     3 000
Tertialre
CHU                   243 090                 130 900               13 640               4 000                 2 000                    5 000
CHR                   101314                  50 820                9 196                3 000                 2 000                    5 0oo
HI    _                37 504               1 24 840  t               30 3300                0 1  2  ____I _   1 000                    4 000



Part II, B (3). Human Resources Budget Performance Matrices:                                                                      |M          Mlssing data.                 Page 1
1991-95 Program, Budget and Execution.                                                                                                      j Non-applicable.
Education Budget Performance Matrix (CFAF Millions)                                       (prog.)    program (matrtx)                  (budg.) voted       (ord.) ordonnance'
(1) This figure lakes into account the CFAF 5 billion budgelary reallocation for Primary Health and Education.
Issue srea    Indlcato                         1991     1991      1991     1992    1992       1992       1993     1993      1993       1994     1994      1994      1995       1995
prog.    budg.    ord.      prog.    budg.     ord.       prog.    budg.     ord.      prog.     budg.    ord.       prog.      budg.
Wage          NumberoPrlmaryTeachem           29,975      -      34,488    30,691     -      34,486     32,082      -      35.600     33,801      .      34,876     35,908
Delerminanis   Number of Primury Sludents    1.318.915    -    1,309.057 1,381,e064    *    1.309,057  1.443,814    -    1,316,905   1,521,023    -    1.388,938  1,615,650
StudenUTeacher ratio             44        -        38        45       -        38         45        -        37         45        -        40         45
Gros Enrollment ratlo           74%        -        74        74                a8         74        -        68         75        -        67         77
TotalPrImryWagaeBID            90.696   88,430   90.967    90,030   88,373    92.863     89,964   87.882    92,619     89,899    94,397   94.513     90.030     95,513
Numberof Seondary Teachem       6,977      -       9,182    7,077      -       9,263      7.177              9.374      7,277      -       9,644     7,377         -
Number of Secondary Sludents   248.292     -      289.580   226.689    -      289,510    235,773     -      296.931    248.288     -      324.787    258,989
StudentUTeac rarrtio             35        -        32        32       -        31         35        -        32         34        -        34         35
Gross Enroliment n1b            17%        -       22%       16%       -        22%        16        -        21        16%        -        23        16%          -
Total Secondary Wage BII       39,755   45.024   46,954    39,836   39,528    41.463     40.083   38,873    40.913     40.073    42,014   42,017     40,361     42.621
Total Un hty Sluderds          24.000      -      22.280     NA.       -       27,480     NA.        -      32,888      NA.         -     41.073      NA.          -            I
Todl HIgher Ed. Wae BINN       14,233    6,816    6,816    14.220   6.808      6A80W      14.270    7,188    7,084     14,476    7.840    7.840      15,038      8,000
(including UNA & ENS)
TOTAL WAGE BILL                144.684  140,270  144,737   144.088  134,710   141,134    144.29?  133.903   140,617    144,448   144,251  144,370    145,427    146.134
Perced grmwth                  0.80%    -1.10%    0.60%    -0.40%   -1.10%    -1.50%     40.40%   -2.50%    -0,40%      0.10%    7.70%    2.60%      0.70%       1.30%
Non-Salary    OperatIng expendHureo
Operating     Oncluding pedagogic materials)
Expenditure    Prlmary                        2.726    3,709     3,466     6,117    5,676     1,952      7.375    4,432     3,801      9,057    7,336 (1)   4,956   11,717     10,349
%ofWageBIIn                       3       4,19     3.81       6.8     6.36      2.1        8.2       5        3.9        10.1      7.8      5.2        13         10.8
Secondary                       6,170    5.605     5.306     7,406    5,378     1.627     7,453    1,618     1,273      7,673     3,223    2,328      8.106      5.181
%of Wage BIlN                   15.5    12,45      11.3      18.6    12.6       3.9        18.6     4.1       4.3        19.1      7.7      5.5       20.1        12.2
Hlgher (Including UNCN &ENS)    1.399    1,055     1,055     1.405    1,443     1,169     1,405    1,738     1,738      1,405     3,477    3,477      1,405      6,089
% of Wage BIII                   9.8     15,48     15,48      9.9     21.2      17.2       9.8       24       25         9.7      44.3      44.3       9.3        84.3
TOTAL OPERATING
EXPENDITURES                    10,295   10,369    9,827    14,298   12.497    4,748      16,233    7,783    6,609      18,135    14,038   10,816     21,228     21,619
Percent growlh                 15.50%     NA.       NA.       39       20        33        13.5     -38        39        11.7      80.3     63.7       17.1        50



Part II, B (3). Human Resources Budget Performance Matrices:                                                                                                           Page 2
1991-95 Program, Budget and Execution.
Education Budget Performance Matrix (CFAF Millions)
Issue area   hIncdor                         1991    1991      1991     1992    1992    1992       1993     1993      1993        1994      1994      1994      1995      1995
prog.   budg.    ord.    prog.   budg.    ord.       prog.    budg.      ord.       prog.      budg.     ord.     prog.      budg.
Cost         PrlmaryFee Coleltbon            2.838    2,889    487      2,897   2,869     492     3.033     2,135      817       3,197        0        0       3.394        0
Recovery     Secondary Fee Colketion         788      670      738      992      870      740     1,015      778       768       1,051       921      865      1,110      1,026
Hlghwr evelFCe lectloin         106     364      240      16O      311      145      160        0        388        160        977      359       160        977
TOTAL COST RECOVERY            3,622    3,903    1.4U8    4,049    3,864    1,377    4,206    2,911     1,973      4,406      1,89      1,224    4,664      2,003
Transfert o   TotalSecondaryTrandems         6,630    6.529    6,529    6,657    5,298    7.805    6.657    5,917     5.494      6,657      6,955    5,549     6,657      7,506
Secondlary&   TotalExpendltureforBoumes      3,011    3,429    3.429    3.038    2,090    2,120    3,038    1,490     1.490      3.038      1,596    1,594     3.038      1,628
Highr Leve   Total Higher Lenl Tnnte,s      10,588   11,127   10,709   0,433   10.993   10.092    9.919     9.971     9,799      9.919      9,687    9.083     9,919      8.753
Students     Total Expendfture for Bourss    3,8U    4,499    4,499    3.U8     4,499    4,499    3.888    4,399      4,399      3.888      4,904    4.904     3,888      5.460
-TOTAL TRANSFERS               17,216   17,61U  17.238   16,090  1C,291   18,283   1,.676    16,380    15,78S      16,676     17,820   16,663    16,576     18,408
Prnate Sector Total Primary Subsidy          2.764    2,759    2.749    3.513    2.749    2,671    3.495    2,749     2,826      3,850      3,299    3,298     4,066      3.299
Subsidis     TotalSecondarySub"ldy           1,588    1.586    1.588   5,175    2,915    5,311    6,468     8,303     8.472      7,503      9,327    9.331     8,497      9,627
TOTAL PRIVATE
SUBISDIES        4,370    4,3"     4,338    8,688    6,614    7,962    .963    11,062    11,096      11,363     12,626    12,629    12,663    12,925
Techncal     ToW Number nb  
Asstanoe    Technical Asltants               503       -       517      406      390      517      336        -        322        240         -       326       240         -
Total Expendkure for TA.
Prdmary                         117               S0       90      95       38        58       96         77         9          34       30        0          0
Genoral Secondary              3.963             4,967    3.048    3,708    3,440    1,978    3,253     2,605       295       1,117     980        0        3,164
Unvershy                       2,229             1.488    1,713    832     1,084    1,113      849       680        166        290      249        0         699
TOTAL TA EXPEND.               6,309             6,485    4,849    4,635    4,660    3.149    4,197     3,362       470       5,897     1,239      0        3,863
Investment    Prlmary RehabllbtDlon           0       838      592     4,310    4,510     226     4,481      400       307       4.617      1,270     340      4,779      1.620
PrlmaryNowConstrurtlon          0        0        0       5,748    5,748     0      5,833     3,378      240       2,374      6.783    3.318      7.385     5,043
Secondary Rehabllitatlon       250      709      427      3,250    4,265    286     3,259      600       402       3.268      1,530     1,146     3,277     1,200
SecorderyNewConstruction        0        0        0       1,177    1,177     0      1,184     3,376      240        1.222     6,783    3,318      509       5.043
HigherRehabilHatlon            1,050    295       160     3,100    2,403    500     3.000     1,311     1,877       1,000     4.473     1.429     1,000     5,450
HlgherNew Conslructln           0       1,000    1.000     0      1,000      0       NA.      8,425       0         NA.        189        0        0         100
TOTAL INVESTMENTS              1,300    2,842    2,179   17,685  19,103   1,012    17,737    15,388     3,066      12,481     21,028    9,647    16,950     18,466
Educatlon
R & D        TOTAL EXPENDrTURE               290                        780                        637                            200                           200



Part II, B (3). Human Resources Budget Performance Matrices:                                                                                                                Page e
1991-95 Program, Budget and Execution.
Health Budget Perfomfance Matrix (CFAF Millions)
ltue *roe   Indhwlc                         1991       1991       1991      1992       1992     1992     1993    1993      1993       1994      1994       1994W     _ 199s    1945
prog.      budg.      ord.      prog.     budg.    ord.    pMrg.    budg.    ord.         prog.     budg.      ord.     prog.      budg.
Wage         Primary: number of staff
Determinants               Doctoms          356                   172        372        -                389                          406         -        160       425
Nursu           2.0o         .        1,353      2.285      2-532                       -                 2592         .        719      2.635
Nursing Aldes     0          .                    14         -                264       -                  399                   0        480
Mjdvwves         776         -         889       582                          951       .                  953         -        538       950
OXher Staff     3,779                 2,858      3.580       -               3.578      -                 3,666        -       1,056     3.780
Total Primary Wage Bill      12,256      11.942     13,027    13.445     8.052    9.8f7    14.745    7.001    8,097     15,201     7,663     7,454    15,436      7,697
Secondary: number of staff
Docton           150                   312        159                         168       -                  178         -        231       189         -
Nurfes           494         -        1,299      487         *                481       *                  474         -       1.561      468
Nurting Aldee     0                               14         -                40        -                  60          -         0        92
M4dwwven         237                   353       238         -                238       -                  239         -        579       239
Other Stuff      782         -        2.705       749                         699       -                  643         -        857       592         -
Total Secondary Wage Bill     3.407      4.853      5,388      3,380     3.118    3,531    3,359    2.902    3,181      3,350      9.884     9.581     3.355      9,892
Tertiary: Number of Staff
Doctors          sw          -         470       822         -                843       -                  888         -        634       889
Nurses          1.910        -        1,322      1.945       .               1979                         2.014        -       1,423     2,046
Nursing Aldes     0          .                   332         -                768       -                  921         -         0       1,122
MAdeAves         503         .         403        479        -                458       -                  433         .        569       411
Other Staff     2.376                 2.579      2.273                       2.132      -                  1,982       -       1,772      1,842
Total Tertilary Wage Bill     12,840     11.569     11.444    12,743    18,989   t8,818   12,694   18.018   17,409      12.685     15,639    15,488    12,718     15,818
TOTAL WAGE BILL              28.303      28.364     29,839    29,568    28,833   32,687   30,798   28,26?   29.027      31,236     33.427    32,635    31,509     33.407
% Growth        -8.1         -          14        4.5       0.9      9.5      4.2      -1.2    -11.2       1.4        18.5      12.4       0.9       -0.8



Part 11, B (3). Human Resources Budget Performance Matrices:                         Health Budget Perfomance Matrix (CFAF Millions)                                    Page 4
Istu arm                                      1991       991    1    1W       192        1992      1992      1993     1993      193      1994    1994    1994    1996      1996
prog.     budg.       ord.      prog.     budg.      axd.      prog.    budg.     ard.    pwg.   budg.    ord.   prog.    budg.
Evlution of Opeating EpendlHurn
Non-Salary  (Inchuding drugs, before
Oportlng    cost recovery)
EPndltura  Primary                            1,962      2.305      2.198     3.220     3.510       870      3.543    2,021     1,940    5.185   4.536   3,894   8,040    5.974
% ofd w  blHl       16.5        19.3      16.9      25.3       31.8       6.82     27.9      29        24       34       39      52     63.2      77.8
Secondary                         952        1,136      1.116     1,302     1.339      2,136    1,664     1,678     1,631    2.153   2,003   1,757   2,796    2.306
% of woe blll       27.9       23.4       20.8      38.5       29.5       80.5     49.5      68        58      64.3      20             83.3      23.3
Teritry                          8,952      9,868      8.172     10,114     9,873      6.583    10.771    6,670     6,317    12,076   7.829   7,007   13,752    9.268
%of vieo biH        70.8       oS.3       71.4       79.4      78.4      34.99     84.9      37        36      95.2      50             108.1    58.6
TOTAL OPERATING
EXEDiTURE                        11,886     13,309     11,484    14,U13     14,728     1,690    16.978   10,368    9,8      19,414   14,368  12,659  24,68    17,4.8
Cost        Drug Sal" + Fe"
Recovwy    Prlmay Coa Reowry
Dnig Sals            0                               287        785      1.114      605       0        245     1,345     0        0     2.50f      0
Conulations           0                       .      120         0         0        157       0         0       224      180    10      288      600
Secondary Cost Recoyer 
DruSaes              0                               92        215        541       163       0        831      290      0        0      409       0
Ctnsululon           0                               e 61       13         15       116       0         0       218      48      40      327      925
Tertir Cos Roovery
Diu Sale            2.500       899       1,470     1.820      1.205      1,595    2.103    1.289     1.454    2.487    1.927   1,479   2.818    1,685
ConsulittIons       2,046       871       1,485     1.562      2,676      2,259    2,233    2,566     2,586    3.272   2,622   2,493   4.544    3.026
TOTAL COST RECOVERY              4,548       1170      2,M6       3942      4894       i,624    4,336     3,865     4,020    7,836   4,M     4,181   10,892    8,326
Investmenl  Primary
(Including               RehabilItalIon       94         554        461       2.594     4.049      3,510     570      2,391     1,104     587    1,333   1,222    604      4,381
infrastructure           NewConstrucilon       0                               96         0          0       147        0         0       201      0       0       154       0
& equipment) Secondary
RehabilRalion       801        1.018       649      2,112      3.378     2.949     1,393    4,791     1,924    1,434   2,217   1,557   1,477    5.122
NowCorstniclrin      0                                0          0         0         0        0         0        0        0       0       0        0
Tertiary
Rehablutatlon       2.069      2,015      1,020     5.457      1,684      1,416    10,030    1,677     1,779    7,778   3,041   4,975   5,868    4.834
New Conslrudion      0                               227         0         0         0        0         0        0        0       0       0        0
_TOTAL INVESTMENTS                364        6,436      4,42t     10,486     9,091      7,875    12,140    8,668     4,806    10,000   8,691   7,764   8,101    14,436



Part II, B (3). Human Resources Budget Perfornance Matrices:                               1991-95 Program, Budget and Execution.                                       Page 5
Technical & Professional Training Budget Perfotnance Matrix
Issue ares   IndIcalor                       199       1991     1991      1992      1992      1992     1993      1993      1993      1994      1994     1994      1995      1995
prog.    budg.     ord.     prog.    budg.      ord.      prog.    budg.      ord.     prog      budg.     ord.     prog.     budg.
Wage        Number of Technical Assistants    355        -       309      278       209       310       210        -        187      166        -        157      149
Determinants total Expenditure for TAs      3,974       -      3,459     2.,U1     1,848    2,993     1.180     2.583     2,069     334       885       781       0        389
Secondary IVET Wages
NumberofTeachem                 1.174       .                1.202      -       1,197     1.231       -       1.197     1.260      *       1.268    1,290
Total Number of Students        7,664                        8,645       *      9,709     9,552       -       9,709     11,110     -       8,882    12,570      -
Total Wages                     6,871     8.805    6,638     8.971     5,788    8,224     7,075     5.244     5,511     7,179     5,458    5,458    7,293     5.459
% GrovAh           1.7      -1       -2.5       1.4     -12.8     -4         1.5      -9.4      -11.5      1.4       4        .1       1.8       -1
Hih Level wv wag"s
Number of Teachers               426        -       458      482        -        680       490        -        499       509       -        453      537
TotalNumberof Students          2.478       -      2.69      3.055       -      3,314     3,403       -       3.095     3.861       -      3.140    4,402        -
Total Wages                     4.303     4.179    4,068     4,380     4,177    4.274     4,834     3,706     3,897     4,747     3.878    3,878    4,855     3.850
%Growth            2.3       -3      -2.7       1.8       2.7       5        5.5      -11.3     -13.5      2.4       3.9      4.8      2.2        0
4Is
_TOTAL WAGE BILL                11,174    10,364   10,703    11,381    9,#3      10,4U     11709     8,ff0     3,206    11,2M    9,337      9,336    12.148    9,309
Non-Salary   Operating Expe _dftu
Operating    Secondary Technical             1,965     1,099    1,990     2.410     1,720     857      2,426      786       690      2,367     2,000     1.507    2.392     2,084
Expenditure                % dWage siN        29        29       30        35        30       13.8      34        15        12.5      33       36.6      27.6      33       38.2
Hlghef Level (Grndes Ecoles)    3.117     3,130    3,138     3,449     3.773    1,U80     3,542     3,247     3,175     3,656     3.505    3.505    3.747      3.928
% of Wage Bil      72        75       77        79        90        44       76        87.6      85.9      77       90.4      90.4      77        102
TOTAL OPERATING
EXPENDITURE                     1,052     1,138    1,128     8,6e9     6,433    2,736     1,368     4,036     3,866     6,023     6,16       ,012    6,139     6,012
Transfer    Total Secondary Students
Payments   receving Transfder                3,700                        3.075       -                2,450       -                 1.825                        1,200
to Students   Total Secondary Level Transfers  614      440      440       553       470      1,495     469      2,234     2,062      34       1,808     1.324     301      3.033
and to       Total Higher Leel Students
Privte       revng Transfem                  2,517              2,529     2.699       -                2,785       -                 2,981       -                3,283
InstItutIons   Total Higher Level Transfer   1,426     1,453    1,450     1.428     1,768     2.220     1,428    1,965      1.965     1,428    3,352     3.349    1,428     3,663
TOTAL TRANSFERS                 2,042     1,313    1,810     1,361     2,236     3,718    1,837     4,13N     4,024      1,812    8,160    4,672    1,729      6,669



Part II, B (3). Human Resources Budget Perfonnance Matrices:                                                                                                                  Page 6
1991-95 Program, Budget and Execution.
Technkal & Professinal Training Budget Perfonmnce Matrix
b w           Indbzh                           1W1       1991      1991      1992        9       1992    1I93 9       3  1       993       1094       1994    1994  1       1995    1995
pte.      budg.     ord.      prog.     budg.      ord.     pro.      budg.       ord.       prog.     budg.    ord.   pmg.    budg.
Cost     SecondatyFe.Calladion              0                   1t       115        35        18        130        22        18         143        23       20      167      25
Raooy   Highu Level Fee CoAcdtn              32         .        76        43         0         32        51         0         126         So        677     272      63      677
TOTAL COSTRCOVER      Y           22         -         4        1N        35        60        161        22        146         1         700      2       230      702
bwelm       Sacon;Iy
Rohb tlon             620       695       812       595       150        425       420       197        450        380        376      406      0      1,636
Nowah_                S20        0         0        150        0          0        340        9          0         400         0        2       0       43
RhbIdaon AhmeeSmd                200         0        0         260       s0         0        200         0         0          200        0        0       0        0
Rshsbllllon           165        0         0        65        248        62        498       329         0         320        626      547     60       591                  1O
New  bhnore           100        0         0        140        0         39        220        0          0          260        0        0      130       0
Studae (lcuding audifl)          421         0        0        1,068       0         0        627         0         0          324         0       0       90       0
TOTAL INVESTMENTS                1,U46     6          012      2648       448       626      2,306       636       460        1,904      1,002    558    260      2.270



Part II, B (3). Human Resources Budget Performance Matrices:                                                                                                   Page 7
1991-95 Program, Budget and Execution.
Surrmary of Program Costs 1S91-o5 by Category of Spending (CFAF MIilIons)
CURRENT EXPENDITURE             1991     1991      1991       1992      1992       1992     1993      1993      1993      1994      1994      1994      1995       1995
prog.    budg.    ord.       prog      budg.      ord.      prog.    budg.      ord.     prog.     budg.      ord.     prog.      budg.
GENERAL EDUCATION
Personnel        144.684  140,270  144.737    144,088    138,741   142,548   144,297   135,201   141,986   144,448   144,251   144,370   145.427    147,602
Tech. Assist.     6,309              8,485      4.849     4,835      4,560    3,149     4,197     3.382      470      5,897      1,239      0         632
Non-Salary        10,295   10.369    9,827     14,928     12,487     4,748    16,233    7,783     6,609     18,135    14,038    10,816    21,226     21,619
Transfers         17,218   17.658   17.238     18,090     16,291    18,283    18.576    16.380    15.786    16,578    17,820    15,663    16,576     16,013
Prive Subsidies    4.370    4,345    4,335      8,688     5,864      7.982    9.963    11.052    11,098    11,353    12,626    12,629    12,563      12.925
Total            162,876            182,22    188,641    177,728   178,121   190,218   174,61    17U8841   190,982   194,630   184,717   196,794    198,791
TECHNICAL & PROFESSK)NAL
EDUCATION
Personnel         11,174   10,984   10.708     11,351     9,963     10.498    11.709    8.950     9,208     11,920     9.337     9,33B    12,148     9.309
Tech. Asst.       3.974              3,459      2,441      1,U8      2,993     1,180    2.583     2,069      334        885       761        0        389
Non-Salary        5.082    5,138    5,128       5,859      5,493     2.736     5,968    4.038     3,865      6,023     5,505     5,012     6,139     6,012
Transfem          2,042    1,893    1,890       1,981      2,238     3,715     1.897    4,199     4,026      1.812     5.160     4,672     1.729     6,669                      kn
Total             22,272            21,183     21.632     19,840    18,842    20,784    13,768    19,168    20,036    20,887    19,781    20,016     22,378
HEALTH
Personnel         28,303   28,384   29,839     29,568     28,199    32.867    30.798    28.267    29,027    31,238    33,427    32,635    31,509     33,407
Non-Salary        11,886   13,309   11,484     14,638     14,728     9.590    15.978    10,369    9,888     19,414    14,369    12,659    24.588     17,548
Total             40,169   41,673   41,323     44,204     42,327    42,457    46,770    38,636    38,816    50,860    47,796    45,294    U,097      80,95S



Part II, B (3). Human Resources Budget Performance Matrices:                                                                                                              Page s
1991-95 Program, Budget and Execution.
Sunmary of Progran Costs 109146 by Category of Spending (cont.)
1991      1991       1991       1992       1992       1992       1993      1993       1993      1994       1994      1994      1995      1995
prog.     budg.       ord.      prog.      budg.      ord.       prog.     budg.      ord.      prog.      budg.      ord.     prog.     budg
TOTAL HR EXPENDITURE              245.317               246,128    264,477    240,195    240,620    257,748    233,017   236,924    261,727   260,687   237,163   271,907   272,125
of whkh
Personnel           194.444               195.228    192.295    183,388    193,468    191,133    179,196   185.652    188,414    193,797   1M8,341   189,064   190,318
Non-Salary          27,243     28.818     26,439     35,423     32.718     17.074    33,179    22,188    20,382      43,572     33.910    28,487    51.955    45,179
Transfers            19,260    19,549     19,128     18,071     18,527    21,998      18,473    20,579     19.812    18,386    22.980    20,335    18.305    22.682
HR as a Total Govermment
Primary Curtenl Spending            45%         -                   42%                              41%                            41%                            41%         -
Personnal Spending                  61%                             55%          ,                   54%         ,                   52%                           50%
Nlon-Saary & Transfer Spending      20%         -                   20%          ,                   21%         ,                   23%                           24%         -
TOTAL HR CAPITAL
INVESTMENT           7,100     10,176     7,417      30,919     30,06      9,412      32,182    24,711     8,322     24,386    26,622     18,266    26,331    36,162
of wtIch
General Educatlon    1.300      2,U42      2,179     17,585     19,103     1.012      17,737    15,368     3,066      12,481    21,028     9,547     16.950    18,456
Tec. & Prof. Educ.    1.948      895       812        2.648      446        526       2,305       535       450       1,904      1.002      955       280      2,270
Heahh                3.854      6.438      4,426     10,488     11,058     7,875      12,140     8,658     4,80       10,000    8,592      7.754     8,101     14,436
HR Investmenr as % of Total
Govemment Capital Invesmnrd         10%                 8.50%       25%                  10.50%      21%                  11%        13%                  11%       10%



Part II, B (3). Human Resources Budget Perfornance Matrices:                                                                                   Page 9
1991-95 Program, Budget and Execution.
SUMMARY OF PROGRAM COSTS 1991-96 BY LEVEL OF SERVICE: RECURRENT EXPENDITURE (CFAF millons).
CURRENT
EXPENDITURE
1991                          19 92                          19 93                           19 94                      '19 95
GENERAL           prog.  prog.   ord.  I ord.   prog.  prog.   ord.  I ord.   prog.  prog.   ord.    ord.    prog.  prog.   ord.         ord.     prog.    prog.
EDUCATION       CFAF M    %   CFAF M    %   CFAF M    %   CFAF M    %    CFAF M   %   CFAF M    %    CFAF M;. %   CFAF M                 %      CFAFM M
Primary           96,323   53   97.232    53    99,750   53   99,039 1 55   100892   53   101,162.  56    102,815   54   102,797    56           105,813    54
Secondary         58,104   32   65,342    36    62,120   33   60,239   34   62.619   33   59,682    33    62,201    33   60,185          33      63,621     32
Higher            28,449    16   20.048    I I   26.771   14   19,286    I I   26.707   14   19,390 ,11    25,966   14   20,649    11           26,360      13
tobl             182876; 10    18Z622; 1o    I 4l  10   17 i  lW   190.22    1w   12i 1 100   190.892 ,100  183.631.                             195794     100
TECHNICAL AND                                                                    
PROFESSIONAL             i              1               1                                                             .
EDUCATION
Secondary         11,437   5 s1                  11.155   52   10,       51   10,560 15        9,891     51    10,097   50    8,368      44       9,986      50
Higher            10,835   49                    10,478   48    9,801    49    10,194   49    9.663     49      9,998    50   10,810    56       10,030      50         t_
Total             22.272 ,1      21183 !1        2132 I 1Q    20.10! 100   20.754 !   0   19.554    j 1w        20s   100   19178    100          20_016    100
HEALTH
Primary           14,218   35    15223    37    16,665   38   10,737   25    18,288 j 39   10037    26    20,386   40   11348             25     23,476      42
Secondary         4,359    11    6,484    16    4,682    I 1     5 5776    14    5,023    11    4,812    12     5,503    1 1   11,338     25      6,151      11
Tertiary          21.592   54   19.616    47    22,857 j 52   25,764 1 61    23,465   50   23,726    62    24,761    49   22,493          50      26,470     47
Total             40.1     1     4        j0       4 l4   '     42.2     10   4.77    100   i           43.              100 45.179 ' 10          56.097     100
TOTAL HR
EXPENDITURE    2451317           245 128                                        2577 25774e   238,703          261.72          247.9se           271 907 
HR as a % of              45%             34%             42%            37%6           41%             35%              41%            39% (1)              41%
Total Govt. Prim.
Current Exp.                                                           (1) Preliminary ngure.



IT        34              3                                                    3    Z            _ 
S~~~~~-                                       >m oOM MCO     _wn-8z S
_~~~~~~~l _4 (n9^                           ,_                                   m              t8z  
_   ._  .  _    .  _..  __ .....__...  __ _  ._.A 
o    -_              O{o_        oo    >P    ^W                                                7;R zrm 
8           o  W >    ~   _ O X g M <                                                 ae           on 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                  _ _. _   .....    __ ..  .  ..  .   ..   . ......._..__......... .   .....   _ . 0
_              8 S o   ~  8    8                                8            to          aexz
o   X           _,  _ _    ew                      ot               @  ~ ^                     G 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                 _ .   . ....... ...  . . . .....     ............. .........     .... . . . .........,'i 
8   t;: S   O  g   o   o  9   ,   8   o   t   8          ate c         o _ i 
at~~~~~~



Part .11, B  (3). Human Resources Budget Performance Matrices:                                                                                                                  Page 11
1991-95 Program, Budget and Execution.
Performnance Indicators
Indicator                Base year          1991          1993        1994         1995    Criterion (1)                            ImDlementation Review
(1990 prog.)  (actual)    (actual)   (actual)    (prog.)
EDUCATION
Gross Prdmary                 73%           74%           70%          67%         77%      Minimum growth of near 1% point p.a.    Minimum 1% growth not achieved; rate fell Instead of rising.
Enrolilment Rate                                                                                                                    Decrease partty due to limited primary classroom
construction and rehabilitation; Government has reaffirmed
90% target In 1995 PFP and Sedor Strategy for Consut. Group
Number of                   29,492         34,486       35,600       34,876       35,908   Maximum increase of 1.200 teachers p.a.  Slow Increase In line vith expectations.
Primary Teachers
AverageAnnual                  3.1           2.6           2.6          2.7         2.5     MlnImum decline of 3% polnts p.a.       Overall annual decline of more than 3% achieved.
Primary Teacher                                                                                                                     Average annual salary remained stable between 1991 and 1993
Salary In CFAF M                                                                                                                     but increased by roughly 3.7 % In 1994. presumably as a result          4
of the devaluation.
Primary Non-Salary           1.00%         1.80%         1.80%        2.40%       6.00%    Minimumrgrowthof1%poIntp.a.              Negligible growth achieved, In spIte of the progress in 1994
Operating Costs as % of                                                                                                             caused by the budgetary reallocatlon In favor of primary non-salary
Total BGF for Education                                                                                                             expenditures on education and heahh.
Net Transfers as % of
Total BGF for Education       10%          8.90%         7.90%        7.50%         6%       Minimum decline of 1% point p.m.        Substantial decline achleved, but less than expected.
Number of Primary               0                                               20,749 (2) Minimum 1,000 classes constructed p.s.
Classrooms consiructed                                                                       Minimum 3,000 classes rehabilitated p.a.
or rehabIlitated
(1) As agreed during negotiations
(2) Cumulattve number of classrooms constructed or rehabilitated during the program.



Parl II, B (3). Human Resources Budget Performance Matrices:                                                                                                           Page 12
1991-95 Program, Budget and Execution.
Performance Indicators (cont.)
Indicator                       Base Year          1991          1993           1994           1995      Criterion (1)                     Implementation
(1990 prog.)   (actual)         (actual)      (actual)        (prog.)                                       Review
HEALTH
Number of Nures In                  1,980                                        719           2.635    Mnimum increase of 125 numes p.a. Initial data suggest decline instead of increase.
Primary Health
Prfmary Non-Salary                   3%             5%            5%             9%             14%     PMnimum grovth of 2% points pa.    Some growvh achieved, but substantially less than
OpwatIng Cosh as %                                                                                                                          expected.
of Total OF for Halth
Cost rocovtd for Drugs               13%           26%            41%            33%            44%      PAnimum increse of 6% ponts pa.  Cost recovery rising rapldty - a success story of HRDP.
and Sercs as % of                                                                                                                                                                                     u
Non-Salary Oprating Coats
TECHNICAL & VOCATION
EDUCATION
UlHization Rate d VET
FacilHies             66%                                                        104%      lAnimum Increase o 8% polnts p.a.
GLOBAL HUMAN
RESOURCES
Human Resources BaF as %             42%           34%            35%            39%            41%        abintaIn current share           Share fell and then rose to retum nearly to previous share.
of Total Govt. cur. Prim. SpendIng
(1) As areed duig negoltions.



Part .11, B (4)                                                                                                           Page 1
CMte d'lvoire
Programme de Developpement des Ressources Humaines
Principales Normes Sectorielles 1991-95
EDUCATION
Enseignement Primaire                      Program    Actual                                                    Program    Actual
1991-95     1994                                                     1991-95     1994
Ratio 6l1ve/enseignant                     43 to 45 (1)  40          Ratio e1eve/professeur                        35         34
Salaire annuel enseignants stagiaires      1.260.000                 Salaire annuel professeurs staglaires       2.3W.000
Salaire annuel enseignants tHtulaires      2.016 000                 Salaire annuel professeurs titulaires       3.800.000
Frals annuels de scolarit par 61lve          2000                    Frais annuels de scolarite par etudiant      3 000
Frals d'examen                               500                     Frais de scolarit6 par etudiant etranger     5 ODO
Subvention par elAve dans une ecole privee   30 000                  Frais d'examen pour 1 er cycle du secondaire    2 000
Frais de fonctionnement par classe         200 000 to                Frals d'examen pour baccalaur6at             5 000
214 924 (1)               Subvention pour eleves du 2nd cycle du
Frais d'entretien par classe               120 000 to    .                     secondaire dans ecoles privees    120 o
128 955 (1)               Frais de fonctionnement par classe         400 0Oo to
Mise en oeuvre par phase des norTnes de     60% to                                                              429 851 (1)
fonctionnement et d'entretien    100% (1)                 Frais d'entretien par classe                500 cOo to
537 314
Mise en oeuvre par phase des normes de      60% to
fonctionnement et d'entretien    100% (1)
(1) Expected increase over the period.              |= Missing data.



57
Part 11, B (4)                                                                Page 2
Cbte d'lvoire
Programme de Developpement des Ressources Humaines
Principales Normes Sectorielles 1991-95
EDUCATION (suite)                       (millions F CFA)
ENSEIGNEMENT SUPERIEUR                                   Program      Actual
1991-95      1994
Bourse mensuelle
Universite: 1er et 2nd cycle                    25 000      21 238
Universite: 3eme cycle                          50 000      52 740
ENS CAPICEG 7 CAPES (theorique)                 35 000      60 000
CAP/CEG & CAPES (pratique)                      50 000      90 000
Frais de scolarite
Tous les etudiants                              6 000       6 000
Sauf FIP et facultes de droit                   15 000      15 000
Etudiants etranqers (1)
Medecine                                       150 000    150 000
Sciences et Techniques                         125 000    125 000
Langue et culture franraise                     50 000      10 000
Autres                                          10 000      10 000
(1) En termes de frais de scolarite.



Part 11, B (4)
COte d'lvoire                                                                                                                                          Page 3
Programme de Developpement des Ressources Humaines
Principales Normes Sectorlelles 1991-95
Sant6                                        (millions F CFA)
Nofnes de oersonnel
pkph7meTwet du Mpdr  Chu                         Inflr mleres    Sae  Femmes        Aides Solgn.    Admini stratiH      Tech nklens      Pers. d'appul      Au tres
Program   Actual   Program   Actual  Program   Actual  Program   Actual  Program   Actual  Program   Actual  Program   Actual Program  Actual
1991-95    1994    1991-95   1994   1991 -95   1994   1991-95   1994   1991-95   1994   1991.95   1994   1991-95   1994  1991-95  1994
Prlndik
BSSR                         4         2        18       5        2         0        9        0       2        2        2        1       0        2        3
Dhtpensalreumral             0         0         1        1       0         0        2        0       0        0        0        0       0        1        1
Matemrn a rur k              0         0         0       0         1        1        2        0       0        0        0        0        0       1        1
PMI                          2         1         7       2        4         3        7        2       2        1        0        0        0       2        1
'-n,
SSSU                         2         1         e       3         1        0        4        0       3        1        2        0        0       1        1                  oo
Dlspenalre CSU               2         1         7       3        0         0        5        0       2        1        1        0        0       1        1
Materni CSU                  0         0         0       0        6         3        4        0        1       0        0        0        0        1       1
Secodire
HG (H2 h Pdts Report) (a)    18 (1)    4      35 (2)     13      9 (3)      8      29 (4)     0     10 (5)     5       5 (6)     5      8 (7)     20     4 (8)
Tertlare
CHU                        i11        130      298       185      31       100      219      83       67       40       31      20       33       50      33
CHR                          32       12        81       40       15       15        84       0       19       10       9        7       14       50       5
Hi                           14     t.. ..    28                  5                  22   1           8 e               4       :         5                3
Salaires annuels movers
en millons de F CFA
Minimum                     3.85               1,48              1,46               0,80             0,72              1.46              0.40             0,40
Moyen                       5.51               2.38              2,38               1,20             1,20              2,38              0,40             0,40
Ma,dmum                     7.22               3,29              3,29               1,73             1,80              3,29              0,40             0,40
(a) Program and actual data appear to be based on different             Norms In Presidenrs Report:  (1) 4    (3) 4  (5) 2    (7) 3
concepts; this needs to be revkwed bythe aulhories.                                                (2) 7    (4) 7    (6) 1    (8) 1



59
Part 11, B (4)                                                                                       Page 5
Sante (suite)
Norrnes de Prestations de Services (suite)
Normes de ddoense
Expendi ure requirements
Jours dchospitalisation  Consultations  Accouchements       Autres depenses
Program    Actual   Program    Actual   Program    Actual   Program   Actuai
1991-95    1994    1991-95    1994    1991-95    1994    1991-95    1994
Pnmaire
BSSR                                          549
Dispensaire rural                            1 455
Matemtte rurale                                                   663
PMI                                          2 156                                   486
sssu                                         2 429
Dispensaire CSU                              2 064
Matemite CSU                                                      206
Secondaire
H2                      1 831                 394                 591                111
Tertiaire
CHU                      1 094                393                 164                 595
CHR                      1 064                356                 203                 284
H1                      1 125  1             493                 220                 162
Normes d'lnfrastructure
Dtepnses de fonctionnement annuelles
par facilite en '000 de FCFA
Entretien infrastructure Entretien iquipernert  To tal      Facilites exdtarites   Facilites prevues
Nomne      Rtei     Norme      R61      Norme      R6el    Norme    R6el    Norme         Rdel
1991-95    1994    1991 -95    1994    1991-95    1994    1991-95  1991-95  1991-95    1994
Primaire
BSSR                     1 890      558                 280      1 80       838       28
Dispensaire rural        390        114                  58       390       172       551                68
Matemite rurale          540                                      540                 251                20
PMI                      480                                      480                 70
SSSU                     480        438                 219       480       657       46
Dispensaire CSU          480                                      480                 67
Matemfte CSU             1 200                                   1 200                13
Secondair
HG (H2 in Pdrs Report)  50 190 (1)    776    23 720 (2)   389    73 910 (3)   1 165    76 (4)
Tertiair
CHU                    267 060   201 304   356 040   100 670   623 100   302 000       3
CHR                     95 640     3 564    111 600    1 790    207 240    5 354      9 (5)
Hl                      33 090           _ 18920                 52 010               20
Norms in Presidents Report:   (1) 17 100          (3) 21 900           (5) 7



60
Table B (5)      Execution of the HRDP: Budgetary Indexes.
Education                                   19 91              1993           1995
voted/    ord./    voted/    ord./    voted/
prog.    voted    prog.    voted     prog.
Primary
Recurrent Expenditure         99       102       94       106      103
of which: non-salary (1)   136   93       60        81        88
Investment                   N.A.      71        37       14        55
Secondary
Recurrent Expenditure        101       111       93       103      107
_________ Investment                  284       60        89       16       165
Tertiary
Recurrent Expenditure         67       106       74       98        89
Investment                   123       90       N.A.      24       555
(1) Excludes transfers.
Health                                      19 91              19 93          1995
voted/    ord./    voted/    ord./    voted/
prog.    voted    prog.    voted     prog.
Primary    Recurrent Expenditure         100      107       49       111       58
of which non-salary    117       95        57       96        74
Investment                    56       83       333       46       578
Secondary
Recurrent Expenditure         137      108       91       105       198
Investment                    127      64       344       40       347
Tertiary
Recurrent Expenditure         99       92       105        96       95
Investment                    97       50        17       106       82



61
Table B (6): Projected Evolution of Human Resources Expenditure 1994-97 (1)
(million CFAF)
HEAL TH
Program Costs         19 94                  19 95                  19 96                  19 97
by Level       Executed    Share       Voted       Share    Projected    Share    Projected      Share
of Service       Budget      (%/0)     Budget       (%)       Budget      (%)        Budget       (%)
Primary          12 570      24        19 041       29        28 625       36        29 362       36
Recurrent Exp.    11 348     90        13 671       72        16 125       56        17 362       59
Investment       1222         10       5 370        28        12 500       44        12 000       41
Secondary        12 895      24        18 333       28        20 511       26        23 589       29
Recurrent Exp.    11 338     88        12 222       67        13 537       66        14 064       60
Investment       1 557        12       6 111        33        6 974        34        9 525        40
Tertiary         27 468      52        28 179       43        30 292       38        29 543       36
RecurrcntExp.    22493       82        25 323       90        27 125       90        28 777       97
Investment       4 975        18       2 856         10       3 167        10         766          3
Total            52 933      100       65 552       100       79 428       100       82 494       100
RecurrentExp.    45 179      85        51 216       78        56 787       71        60 203       73
Investment       7 754        15       14 336       22        22 641       29        22 291       27
EDUCATION
Program Costs         19 94                  19 95                  19 96                   19 97
by Level       Executed    Share       Voted       Share    Projected     Share    Projected     Share
o Service        Budget      (%)       Budget       (V/O)     Budget       (%)       Budget       (%)
Pnrmary         106 453      50        122 804      48        132 480      49        141 655      49
RecurrentExp.   102 797      97        112 891      92        117 521      89        122 831      87
Investment       3 656        3        9 913         8        14 959       11        18 824       13
Secondary (2)    73 423      34        91 474       36        96 274       35       101 404       35
Recurrent Exp.   68 553      93        78 214       86        81 984       85        85 344       84
lnvestment       4 870        7        13 260        14       14 290       15        16 060        16
Tertiary (2)     33 435       16       41 452        16       43 452       16        44 702        16
Recurrent Exp.   31 459       94       34 502       83        35 902       83        38 502       86
Investment        1 976       6        6 950         17       7 550        17         6 200        14
Total           213 311      100      255 730       100      272 206       100       287 761      100
Recurrent Exp.   202 809     95       225 607       88        235 407      86        246 677       86
Investment       10 502       5        30 123        12       36 799        14       41 084        14
(1) Document prepared by the administration for June 1995 meeting of Consultative Group for Cote d'lvoire (Draft, 3195).
(2) Including technical & professional training.



62
Part 11, Table B (7)
Cote d'lvoire and the "20/20" Social Summit Targets
Primary education and                            1992         1993         1994         1995
health as a share of BGF
Social Priority Expenditure/        20%          20%          20%          20%
Social Summit Target (1)
Ivorian performance (2)             24%          25%          23%        22%  (3)
Share of development assistance
devoted to social priorities
Social Summit Target                20%          20%          20%          20%
Donor Performance
in CMe d'lvoire (4)                 18%          18%          N.A.         N.A.
(1) The 1994 UNDP Human Development Report target inrdudes low-cost water and sanitation in social prority expenditure;
therefor, to be fully consistent with the available Ivoran data, wvhich are lniited to heath and education, the Social Summit Target
as stated here would actually be somewhat less than 20%.
(2) Toal of pnmary executed (acual) health and education recufrent expenditure divided by BGF; total recurent
expnditur data are not yet available in a comparable format.
(3) Voted primary health and education recurrent expenditure divided by BGF; total recurrent expendiure data
a* not yet available In a comparable fornmat.
(4) Source: UNDP. These figures assume that all external assistance for human resources deveopmext, social
devopent, heath and welfare and humanitarian assistan ce is devoted to social priorities, and that no external
assistance for economic managemf ent is devoted to socil priorities.



APPENDIXES



REPUBLIQUE DE COTE u IVOI1Z
PROGRAMME DE VALORISATION DES RESSOUS CES HUMAINES
Mission d Ach6vomont
Noveabre 1994
AIDE-MEMOIRE
A.    XNTRODUCTXON ET DEROULENENT DI LA MISS10R
1.          Au cours du moiz d'Avril 1994,  un examen approfondi de
1'Itat d'avancoment de la miss an oeuvre du Pr iram   de Valorisation
des Reasourens liumainew (PVRH) a 6t* of fectu  conjointemQnt par le
Comiz& Znt*rminizt6riil des Op6rations du Progr mme et une 6quipo de la
Hancue Kondiale et cola a facilLt6 las  d6cini rno n6csaaires pour le
d6caisasment de la troisi&me tranche du Cr6di  3428-IVC courant Juln
1994. Faisant suite A ce dernier d6caissement,  ne mirsion do la Banque
Hondiale conduito par H. A. Edward Elmendorf,  lp6cialinte Principal en
ROsources Humaines ar comprenant Messieurs Roger Key,  conomist-
Principal de La Division Ressources Humainas  at Population, Rachidi
Redji, Economiste/Chargo d'Ophrations A la isz lion R&gionale a Abidjan
at Jean-Claude  Hamidat, Consultant an Geetior Financi6re, a a6journo
a Abidjan du 7 au 19 nov&mbra 1994 en vue de I pr6paration du rapport
d'acI6vement du programme. Hme Bettina Holl- ruck.r, Sp4cialiste  an
6ducation a rejoint la mission au cours dos de rniers jours.
2.          Danz lit cadre de la pr6paration de leur proprQ rapport
d'achdvement. uns 4quipe de la KfW (co-financier du progranmme) conduitc
par Dr. V. iebiuch, Chef do Division pour la C6 a d'lvoira, accompagn6a
de Dr. W. Weber, Sp6cialiste an Sante Publi que, a aus5i participe
int6graloment at activement aux travaux et dl cussions qua la miosion
a aus  avoc le Ccomt6 dos Op6rations alnsi q  avec Lea souu-comi-tho
socroriels (6ducation naeLonale, ensuignama t cup6riour at want6
noia.mment). H. R. Creasman, Charg6 des Operaticins A la sanque africaino
de D6veloppomant responsable pour le PVRH au seain de cette institution,
S'Gst acsocio a la r6union d-e  ynth6we A la fin- de la mission.  La
mission tient A pr6senter scn profonds ramerci amentu A l'ansoamble des
personnes rencontr6as pour leur dilponibilit4i et lour collaboration
franche et cordials.
n .   CADRE GZNERAL  ET OBJECTITS  DE LA MISS1 ON
3.          L  cr6dit 3428-IVC etant arrivd A aa cl6ture, lam accords
et lae diroctivos de la Banqut mondlale demar dent A ce gumun rapport
d'achdvement de projet  (RAP)  solt  1labori ut presente  au Conseil
d'Administration six moia ou plus tard aprdo 1< cl6ture dc l'oper.tion.
La nimsion a prdsent6 et discut6 en profondeur avec les membres du COP
leo ObjQctifa, la structuratiost at le cont nu du RAP.   Llobjectif
primordial du  RAP eat de  contribuer  A  eliorer  la  qualit&  et.
I 'officaci:4 doe oper*Lions financ6se  par I  Banque Mondiale at do
Lenftorcor La capacit6 et I'aptitudo do I'o pruntour A pr6parer et
mattre an OQuvre les prouramame -t projets.  Ut tel rapport eat compoc6
dce xroio partiusi q-.. so . tructurvnt comuo cuit I (1) 1In prnmiar
prvsente V analyse d. l'esxcution ot d-= r6u3 tato  du polnt de vue do
la  Banqueg  (11)  In  coconde  pr6conto   1 6valuatiol    aite  par



2
l2ompruntcur; at (Iii) la troiaidme partie r4un t lon 416mints factual.
relatifs au d6roulement du programme.
4.           Li mission a note avvU SaLiSfactio  qua la COP avait iJ6j&
prls la dJcision dilnitior uno *valuation du pr gr-mmO avec l'appui  do
deux consultanta.  Cette 6tude dont un rapport  rovisoire sac  cn cours
daialyau  par lea diff4rents acLouro du progr ame devralt constituer
uruo boaano baas  pour la pr6paratLon do la con ributlon do la part-i
ivoirienne A Il'1aboration du RAP Ot noLamnent a deuxi6ma partie dudit
rapporL.  Il a  6L6 convonu qu'une telle contri ution sorait tranamise
a la Banque Xondiale, la KFW  et la BAD dlici  in D6cembre 1994.
C.    POIUTS ESSENTISLS DES DISCUSSIONS SPECIF QUES SUR LA PREPARATION
DU RAPPORT D'ACEEVEKENT
5.          En attendant  d- recevoir  1-  rap ?ort  formel  premontant
16valu&Llon globale du programme par la parti. ivoirienn&, la mission
a au don seances de travail at dam diacuisionm fogL int6rccaantes avac
la& diff&rents actoura du programme cur lour 6v luation pr&liminaire de
l1ox6cution du program   au reqard notamm-nt d u objootifc ot mesurem
prlivuM dans la matrice d'actions, law lg,ong et l-urs id&os cur lea
perspectives a court et A moyan terma.  Lou  oints saillantc de ceo
dlcuzsions franches at empreintes de cordiali l uont r6mum6z dans lou
paragraph-s qul suivent.
.           gObjectif  global  du  Pregramm-.    L'ubjoct.f  global  du
progranne visalt  assentiollement  la rinforc   nt do  la qualit  do
fourniture des oervices an gqn-ral et l'6l&ryi afaruni de la couvorturm
des uozvLcos do base au nlveau dce  soeteurs c ncorn6s. D'un- rnaniiOro
qin6rale, la r6aliuation de cot objoctif dovr it so traduiro par des
changements structurols dans l'allocation et l'utilisation dos
recuourcos des  -ctc-urc at aummi par uno   61ioration  oensibla do
certains indicateurs de base (taux de scolari ation, accec aux zoinc
primaires,...).   La collect. et  la eampil tion  don  informatioasb
n6coz=airoc pour uno analyzo approfondio don r6 ultats du prograimm  par
rappurt A Cut objoctif central sont an cours av c l'appui techniquo du
consulLant  de  la  Banque  Mondials    (donna s  budq6taires,  normsn
sectoriolles, indicatouro de performance,... . Ca travail de collocto
devrait 6tre achev6 pour li fin du moli  deo No  mbre 1994 et facilitor
l1evalua.ion des performances r4.llex du prog1mmc
Objactifs Xp&cifiqu05 et El6aonts d'appr ciatlon par ler srctours
&cation
7.          Los rosponsables du Ministire  d   l'Education NationalS
(MFN) ons r-mi- A la mission un rapport prilir inairm qui  esuL L'acconL
cur lea QEtorLa do raLlonalisation du cyou&ma 6ducatif $niti6s et min
en oeuvro au coura du programme. Cam mosur s auraijant contribue a
augmonLw,r la capacit6 du Hinist6ro A r6pondr a ux bomoino croissants do
la population on iducation. Una mention parti culibro a otu fait* our
lam mesures de rationalisatAun et do miarlsde as tranufarLD GoCia,ux et
rflotamU.QflL l~a mupprommion do la  gratuit6 du i raniport1 llmitation
dos boureo  ort la formeauro progzuualvo des Lntcrna-n qui  A pormLas
d'accroltre an milleu urbain Io  c2paci.La dl ccuall axiL"sz&LOv.  LJ-
r6conuee   meouroe   d'asainLasemenz   priLs@    per   Lee   Sutaorica



3
mini"t6riella   viuant  a   iLiminor  lee  rocratomanto  paralldl.   at
jilicitem * tous loc niveaux cogmrlbuoal- AJ -nfunlidhi-  ie.4tfort do
rationalization at at assinizcement du *yst6m 
8.          Lo   douxi6ma   point   majeur   bvoqu6   CCL  rCGIL.if   &
I'amlioratiwn de la quaIL6 deo 2'Aducation t Lie I'afficacit6 Interne
du systimo. Co point a 6t6 roconnu coawme uno ciLuaLiLon pr4owaupante et
pour laquollo  boaucoup d.ftorLs reoLant d faire. Den initiatives
prizec  ou  anvisag*es  par  le  HLniut6re  portent  notammont  our
1'am&lioration do lloncadramont doe 616ves darts la syatom. (maximum So
6lAves par clause), l'Instauratlon de 1- doubl, vacation danz la& zones
da forte demandc at. le renforcement de la formation continue des
oncaqinAntg.
9.          En co qui concerne la capacitA do geetion straL6giquo du
cOcteur, .lle so soralt progr.siv.em.nt om&liao ,ee au cours du progr,ammne
av-c 1- soutian de IL Coop6ration franqaise daex  le domaine de la
planiZlcatlon at de la goation don roecourc a.  Los r6cants appuis
additionnols fournis par le Projet d'Appui A la Goeioon des nessources
Humainoc  (PACRH). y comprin dans le domai e  de  la budgtiiartion
dovraient contribuor A aeccdlrer le proc-ssuu au coure don prochaine
mici c.
10.         Enfin  la-  r-cponsables  du  H         abN  ont  uoulignA  lour
pr6occupation par rapport A l  aituation cr tique de 1cncolgnemont
profoeaionnol  et technique  secondairo  qui,  A lur  point  de  vUQ,
n aurait pan requ une attention suiffl-ante  u courn de la mice on
.euvre du programrno.   A co aujot,  l'objec if du misisatre serait
d'assur-r une compl6montaritL ontre cet  annei  stment at 1'enaoignoment
Ogn6ral  f In  de fournir des formations qua ifiantes minimales aux
61vos un vue do fAciliter lour Ins-rtion dan la via accive.
Enmojanenent Sun&riour
11.         L  quipo du  stiutira de IEnsoiq omant Sup6rkpvu_.ntci_ l-
Racharche Scientifl."aoe (HESRS) a pr&sfntC AIa1 mislion un document
offrant de mani6re d6tuill4a leur 6va.uation p r rapport aux princ:ipaux
objectifs sp6cifiquoa du prograxmue A savoir  (i) la correction der
d&uAquilibros  budg4taires;  (ii)  la  maLtri c  de  llvolution  doe
offectif a A luniveraLt.61 (Ili) l'optimi.ation des CapAcit&S d'accuoil;
et (iV) la rod6finition dew formations.  Une 6valuation pr4limiismire
doe =iOnO mimes en couvre per rapport a chac in de ces objectiLf  a 4x
donn. aianci quo low difficult6c rencontr6on.
12.         Au plan de la correctlon don d6-s  uLlibrs, l'accent a eti
port6 noLammont cur: (A) ln r-ationalsation d a Orandes Ecoles cur la
Lamm d'un audit at qui s e-t traduit par unc r&ducLiun usneible don
coCAts usiaRiroa do formations; (ii)  la ra rganisation des oouvrwm
unive&aitairns et ia privatisation de la ro tauration dcc dtudlants
(gair do pr6s de 3 miilliardw); (iii) la suppr ssion do la gratuiti don
trans*ort.  ct la staliliatilon dam bourses.  La conjoncLiul de Cea
ear(urz  aura.int permi" d'ovoir  unc evoluL ions  n,dwate dc  4%  don
cubventions au profit do I'univQrcitL au coura de la p6riode 3991-1994.



4
13.         En  cc  qui  concern-  la  maltri-l  des eo fectitl,    do"
d4rapagec important.a ont 6t enregqistLes pou|r doB ra  UZn  LivOrr-6
Ainsi  par  rapport  a un objectLf  do  29.000w  etudianrs en  1993/94,
l'.ffectif actual de l'univoruit6 eat de I-or re do 39.000 4tudiants.
La prauuion excrc&o par lee bacholiurs eu L' urs des deux pramlAram
annkee  du programme et la auspenvion des xidgIcSa ag-b3           en 1992
(arrQtL 31G) pour zccruiLrw la fluidit6 dans 1 oynteme cOnbL!Lueriefnt
1u cauCoS principales de certo explosion do I oIlio-t.if qui n'est opdr&
au ditriment do la qualit.6 do la formation S ournis.  11 conviont de
notor Loutofois qua lea  masures p icas par la MEN pour aeliar
l'organization  du  BAC on  1994  Olt permia  do  liter  do maniore
significativo  1Irffectif  des bacholiers pour co to  annoe  acolaire
.(1.000 contre 17.000 on 1993). Pour falre face en partie A loxe-oncion
notoire du eyat.me  lc  Hini&LdrQ a prri  l'in 4tiative der4iiuirir aux
3Lructureu priveca donseignement oup6rlour d*ns loequelloG on compto
aujourd'hui cnviron 4.500 6tudiantu dont .co frals do scolaritd
(350.000-400.000  FCFA/an)  seont  pris  en  ch+ rge par  I-Etat.  ditte
initiative sm  serait traduito par la promol ion d'un scteur priv6
dynamiquo at divorsifid de formation tachnique dont on notcraiL d&jA un
d6but do rayonnement dans la aous-r6gion. Au dela du caractere coQL-
officace de eatte  initiative, uns analyso plus  approfondie de co
systme serait utile at souhaitable ot. permett ra de tnieux appricler la
nature dam formationo fournies at leur pertini sce par rapport au marche
du travail, la structuration du secteur ct ca viabilit6 a terme etc.
34.         D'uns mani6rc g6nGrals. lee autorr t&  du Hinirtere pefUenL
quc la mime an oeuvre du programmo aurait pormis de d6volopper une
capacit6 de pilotage ctratdgique du secteurk  C-rtains resultatc do
rationalisation  du  secteur   sOnt  conaidC6  s  c3mnie  des  acquis
irr6versiblou. Toutefois, lea crlses qui secouent o6riodiquement
l'univ.erit6   constitueralont des illu-itrateLons des enjoux et des
contraintes socia-polLtiques quL p4sont our le syGtdme zt qui limitent
la viteossa   et la port6o des riformes proj a-. Los actions  furures
envisag6oo porteraient en priarit& our:  (i)  a difinition d'un cadre
juridiqua pour lea r6formos en cours (un pro jet de loi Qat soumis A
I'Aseombl1i  );  (ii) la mise on place d'un processus r1goureux de
Planification et de programsmation budgqtaire  t t.echnico-p&daogique;
(iii) 1Q ronforcemont des masure. d ra tionalioation; at (iV)
l'am6lioraiion de l'cfficacit6 interne *t ext. rne du systme.  L appui
fourni par 1l PAGRH pour Ia mies an oeuvrQ dcu nw partie de cen acrions
Oat fortement appr&cl& par le  rosponuable. c u )ESRS, m6nua  'ils ont
d4plor6 lc dc&calq.e notoira enregistri ontro Ia miss an place effective
do cc projot (en VDcembrm 1993) at la p4riLode c 'ex6cution du progralme.
Sat
15.         La mime on oeuvro du programmae au niv.au du CQctour sant6
a 4Lt articul6a autour de troic axes 6pCC:Lfiques ussentiolc: (i)
V'am.lioration de la qualit6 des moinr at I'extenaion de lour
couverturew  (11) l'ZutliiXaL1o8 4"d la capacit5 de planification et de
92tiion du aoctaur; ot (ili)  la mobilizati n des reasourCLe 2L 1L
pnrtcipation do= b6n&ficiairoc. De VIavi    oreponcabIjtw du suctour,
on riculLat  important  du  prograigmo  aura     it  In difinition  d'uno
polimiquo casliLairwo vibtiusAlak av-v don objectif   socturieI. pr&cis dont
lo d6voloppomont ct la mico an Oouvre progro. ivc CQ1&uLILuuont la base



S          1
pour la mobilisationl des efforts do tous leX acteurs du sysr&me. En
particulicr.  le 0ouv*trnement a d6cid6 de generalier progressivement
lea soina de sant6 prisnairc- aiinui que ladoption au d6but de l'ann&e
1994  du  concept dL. district  (OMSI  uawmmne  nit6 operationnclle  de
.3 nrganisation du aystdmc. Le deqrM  de ndse en ocuvre effective dc
cette politique et do suo  impact r6el our l.a 'ituation canitaire de IA
populaLion remLnt A faire. Toutefoiii, lea  6rsultats de la r6cento
miscion %ur la Population, la Nutrition at la santd offront des bonnes
indications mur la volont6 ivoirienno de s'adr sser a cotte nituation.
16.         Au cours des discuesions, lea re ormes initidws dans le
dumaine dc la politiquw de m6dicaments  et de  rncouvrement des collts
dont l.a vadre r6glamentairo a ctc totalemen   d6fini par la Loi dn
Financ:"s  de  1994,  sont  apparus  comme  dce   acquis  importants  du
programme.  Les activiLuv de forskation et d5aensibilisation sont en
cour- pour accurer la mics  en place effectiv  des Comit6a de Gestion.
La  reatructuration  de  la  PSP  avoc  le  caotian  du  FED  a  permii
d am6liorer la dispwnibilit& des m6dicamints djans lea ccntres de santA
A des coLto rclativement abordablem- Toutofois , des efforts importants
rertent a faire pour consolider cot acquis ca r quelquns ruptures de
nb6dicamonta cont enregistr6a et surtout il est n6cassaire de prendre
l.t dinpositions utiles pour maintenir et re4rorcer la confiance des
usagerz du systemo.  Una am6lioration du m6cani me at de i'intervention
de la PSP Gerait envisagso par lea autoritcs cans les prochains moie.
En ce qui concerna le cadre r4glementaire app4icabla au secteur priv&
do m6dicaments, lea meaures initi6es d6but 199 ant 6t6 rappcloes et en
particulior la promotion dea produitz 96n6ri 4ues, le principQ de la
substitution (loi adoptca en Juln 1994) ct le r cours ayst6matiqua A la
concurrence dans lo proceaeus d'approvisionnem nt. Environ une centaine
do produits g6n6rlques auraiont Ar6 d6jA enrog str4s et une experiencc
d'approvisionnsment  par appel d'offre pour le secteur priv4 a permis
d'^voir un- r6ductlon de prix oacillant 4ntrQ 8% et 80%. Des
diacuesions cur Ice marges seraient en coure av$ c les profescionncJc du
&"ctour pour loc motiver A la distribution dg sm6dicaments genQriques.
n).    POINTS EN SUSPENS
Arulication de Certaines Mesures Retenues au Cours de la
MiHsion du moin d'Avril 1994.
1'1         Loa  discusaions avec le coP sur  '6tat d'ex6cutlnn dec
pointn convenus au cours de la revue conjointe  ffectu&a au cours dQ la
dernier. mission dont lea r6aultats ont permi  l.e d6caiswment de la
Lroisi6mw tranche du progratme, ont montr& l'e istance de problemos au
sujet de doux d'antrc *ux. D'abord, concernant l'utilisation effective
der. 5 milliardo de FCrA  additionnols  en  a eur des  aectcurs doa
ruessurces humainco, le di.spositlf prdvu n'a pa  fonctionn6 comme pr4vu
QL cola O'-nt tradul. par un d6caimsement r l p1--PQU _ati fiUaflt -mr
cctLe dntatiori.  Au cours des Vtsitos sur lo Lerrain,   Ja :rni:oian a
non   ?rabIoment dans un. inspection rdgional tlu HEN et dans unep ecole
primaire dos mnat6rials fournim at de travaux cf octuts. Dana le sQct.eur
de la santaL  bieua quonviran 810 millions de F FA ont fait linhj-E  de
dcAl6gation an favour des dix rdoiunc, aucun d6ca issement n'a ancore 6t6
mffectue sur l.^ 1,3 ,nilliard. pr6vue. ctwci s ralt dtl A une lentour
1.mportantc  dan3 1- processuu de dtflnition de  becsoins d4taill6a par
le- roeponoables regionaux. La miiesion consid&r  cettc'U.t. .ation anesz



6 
d4acvantc at a rocommand4 que des dispositions soient prison et misas
en  oouvre  on  urgence  atfi   d'ausurer  lai.quiaiition  cffui.tive  den
mMt6riclu de baseo pr45vus avant la cl&turu du Sudget. Les rouponRAbeIO
du MSPrS ont. aswureL la massion quc toutes nimi.urUm zicrusaire. a cat
eqard rtAient pri&on.
18.          .c dsuxL4me point oaL relatif au principe dwt fair. appol
aux buroaux d'6tudes privLs pour la preparatioa dee 6tudes ot docci-rn
techniquea requis par la construcLion at la re abilitation dao  petitos.
infr-atruct.ures  publiquos  uQcio-aanitaires,   en  vuii   d'acc4l&rer
1<cxecution den investissements de base  n appui a 1'Qxtension du
AyetL*lne socio-canitaire it *eolaire du pays. L  mission a 6t& qunlque
posi curprimo de noter qu'une d6cislon  form  le5 nWu pas dt& prise
)URfpC-l&.         miscion  recomJnande  vivsm  t.__Su6t cL  point _ao0it
corroct.ment  trait                i ur  d6lam  atiLn d'6vitor qu'll
apparaicso  n6gativmont dans la RAP.   La mi ssaon rouhaite vivamant
pouvoir  recovoir d'ici IA mi-d&eembre  1994,  la mat6rialit& do  la
dZAicion finale dc- autoaiL4S ivoiriennes our cette question. Au dela
de cetto action, doe r6flexions cur d*s masure c tolles quo la mime en
place d'ag*nce  de type ACET1P ou do Fonda so iaux b4n6ficiant d uns
dAl6gation effective do maltrisc d'ouvrage pou raionL QLtrw faites pour
d6boucher sur den rocoam4andations cp6rationre llw  wuppilmentaires.
Mdiz de In Sonde et de la Trol. dma Trantajh
19.          Conform&m.nt A uno le-tre envoyAe aux responsables de ia
COP an d6but octobro, la imission tiont A rappe er la n6cessirt pour la
Banque ?ondials do recevoir au plus tard a is f in du moia  de D6cambre
.1994. lo rapport d'audit 6ur las d-ux derni6re tranchea du cr6dit. Un
rapport daudlit doit 6trre 61bor& pour li t *nche KFW dans l  mome
delais. D'apr5s lcs r6gles de la Banque Mondia e, la non fourniture du
rapport d -udit danG co d&lai pout porter prdju i.u a la prdparation de
futurcs operations avec lomprunteur.
E.    PERSPECTIVES POUR L'AVEXIR
20.          La mission s'eat entretanue avoc  es responables ivarions
a plusiour-s nivcsux star lcurs id6es pour   . vonir dans  la cadre du
IVRH.  Ella t pu constater un lout6ret 94n6r I dans la poursuite du
proc.ssuo et. den refor-mes entam4is  ur 1  PV R        Effoctivement,  lc
proc,csus du PVRH sinsLiLutionnalisa.  Los th ama  du PVRII sc r6p4tent
uouvent dainu boaucoup de cadrco diff6ronts. C cI VOUL dire quo lo PVRH
comSmnco & 4.uir un impact sur la mani6re de Venser et A rdflchir au
dlifldrents aspects du d6voloppement den resn curces humaines en Cottu
d'7vnirc. Clout un acquis imporL.
21.          La misicin a conoant4 quo le dialoq e PVRII so pxursuit avoc
la banque ?.c iA5al  a plumasurn niveaux d6jA:
-a Croupo Consultatif.  L on a t auv6 que le  th4mow du
IVHH cervent facilenent comme r4f6renc! pour  l.A pr6sentat.ion
ivoiri-nno au Groupe Conoultatif urr 1 Ia ressources huma$ncs.
L'on r:ouvera sang douto beaucoup de ron forcemont et, cela dantu
Inn &&.nbinac ou mois qua suiveni quanld le disilgue inLLrgat iL
extozrza cr66c par le Gruulse ConsultaLif . int'taic



Au niveau aectoriel.  Cowame suite A la mwssion dirig6e par
lc- Dr. Luculsacu Gn avril IA Lanque - enrame ce mois ci les
travaux n6cessaires avec la Mini6t&ra de la Sante rublique et des
Affaires Socialoc our un programme sac oriel Santa et atfaires
e.cialos qui lui servirait comm& re6f roncee pour  le soutien
tjiwincier de la Banqus at 6vcntuellcm' nt d'autrrer bailleura i
J avenir.
22.          Plu-iours responsuableo  ivoirien&  nt Ovoqu6 lfiventualit4
d'unc d4auxiQme op6ration do cr6dit IDA PV)H.  a mission a expliqu6 que
l'4qu%ipc peays au woin dc  la  danque avait  tie la conclusion que la
th6niaw ct probl4mcs lee plus inupurtanto au n 4eau Sant6 ot Education
pourvaiudnt mieux se preter aux op6rationu dt type sectoriel qu'aux
op6rationc du type ajuctcuint.  Elle coaasuilIla A la partie ivoirienne,
ui  llc *esuhaite ontamQr la pr&paraLian d'une  ieuxidme op6ration PVRH,
de c'incerroger  our lea thhmes sp6cifiquec  que souhaitent  traitor
l administration dans un tel cadre et los ra 4one do cavoir pourquoi
tine op6ration A d&caisvomant rapide pourralt r'av&rer plus approprieo
que d'autres opArations pour r6soudre lee pro.l.mes soulov6s au titro
do coo th&mou ap4cifiques.  Le dialogue poursu4vrait donc a la lumiire
dos reCultats de talles r6flexions ivoirionnoe 
23.          Au  tours de  la r4unkon  de synth4as,  lea reaponsablea
i.voiriena onit insiste sur l'importance: (a) des acquis du PVRHN; (b) doa
6tapeo  franchiom dans cQ cadre sur la conIrar ce ontro la perspective
mncro-&conomiquc ot lea actIvit6s ot actions au niveau does sectcure
6ducation et sant6, (c) doe financementa cibl6  d-na lea  sectaura des
reasciurcca hum-inec;  it (d) du soutien au PVRH HA 1avenir, pour quo cet
outi]  tie geotion  dos programmies, budgoto  ' t politiques  dans  lea
diff4rcnts domainos dos  ressources  humainos  puisuent  continuer  do
port1.r ses fruitc.
ConfirmaLion de ljaide-m6moire
24.          La- conclucions et suggestions de cat aide-rn&moire feront
l'objot d'une confirmation officielle dAs le roCour de cette mincinn au
Si6go de la hanqueo  ondiale.
Abid an, 1e 19 novombro 1994
A. Fdward Lluitudorf                         Jean Paul Honn6
Chef do miiasion                             Pr6a dent
Dancjmac Hondia]ft                           Cucmi 6 des Op4rationa
.,_ . - '



REPUBLIQUE DE COTE DIVOIRE
Union - Discipline - Travail
MINISTERE DELEGUE AUPRES DU
PREMIER MINISTRE, CHARGE DE
L'ECONOMIE, DES FINANCES ET DU PLAN
i
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU
PROGRAMME DE VALORISATION DES
RESSOURCES HUMAINES (1992-1994)
I
COMITE DES OPERATIONS DU
PROGRAMME DE VALORISATION DES RESSOURCES HUMAINES
Fevrier 1995



I    RAPPEL HISTORIOUE ET CONTEXTE DU- PROGRAMME (EN TERMES DE
JUSTIFICATION)
La valorisation des ressources humaines a toujours ete,
en C6te d'ivoire, au coeur des preoccupations des dirigeants et
des citovens. Elle comprend, outre la mise en place d'un
dispositif d'education et de formation des jeunes, la dotation
du pays en infrastructures sanitaires sur toute l1'tendue du
territoire.
Concernant la formation, la premiere initiative remonte
a 1946 avec les "Compagnons de l'Aventure". Depuis, ia formation
des  hommes et  leur  valorisation  se  sont  poursuivies  sans
discontinuite et traduites sur differents plans:
Au plan politique, "realiser un social des plus hardis
malgre le caractere liberal de l1economie" a toujours ete exprime
par les pouvoirs publics ivoiriens. Dans ce cadre, les actions
suivantes ont ete realisees: l'affectation constante d'au moins
40% du budget a l'Education et de 50% a l'ensemble des secteurs
sociaux; la creation des 1962 de l'Universite Nationale de Cote
d'Ivoire.
Au plan institutionnel, l"ivoirisation des cadres", slogan
des annees 60 et 70 a ete appuye par une promotion des nationaux
aux differents postes.
Au plan social, les effectifs de personnels dars les
secteurs constitutifs des ressources humaines (60% des effectifs
globaux de l'Etat), et le niveau d'equipement en infrastructures
scolaires et socio-sanitaires montrent la volonte des autorites
de realiser ce "social hardill.
Malheureusement, les resultats, dans les doma.: --- :e
l'education et de la sante n'ont pas toujours ete a la ;->u.-ur
des moyens investis. La reduction de ceux-ci, avec la cr_se -*ui
perdure, et le transfert des charges de sante et d'education ads
la fin des annees 70 sur des populations plus importantes et
moins riches sont venus aggraver une situation deja precaire.
Devant l1'chec des premiers plans d'ajustement
structurels, l'mergence et la prise en compte de la dimension
humaine de l'ajustement structurel, les bailleurs de fonas ont
revise leur position et accepte d'inscrire les secteurs sociaux
parmi les priorites des futurs plans d'ajustement structure_s,
en vue de corriger les effets nefastes de ces programmes.
L'elaboration du PVRH est a mettre au credit de cette
inflexion. Il s'inscrit dans le cadre du programme de
stabilisation et de relance entrepris par le gouvernement en 1989
et decrit dans le document cadre de politique economique a moyen
terme (DCPE). Ce programme comprenait un axe macro economique
ainsi qu'un axe sectoriel comportant des actions dans les
secteurs agricoles, industriels et financiers, energie et eau et
ressources humaines. Le PVRH fait donc partie de l'axe sectoriel
mentionne plus haut.
1



Cependant,  compte tenu de leur  Lmportance dans le
budget global de l'etat, les budgets des ministeres concernes par
le PVRH constituent une contrainte incontournable a tout effort
pour retrouver les equilibres financiers. Dans ce contexte il est
normal que les cocuments techniques aient accorde la priorite a
des parametres financiers et a des activites ayant des resultats
immediats ou a court terme. Cela justifie une prise en compte
plus importante des parametres d'ajustement dans ia plupart des
conditionnalites explicites.
Bien que certaines activites prevues par le programme
aient ete realisees en 1991, on peut considerer que la mise en
oeuvre du programme a reellement demarre debut 1992.
Apres trois annees de mise en oeuvre, et conformement
aux accords de credit et pret BIRD et IDA, il s'av6re utile de
faire  le point  sous  la forme d'un  Rapport  d'Achevement  du
Programme (RAP), partie integrante du rapport soumis au Conseil
d'Administration de la Banque Mondiale.
I1 y a lieu de rappeler que depuis 1992, certains
facteurs de l'environnement economique et social du pays ont
evolue, et que certaines hypotheses et estimations faites pendant
la phase de conception du PVRH (1989-1990) n'etaient plus
valables   au   cours   de   l'execution   du   programme;   dans
l'entre-temps, de nouveaux projets ont demarre, la parite de la
monnaie a change et bien entendu, on a rencontre lors de la mise
en oeuvre, des obstacles et des difficultes qu'on a appris a
mieux connaitre et dont il faudra tenir compte a l'avenir.
II   DEROULEMENT DE L'EXECUTION DU PROGRAMME
1    Negociation et conception du Programme
Suite a un atelier de reflexion initie par la Division
population et Ressources Humaines de la Banque Mord -le, sur la
valorisation des ressources humaines en C6te d'I:oire  (24-28
Avril 1989), le Gouvernement a mandate les administrations
concernees pour l'elaboration d'un programme qu'il a presente A
l'ensemble de la communaute internationale, lors d'une T3ble
Ronde des Bailleurs de Fonds organisee les 21 et 22 Juin 1991,
grace A l'appui technique de la Banque Africaine de Developpement
(BAD).
L'accord du Gouvernement sur ce programme adopte au
cours du Conseil des Ministres du 31/07/91, etait associe a une
autorisation donnee au Ministre de l'Economie et des Finances
pour la recherche de financement aupres des bailleurs de fonds
ayant manifeste leur interet au cours de la table ronde. Les
contacts  pris  dans  ce  contexte  ont  abouti  notamment  a  la
conclusion d'un credit IDA et d'un pret BIRD d'un montant global
de 150 millions de dollars US, negocies en Novembre 1991 et
entres en vigueur en Janvier 1992. Parallelement, la KFW et la
BAD ont contribue respectivement A hauteur de 30 millions de DM,
8 millions d'UCF (Unites de Compte FAD) et 50 millions d'UCB
(Unites de Compte BAD).
2



Tous ces concours exterieurs etaient essentiellement
des financements inscrits dans le cadre des appuis budgetaires
(pr6ts et credits a decaissements  rapides)  dont  les tirages
etaient conditionnes a la mise en oeuvre des mesures du
programme. Le tableau 1 en annexe presente la situation des
decaissements obtenus de 1'ensemble des bailleurs de fonds au
titre de ce programme.
2    Aspects institutionnels
2.1  Organisation et structures de gestion et de suivi
Compte tenu de la diversite des structures techniques
et administratives concernees par le PVRH, ie Gouvernement a
decide de mettre en place un organe charge d'assurer le suivi de
la mise en oeuvre du PVRH: le Comite des Operations du PVRH dont
les missions et l'organisation ont fait l'objet de textes
reglementaires pris entre les negociations et la mise en vigueur
du pret BIRD. Ce comite est forme de representants designes (a)
de chaque Ministere implique,  (b) de la Direction Generale du
Budget,  (c) de la DGCTx.  Ce comite a ete dote d'un organe
d'execution (le Secretariat Permanent). Le comite est un
catalyseur et une structure legere, avec des ramifications dans
les trois departements techniques concernes par la realisation
des actions du PVRH: les Sous-Comites Ministeriels, eux aussi
crees par arretes, constituant un "Collbge des Directeurs" au
sein duquel le point d'avancement du programme du Ministere est
fait regulierement.
Cette forme d'organisation du suivi de la mise en
oeuvre a un double avantage:
(a) d'une part, laisser aux services techniaues la
possibilite et la necessite de faire face a leurs prercoatives
(ce sont les Directions Centrales qui ont la charge c'executer
les conditionnalites, et pas le comite, ni une structur-  ,a 0   );
(b)  dIautre part, garantir la remontee de l'informatr:: sur
la realisation des conditionnalites, a travers les points
reguliers faits par le Comite des Operations aux Ministres lors
des reunions trimestrielles sous la presidence du Ministre de
1'Economie et des Finances.
2.2 Administrations chargees de la mise en oeuvre.
La creation du Comite des Operations et des Sous-
Comites Ministeriels a constitue une garantie pour la continuite
des actions des Directions Techniques des Ministeres qui ont subi
plusieurs changements, a la suite des differents remaniements
ministeriels intervenus sur la periode.
A titre d'illustration, il est presente ci-apres, les
changements  intervenus  dans  la  gestion  des  secteurs  de
l'education et de la sante entre la conception et l'execution du
PVRH:
3



1/   Secteur de 1'Education
Conception du PVRH (1989)
Ministere de I'Enseignement Primaire;
Ministere  de  I'Enseignement  Technique  et  de  la
Formation Professionnelle;
Ministere de I'Education Nationale (Secondaire General
et Universit6).
Neaociation des PAS-BIRD/IDA (Novembre 91)
Ministere   de   l'Education   Nationale   (Primaire,
Secondaire General et Universite).
Ministere  de  l'Enseignement  Technique  et  de  la
Recherche Scientifique.
Mise en oeuvre (1992-94
Ministere   de   l'Education   Nationale   (Primaire,
Secondaire, Technique et Professionnel).
Ministere  de  l'Enseignement  Superieur  et  de  la
Recherche Scientifique.
2/   Secteur de la Sante
Conception
Ministere des Affaires Sociales
*   Ministere de la Sante Publique
Neqociation et mise en oeuvre
Ministere de la Sante Publique et de la Protection
Sociale (puis Ministere de ia Sante Publique et
Affaires Sociales).
Ces  changements  structurels  s'accompagnai-nt  de
modifications d'organigrammes et d'attributions des depar-ements
ministeriels,   qui   necessitaient   generalement   un   temps
indispensable a la mise en place des structures et des hommes.
Quatre Ministeres sectoriels et deux Direct:-ns du
Ministere des Finances et du Plan ont pris une part active aux
phases de preparation, de negociations et de lancement du PVRH.
Il s'agit des Ministeres de l'Education Nationale, de
l'Enseignement Technique et/ou Superieur, de la Sante, et de
l'Emploi/Fonction Publique, ainsi que des Directions Generales
du Plan et du Budget. Pendant la mise en oeuvre et le suivi (92-
94), l'implication des representants du Ministere de l'Emploi et
de la Fonction Puzlique, qui n'avait pas de responsabilite
directe dans la mise en oeuvre d'actions specifiques de la
matrice des actions, a ete episodique. Ce relachement a eu pour
consequence une orientation budgetaire et financiere du suivi de
la masse salariale, les aspects "effectifs" etant pris en charge
par les Ministeres utilisateurs.
4



Dans le meme ordre d'idee, l'absence de representants
des services de la Solde au sein du comite a ete a la base de
certains derapages constates lors du suivi de la matrice
d'actions et du budget.
2.3 Conmmunaute des bailleurs de fonds: tables rondes et
resultats limites
En organisant -es deux tables rondes de mobilisation
de ressources pour financer le PVRH en Juin 1991 et Mars 1992,
le Gouvernement avait legitimement escomnte une adhesion massive
des partenaires exterieurs autour d'un programme susceptible de
mobiliser les bonnes volontes (compte tenu de son importance
strategique pour le futur). Force est de constater qu'en plus de
la Banque Mondiale qui a initie ce programme, seules la BAD et
la KFW ont decide d'appuyer ce programme, sous la forme de prets
a decaissements rapides; les autres, pour des raisons liees A
leur habitude d'intervention en la C8te d'Ivoire, ont manifeste
leur preference pour des actions ciblees (projets). Toutefois,
ces actions ont ete integrees dans le paradigme du PVRH: PREFEP
(Canada), Appui du FED au programme Sante, projets specifiques
Sante et Education de la France et de l'Allemagne, projets BAD
et KFW dans le secteur de la sante, projet BAD-Education 4 dans
le secteur de 1'education etc...
3    Aspects financiers
D'un simple point de vue sectoriel, il est important
de souligner que les specificites des financements de type PAS
(decaissement associe A des conditions particulieres) n'ont pas
permis de realiser certains resultants du programme, dans la
mesure oui cela dependait entre autres, de la mobilisation de
ressources dont la disponibilite etait par nature "incer.3ine".
Les concours exterieurs attendus du PVRH, tels c_Js
ressortent  des  accords  de  prets  et  de  credits  avec  _.s  3
principaux bailleurs de fonds etaient les suivants:
Banque Mondiale:     150 bIillions de dollars US
BAD:                  60 millions d'UCB environ
Allemaqne (KFW):      30 millions de DM
Estimes  en  F.  CFA de  l'annee  1992,  les  montan:~s
attendus de ces 3 principaux bailleurs s'6levaient ainsi  a _
milliards a mobiliser en 1992 et 1993. L'accomplissemer.- de ia
conditionnalite exogene au PVRH (devaluation) en 1994 a permis
de porter a plus de 150 milliards, l'apport exterieur au titr?
du programme; ce qui represente environ 20% des resso rces
effectivement consacrees A ces deux secteurs au cours c_s 3
annees d'execution du PVRH (budgets executes des 3 Ministeres au
cours des exercices 1992-1993 et 1994).
5



Lors des negociations avec les differents bailleurs de
fonds (fin 91 avec le Groupe de la Banaue Mondiaie),  la C5te
d'Ivoire avait fortement exprime son desir de nobiliser .a
totalit6 des ressources non affect6es au cours des deux premieres
annees  du  programme.   Sur  cette  base,   l'estimation  des
decaissements par la Cote d'Ivoire portait sur 2/3 des credit !DA
et Pret BIRD mobilises en 92 et le tiers en 93.
Force est de constater que les decaissements effectifs
ont connu beaucoup de retards, de sorte que seulement 33% des
ressources initiales du Groupe de la Banque Mondiale ont ete
liberes sur les 24 premiers mois du programme, (50 millions) et
67% en 1994, compte tenu des 62 millions de DTS au titre de la
"e5me Dimension".
Pendant ce temps, les credits et pret du Groupe de la
BAD, negocies 5 mois apres ceux de la Banque Mondiale etaient
decaisses a concurrence de 2/3 en 92/93, alors que les
conditionnalites et le nombre de tranches de ces deux bailleurs
de fonds etaient identiques, et que les ressources initialement
attendues du Groupe de la Banque Mondiale representaient le
double de celles esperees de la BAD.
4         Aspects budgetaires et Tresorerie
4.1 Conditionnalites budgetaires determinantes
Le PVRH est dote d'une matrice de 19 actions
strategiques dont la plupart etaient decomposees en actions
specifiques, et d'une matrice budgetaire, toutes les deux
associ6es a une declaration de politique explicitee par 5
documents techniques. Dans le cadre des negociations avec les
bailleurs de fonds, 16 mesures spec iques ont ete identifiees
comme conditions de liberatio. des t: -nches des prets et credits.
Quatre de ces mesures concernaient =xplicitement le budget (au
moins une a chaque d4caissement), de sorte que l'examen de -:es
conditionnalites prenait le pas sur les autres aspects penaant
chaque revue.
Cette situation resulte du principe selon lequel la
volonte de l'Etat a soutenir un secteur ne peut, objectivement
se traduire que dans la maniere dont ce dernier procede a
l'allocation des ressources budgetaires par ailleurs rares. Ce
faisant, le respect fidele de l'engagement sur l'allocation et
l'execution du budget pourrait etre la preuve d'un tel
engagement.
4.2 Evolutions structurelles des Budgets des Secteurs des
Ressources Humaines.
Avant la mise en oeuvre du PVRH, les budgets alloues
aux secteurs de l'education et de la sante etaient consacres
principalement aux salaires et aux transferts sociaux, laissant
peu de ressources aux inputs pedagogiques et aux medicaments. La
poursuite d'une telle tendance compromettrait la viabilite du
systeme.
6



Dans le cadre du programme, il a ete elabor6 la matrice
de performance budgetaire contenant des pr6visions de ressources
en termes nominaux (indicatlfs) et tendanciels (normatifs), en
vue d'infl6chir cette politique.
Dans les matrices sous-sectotrieiles (education, sante),
il s'agissait, d'accorder une Importance notable aux depenses non
salariales, non seulement dans I'allocation des ressources, mais
aussi dans 1'execution des depenses.
Les objectifs vises, a 1'horlzon du programme (1995)
dans ce domaine etaient les suivants:
Pour le secteur educatif: (a) consacrer plus de 10% des
ressources destinees au fonctionnement aux depenses non
salariales, contre moins de 6% en 1990; (b) consacrer la moitie
du budget du secteur a l'enseignement primaire, contre environ
45% au debut du programme.
L'examen du budget execute de l'annee 1994 montre que
plus de 50% des ressources ont ete depensees pour l'enseignement
primaire, alors que l'allocation budgetaire (budget vote) ne
prevoyait que 48%. Par ailleurs, alors que le budget vote au
titre de l'annee fiscale 1992 consacrait 5,5% des ressources
totales aux depenses non salariales, clest plus de 12% du budget
total de 1'education qui sont destines a couvrir cette categorie
de depenses dans le budget 1995 (le taux d'execution de cette
categorie de depenses connaissant par ailleurs une amelioration
d'annee en annee sur la periode du programme). On note donc une
amelioration structurelle quant a l'allocation des ressources
dans ce secteur; cette tendance merite d'etre poursuivie.
Pour le secteur sanitaire: (a) consacrer plus de 40%
des ressources aux depenses non salariales; (b) consacrer -0% du
budget au niveau tertiaire du systeme, contre 55% en l
La  structure  du  budget  1995  indique    -   : es
ressources sont prevues pour le primaire, 28% pour l -ec-z-e,
et seulement 43% pour le tertiaire.  Les proportions  -n  992
etaient respectivement de 27% (primaire), 18% (secondaire) -  53%
(tertiaire).  On note au niveau de ce secteur que  `,;s de 25% des
ressources  sont  effectivement  allouees   aux   iepenses  de
fonctionnement non salariales sur toute la dur6e du programme
(budgets votes).
Les principales remarques suggerees par l'analvse qui
precede sont les suivantes:
-     'lexistence  du  PVRH  explique  en  grande  par-:e  la
preservation du budget des secteurs concernes par le programme;
-    le profil des budgets des secteurs du PVRH a la fin du
programme (1995) est plus proche de la norme que ce qu.il aurait
ete en l'absence des mesures mises en oeuvre depuis 1991;
7



-     'lexecution du PVRH a permis d'initier des appuis aux
services strategiques dans I'6Iaboration et lexecution ies
budgets (Projet d'Appui a la Gestion des Ressources Humaines;
Reorientation des projets en cours dans les Ministeres concernes
etc...);
-    les  ajustements  introduits,  notamment  en  ce  qui
concerne la masse salariale et les transferts sociaux permettront
d'entrevoir pour l'avenir une expansion et une amelioration
qualitative des systemes.
4.3 Impact du non-respect du calendrier initial de
decaissement sur le taux d'execution du budget.
Le non-respect du calendrier initial de decaissement
par les bailleurs de fonds a eu certainement un impact negatif
sur le taux d'execution du budget, au moins en ce qui concerne
les problemes de tresorerie qui ont ete generes, et qui n'ont pas
permis de faire face a toutes les depenses; seules les "ldepenses
incontournables" comme les salaires, les bourses, les transferts
sociaux ont ete executes au detriment des depenses considerees
comme prioritaires par le programme.
4.4 Participation des beneficiaires
L'un des points importants et novateurs du programme
etait lintroduction de la participation des beneficiaires au
cout des services d'education et de sante.
Il  s'agissait   non  seulement   d'organiser   cette
participation qui etait assuree de fait, (contributions reclamees
par les gestionnaires contre la reglementation existante), mais
aussi d'accroitre les ressources disponibles pour le financement
des secteurs.
La realisation de cette mesure a ete contraride
essentiellement par les difficultes economiques et le contexte
social.   Toutefois,   des   avancees   notables,   voire   meme
irreversibles ont ete enregistrees dans le secteur de la sante
et au niveau du secondaire et superieur de l'education. Cette
decision a ete suspendue par le Gouvernement, un an apres son
instauration, a cause de la baisse des taux de frequentation
qu'elle generait.
5.   Aspects techniques
La matrice d'actions du PVRH retenait 5 categories
d'actions dont l'examen de la mise en oeuvre aide & rieux
apprecier le niveau d'execution du programme:
(a)  Controle de l'4volution des depenses du secteur des
Ressources Humaines (fonctionnement et investissement)
(b)  Adoption des politiques permettant de mieux repondre
aux besoins des populations dans le secteur des
Ressources Humaines
8



(c) Maltrise des depenses
(d) Amelioration de la caDacir6 de mise en oeuvre
(e)  Amelioration de la gestion du personnel
,.1 Concernant le contr6le de l1evolution des depenses du
secteur des Ressources Humaines, il s'agissait essentiellement
d'ameliorer le processus d'allocation budgetaire. L'objectif
operationnel majeur consistait a preparer, executer et suivre la
mise en oeuvre de budgets annuels conformes a dcs previsions
contenues dans la matrice budgetaire. L'importance de cet aspect
du programme reside dans le fait que chaque tirage de tranche des
prets et credits associes au PVRH etait conditionne a un examen
conjoint de la conformite des previsions et/ou realisations de
budgets de l'Etat pour les secteurs constitutifs des Ressources
Humaines.
Sur la periode de mise en oeuvre du PVRH, les budgets
des exercices 1991-1992-1993 et 1994 ont subi l'examen conjoint
dans le cadre de ces conditionnalites. La "demarche PVRH" a e5e
utilisee, par ailleurs, lors de l'elaboration du budget de
l'exercice 1995, bien quIelle ait eu lieu apres le dernier tirage
des prets BIRD/KFW et BAD.
Avant la mise en oeuvre du PVRH,  la s.-::zure des
budgets des secteurs des Ressources Humaines eta t :t:guee par
des dysfonctionnements qu'il s'agissait de corriger.
(a) Predominance de la part du salaire et des t-ansferts
non pedagogiques (et medicaux) sur les ressources affectees au
fonctionnement non salarial.
Il resulte de la mise en oeuvre du PVRH, qu'une nette
amelioration se manifeste dans ce domaine precis. Par exmpnze,
comme rappele plus haut, en 1992, 5,5% du BGF de l'Educai-'on
6taient alloues au fonctionnement non salarial; en 1995, cette
proportion est de 12,5% dans le budget vote. Au niveau du secteur
de la sante, ces ratios sont passes de 25% en 1992    4% en 1995.
Cet effort est perceptible pour 1 ensemble des secteurs
lorsque l'on raisonne sur le budget execute sur les 3 annees du
PVRH  (1992-1994);  en effet,  tandis qu'en  1992,  la  ca:- des
ressources effectivement allouees aux depenses de fonc:icnnerient
non salarial du secteur de l'education n'etait que de 3,9%, aiie
se situait a pres de 8% a fin Octobre 1994. Pour le secteur de
la sante, les -'iffres sont de 22,7% en 1992 et 27% en Oc=:zre
1994.
Ces resultats ont ete obtenus grace a une combin- son
de plusieurs actions, parmi lesquelles il convient de cite-:
- une allocation rationnelle et volontariste des ressources
budgetaires en faveur des inputs sanitaires et pedagogiques a
tous les niveaux, avec un accent particulier sur le primaire;
9



- une maitrise du niveau des salaires, surtout en ce qui
concerne le secteur educatif ou le Gouvernement a decide, des -a
fin de l'annee 1992, de mettre fin au ?Id6crochageIr tes salaires
des enseignants; par ailleurs, une modification des regles de jeu
concernant le recrutement des fonctionnaires (fin de ll"entr6e
automatique" dans la Fonction Publique) a ete decidee dans Le
meme temps; -
- une maitrise de l'evolution des transferts sociaux, par
le gel du montant des bourses aux eleves et etudiants, et un
blocage   des   subventions   destinees   au   transpor-.  et   a
l'hebergement.
(b)  Une allocation budgetaire qui privilegiait le secteur
tertiaire au detriment du primaire ou se manifeste la demande la
plus forte.
Pour l'ensemble des secteurs concernes, on note un
reequilibrage dans l'affectation des ressources au benefice des
niveaux inferieurs (secondaire et primaire). Par ailleurs, il
convient de souligner que l'introduction du recouvrement des
coCits,  en priorite dans les etablissements scolaires et les
formations sanitaires tertiaires constitue un element d'equite
non negligeable.
(c) Des modalites de financement qui faisaient appel
exclusivement a des ressources fiscales, sans contribution
organisee des beneficiaires.
A la faveur de la mise en oeuvre du PVRH, le
Gouvernement a initie un programme de recours aux beneficiaires
pour le financement des secteurs concernes; ce programme de
recouvrement des couts est operationneis au niveau des
dtablissements scolaires secondaires et superieurs depuis la fin
de l'annee 1991, et generalise dans les formations sanitaires
depuis la fin de l'annee 1994. Au dela des avantages lies a
l'accroissement des moyens disponibles pour le financement des
secteurs, c'est toute la politique de participation des
populations a la gestion de ces secteurs qui est en cours de
modification, dans la mesure oui les comites de gestion des
ressources recouvrees sont composes des representants des
partenaires appeles a donner leurs avis et suggestions sur les
decisions qui conditionnent la vie des unites concernees.
Au delA des resultats et difficultes qui pourraient
etre constates dans les tableaux de synthese sur lex&cution du
programme en ce qui concerne les budgets votes et/ou executes,
il convient surtout de mettre en exergue les points de repere
suivants:
Q - malgre les difficultes que connaissait I'conomie
ii    nationale pendant la periode de mise en oeuvre du PVRH, l'effort
des pouvoirs publics pour la preservation des budgets des
secteurs des Ressources Humaines est a souligner, surtout qu'A
eux seuls, les budgets des 3 Ministeres concernes representent
plus de la moitie du BGF, par exemple;
10



-    malgre les tensions qui pesaient sur la tresorerie de
l'Etat, les depenses prioritaires du PVRH (fonct:onnement non
salarial du primaire) ont connu une amelioration sensible de
leurs taux d'execution; a cela ii convient d'ajouter l'execution
requliere des "'depenses incontournables" que constituent les
salaires et certains postes de transferts sociaux dont le taux
d'ex6cution eleve trouve ses justifications dans les pressions
socio-politiques qui ont ete une contrainte constante durant
l'ex6cution du PVRH entre 1991 et 1995.
5.2  Concernant  l'adoption des politiques permettant de
mieux repondre aux besoins des populations dans le secteur des
Ressources Humaines, la matrice d'actions du PVRH a retenu quatre
types d'actions:
-    elaboration de politiques sectorielles coherentes, avec
un cadre institutionnel adapte;
-    conception et administration de systeme d'evaluation
et de suivi;
-    mise en oeuvre de reformes specifiques au sous-secteur
de l'enseignement technique et de la formation professionnelle.
l'amelioration du systeme de securite sociale.
(a)  l'elaboration de politiques sectorielles coherentes,
avec un cadre institutionnei ada2td, charge d'en suivre la mise
en oeuvre. A ce niveau, il convient de rappeler que la requete
de financement des prets et credits associes au PVRH avait ete
presentee en appui a des documents techniques decrivant les
politiques sectorielles en 5 volumes. Depuis l'adopticn de ces
politiques, il est a souligner que l'effort pour mettre  :euvre
ces differentes politiques est alle de pair avec un af2 -ement
des strat6gies dans des secteurs ou des faiblesses techn_- -s et
methodologies  etaient  constatees,   comme  la  Plani. __-ion
Familiale (document "Politique de Population"). Sur cc aernier
point qui a fait l'objet de discussions avec les bailleurs de
fonds ayant soutenu le PVRH, il est important de ra_pDeler les
actions realisees et/ou en cours:
-    document  de  politique,   normes  et  standards  en
planification familiale adopte par tous les acteurs;
-    plan  d'action  national  de planification  familiale
elabore, revise et chiffre pour les trois annees & venir;
-    mise en place d'un financement de la PF depu.s 1991
par:
+ BGF avec appui budgetaire FED (1994)
+ KFW/GTZ par accord RCI-Allemagne (Juin 1994)
+ FNUAP par accord RCI-FNUAP (1992)
+ USAID jusqu'au 30 Septembre 1994 (fin accord
bilateral)
11



-    la C6te d'Ivoire compte en ectobre 1994, 73 centres
repartis dans 8 regions sur 10 pour la distribution soeci fcQue
de contraceptifs et/ou de prestations de services ae PF;
-    la prevaience en accepteurs de PF est estImee a 3% au
niveau national a 5% ou plus dans certaines regions (Aboisso ou
villes (Abidjan).
(b)  la   conception   et   l'administration   de   systeme
d'6valuation et de suivi de la performance des politiques
sectorielles. Dans ce domaine, il convient d'indiquer qu'avec
l'appui des bailleurs de fonds, des actions specifiques ont ete
initiees au rang desquelles l'on peut citer la mise au point
d'une methodologie de tests standardises appliques au niveau de
l'enseignement primaire (appui de la Cooperation Canadienne) et
116aboration en cours, d'une methode d'6valuation des services
par les beneficiaires (appui du Projet d'Appui a la gestion des
Ressources Humaines finance par l'IDA);
(c)  la mise en oeuvre de reformes specifigues au sous-
secteur  de  l'enseigneiment  technique  et  de  la  formation
professionnelle. C'est dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre du PVRH
que le Gouvernement a decide, en effet, des Janvier 1992, de la
creation  du  FDFP   auquel  il a devolu  le  role  de  gestion
tripartite des produits des anciennes taxes a la formation
professionnelle et a l'apprentissage. Dans le meme temps, une
reforme des lycees professionnels a ete realisee et des audits
organisationnels et budgetaires des Grandes Ecoles, tendant a
ameliorer leur rapport cout-efficacite ont ete conduits;
(d) l'amelioration du systeme de securite sociale. Dans ce
domaine,  les  actions  suivantes  ont  ete  mises  en  oeuvre,
concernant la mise en oeuvre des recommandations de l'aucit sur
la CNPS: reduction progressive des effectifs; reductisn des
directions centrales et regionales avec pour consequence la
baisse de 30% des depenses de fonctionnement; revision du cadre
legislatif pour la restructuration de la direction de la CNPS
(loi votee en juillet 1994). Concernant l'avenir du sv_.terme de
securite sociale, il convient d'indiquer que depuis le dernier
trimestre de l'annee 1994, il a ete cree une commission nationale
de securite sociale, chargee de proposer une politique c obale
en la matiere avant la fin de l'annee 1995.
5.3 Quant a la maitrise des depenses. les actions a mettre
en oeuvre devraient tendre principalement a un reequilibrage des
secteurs au benefice du primaire. Les principales actions dans
ce domaine ont ete orientees dans la maitrise des depenses dans
le secteur superieur, notamment en ce qui concerne le secteur de
leducation.
A ce niveau, il y a lieu de souligner que le proaramme
de reforme de l'Enseignement Superieur engage dans le caare du
PVRH, a ete mis en oeuvre de maniere progressive selon un
calendrier qui a pris en compte les resistances rencontrees au
fur et a mesure de lapplication des mesures prevues. Les
reformes principales entreprises ont porte notamment sur:
12



-    la correction des d6s6qui1ibres budg6taires,
-    la   maitrise   de   e'voIution   des   e-fect,-:    a
1 'Universit6,
-     'loptimisation aes capacites d'accueil,
-    la redefinition des formations.
En ce qui concerne la correction des desequilibres
budg6taires,   ies  reformes  entreprises  devaient  permettre
d'6tablir une nouvelle repartition des allocations budgetaires
au profit du fonctionnement pedagogique et de rationaliser plus
particuliirement la gestion des grandes Ecoles.
Sur ce point des progres significatifs ont ete
enregistres et une veritable rationalisation de la gestion du
systeme d'Enseignement Superieur a ete effectivement entreprise.
Les eilments les plus significatifs de cette rationalisation
portent sur:
a)   la rationalisation de la gestion des Grandes Ecoles:
realisation d'un audit budg6taire et operationnel de toutes les
structures,  elaboration d'un plan de rationalisation pour la
periode 1993-1995 et mise en chantier de ce nlan de
rationalisation (redeploiement des personnels excdden:&ires et
revision a la baisse des budgets).
b)   la   reorganisation   des   oeuvres   uni-n-sitaires:
modifications structurelles au CNOU et d6sengagement de l'Etat
de l'activite de restauration, ont ete les actions principales
engagees. Sur ce dernier point le processus de privatisati-n de
cette activite (qui couitait pres de 3,5 milliards de F. -.A a
l'Etat en 1995) a effectivement ete engage. Un programme de
rehabilitation des cites universitaires a ete engage afin de
limiter les depenses importantes en eau et electricite.
c)   la fin de la gratuite du transport des etudiar         ne
participation de 3.000 F.CFA par mois est desormais der  a:e_ a
chaque etudiant qui desire emprunter les transports puD_ _-:S.
d)   la stabilisation de 1'enveloppe budgetaire desti.ee aux
bourses; dans le cadre du gel de l'enveloppe budgetaire, de moins
en moins d'etudiants beneficient d'une bourse mais de plus en
plus beneficient d'une aide a un taux reduit (20.000 F/mois).
e)   la reforme effective de 1'ENS: ENS a ete reorganisee.
Un retour a sa vocation   nitiale de structure de  f-rmam:on
pedagogique a ete enterine at le niveau de recrutemen: a -te
releve (DEUG ou Licence) c- qui permet des gains buda-a-a-res
importants notamment en matiere de bourses.
Globalement, sur la periode 1991/1994, la subv:--:icn
du budget de fonctionnement accordee a l'Enseignement Suc_- eur
a cru de 4% (y compris l'incidence de la devaluation) eT les
effectifs enseignants ont decru de 11%. Au cours de la meme
periode les effectifs etudiants ont cru de 87%.
13



Le couit moyen par etudiant est passe entre 1991 et 1994
de 1,22 millions de F.CFA par an a 680.000 F.CFA par an.
En ce qui concerne 1'optimisation des capacit6s
d'accueil, les infrastructures sous-utilisees ont ete readaptees
ce cui a permis:
-    l'ouverture de deux nouveaux Centres Universitaires
(Bouake et Abbo-Adjame)
-    une meilleure i!tilisation du potentiel des Grandes
Ecoles (integration de l'IAB a l'ENSA, utilisation des structures
d'hebergement de 1'ENSTP pour 1'ENSA et l'IAB).
D'autre part, une forte promotion d'un secteur
d'Enseignement Superieur Prive a ete engagee. Ce qui a permis
d'accueillir en 1993-94 environ 5.000 etudiants (40 en 1990-91).
En  ce  qui  concerne  la  maitrise  des  effectifs  a
l'Universite,  les effectifs etudiants a l'Universite ont ete
estimes, dans la matrice de performance a 21.500 en 1990 et a
24.000 en 1991-92. Les effectifs vises pour les annees suivantes
etait "& determiner", en fonction de l'etude statistique
d'evolution des effectifs qui a ete realisee par la suite.
Cette etude simulait plusieurs scenarios d'amdlioration
de la fluidite obtenue par la mise en vigueur de regles de
limitation des redoublements.
Dans le meilleur des cas, les effectifs prevus en 1995-
96 paL cette etude, devaient etre de 29.000 etudiants. Ces
chiffres etaient obtenus sur la base d'une hypothese de
progression annuelle de 15% du nombre de bacheliers, en adoptant
les   regles   les  plus   contraignantes   de   limitation   des
redoublements, en esperant une amelioration des taux de reussite
de 20% dus a ces regles et san- comptabiliser les FIP (etudiants
inscrits en formation continue).
Les  effectifs  etudiants  a  l'Universite  ont  connu
l'evolution suivante: 21.324 en 1991-'2, 31.600 en 1992-93 et
39.669 en 1993-94. Ces chiffres imontrent une augmentation plus
importante que prevue d_s effectifs etudiants a l'Universite.
La principale cause des *-carts entre les previsions et
la realite reside dans une sous-estimation importante du nombre
de bacheliers. Ce consta3t a conduit a prendre des mesures visant
une meilleure organisation de l'examen du bac.
En 1994, les mesures de rigueur prises par 1'Education
Nationale pour l'organisation de cet examen ont abouti a une
baisse tres nette des reussites au bac, et par la meme, a une
pression moins importante sur les structures d'Enseignement
Superieur.
14



D'autre part, les regles d6finies Dour accroitre la
fluidit6 (arrete 316) ont ete reportees suite a une opposition
vigoureuse   en   1992-93.   L'Universite   a  tout   de   meme
progressivement  adopte  des  regles  visant  a  limiter  les
inscriptions: interdiction de triplement dans le premier cycle,
interdiction de changement de facuite, autorisation d'inscription
en FIP que pour !es etudiants avant passe 2 annees dans la vie
active.
Les regles d'admission a l'Universite, ont egalement
ete  reaffirmees  (age  limite  et  conditions  de  notes  au
baccalaureat et en classe de terminale).
En ce qui concerne la redefinition des formations, des
tentatives  visant  a  professionnaliser   les  formations   a
l'Universite, a redefinir les formations des grandes Ecoles, A
mettre en place les formations qualifiantes dans le cadre d'un
partenariat plus soutenu avec le secteur productif, ont ete
amorcees.
Des reformnes pedagogiques ont ete effectivement
realisees et notamment l'instauration de classes preparatoires
communes aux Grandes Ecoles, ainsi que l'instauration de troncs
communs en premiere annee a l'Universite (Bouake et Abobo).
En resume, de nombreux chantiers ont ete engages au
cours de cette periode. Certains ont ete menes avec succes
(decentralisation de l'Universite, desengagement de i'Etat de ia
Restauration Universitaire, plan de rationalisation des Grandes
Ecoles, suppression de la commission nationale d'orientation...)
et d'autres se sont heurtes a de fortes resistances, notamment
en matiere de maitrise des effectifs a l'Universite.
Les crises qui secouent periodiquement l'Univers:e
mettent  toutefois  en  lumiere  les  faisceaux  d'enjeux  -t  ;e
contraintes qui pesent sur le sist6me de l'Enseignement Sucerie_r
rendant celui-ci tout particulierement delicat a ref---er en
cette periode.
5.4 Dans le domaine de l'amelioration de la -3pacit6 de
mise en oeuvre, le Gouveznement s'est engage a e--:ei -enrar les
formes diverseyc dans le domaine du :enforcement  ;st-:utionnel.
Sur ce plan, c'est avec I'appui de la Banque Mondial-  dans  -
cadre du Projet d'Appui ) la Gestion des Ressources Humaines quE
des actions soiLt en cours au benefice des administrations des
ressources humaines, notamment pour experimenter les formes de
recueil de I'avis des b6n6ficia:res sur leur niveau :le
satisfaction des services recu-s. Par ailleurs,  dans l.  cadre
d'autres appuis des bailleurs le fonds, des sessions de recvclage
et de formation sont organisees pour accroitre la capaciz6 des
agents dans le dornaine du suivi et de l1'valuation: PARMEN, PAGE
par exemple.
15



5 .5  Enfin, en ce aui concerne I'-amelioration de la cestion
du  personnel,  II  s'agissait  orincpaiement  de  proc6der  au
reo6pioLement  des  personneis  sous-uitlises  selon des  normes
rationnelles, et d'abroger le pr-nc-pe du recrutement automatique
aans la Fonction Publique.
Si zour la derniere mesure, le Gouvernement a pris la
d6cision de pourvoir aux nouveaux oostes de la FoTiction Publique
sur concours,  pour tous les corps de I'Adninistration depuis
1992, ii a ]uge important de ne procedel a des redeploiements
qu'c la suite d'une etude plus rz'tionneile; ainsi, des 1992, deux
recensements specifiques ont ete realises pour les secteurs de
l'enseignement primaire et secondaire d'une part, et pour la
sante de l'autre.
Ainsi, dans le secteur de la sante par exemple, depuis
1991, outre le redeploiement du personnel des structures
d'Abidjan vers les services sanitaires de l'interieur du pays,
en majorite, les medecins, infirmiers et saQe-femmes recrutes
sont affectes a l'interieur du pays.
III  ANALYSES DES RESULTATS
Si on considere les objectifs tels que definis par la
matrice des actions et les activites ayant   :t l'objet des
conditionnalit6s aux decaissements, on peut dir? oq - le programme
s'est deroule d'une maniere satisfaisante avel- quelques points
forts et quelques points faibles.
Parmi les points forts, signalons:
a) Un cadre institutionnel stable qui est actuellement bien rode.
b) Des progres significatifs dans la maitrise des couits et
1'allocation des ressources:
-  reduction  des  couits  unitaires  dans  l'enseignement
superieur;
- accroissement substantiel des budgets de fonctionnement
hors salaires;
- amelioration de la maitrise du cout du personnel oar le
raccrochage des salaires des enseignants aux baremes ie la
fonction publique et grace aux resultats des recensements;
- rationalisation des couts de fonctionnement des Crandes
Ecoles, du CNOU et de l'Universite;
- maitrise des frais de transferts sociaux (gel sur la
periode);
c) Des progres significatifs dans la gestion du personnel: les
fichiers du personnel recense ont ete installes dans les DRH des
ministeres de i'Education et de la Sante, les procedures de mise
a~ jour sont appliquees.
16



d)  Des  progres  significatifs  ont  ete  realises  dans  le
renforcement des capacites de planificatlon. L''laboration et la
mise en oeuvre de Ia carte ecclaire et de la carte socio-
sanitaire  progressent  bien.  La  carte  scol iire  utilisant  un
Svsteme d'Informations G6oaraphiaues est un _til a ia pointe des
techniques en la matiere et constitue une etape de nise au point
d'un systeme sophistiqu6 d'informaticns de gestion;
e) La mise en place d'un svsteme de recouvrement des couts
generalise dans le secteur sante.
f)  La  relance  des  activit-s  de  ia  Pharmacie  de  ia  Sante
Publique;
g) Une amelioration de la scolarisation par une augmentation
substantielle des inscriptions au CP1 depuis les rentrees
1992/1993 et 1993/1994.
h) La mise en oeuvre d'un vaste programme de rehabilitation
et de construction d'ecoles (Projet BAL IV)
Parmi les points faibles, signalons:
a)   Des retards dans 1'e1aboration des systemes d'evaiuation
et de suivi. Ce retard est 1ii au retard des activites destinees
A l'obtention de systermes d'informations adequats.
b)  Des  retards  dans  toutes  les  activites  prevues  pour
l'Enseignement Professionnel et Technique.
c) Des retards dans I'amelioration de la gestion et notamment
dans l'adoption d'un systerme de gestion par objectifs. Ce retard
est egalement li  au retard dans la mise en oeuvre d. tvs=eimes
d' information.
d) Une stagnation du taux brut de scolarisation dans le pr:-.ai.-e.
Si on considere les objectifs tels que definis zar _'
Declaration de Politique de Developpement des Ressources Hurain- s
on constate que les activites concernant la maitrise des :ofizs
ont bien progresse. Par contre les activites li6es aux obj--.7mjfs
a caractere qualitatif et structurel tels que la quali-t  des
services, la flexibilite, l'adaptation aux besoins, l'effi_ac_.:e
externe, n'ont pas encore atteint les resultats escomptes. -,
les   problemes   structurels   entrainent   des   incoher  --es
strategiques notamynent entre les objectifs de scolarisati - -t
lobjectif de stabilisation des effectifs au niveau super: ~.
Ils devront donc rapidement etre remis a l'agenda, dans le  -.,:e
de la seconde phase du programme (PVRH2), notamment avec la .--se
en oeuvre d'interventions ciblees (projets).
Si on considere les realisations du programme en tenant
compte des moyens mis en oeuvre, on peut considerer que la
performance a ete tres bonne car les ressources directement mises
a la disposition des responsables du programme etaient tres
limitees.
17



FINANCEMENT NON AFFECTE DU P.V.R.H.
CARACTERISTIQUES DES PRETS ET CREDITS           MOBILISATION EFFECTIVE (Mll IAIW)S CrFA)
27 Feb- 95                   PREVISIONS DE DECAISSEMENT'
Devise Montant en                                    1992       1993      1994 I-TAl
BAII-LEURS DE FONuLJS       Devise          1992      1993       1994
(Millions)
BANQUEMONI). lE                                                              14          0       109        123
*CREDIT IDiN        DTS           19         19         0         0          7         0          0 
PRET BIRD          USD          125         75        50          0         7         0         59        66
5EME DIMENSION    DTS            62          0         0        62          0         0         50        50
BAD                                                                           8          6        13        2/
CREDIT FAD         UCF            8          8         0          0         3          U                    3
- PRET BAD           UCB           50       33,2      16,8         0          6         6         13        25
KFW                   DM           30          0        30          0         0          5         0          5
ENSEMBLE              ...   ...                                              22         11        122155
IePA  T(f T                  I-)                             114 %                      7F        78%I100%
c:\fin-pvrh WK3 (iul table)






IBRD 14699RS
v    =t                 (-NV^t   (s         DAt          rT. 
A/<   FTIenZ 1 2    _ <       r  <  ;_@ro~~jf~- B U R K I N A F A SO
IJ
A      -  -COTE D'IVOI RE
Paved roods
____   ~~NNEarth and gravel roads
Railway
GUINEA                                                                                                                                         No t,ona 0  Capital
a7    Department caPitals
0     Other towns
-. Y  \kX \    >r@s  ( m   fWL >    + International airports
'     Other airports
t  sctsAtZ-   f   )    f  A  \  >    A  %kqcrs a,irl  J   X  =  R,vers
T0t               <2         / , 6AJ                            q           )   <    1                       \       >                     Department boundaries
L                g                   < zreBONDOUK                       I *._ts - -   Internalional boundaries
r6 N'ZP-;                   NKOAA                                                                                           ndr
r-                                                                        -        t             | N  e e                                                    RURKINA FA.O
t  ,/    GrC>d E;ereby                                                                          S L E O N E X >   2~~~~~~~I  C OT E  GHAG 
A Lc)  _CULele                                                                      ^ ,:, !E X_13ERIA)   D IVOIRE /VN
so T0bOU                                                                       GHA NA  7020  40   0  so  to  ov  -\          "      
APR,L rIvv















L EM Ail.7 i NI,.
Let: L- I,- -     N     :              1 e ,  l 1
j j[--:    I .'li



