Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2323-1 IVC
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Human Resources Development Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 8, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2323-1 IVC
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 8, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Human Resources Development Credit) dated December 23, 1991 (the 
Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of 
urgently needed imports required during the execution of the Borrower's program to 
achieve structural adjustment in the human resources sector (the Program);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Program by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to seventy-two million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 72,400,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. A proviso is added at the end of Section 1.02 of the Development 
Credit Agreement reading, as follows: 
"and the term 'Amending Agreement' means the Agreement Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement (Human Resources Development Credit) between the 
Borrower and the Association."
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to ninety million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
90,900,000) (the Credit), which includes: (a) an original amount in various 
currencies equivalent to eighteen million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 18,500,000) (the Initial Financing); and (b) an additional 
amount 
in various currencies equivalent to seventy-two million four hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 72,400,000) (the Additional Financing)."
Section 1.03. The first sentence of Section 2.03 of the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
"The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992 with respect to the Initial 
Financing and September 30, 1994 with respect to the Additional Financing, or 
such 
later date as the Association shall establish".
Section 1.04. A proviso is added at the end of paragraph (b) (i) of Section 2.04 
of the Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
"; provided, however, that commitment charges on the Additional 
Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Amending 
Agreement."
Section 1.05. Section 3.01(a) of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read in its entirety as follows:
"(a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement."
Section 1.06. Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read 
in its entirety as set forth in Appendix 1 to this Amending Agreement.
Section 1.07. The Development Credit Agreement is amended by the addition of a 
Schedule 4 to read in its entirety as set forth in Appendix 2 to this Amending 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been 
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pur-suant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of 
Page  3
the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
By /s/ Claude Bouah-Kamon
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
APPENDIX 1
"SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost 
of goods required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such 
proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, 
as designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Sub-group
Description of Items
112
-
Alcoholic beverages
121
-
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
-
Radioactive and associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and semi-precious 
stones, 
unworked or worked
718
   718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof, 
Page  4
fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated 
for nuclear 
reactors
728
   728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
   897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) 
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' 
wares 
(including set gems)
971
     -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores 
and concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower, excluding, if the currency of the Borrower is also that 
of another country, expenditures in such currency for goods supplied from the 
territory of such other country;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
3,700,000 may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before that 
date but after the date falling four months prior to the date of this Agreement;
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $10,000 
equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance; and
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose 
or for luxury consumption.
3.
Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $5,000,000 may be permitted by the 
Association upon the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify.
4.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have 
reached the equivalent of SDR 18,500,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, 
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on 
evidence satisfactory to the Association: (a) with the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (b) that the actions described in Part A 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken and are satisfactory to the 
Association; and (c) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program.
5.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have 
reached the equivalent of SDR 54,700,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, 
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on 
evidence satisfactory to the Association: (a) with the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (b) that the actions described in Part B 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken and are satisfactory to the 
Association; and (c) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program.
6.
If, after any of the exchanges of views described in paragraphs 4 and 5 above, 
the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and 
actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower 
shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, 
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit or any part thereof."
APPENDIX 2
"SCHEDULE 4
Page  5
Conditions for the Release of the Second
and Third Tranches of the Credit
Part A:
Actions referred to in Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.
Joint detailed review by the Borrower and the Association of the execution of 
the 1991 budget related to health, population, education, and vocational and technical 
training, on the basis of commitments ("dépenses ordonnancées") and agreement on the 
analysis of the differences between the 1991 executed and voted budgets, as well as on 
measures foreseen to correct said differences.
2.
Agreement on measures required to adapt the use of vocational and technical 
training, with the objective of optimizing their cost-effectiveness, and improve their 
responsiveness to labor market needs and on a timetable for applying these measures.
3.
Agreement on measures to control the number of university students.
4.
Agreement on the plan to rationalize the management of the "grandes écoles" and 
a timetable for the execution of the plan.
5.
Agreement on the program for cost recovery throughout the public health system.
Part B:
Actions referred to in Paragraph 5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.
Joint detailed review by the Borrower and the Association of the execution of 
the 1992 budget related to health, population, education, and vocational and technical 
training, on the basis of commitments ("dépenses ordonnancées") and agreement on the 
analysis of differences between the executed and voted 1992 budgets, as well as on 
measures foreseen to correct said differences.
2.
Agreement on the final draft Public Finance Law for 1993, conforming to the 
budget performance matrix under the Program, related to health, population, education, 
and vocational and technical training.
3.
Agreement on the regulatory framework governing the private pharmaceutical 
market and on a timetable for its application, including the tariffs applicable to 
sales of generic type essential drugs by private pharmacists.
4.
The measures to control the number of university students have been applied.
5.
Publication of the new prices for primary school textbooks for the start of the 
1992-93 school year.
6.
All administrative and/or legislative measures to effect cost recovery for 
pharmaceuticals and medical interventions in the public health system have been 
adopted."
