OFRO       j
CREDIT NUMBER 2323-2 IVC
(Second Amendment)
Second Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Human Resources Development Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated       Pf                  , 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2323-2 IVC
(Second Amendment)
SECOND AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPHENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     7JaV rU.X               , 1994, 'between
REPUBLIC  OF   COTE  D1IVOIRE  (the  Brrower) and    INTERR&TIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into
a Development Credit Agreement (Human Resources Development Credit)
dated December 23, 1991 (th1i Development Credit Agreement), as
amended by the Amending Agreement dated February 8, 1994, for the
purpose of assisting in the financing of urgently needed imports
required during the execution of the Borro4erls program to achieve
structural adjustment in the human resources sector (the Program);
(B)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
further additional assistance towards the financing of the Program
by increasing the amount mad# .vailable under the Development Credit
Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-two
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 62,000,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Ame     ts of the Delopment Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. A proviso is added at the end of Section 1.02 of
the Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
", and the term 'Second Amending Agreement' means the
Second Agreement Amending the Development Credit   Agreement
(Human Resources Development Credit) between the Borrower and
the Association, as amended.'
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended to read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth,


﻿-2-
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
fifty-two million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 152,900,000) (the Credit), which includes: (a) an
original amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen
million   five  hundred  thousand  Special   Drawing  Rights
(SDR 18,500,000) (the Initial Financing); (b) an additional
amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-two million
four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 72,400,000)
(the Additional Financing); and (c) a supplemental financing
in various currencies equivalent to sixty-two million Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 62,000,000) (the Supplemental Financing) ."
Section 1.03. In Section 2.03 of the Development. Credit
Agreement, the term "and the Supplemental Financing" is added after
the term "the Additional Financing".
Section 1.04. Paragraph   (b) (i) of Section 2.04 of the
Development Credit Agreement is amended by adding after the term
"Amending Agreement" the following proviso reading:
"and that comitment charges on the Supplemental
Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date
of the Second Amending Agreement."
Section 1.05. Paragraph 5 of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement is amended by substituting "SDR 54,700,000" by
"SDR 83,700,000".
Section 1.06. The following paragraph is added at the end of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
"7. After a date twelve months from the date of the
Second Amending Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made and no
commitment shll be entered into to pay amounts to or on the
order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Supplemental Financing.
At any time after such date, the Association may, by notice to
the  Borrower,   cancel  the   unwithdrawn  amount   of  the
Supplemental Financing from the Credit Account or any part
thereof."


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Second Amending Agreement shall not become
effective until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have
been furnished to the Association that the execution and delivery of
this Second Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to Section 2.01 of this Second Amending Agreement, there shall be
furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to
the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on
behalf of the Borrower, that this Second Amending Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in
accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Second Amending Agreement shall come into
force and effect on the date upon which the Association dispatches
to the,Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by
Section 2.01 of this Second Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Second Amending Agreement shall not have
come into force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date
of this Second Amending Agreement, this Second Amending Agreement
and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless
the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this
Section. If this Second Amending Agreement shall terminate under the
provisions of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall
continue in full forde and effect, as if this Second Amending
Agreement had not been executed.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Second Amending
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
By                           k
Kuthorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By (      9/ /Rtfwr---.
Rlgional Vice President
Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


