Document Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
K --'t No. P-3892-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 8.2 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
BALUCHISTAIN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH * .JECT
November 20, 1984
dis dwmmet bus it restictd disnibndb m*d way be used by recipients mly in the perfnm"uI d
dm  oeia  dudes. its cunteft may ua  edwrwise be dlosed witot Wiid Dak autoriou.



CURUBCY KOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit 2 Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1          = Rs 14.0
Rs 1            'US$ 0.071
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADA   -   Assistant Director of Agriculture
AD    -   Agricultural Officer
ATI   -   Agricultural Training Institute
C&W   -   Commu=ications and Works Department
DDA   -   Deputy Director of Agriculture
DGA   -   Director General of Agriculture
ECNEC -   Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
FA    -   Field Assistant
GOBAL -   Government of Baluchistan
SMS   -   Subject Matter Specialist
SSMS  -   Senior Subject Matter Specialist
T&V   -   TrI-sing and Visit (System of Agricultural Extension)



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
DULUCKISTAN AGRICULTURAL ENESION
AND ADAPTIVE RESECH PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Sumarv
Borrower:               Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiary:            Province of Baluchistan
Anount_                 SDR 8.2 million (US$8.3 million equivalent)
Terns:                  standard
RelemdizmE T-rms:       From the Government of Pakistan to the Government
of Baluchistan on standard IDA terms.
Proiect Descriution     The objectives of the proposed project are to
achieve sustained increases in agricultural
production in four districts of high agricultural
potential in Baluchistan Province, through the
strengthening and reorganization of the extension
services along the lines of the Training and Visit
(T & V) System and through th-e widespread adoption
by farmers of proven and recommended improved
farming practices. To achieve these objectives
the project vould include: (a) redeploying exist-
ing and recruiting new staff; (b) provision of
necessary physical corponents, including offices,
staff housing, vehicles and equivmert; (c) the
establishment of adaptive research farms; and (d)
staff training and technical assistance to
strengthen the instituticns responsible fcr
implementing extension and research activicies in
the Province. Other than the lack of training
*                                  among staff and implenentation caDacity, the
project faces no major risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Costs: a/
Local      Foreian       Total
-S$ million
Agricultural Extensiou                           4.59         0.91         5.50
Adaptive Research                                0.87         0.50         1.37
Staff Training                                   0.36         0.21         0.57
Project Administration                           1.28         0.49         1.77
Base Cost                                    7.10         2.11        9.21
Physical Contingencies                           0.55         0.14         0.69
Price Contingencies                              1.29         0.33         1.62
Total Project Cost                           8.94         2.58       11.52
Financing Plan
Local      Foreirn       Total
US$ million
Federal and Provincial Governments               3.22          -            3.22
IDA                                              5.72         2.58          8.30
Total                                        8.94         2.58        11.52
Estimated Disbursements:
FY85  FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
US$ millicn
Annual                                   0.7    1.5    2.0    2.0    1.4    0.7
Cumulative                               0.7    2.2    4.2    6.2    7.6    8.3
ApDraisal Report:  No. 5201-PAh  dated October 12, 1984
Map:                No. IBRD 18315R1
a/ Taxes and duties amount to about US$0.6 million.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELDPHENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR A
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit of SDR 8.2 million (US$8.3 million equivalent) to the IsLamic
Republic of Pakistan on standard IDA terms to help finance a Baluchistan
Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project. The proceeds of the
credit would be passed on to the Government of Baluchistan on standard IDA
terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY jj
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Recent Economic
Developments" (No. 4906-PAR, dated February 24, 1984) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on March 13, 1984.
3.      Economic developments during FY83 were generally favorable.  GDP
grew by 5.8%, with value added in agriculture rising by 4.8% and in
industry by 8.3Z.  Continued stagnation in (fixed) investment, which
declined slightly from 13.6% of GNP in FY82 to 13.4Z of GNP in FY83, was
among the few unfavorable events. National savings, on the other hand,
rose sharply from 10.9% to an estimated 14.1% of GNP. The declining trend
in the rate of inflation continued; as measured by the consumer price
index, the rate of inflation slowed from 11.5% in FY82 to 5.2% in FY83.
4.      There was a dramatic turnaround in the balance of payments in
FY83. The current account deficit, at US$554 million (1.8% of GNP), was
less than half the size of deficits in recent years. This outcome
reflected three main factors: a resumption in the growth of exports fol-
lowing a substantial decline in FY82; a slight decline in the value of
imports; and buoyant remittances from migrant workers. Exports grew by
13%, nearly regaining their FY81 level. The most striking feature of the
export performance was the growth of non-traditional exports, which
increased by over a third. The drop in imports reflected, inter alia,
higher domestic production of oil and import-substitution in some key
commodities.  The incipient recovery in world trade and delinking of the
exchange rate from the U.S. dollar in January 1982, with its subsequent
IJ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report P-3831-PAK (Second Small Industries Project), dated
May 25, 1984.



-2-
depreciation, contributed significantly to the improved balance of pay-
ments picture. Given the favorable outcome on the current account, normal
levels of net inflows of long-term capital, and net IMF purchases,
Pakistan-s reserves more than doubled. At the end of FY83, gross official
reserves stood at US$1,911 million, the equivalent of 3.5 months' of
imports of goods and non-factor services.
5.      Notable progress was made in many areas during the Fifth Five-Year
Plan Period (FY79-83). Real growth rates in national output (6.3Z),
agriculture (4.4%), industry (9.1%) and exports (9.2%), though below Plan
targets, were all substantially above the rates achieved during 1970-78
and very respectable compared to the performance of other LDCs over the
same period. This growth - coupled with increased inflows of migrant
remittances - benefited large segments of the urban and rural population.
The output of all major crops reached record levels and self-sufficiency
in wheat and sugar was achieved. Encouraged by improved government
policies, private investment in manufacturing expanded by UZ p.a. in real
terms; this expansion was more than offset by the declining public invest-
ment in the sector, hovever. The balance of payments performance was
quite satisfactory: the current account deficit declined significantly
relative to GDP. Government fiscal and credit policies reduced budget
deficits and monetary expansion and inflationary pressures gradually
subsided. This progress was made despite a number of unforeseen events:
(a) world recession; (b) a 30% decline in the external terms of trade
after 1979; (c) the crisis in Afghanistan, which necessitated increased
outlays for defense and refugee assistance; and (d) a continued decline in
real net aid flows.
6.      In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives
to improve agricultural, industrial, fiscal and credit policies. In
agriculture, particular attention has been given to improving farmer
incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all major crops have
been raised so that they are now closer to world prices. At the same
time, steps have been taken to reduce the fertilizer subsidy. An
Agricultural Prices Commission has been set up to make recommendations on
appropriate changes in crop support and input prices on a consistent and
timely basis.
7.      The Government has formulated and begun to implement a new
agricultural policy based on the main recommendations of a UNDP study on
irrigated agriculture. The program emphasizes the need for efficient
water delivery systems through the rehabilitation of canals and better
scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer, and an expanded role for the
private sector.  Other programs-in pesticides, seeds, agricultural
credit, extension, research and farm power-have also been strengthened.
These initiatives are still at an early stage and a breakthrough from the
problems of low productivity at the farm level is yet to take place.



-3-
8.      Major changes have also been made during the past five years in
government policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the
early and mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on
the private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead
industrial investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most
agricultural processing and some industrial units have been
denationalized; constitutional safeguards have been provided to private
industry against further arbitrary government acquisitions; and the areas
open to the private sector have been widened. A wide range of fiscal
incentives have been granted to encourage private investment and exports.
These have been supplemented by a liberalization of imports which has
improved the availability of inputs. The investment sanctioning procedure
has been streamlined. These measures have led to an improvement in
private sector confidence and stimulated private investment, mainly in
small and medium-scale projects.
9.      At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which
has been plagued by low efficiency and profits. The management and
organization of the public sector, and the performance of individual
enterprises has been reviewed. In accordance with the recommendations of
these studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIN) has been
abolished, the number of sector-holding corporations has been reduced, and
boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have
little prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down.
These measures have helped to increase production and capacity utilization
substantially in the public sector.
10.     Fiscal performance improved significantly over the Fifth Plan
period. The overall budget deficit and government borrowing from the
banking system, which stood at 8.8% and 4.3% of GDP in the first year of
the Plan, fell to 6.4% and 1.7%, respectively, by the final year. Reduced
levels of government borrowing from banks, together with overall credit
restraint, led to lower rates of growth of the money supply and lessened
inflationary pressures; prices rose by 5% in the final year of the Plan as
compared with 8% in the first year. The improvement in fiscal performance
was, however, largely the result of expenditure restraint rather than
better revenue performance. Real expansion in current expenditures on
economic and social services barely kept pace with population growth and
development expenditures declined relatively to GDP. At the same time,
government revenues remained constant at 16% of GDP and public savings,
having risen in the first half of the Plan period from 1Z to 3.8% of GNP,
amounted to only 1.6% in the last year of the Plan. Greater resource
mobilization by the public sector will be critical for the implementation
of the Sixth Plan.
11.     The developments in the Pakistan economy since 1977 represent
welcome steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essen-



-4-
tially structural and long term in nature. Notwithstanaing these
improvements, further wide-ranging measures to address the main issues
are necessary if Pakistan is to sustain its recently improved economic
performance over the Sixth Five-Year Plan period (FY84-88). These issues
include the farn-level factors affecting low productivity Ln agriculture;
the structulre and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the need to
restrain the growth of energy demand and improve the exploitation of
domestic energy resources; the factors lying behind continued rapid growth
in population; and the problems of resource mobilization.
12.     Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly
for roughly a third of GDP, employing about 55Z of the labor force and,
directly or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports.
Except in the important case of wbeat, agricultural growth since the
mid-1970s has been the product of acreage expansion with little improve-
ment in yields. Because of the high cost of extending the irrigation
system, a switch to more intensive agriculture is essential. The achieve-
ment of higher productivity will require improved agricultural services
and increased efficiency of the irrigation system as well as continued
attention to producer incentives. Toward the latter part of the Fifth
Plan, some progress was made in reorienting expenditures towards projects
designed to rehabilitate and improve the operation and maintenance of the
irrigation system, increase the efficiency of water use, improve quality
of research and extension, and increase the supply of complementary
agricultural inputs. These efforts will need to be accelerated during the
Sixth Plan period. To encourage greater agricultural yields, the
Government must also continue to rationalize prices of agricultural out-
puts and inputs. In recent years, pricing decisions have been taken in a
more systematic and timely fashion based on recommendations by the newly
formed Agricultural Prices Commission; procurement prices have been
brought more nearly in line with international prices and subsidies for
fertilizers and pesticides substantially reduced. These efforts, too,
will need to be continued during the Sixth Plan period.
13.     Manufacturing contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. After a period of
stagnation during the period 1970-77, manufacturing growth has again
accelerated.  To provide a solid econoiic basis for continued rapid
growth, incentives for greater private and public manufacturing enterprise
efficiency will have to be implemented. Despite some success in reviving
the private sector and improving the performance of public enterprises,
much remains to be done to bring about a major restructuring of industry
and place it on a competitive basis.  The efficient long-term development
of the industrial sector will require both a relaxation of government
controls and rationalization of industrial incentives. To encourage
industrial growth more in line with Pakistan's comparative advantage, the
process of import liberalization initiated over the past few years must be
continued. In addition, the differential rates of protection given to
various domestic products need to be substantially narrowed. To provide
further encouragement for private investment as well as to attract risk
capital, the number of administrative regulations must be reduced. In



-5-
addition, the scope of price controls should be substantially narrowed,
especially the use of cost-plus pricing which discourages improvements in
efficiency and energy conservation. Further strong measures to increase
efficiency and self-financing capacity in the public sector are also
essential. The implementation of the Public Enterprises Signaling System
in FY84-which has set performance objectives for individual enterprises
and will provide bonus incentives for managers-should contribute toward
the achievement of these objectives.
14.     Energy shortages have become a significant constraint to rapid
economic growth in Pakistan. Power and gas shortages are common and the
country imports 90% of its petroleum needs accounting for over 26% of
total imports. Energy investments to improve the energy situation total
over 33% of public investment in the Sixth Five Year Plan. The
Government-s efforts to deal with the energy situation by adjusting domes-
tic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other energy forms
and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources, have met
with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been restrained by
the development of hydroelectricity and natural gas resources as well as
by petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity in the oil
sector has been stepped up, in some instances through joint ventures with
foreign private companies. Nevertheless, due to a variety of technical,
geological and other reasons, progress on exploration of new fields as
well as the development of existing fields has been slow and Pakistanus
considerable potential in the oil and gas sector has yet to be realized.
The Government has begun to implement a number of reforms relating to such
matters as energy planning, pricing and organization in order to
accelerate progress.
15.   While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid economic growth, it is
also necessary to contain the rapid growth in population, currently run-
ning at about 2.8% p.a. Family planning programs have so far had little
effect and there have been few changes in the socio-economic environment
of a type that usually accompany declines in fertility. Rapid population
growth places severe burdens on government resources simply to maintain
education and health programs at their current inadequate standards.
However, without higher literacy rates, improved health facilities and a
reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that population growth rates
can be much reduced. The Government has recently shown more awareness of
*           this problem.
16.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and
will have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and
external resource constraints. National savings averaged only 12Z of GNP
over the Fifth Plan Period. To improve the budget and the balance of
payments, a fundamental improvement is required in the overall savings
levels in the economy, particularly in public savings. Given the size of
the public sector's domestic resource requirements, a comprehensive
strategy that utilizes all available instruments, including taxation
policy, greater reliance on user charges, curtailment of open and implicit



-6-
subsidies and improved self-financing of investment by public enterprises,
will be needed.
17.     The Sixth Five-Year Plan, initiated on July 1, 1983, represents a
pragmatic overall strategy for Pakistan's continued rapid development.
The Plan puts heavy stress upcn improvements in economic policies as well
as on a public expcaditure program.  Recognizing the importance of a
dynamic private sector for rapid economic growth and the limitations on
public sector resources, it calls for reduced regulations on the private
sector, increased emphasis on market incentives for greater production and
efficiency and for increased participation in sectors where the Government
has previously played a large role. The size and composition of the
public sector development program is appropriate provided the necessary
resources can be raised. While public development expenditures would
expand only as rapidly as gross domestic product, this is a realistic
target given projected available resources and the demands for improved
public services. To achieve such an expansion - a reversal of the declin-
ing trend experienced under the Fifth Plan - and to finance an increasing
share from domestic resources will require a major mobilization effort.
The largest increases in sectoral allocations will go to energy, agricul-
ture and irrigation, and the social sectors. The shift in the composition
of the public sector development program is justified because of the
threat to future growth posed by energy shortages, the need tc increase
agricultural yields by improvements in agricultural and
irrigation/drainage services, and the past neglect of the social sectors.
18.     The recent policy initiatives, which are to be continued during
the Sixth Plan, have improved Pakistan's creditworthiness for commercial
borrowing and for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing. At the end of calen-
dar 1982, Pakistan's external public debt (excluding the undisbursed
pipeline) stood at US$9.2 billion, of which US$4.8 billion was owed to
bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.3 billion to OPEC and
US$1.8 billion to multilateral agencies and the balance to other bilateral
and private lenders. In 1982, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's exter-
nal public indebtedness was 15.2% and in external debt service was 12.12.
According to Bank forecasts, provided recent policy improvements are
sustained, Pakistan's debt service ratio (debt service divided by exports
of goods and services), which was about 13.7% (including IMF charges) in
FY82, is likely to remain below 15% during the 1980s, even with somewhat
higher levels of commercial borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
19.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan
(exclusive of Loans and Credits or portions thereof which were disbursed
in the former East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2.9 billion.
During its long association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been
involved in almost all sectors of the economy. This has included its
involvement with other donors, over a 20-year period, in the major program



-7-
of works to develop the water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately
30% of total Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan have been for agriculture
and irrigation; 26S for industry including import program credits; 21% for
transport, telecommunications and public utility services; 14X for energy
including power, gas pipelines and petroleum; 4% for social programs in
education, population and urban development; and 5% for a SAL.
20.     Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to
support the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are
responsible for, the principal public services supporting economic growth;
and thirdly, to meet basic needs in the areas of rural and urban
development.
21.     In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of
essential inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and
credit; strengthening research, extension and other agricultural support-
ing services; improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling
salinity and waterlogging; and providing essential facilities including
tubewells, livestock development and dairy processing. An important
purpose of this lending is to assist the Government to obtain a balance
between further investments in physical infrastructure and complementary
institutional improvements.
22.     In industry, lending through DFCs and other financial inter-
mediaries which has been mainly for the private sector totals US$488.5
million. This includes eleven Loans/Credits for the Pakistan Industrial
Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC), two Credits for the Industrial
Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBF), one Credit for the National
Development Finance Corporation (NDFC), two Credits for Small Scale
Industries through five commercial banks, and a Loan/Credit for industrial
investment through five participating financial institutions including two
commercial banks. Direct lending for industry has also included assis-
tance to three large fertilizer plants and a refinery engineering loan.
As of September 30, 1984, IFC had made investments in 15 Pakistan
enterprises for a total of US$174.21 million, of which US$163.24 million
was by way of loans and US$10.97 million by equity participations (these
are shown in Annex II). About US$51.0 million of these investments
remained outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include two each in
the field of paper products, textiles, cement, food and food processing,
and petrochemicals, and one each in steel, fertilizers, plastics, and wood
processing. IFC is also a shareholder in PICIC.
23.     The Bank has had a long standing involvement in the energy sector.
In power, the Bank Group has assisted the Karachi Electric Supply
Corporation (KESC) and the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA)



-8-
with four and three projects respectively; the sector has also been
assisted by the construction under the Indus Basin Development Program qf
Mangla and Tarbela Dams. In Petroleum, the two Sui gas transmission
companies have been assisted with five projects, while the Bank Group is
financing two petroleum projects, for production and exploration, and is
playing an important role in strengthening the public Oil and Gas
Development Corporation. An IDA credit to support a Coal Exploration
project was approved in mid-1983. These efforts are assisting in the
efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic energy
resources and in establishing a policy and institutional framework for
increased private investment in the sector. In addition, IFC has made
three loans in the petroleum sector.
24.     The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications
has shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize
existing capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and
strengthening the institutions responsible for these services, especially
the Karachi Port Trust, Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph
Department, and federal and provincial highway agencies. IDA has financed
four projects in the urban and water supply sector, two of which are
currently being implemented. Five credits for education, totaling US$62.5
million, have assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary and higher
technical and agricultural education, middle-level training of primary
teachers and agricultural extension agents. A first population project
was approved in April 1983.
25.     In addition to financing specific high-priority projects in key
sectors of the economy, the Bank has from time to time supported
Pakistan's development through program assistance. A first structural
adjustment lending operation (SAL) was approved by the Executive Directors
in June 1982. This SAL program consisted of a number of significant
reforms in government development planning and in policies and programs in
the agriculture, energy and industrial sectors.
26.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA
Credits as of September 30, 1984. Credit and loan disbursements have been
generally satisfactory. Some projects have experienced initial delays due
to protracted government procedures for project approval, which are being
addressed, and to slowness in the procurement of goods and services.
Rapid turnover of managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration
to the Middle East, and budgetary constraints have been problems in the
case of some projects.
27.     A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are cur-
rently under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include
projects for power transmission and generation, direct and indirect
industrial investments, oil and gas development, irrigation, agriculture.
telecommunications, urban development and education. Pakistan continues
to have domestic resource constraints for the reasons set out in Part I.
To assist the Government to finance agricultural and other high-priority



-9-
exchange component, financing of some local expenditures in specific cases
is justified.
28.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the
basis for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government
of Pakistan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external
assistance within the Pakistan Consortium.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
AzricuIture
29.    Agriculture is the single largest sector in Pakistan's economy
accounting for about one-third of GDP, enploying about half of the totA1
labor force and providing, directly or indirectly, about two-thirds of
export earnings. In the late 1°60s, agricultural production grev at a
rate of about 6% a nually, but this growth slowed to a little over 2Z
annually during much of the 1970s. Political turmoil during 1971 and
1972, adverse weather conditions (disastrous floods in 1973 and 1976 and
severe drought in 1975), inadequate price incentives, deterioration in
agricultural supporting services, short supplies of agriculture inputs,
inefficient water management, and continuing problems associated with
water logging and salinity were the major factors contributing to this
disappointing performance. Agricultural growth, however, increased from
2.5% in FY78 to 4.5% during the 1980s. Although mich of this recovery can
be attributed to favorable weather conditions, improvement in the
Government-s price support policies and increased supply of fertillzers
are believed to have made significant contributions_
30.    with a total geographical area of 347,000 sq.km., Baluchistan is
Pakistanus largest brt least developed province. Agriculture contributes
about 56% to the province's GDP, and provides livelihood to some 65% of
the total labor force. The population of 4.3 million represents only 5Z
of the national total and is predominantly nomadic and tribal, vith 80%
living in rural areas. According to the 1981 census, there are some
202,000 farms, of which 63% are smaller than 5 ha and make up over 20% of
the cultivated area. The predominant tenure pattern is owner-operated
(78%), with owner-tenant operated farms and landless tenants accounting
for 7% and 15%, respectively.
Agricultural Extension
31.     Agricultural extension services are entirely within the provincial
domain and vary considerably between provinces in size, scope and
methodologies used. Except for tbe few districts covered by projects
aimed at improving the extension organization in each province, the serv-
ices are largely ineffective, generally employing outdated extension
methods, and these efforts are diluted by heavy burdens of unrelated
non-extension duties. Staff numbers are for the most part inadequate, and



-10-
facilities vith respect to staff accomodation and nobility are such as to
make wide and effective farmer contact difficult. Extension workers
rarely receive in-service training to keep them abreast of technological
advances. The eztension/research dialogue is often limited to a discus-
sion of annual/seasonal work programs; tro-way exchange of technical
information lacks both institutional and policy support.
Government Policv and Bank Group StrateRy
32.     For agriculture, Pakistan-s Sixth Five-Year Plan (1983-88) places
great emphasis on the need to increase yields with a view to moving from
self-sufficiency towards exports, especially of high-valued crops. While
the Government's agricultural reform program has begun to address some of
the issues constraining rapid agricultural growth much remains to be done,
particularly with regard to investment priorities and improvements in
physical and institutional infrastructure. Through its lending program
and sector work, the Bank will continue to support the Government-s
efforts in the areas of water management, irrigation system
rehabilitation, improved inputs, provision of credit and agricultural
services (including extension), and institution-building at the federal
and provincial levels.
33.     To ensure that the increased provision of piblic services and
in'rastructure leads to an efficient utilization of resources, input and
octput pricing policies and producer incentives are being reviewed with
the support of the Bank Group. Moreover, improvements are possible in the
formulation of a program of public investments in agriculture. Such a
program would i--lude striking an appropriate balance between rehabilita-
tion and maintenance of existing facilities and new investments in
irrigation, and between investments in irrigation/drainage and supporting
services; implementing measures to increase the role of the private sector
in fresh groundwater developments; the phasing out of subsidies; the
strengthening of agricultural support services; and improving current
capital cost recoveries.
Role of the Bank in Agricultural Extension
34.     With regard to agricultural extension, the Bank is currently
supporting two projects in Pakistan, the "Punjab Extension and
Agricultural Development Project" (Credit 813-PAK of June 8, 1978) and the
'tSind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project" (Credit
922-PAK of June 12, 1979). Both projects aim at reorganizing and
strengthening the extension service through the introduction of the



-11-
Training and Visit (T&V) systeml/ which has proven successful in other
countries. The Punjab project covers five of the province's 22 districts,
and that in the Sind five of the 13 provincial districts. Both projects
had late starts due to, among other problems, a poor understanding of the
T&V system; delays in relieving extension staff from non-extension duties
and in appointment of technical assistance personnel; low pay preventing
recruitment of staff; inadequate travel allowances reducing staff
mobili:y; weak research and extension linkages; inadequate funding in the
Annual Development Program (ADP); and poor monitoring and evaluation.
However, positive steps have been taken by concerned authorities, and the
main outstanding problems are now of a lesser administrative nature,
including still unfilled staff positions at the Field Assistant (FA)
level; however, it is expected that the recent revision in government pay
scales will help solve this problem.
35.     In the project areas of the Punjab and Sind, a sound base for an
improved extension service is now in place, with visits to farmers being
conducted on a regular basis and fortnightly training firmly established
and producing appropriate and timely messages to cultivators. In the
Punjab, the adaptive research work is of high quality with location
specific trials being carried out on adaptive research farms and in
farmers- fields. The appropriate linkages with research have been estab-
lished and timely and pertinent messages based on adaptive research find-
ings now reach the farmers. In the Sind, adaptive research is now under-
way and has been carried out on micronutrient deficiencies, which has ied
to the inclusion of recommendations for the application of zinc to rice
and has already brought substantial increase in paddy yields. Monitoring
is operative in both projects, and several management-oriented reports
have been prepared which cover the regularity and effectiveness of FA
visits. These signs are encouraging and indicative of the potential of
the improved extension system once the teething problems have been
resolved. Nevertheless, in the presence of an entrenched bureaucracv,
institutional change takes time. The new system of extension calls for
attitudinal changes on the part of extension staff, farmers, agricultural
research workers and Government officials, both within and outside of the
Department of Agriculture.  Given these circumstances, firm commitment at
Covernment level and strong departmental management are also central to
successful implementation. Both these preconditions to success are now
firmly established in the two provinces. The Punjab project is scheduled
for completion in December 1985.  Based on the preliminary findings of an
independent assessment of the project, the provincial government has
decided to proceed with the expansion of the area covered by improved
IU The principles of this system have been described in Benor and
Harrison, "Agricultural Extension - The Training and Visit System",
World Bank, May 1977, and more recently in Benor and Baxter, "Training
and Visit Extension", World Bank, March 1984.



-12-
agricultural extension, and a second phase project is currently under
preparation. Also, in the Sind preparations have started for a follow-on
project to expand the area covered by the T&V System.
36.     The proposed project has been designed so as to build on experien-
ces gained in the ongoing Punjab and Sind projects as well as the emerging
extension strategy in Pakistan. The implemeutation problems faced in the
Punjab and Sind (see paragraph 34 above) have been taken into account in
the design of the proposed project, and the administrative and organiza-
tional structures, as ;:ell as staffing patterns, introduced in the two
ongoing projects have been modified as necessary to suit local conditions.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.     The project would be the third IDA-assisted operation designed
to reorganize and strengthen agricultural extension in Pakistan folloVing
the Training and Visit system (T&V). Encouraged by the good results from
these projects and elsewhere where the T&V system has been operating, the
Government of Baluchistan in 1983 requested the Association's assistance
in introducing reorganized extension into Baluchistan, *ctarting vith four
districts. An FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program mission assisted the
Government of Baluchistan in preparing a project proposal in September
1983.
38.     The project was app-aised in April 1984.  Negotiations vere held
in Washington, D.C. from September 18-20, 1984; the Pakistan delegation
was led by Mr. S.R. Poonegar, Additional Chief Secretary, Government of
Baluchistan.  A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Pakistan - Baluchistan
Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project" (Report No.
5201-FAK, dated October 12, 1984) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. A supplementary project data sheet is attached as
Annex III.
Project ObieLtives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
39.     The objective of the project would be to achieve sustained
increases in agricultural production in four districts of high agricul-
tural potential in Baluchistan through the strengthening and reorganiza-
tion of t--e extension service on the lines of the T&V system and the
widespread adoption bv farmers of proven and recommended improved farming
practices.
40.     In addition to supporting the Sixth Plan's strategy for the
agricultural sector (paragraph 32), the project would assist the
Government in strengthening and upgrading the quality of agricultural
extension and research services. The experience and know-how gained by
the Bank in developing the extension services (notably the T&V system) and
adaptive research, which have been used with success in many countries,
would be passed on to Baluchistan through the project. The Provincial



-13-
Government-s proposed plan to reorganize the Department of Agriculture,
aimed at rendering it more effective, together with the establishment of
research-extension linkages (paragraph 65), would also have a beneficial
effect on non-project districts and would provide a basis for future
expansion of extension and research activities to the rest of the
Province.
Proiect Area Characteristics
41.     The project area, comprising the administrative districts of
Loralai, Kachhi, Nasirabad and Lasbela have been selected for their
agricultural potential. The districts chosen account for some 62Z of the
province's irrigated farmland (372,000 ha out of a provincial total of
598,000 ha) and only about 6% of the cropped land is under rainfed
conditions. They also contain the main fruit growing areas and the farms
responsible for producing the majority of oilseeds and pulses. In
addition, all districts are vell served vith roads and have easy access to
seed and fertilizer outlets of neighboring Sind and Punjab provinces.
These project districts are further subdivided into 18 tehsils and 10
sub-tehsils with 1,865 villages.
42.     Loralai District is located in the northeast of the province,
bordering on the Punjab and the NWFP, with a mean annual rainfall of some
330 mm. Kachhi and Nasirabad Districts are contiguous and bordering Sind
prc'-ince in the east. Both districts are partly irrigated by the Pat
Fee-.er and Kirthar Canals.  Annual rainfall is about 60-100 mm.  Lasbela
Disrict lies on the coast in the south near Karachi with a sub-humid
cl-nate and mean annual rainfall of about 200 mm. The project area, vhich
accounts for some 16Z of Baluchistan's geographical area, 52% of its
cultivated area and almost 60% of its annually cropped land, supports 30Z
of the total population and about 34% of the farming households in the
province.
43.     Wheat, rice and sorghum are the three major crops in the project
area, covering almost three-quarters of the cropped land. Ninety-seven
percent of the rice is grown in Nasirabad District and the remainder in
Kachhi District, where sorghum is the main foodgrain. Other important
crops in the project area include pulses, oilseeds, fodder and fruit.
Castor represents about one-third of oilseed production, all of which is
grown in Lasbela District where it ranks after sorghum only in importance.
Virtually all fruit is grown in Loralai District.
Project -omponents
44.     Extension Methodolozc.  Under the proiect, agricultural services
wo.ld be reorganized and intensified in the four project districts follov-
ing the T&V system, which has been suitably adapted to meet local
conditions.  Project staffing improvements would be phased over a .hree-
year period. The project would provide farmers, on a regular and sys-



-14-
tematic basis, with up-to-date advice on farming practices best suited to
their specific cc-ditions with the emphasis on proven practices which have
an immediate impdct on income. This would be brought about by organizing
extension fieid staff so that the-- visit farmers regularly and receive
systematic training and technical support from the Department of
Agriculture and from research institutions.
45.     Each Field Assistant (FA) would be assigned to work with a number
of farm families. The number would vary depending on local conditions,
population density, cropping intensity and accessibility. Based on avail-
able statistics, one FA would cover, on average, about 400 operating farm
families in all project districts except for Loralai where, without adding
any new staff, this ratio already stands at one FA per 260 farm families.
Because of the large number of widely scattered pockets of hig'h potential
land (particularly horticulture), the FA to farmer ratio -would be more
intense in Loralai -han in tie remainder o' :he project area
46.     To reach farmers systematically, each FA would divide tne farmers
in his jurisdiction intc groups out of which he would select contact
farmers as the principal channel for conveying extension messages to other
farmers. Contact farmers would be from all levels of village society and
would be selected for their potential influence and willingness to col-
laborate with the extension service in following recommendations. Changes
in contact farmers would be made, especially between seasons, in order to
reach more farmers over time, or if such contact-farmers prove to be
ineffective or wish to discontinue this service. FAs, during their field
visits, would make special efforts to reach all contact farmers' fields;
the latter, in turn, would share the responsibility of organizing and
attending meetings or other village group activities. FAs would also
invite neighboring farmers while meeting contact farmers in their fields,
and visit other farmers' fields while moving from one contact farmer to
another. Work schedules for FAs visits, which would be made known to all
farmers in their respective operating areas, would be worked out in a
manner to allow the FA to visit each of the groups for a full day once
every fortnight on the same day of the week. FAs would visit fields
during morning hours, and in the afternoon either hold meetings in the
village at a predetermined time or hold discussions with farmers. During
each visit, FAs would concentrate their efforts on a few strategicallv
selected recommendations relevant to that particular phase of the crop
cvcle. The extension message to be communicated to farmers at the initial
stage would be simple, concentrating on the few important crops in the
localitv and on the most important aspects of crop production practices at
that time. Initially, the emphasis would be on low-cost improvements
which the majority of farmers can afford within their resource
capabilities.
47.     This visit schedule would engage the FAs for four days a week.
One of the two remaining work days each week would be devoted to in-
service training, which is crucial to the program, and the other to super-



-15-
vising field trials, arranging special activities, and completing office
work. In-service training would be conducted either by the team of
Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) at the training center located at the
Assistant Director's headquarters or by the supervising Agricultural
Officer (AD). Through these training sessions, FAs would learn what to
recommend to farmers in the next period of visits and also bring farmers'
problems to the attention of the trainers. While this close ongoing
relationship between FAs and AOs would relieve the former of the need for
formal reporting, both would, nonetheless, maintain a diary of activities.
The project would provide consultancy services of an agriculturalist
experienced in the operation of the T&V system to help draw up work
schedules, select contact farmers, and assist project management in intro-
ducing the operation of the T&V system.
48.     Each AO would supervise about three FAs and provide them wich
necessary technical support. In addition to their supervisory and train-
ing duties, due to the prevailing land tenure and cropping patterns in the
project area which manifest in relatively highly developed farms and
numbers of well-educated landlords, AOs would be required to provide
advice to these larger farmers. It would also be the responsibility of
the AO to monitor the timely supply of inputs and credit and to report any
shortages to the supply organizations concerned. Like the FA, the AO
would spend eight days each fortnight in the field on farm visits. In
addition, two days would be spent at the fortnightly training session and
in meeting with FAs to review field experiences, deal with administrative
matters and provide additional training if required. The remaining two
workdays in each fortnight would be devoted to extra visits, demonstra-
tions and other field activities. The project would provide the services
of a consultant to define the scope of work and method of operation of AOs
and FAs taking account of land tenure arrangements and farming needs.
49.    To provide for regular training, continuous technical guidance
(particularly to large farmers) and to ensure proper operation of field
work, two or three administrative sub-divisions would be established in
each project district, each headed by an Assistant Director of Agriculture
(ADA). The ADA would spend at least three days a week on field visits to
review both technical and organizaticnal aspects of the work of extension
staff in his sub-division.  During h-. -"isits, he would ascertain whether
visits are being made as planned, inquire from farmers about visit days in
their villages, messages learned, etc., and make adjustments as necessary.
Experience in districts in the ongoing projects has shown that once
farmers become aware of visit schedules, they themselves become effective
monitors by speaking out if visits are not made regularly and in a satis-
factory manner. The ADA is also the organizer, convenor and leader of the
fortnightly training sessions, which would occupy part of his remaining
time; the balance would be devoted to administration.
50.     A Deputy Director of Agriculture (DDA) would be responsible for
the extension service at the district level. The districts of Kachhi and



-16-
Nasirabad, which are adjacent, have similar cropping patterns and until
recently were one district, would be jcintly managed under the DDA located
in Nasirabad. The project would provide one team of two to four SMSs for
each district; SMS subjects would include agronomy, agricultural
engineering, plant protection or horticulture, depending upon the specific
needs of each district.  The SMS would devote about one-third of his time
to field visits providing technical support and guidance to FAs and AOs,
one-third in building a stock of knowledge through regular dialogue with
research vorkers and by carrying out farm trials, and one-third on train-
ing extension staff, principally at fortnightly training sessions. One
SMS in each district would be designated Training Coordinator and would be
responsible for the planning and organization (including substance and
material) of fortnightly training sessions. At the provincial level, a
team of four Senior Subject Matter Specialists (SSMS) would provide
greater depth of support and training to district level SMSs and handle
specializations not covered by them.
51.     At the provincial headquarters in Quetta, the Director of
Extension, in charge of both agricultural research and extension, would be
exclusively responsible for the day-to-day operations of the entire
provincial extension service. He would be assisted by a Project
Coordinator (a new post to be created under the project) and would assume
responsibility for carrying the administrative burden resulting from the
intensive development envisaged under the project.
52.     At present, in addition to their extension duties agricultural
extension staff are responsible for several unrelated tasks, including
crop spraying, fertilizer distribution and data collection. It is the
policy of the Government of Baluchistan to divest itself of the respon-
sibility for the distribution of agricultural inputs and to allow the
private sector to provide these services. This policy, however, will take
time to fully implement and the Department of Agriculture is still engaged
in the distribution of some fertilizer (about 30X), and wholly responsible
for the distribution of seeds, pesticides and crop sprayers. The remain-
ing fertilizer requirements are met by local agents of private fertilizer
companies and the National Fertilizer Corporation (NFC). At this policy
is gradually implemented, extension staff would be relieved of all non-
extension duties. The Government of Baluchistan (GOBAL) would prepare
a plan and timetable acceptable to the Association for relieving extension
staff of these duties (Section 2.11 of the draft Project Agreement).
53.     Staffing.  Staff requirements to operate the reorganized and
strengthened extension system would be met by redeploying existing and
recruiting new staff. The additional 46 FAs required under the project
would be recruited and, together with existing staff not having had formal
extension training (see paragraph 59), would be trained at the
Agricultural Training Institute (ATI) at Quetta, starting in late 1984.
GOBAL would be required to ensure that project staff be given priority for
training at the ATI (Section 2.12 of the draft Project Agreement). Since



-17-
Baluchistan has no agricultural university, the seven additional AOs
required would be recruited from about 25 Baluchistani students graduating
each year from Tandojam, Faisalabad and Peshawar Agricultural
Universities. There should be no problems in recruiting for these posts
over the project period since employment opportunities for agricultural
graduates are limited.
54.     Under the project, a new position, Director General of Agriculture
(DGA), would be established; the DGA would coordinate the Directorates of
Agricultural Extension and Agricultural Research, a function presently
performed by the Secretary for Agriculture. Other posts to be filled
include a Director of Agriculture, three Deputy Directors of Agriculture
(DDA) at the district level, and five Assistant Directors of Agriculture
(ADA) at the sub-divisional level. These officers, as well as SMSs and
SSMSs, would be recruited through advertising by the Public Service
Commission or through direct promotions from within the Department of
Agriculture on a seniority-cum-merit basis. The appointment of the DGA
would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 2.07(a) of the draft
Project Agreement and Section 5.01(d) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement); all other key incremental project staff would be appointed in
accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Associatiom (Section 2.09
of the draft Project Agreement).
55.     Staff Housing and Other Buildings.  It is generally difficult to
find housing in the more remote rural areas of Baluchistan. However,
because of the high cost, experience of non-utilization of housing
provided under the ongoing projects, and the need to streamline those
investment packages not absolutely essential to extension effectiveness,
the construction of staff houses has been kept at the bare minimum and,
where possible, extension staff would continue to use existing facilities.
The project would provide housing for about 30% of the FAs where alterna-
tive accommodation is not presently available; an extra room added to the
house would serve as office-cum-store. Additional housing would also be
provided for senior extension staff and for professional staff at the
three adaptive research farms (paragraph 57). Office accommodation is at
a premium in Baluchistan and the project would provide office facilities
for the DGA and his staff at Quetta, for Deputy Directors at district
*            headquarters, for ADAs and AOs in the districts, and for staff at the
adaptive research farms. Offices for the ADAs would include training
facilities in which to hold, inter alia, the fortnightly training
sessions.
56.     Staff Transport.  Under the project, the mobility of extension
staff would be improved through the provision of vehicles (including
operating costs) and travel allowances. A total of two cars, seven pick-
up trucks and 17 four-wheel drive vehicles would be provided for use by
headquarter staff, SMSs, DDAs and ADAs. Motorcycles (233 in total) would
be sold to FAs and AOs on credit, repayable through salary deductions in
48 equal monthly installments. Since staff would be paying for these



-18-
motorcycles they would be given the opportunity to select brands of their
choice, but size would be limited to up to 100cc for FAs and 125cc for
ADs. In order to ensure future staff mobility, the replacement of motor-
cycles would be financed through a vehicle revolving fund established from
loan repayments. The real value of the fund would be maintained by
including necessary financing in the extension service operating budget.
So that staff are able to travel according to their work schedules,
vehicle O&M and staff travel allowances need to be maintained at adequate
levels. Accordingly, GCMAL would be required to: (i) establish and
maintain the vehicle revolving fund on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association; (ii) set and maintain the travel allowance and vehicle
O&M allowance for project staff at levels satisfactory to the Association;
(iii) review such allowances from time to time with the Association; and
(iv) ensure that sufficient funds for such allowances are made available
in the budget (Sections 2.13 and 2.14 of the draft Project Agreement).
57.     Adaptive Research.  Most adaptive research would take place in
farmers' fields, and the project would provide inputs to support these
field trials. To ensure that agricultural research findings are adapted
to the agro-climate and socio-economic conditions prevailing in project
districts, the project would establish, equip and staff three adaptive
research farms. These 20 ha farms would also provide a demonstration to
field staff of improved farming practices, and each would be located in
agro-climate conditions typical of the districts. The sites of the farms
have all been identified and are on existing Government land. Acquisition
of all land for the project would be done in accordance with a schedule
satisfactory to the Associatior. (Section 3.05 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
58.     Each farm would be provided with tractors, implements, tools and
research equipment; farm buildings and staff housing would be constructed
on the sites. Staff would comprise SMSs, Assistant Research Officers
(AROs), and FAs. It will take some time for the adaptive research
organization to be established under the project to produce results
suitable for incorporation in extension messages. Since farming practices
of better farmers constitute the best proven technology available for any
given situation, these would largely form the basis for developing the
first generation of extension messages (supplemented by any existing
results from research) to be disseminated to farmers.  The project would
provide consultancy services to assist in developing procedures for col-
lection of data and preparation of first generation extension messages
together with the information needed for planning and implementation of
the adaptive reseŽarch program. This consultancy would also help in the
identification and planning of relevant applied research, working together
with the Arid Zone Research Institute and the Agricultural Research
Institute of Quetta.



-19-
Training and Technical Assistance
59.     Regular training is considered a fundamental and important pert of
the T&V extension service, and a variety of formal and in-service training
programs for extension staff would be provided under the project. At
present, some 75% of in-post FAs in the project districts have not under-
gone formal ATI training. Pre-service training at ATIs throughout
Pakistan follows a national curriculum, and FAs are not considered
qualified extension workers until they have undergone this training. With
priority given to project staff (see paragraph 53). and with the start of
operations at the ATI in Quetta scheduled for the autumn semester of 1984,
it would take until the end of the spring semester of 1988 before all
project FAs would be fully trained. In the interim, and until such times
as FAs are able to gain entry to the ATI, short courses of three months'
duration would be given to all untrained FAs at the ATI. Training would
cover basic agronomy of crops grown in project districts, paying par-
ticular attention to information to be passed on to farmers in the form
of extension messages and their presentation. The underutilized accom-
modation and teacher capacity at the ATI during the 1984/85 school year
would permit the holding of all FA short courses there.  To help meet
these training requirements, the project would provide the ATI with addi-
tional equipment and materials.
60.     Orientation workshops would be held for senior staff on various
pra:ect-related topics including: operation of the adaptive research
program and the T&V extension system; general management principles; media
production; farm management; message analysis; and monitoring and
evaluation. All these workshops would be given by consultants to be
provided under the project.  To help remedy the acute shortage of agricul-
turists with MSc training in Baluchistan, who are needed to fill the SMS
and other senior staff positions in the project, 20 scholarships would be
provided for two-year MSc courses at universities in Pakistan in subjects
relevant to the needs of the project. In order to learn from the
experience of others involved in reform of extension services elsewhere,
study tours would be arranged under the project to other provinces in
Pakistan and to neighboring countries with operational T&V systems. Study
tours to international research centers vould also be provided for
research workers.
61.     To assist in carrying out the project, some 77 man-months of
consulting services vould be provided, covering such areas as extension
methodology, development of adaptive research programs, monitoring and
evaluation, and training. COBAL would be required to employ consultants
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, and the signing
of contracts for consulting services would be a condition of credit effec-
tiveness (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement and Section 5.01(c)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



-20-
Monitoring and Evaluation
62.     Under the project, data would be generated to measure output,
effect and impact of project actions, thus providing management guidance
to those responsible for implementation. Monitoring, by continuous
gathering of information on project inputs and activities (timely provi-
sion of staff, vehicles and equipment) would be maintained, and a bench-
mark study undertaken to establish data on the agricultural conditions of
farmers, agricultural practices used, current use of inputs and credit and
crop yields. A series of regular and ad hoc studies would be undertaken
to evaluate the quality of training programs, development of appropriate
recommendations, regularity and quality of farm visits, adoption of
recommendations, increased production and consequent increases in farm
incomes. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) in project districts would be
the responsibility of the Planning and Development Cell of the Department
of Agriculture, which would be strengthened through the recruitment of an
economist, two officers and three investigators. Under the project,
consultant services to help organize and execute the M&E activities and
vehicles and funds to cover costs associated with carrying out of studies
and related field work would be provided. GOBAL would be required to
complete bencbmark studies in project districts by July 31, 1986; monitor
project activities and progress on a semi-annual basis; and, starting in
FY86, carry out evaluation studies each fiscal year in a form acceptable
to the Association and forward the results to the Association once a year
(Section 2.15 of the draft Project Agreement).
Proiect Implementation and Organization
63.     To ensure continuing coordination between extension and research,
the project would be implemented under the overall responsibility of the
Director General Agriculture (DGA). The DGA would report directly to the
Secretary of Agriculture and Cooperatives, and would be assisted by a
Director of Agricultural Research and a Director of Extension. The
Director of Extension, assisted by a Project Coordinator with respon-
sibility for planning, coordination and day-to-day implementation matters,
would be in charge of the entire extension service in the province.
64.     The building component would be implemented by the Communications
and Works Department (C&W).  Since these works are scattered over four
districts, a Civil Works Coordinator, located in the C&W Department, would
be responsible for the implementation of the building program. He would
make necessary payments, collect bills and certificates of payments made
from field offices, and prepare and submit withdrawal applications to the
Association. The appointment of both the Project Coordinator and the
Civil Works Coordinator would be conditions of credit effectiveness (Sec-
tion 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement and Sections 5.01(e) and (f) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).



-21-
65.     The reorganization of the extension service in project districts
and at headquarters, with well-defined responsibilities and a single line
of command, and the establishment of research-extension linkages, would
help ensure the successful implementation of the project. To complement
these changes, however, it is necessary to look at the overall organiza-
tion of the Department of Agriculture in order to provide a sound
organization for the coordinated agricultural development of the province.
Under the project, and with consultant assistance, a study would be under-
taken of the present Department of Agriculture's organization, and a plan
developed to render the Department more effective. GOBAL would prepare
this plan for discussion with the Association by December 31, 1985, and
thereafter implement the agreed plan (Section 2.10 of the draft Project
Agreement).
Proiect Coordination
66.     Many government departments and agencies are directly involved in
or affected by agricultural extension activities. As was done in the
ongoing Punjab and Sind extension projects, and in order to involve these
various department and agencies and provide overall guidance to the
project, a Project Steerinz Committee wculd be established. The
Committee, to be chaired by the Additional Chief Secretary of the Planning
and Development (P&D) Department, would be comprised of the Secretaries of
Agriculture, Finance, Local Government, Communications and Works, P&D,
Services and General Administration, Irrigation, and Livestock. The DGA
would also serve a:s a member. The Committee would, on an ad hoc basis,
meet from time to time to review progress under the project and to give
broad implementation direction. More specific guidance at the working
level would be 'he responsibility of a Proiect Review Committee, cha.red
by the Secretar) of Agriculture with membership dravn from the Departments
of Extension and Research, Training and Publicity, Agriculture,
Irrigation, and Communication and Works. The Project and the Civil Works
Coordinators would also serve on the Committpe, as would representatives
of the Cooperative Societies, the Directorate of Agricultural Engineering,
the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan, various commercial banks,
and input service organization. The Committee would meet on a regular
basis before each of the main cropping seasons to review achievements in
the previous season and set guidelines for future operations. At the
field level, District Advisory Committees would be established in each of
the project districts to review operations, bring problems to the atten-
tion of the relevant DDA, and obtain advice on actions needed to improve
the effectiveness of the extension service. The Committee would be
chaired by the Deputy District Commissioner, and membership would be
composed of senior District officials of the same organizations repre-
sented in the Project Review Committee as well as selected farmers.



-22-
Linkages between Extension and Research
67.     Since neither research nor extension can function efficiently
vithout close cooperation, it would be necessary to formalize the respon-
sibilities of both agencies. The research institutes would assume full
responsibility for the development of suitable new technology, while the
extension service would have the responsibility for the transfer of tech-
nology to farmers, including the widespread testing of research recommen-
dations on farmers' fields. Strengthening of the arrangements for close
coordination between research and extension would be promoted in two ways.
Firstly, the appointment of the Director General Agriculture would ensure
close cooperation and coordination at the Departmental level and be fur-
ther strengthened by the steering, review and advisory committees;
secondly, various Technical Committees would be established to deal, inter
alia, with matters pertaining to research programs and priorities. At the
Provincial level, the Technical Committee would be chaired by the Director
General Agriculture and would include among its members the Directors of
Extension and Research, SSMSs, and senior staff of various relevant
research institutions. The Committee would meet twice annually and would
provide a formal mechanism for the review of research and field trials and
of future research programs and recommendations brought to it by the
District Technical Committees. The District committees, each chaired by
the concerned DDA and comprised of district field staff, research workers,
SMSs, farmers' representatives and irrigation/water management field
staff, would meet at least twice a year to review agricultural practices,
including identification of research priorities and adaptive trial needs,
and make recommendations to the Provincial Technical Committee. GOBAL
would establish and maintain, in accordance with a schedule and with
membership and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, the
Project Steering, Project Review, District Advisory, and Technical
Committees (Section 2.08 of the draft Project Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
68.     Total project costs over the five-year period are estimated at
Rs 161 million (US$11.5 million equivalent), with a foreign exchange
component of US$2.6 million. Duties and taxes amount to about US$0.6
million. Physical contingencies (7% of base costs) have been applied to
equipment, training materials and furniture (7Z), civil works (10%) and
other cost items (5%). Costs have been calculated in mid-1984 prices,
with price contingencies on foreign costs of 5.75% for 1984, increasing to
8.25% in 1988/89, and 8% on local costs for 1984, decreasing graduaLly to
6% in 1988/89.
69.     The proposed IDA credit of US$8.3 million equivalent would finance
the full foreign exchange costs of US$2.6 million, and US$5.7 million
equivalent of local costs. The remaining costs (including taxes and
duties) would be financed by the Government of Pakistan through the
Special Baluchistan Development Program. Retroactive financing of up to



-23-
US$500,000 would be provided to cover expenditures incurred after June 30,
1984, including training and procurement of training equipment,
consultant-s services and incremental staff salaries.
Special Account
70.      -ince the Government of Pakistan has experienced difficulties in
providing adequate and timely financing for -ts development projects, and
in order to speed up IDA resource transfers to Pakistan and reduce the
time lag between commitments and disbursements, a Special Account would be
established at the federal go-vernment level with the State Bank of
Pakistan with two sub-accounts (cue for each implementing agency) in
Baluchistan. Withdrawals from these sub-accounts would be made by the
Communications and Works Department for civil works, and the Department of
Agriculture for other eligible project expenditures. The procedures for
operation of these accounts would be similar to those followed under other
IDA-assisted projects in Pakistan (Crs. 1163, 1375, and 1487-PAZ). The
operation of this system of accounts would be made in accordance vith
procedures satisfactory to the Association, and the establishment of the
Special Account and the sub-accounts would be conditions of credit effec-
tiveness (Sections 2.02(b) and (c), and 5.01(b) and Schedule 3 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement 1/
71.     Because civil works (estimated total costs:  US$5.6 million)
associated with the project would be small, remote and dispersed both
geographically and over time, ICB would not be practical. Accordingly,
contracts would be let following local competitive bidding (LCB) proce-
dures satisfactory to the Association. The local construction industry is
well developed and adequate competition would be offered. Where no
responsive bids, or any bids at all, are received for individual
contracts, they would be carried out through force account. Equipment,
tools, books, agricultural inputs, materials and furniture (estimated
total cost: US$290,000) would be procured following local procedures
satisfactory to the Association. Motorcycles (estimated total cost:
US$250,000), to be sold to staff on credit, would be procured, consistent
with the choice of and size allowed to the staff concerned, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association including, inter alia,
price quotations from local and international sources. Prior review by
the Association would only be required for the first local civil works and
supply contracts and all subsequent contracts of US$100,000 or more. The
appointment of consultants (estimated total cost: US$867,000) would be
done in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Training, incremental
staff salaries and operation and maintenance costs (estimated total cost:
j All figures iLclude contingencies.



-24-
S-4.07 million) would be bandled in accordance vith normal Government
practices.
72.     Recently the Government has become more reluctant to allow the
import of vehicles (and certain other goods) in favor of those locally
produced or assembled, and has prepared a list of goods which may not be
imported without a special "No Objection Certificate" (NOC) from the
Ministry of Production- Given previous difficulties experienced in
obtaining NOCs for the import of goods awarded to foreign suppliers under
ICB, vehicles (excluding motorcycles) required for the project would be
treated as reserve procurement and would not be reimburseable out of the
proceeds of the credit. GOBAL would provide, in zccordance with a
schedule satisfactory to the Association, all vehicles needed for the
project (Section 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement). Procurement proce-
dures are summarized below:
Procurement Method if
(USS million)
Total
Component                 LCB     Other    N.A.   Cost
Civil Works               5.63      -       -       5.63
(4.50)                    (4.50)
Vehicles                  0.25     0.41     -       0.66
(0.25)    C-)             (0.25)
Equipment, Tools,          -       0.29     -       0.29
Materials, Agri-                (0.28)           (0.28)
culturai Inputs,
Furniture and Books
Technical Assistance       -       0.87     -       0.87
(0.87)          (0.87)
Training, salaries and    -         -      4.07    4.07
allowances; operation                   (2.40)  (2.40)
and maintenance
Total                     5.88     1.57    4.07   11.52
(4.75)   (1.15)  (2.40)  (8.30)
1] Figures in parentneses are amounts to be financed out of the credit.
Disbursements
73.     Disbursements from the credit would be made against 80Z of expen-
ditures for civil works; 100% of foreign expenditures on directly
imported, 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured, and 60% of
local expenditures (off-the-shelf] for equipment, materials, furniture,
tools, agricultural inputs, books and motorcycles; 100I of expenditures



-25-
for consultants, training and travel allowances; and 50Z of incremental
staff salaries and other operating costs..i
74.     Disbursements for:  (i) civil works contracts not exceeding
Rs 300,000 and those through force account; (ii) locally procured
equipment, materials, furniture, tools, agricultural inputs, and books
costing Rs 150,000 or less; and (iii) training, staff salaries and
allowances and other operating costs, vould be made against certified
statements of expenditure; supporting documents would be retained by the
impl-menting agencies for review by the Association. Disbursements for
other items would be fully documented. For civil works, incremental staff
salaries and allowances and other operating costs to be funded through
the Special Account, reimbursement procedures would follow the usual model
form for special accounts/revolving funds. The final disbursement for the
project would be expected to be completed by June, 1990, about one year
after project completion. The six-year disbursement period is about two
years shorter than that for a typical agricultural project in the Region.
This time difference is due to the small vclume of simple procurement and
civil works, against which most disbursements would be made and which
vould occur early in the project implementation cycle; in addition,
designs already exist for all buildings and the Special Account to be
established would ensure adequate f..ading and speed-up disbursements.
Accounts and Audits
75.     Each implementing agency vould maintain separate project accounts
which would be audited annually according to current practice. Audit
reports would include a statement verifying that credit funds disbursed in
advance for the Special Account and those reimbursed against statements of
expenditures had been used fo. the project. These reports vould be sub-
mitted to the Association by .OBML no later than six months after the end
of the fiscal year (Sectioti 3.01 and 3.02 of the draft Project
Agreement).
Proiect Benefits and Risks
76.     Benefits.   Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type
of project is difficult since it is not possible to determine what propor-
tion of benefits are due to extension and adaptive research efforts and
what are due to additional purchase inputs and other factors. In
practice, it is the combination of a nmber of factors, with adaptive
research and extension playing the role of a catalyst, that brings the
desired benefits. It is also difficult to estimate acceptance rates of
recommended practices. However, since the project relies primarily on
i| Representing an average for declining rates over the five-year
project period (starting in 1984/85) of 80%, 65Z, 55%, 45Z and 35Z.



-26-
reorganization and strengthening of an existing extension structure, the
inczemental cost is low. Even very small and slow production increases in
the project area would generate a high rate of return. Due to the
speculative nature of the results, no effort has been made to calculate a
precise economic rate or return. However, in a sensitivity analysis,
certain calculations have been made on the benefits required to justify
the project investments. These calculations, based on economic values,
show that overall yield increases of about 2.0% are required to justify
project expenditures. This would amount to increases in wheat yields of
about 35 kg/ha, or rice by 65 kglha, and of sorghum by 10 kglha. Yield
increases of 3Z would give an economic rate of return of over 202. One
significant feature of the system is that the practices initially stressed
by the extension service focus on improving cultural practices (timely
operations, good land preparation, proper seed rates, line soving and
weeding) to maintain adequate and healthy plant populations in the fields.
As these operations usually involve more work and little cash outlay, they
are particularly well suited to the needs of many small farmers.
77.     Risks.  The two main risks facing the project would be the lack of
training among staff in the Baluchistan Department of Agriculture, and
its capacity to implement the project. This is a general problem in
Baluchistan for all development efforts, and is indicative of the
provinces backwardness relative to other provinces in Pakistan. In order
to reduce this risk, strong emphasis has been placed -n staff training
program under the project, including the training of senior staff. In
addition, to compensate for the lack of training and management
experience, a strong technical assistance component has been included in
the project and the selection and availability of consultants provided for
early on in project implementation. Experience in Pakistan has shown that
project implementation is often delayed because of insufficient funding in
the Annual Development Program (ADP). The Special Development Program,
under which the project would be financed, is less constrained than the
ADP and, in addition, the Special Account, into which credit proceeds are
disbursed in advance, would help to minimize this risk.
78.     Other risks appear to be minimal.  Farmers  responsiveness to
recommendations has been generally good wherever visits by extension staff
are made systematically and where FAs have gained confidence in their own
professional abiiity to introduce improved knowledge and skills. The
ability of the service to develop and disseminate recommeadations leading
to yield increases well above the level needed for a satisfactory rate of
return has been demonstrated adequately.  Initially, in most situations,
availability of suitable technology for different conditions has not been
a constraint as there is a backlog of research findings as yet not widely
adopted. This is not the case, however. in Baluchistan where research
services have been slow to develop. Nevertheless, the province is well
endowed with numbers of educated progressive farmers who consistently
obtain yields well above average. Thus major yield increases are rossible
even in the process of bringing the production level of average farmers to



-27-
that of the best farmers. To reduce the risk of technological constraints
lowering anticipated project benefits, the project supports programs of
field testing of research results and development of strong working
relationships between extension and the agricultural research institutes.
Furthermore, the Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 1158-PAK) is directed
at strengthening the agricultural research capabilities throughout
Pakistan to ensure a continuous flow of recommendations adapted to
specific regional problems.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan and the Association, the-draft Project Agreement
between the Association and the Province of Baluchistan, and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of
the Articles of Association are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Additional conditions of effectiveness would be
approval by the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
(ECNEC) of the PC-1 document for the projectl/; the establishment of the
Special Account and sub-accounts; the appointment the Director General of
Agriculture, the Project Coordinator and the Civil Works Coordinator; and
the signing of contracts for consulting services.
80.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
81.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit vould comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART IV - RECOMMENDATION
82.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 20, 1984
Washington, D.C.
1/ A PC-1 (Planning Commission Proforma No. 1) is an internal govern-
ment project appraisal document necessary for the Government of
Pakistan's approval procedures.



-28-                                                 ANNU I
TAStE 3                                       Page 1 of 5
PAKISm                 - SOCIAL DISCATO  MU SUM
PAKISTAN                                         UPS cwnus CcnAUAS  /4
Kos'                CMOS Sf31 lMM) lb
ij-16  ivo(k    zsnjcantk  AMI I PACIFIC          AMI G PACIFI
tOZAL                              803.9       803.9        803.9
AMCX.TCRI                           227.5      243.3        253.3
a  in Cit   n CUSS)                    70.0       130.0        380.0            278.6                   1091.2
lmcir cuuwrzou vs CAPfl
CKEIWGRS OF Ofl EQUIIVAIXT.)         98.0      139.0        179.0            272.0                   567.3
mentor a  vt S5mn
POPfLACZS.xn-YAa (CTOUSANs)   45451.0    60449.0          87125.0
uAs POPLAXION (S oF TOTL)            22.1       24.9         29.1             2l.7                     34.7
PUrzLa-lOs PRJECTIONS
POPulAriOS iS VEA 2000 (MILL)                             139.6
SlA.IOKAZY POPULTIOWN NCIL)                               377.3
POPULATIOS !iGIUTLI                                         1.9
POPCLATION DENSI.TY
FM SQ. ER.                        57.0        75.2        135.1            166.6                   261.9
PEW Sq.  . ACE!. lAND            201.5       248.4        333.6            345.5                   1735.1
PiPtIAflO9 AGE S5TRCTIUE (C)
0-1: tRS                          43.8        6. 3        46_1             35.8                     39.0
15-A  MS                          51.8        50.5         50.9             59.8                    57.6
65 A-C ABOVE                       4.4         l.Z          2.7               .3                     3.3
POPrA.CON QGVTE RATE (Z)
TO;AL                              Z.3        2L8          3.0               L.9                     2.3
C3s                                6.6         4.0          4-3              4.1                     4.3
CRVL`E S.'T"  RATE (PER TOUS)        48.6       46.6         *2.0             27.7                    30.1
CRLDE DEAT RATE (PER TWOS)           23.4       19.3         15.4             10.1                     9.3
CROSS REPRODUCCTIS RATE               3.4        3.4          3.0              1.8                     2.0
ACCPTGRS. AS%UAL. (TPOCS)     _      .      1908.1       1244-0 Ic
CSERS C: OF MARRIED WN)             __         60 Id        __                __                    52.7
I:DEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CALPrA
(1969-71-100)                       89.0       102.0        105.0            112.8                    123.0
PER CAPIZA SUPP-T OF
CALORIES (C OF REQLIREMETS)        88.0      106_0        106.0             97.7                    114.4
PROTEISS (CRAMS PER LAY)           58.0       65.0         65.0             56.8                    57.0
DF WRICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        23.0       22.0         20.0 /I          14.9                     14.1
CHPIL  (ACES 1-'.) DEA-H RATE        25.4       21.0         16.3              9.8                     7.2
.;.E EXPECT. A? SrtV C(YEARS)     4631         6_0         49.8             60.0                    60.4
INFANTr MOaT._ RATE (PER WOOS)     161.5       143.0        120.9             83.8                    66.3
ACCESS TO SAFE JATER (IPOP)
TO-AL                                __       21.0         29.0 /f          32.9                     37.0
RAN                                           77.0         60.0 if          70.9                     54.8
RDRL                                __         4.0         17.0 /7          22.1                    26.4
ACCESS 7O EXCRETA DISPOSAL
r: OF POPLATIOS)
TOT;L                            __        0La           6.0 Ij          18_1                     *1.3
LCRA                                _         12.0         21.0 Ij          72.8                    47.4
R URL A                                                       _               _4.6                   33.3
PJrLATION PER PHYSICIAS            5400.0     4300.0Th     3480.0           3484.2                  7749.4
POP. PER NtRSISC PERSOS           16960.0    1058O.o/h    5820.0            4793.1                  2460.4
73PO PER HOSPITAL RED
.707AI                           1790.0     1860.0       1560.0 /c        1066.5                   1044.2
CR1                               510.0      650.0        710.0 i;         298.0                   651.2
RURAL                           22850.0    12480.0      11860.0           5993_4                   2594.6
ADI15510I5  PER HSPITAL E_          _       _           __                        _ ,7.0
AVERAE SIZE OF NOCSEHOLO
TOTAL                               5.4        5.3          6.1 Ic
MAN                                 5.6        5.5          6.4 I_                   
RURAL                               5.4        5.2          6.0 IcS
AVERSE '0. OF PERSORSIROGI
TOTAL                               3.1       L2. It
CR30                                3.1        2.7 if
PURAL                               3_1       L2             _.
ACCESS TO ELECT. CZ OF WE LI!IIS)
TI                                   ._       17.9 /t
CRAI                                 .        54.4 it.-
RURAL                               ..         *_/Y.



-29-                                               ANNEX I
TABLE  Itr                                      Page  2 of  5
KISN                 --SO1ALDOSOCrAL IDICATO  DATA SMU
AKSItA                            1REFEENCE GROUS (MEtGUMD AVECl) /a
mOST               (UST xctr ESTIATE) Jb
gECili         LW inEoH             NIDDIXINCUR
,%Gib    197&IA    EST(A1b           ASIA 4 PACIIC          ASIA.  PACIFIC
AWlSUD E WOLU    RATI05
Pfl(AKLY:  TOTAL                  30.0        40.0        56.0             97.4                    102.0
KAL                     46.0       57.0         78.0            110.5                   105.9
SALZ                    13.0       22.0         31.0             83.7                    98.2
-  SEAT: TOTAL                    11.0        13.0        17.0             35.9                    46.0
MALE                    16.0       20.0         27.0             44.6                    48.7
FUKAXE                   3.0        5.0         7.0              26.8                    43.1
VOCATIlOw  CZ OF S 5COUDAT           1.0         1.5         1.0 Ic           2.2                    17.5
PUPIL-TEAC RATI
PRDIRT                            39.0        41.0        48.0             38.5                    31.8
SECODAT                           24.0        20.0        23.0 /c          18.7                    23.5
ARULX LrIERACT RATE CZ)             15.4        20.7 /3     24.0 Ic          53.4                    72.9
PIAElGll CARS/THOUUSAND POP          1.5        2.6          3.4              0.9                    10.1
RADIO RCUUMERs/78OIJSAJ  POP         6.0        17.1        67.0            112.1                   113.4
TV RECEIVRS/OUSAND POP                ..         1.6         9.7             15.7                    50.1
ESPAPER ("DAILY CENErAL
ImTER) CIRGulATIN
P 13t  SAN  POPULATION            13.2          ..        13.7 Ic           16.2                   53.9
CINIQA ANNAL ATTENAIECAPIU           1.7         3.0 ,1      2.2 iF           3.6                     3.4
TOTAL TAM FOaCE (TOTUS)          14448.0    17364.0      25260.0
FENALE (PEREM                      8.6         9.3        10.5             33.3                    33.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             61.0        59.0        57.0              49.6                   52.2
INxmSTr CPERCr)                   18.0        19.O        20.0             15.8                    17.9
PAvTICIPATIl RATE PErCENT)
TOTAL                             31.5        28.7        29.0              42.6                    38.7
MALE                              55.2        50.4        69.3              54.7                   50.9
FEIALE                             5.7         5.5         6.0             29.8                    26.6
ECONU(IC DEPENDENCY RATEO            1.5         1.7         1.8              1.0                     1.1
INClM DISTRIUWr8
PERCENT OF PRrVA   IC
RECrIVED ST
IIGHEST S: OF                     20.3 /k    17.8           .. ,.                                  22.2
HICHEST 20 OF HOUSEINDS           45.3 /k    41.8           .,               ,,                    48.0
LOVESr 202. OF HOUSrOLDS           6.4 /k      8.0          ..               ..                     6.4
LO-Ec  40: OF HDUSEHOLDS         17.5 /i     Z0.2          ,.               ..                    15.5
EST:4A,ED ABSOLUIE POVTY TCME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPM)
UX                                  ..        68.0 {3    176.0 /c          133.9                  188.6
RURAL                               ..        47.0 I     122.0 /          111.6                   152.0
ESTIMATED hhLATIVE POVERlY INCISE
LEEL (Uss PER rAPIT
URBAN                               ,,        34.0 /3     8.0 i&             ,.                   177.9
RURAL                                         22.0 /1     58.0 Ic             ,                    164.6
ESTfIAED POP. ELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCUE LEVEL (:)
RAS                                  .        420         32. Ic           43.8                    23.4
RURAL                               ..        43.0 I11    29.0 CC          51.7                    37.7
- OT AVWAnAL
NOT APPLICALE
NOT E S
la   b. groutp averages for each indicator are populations-Ighted erirbuetic  eeans  Coverage of countries &ano    t-he
Indicators depends on avallablllty of data and IL not wnform.
lb   Unless otherVLs noted. "Deta for 1960" refEr to any year betwee  1959 and 1961; "Date for 1970- betwen 1969 and
1971; and data for Noe t Recent Eatat." between 1980 and 1982.
IC  1979; hl 1968; 1e 1977; I! 1976; 1i 1975; /b Registered. not a11 practicing    the coentry; Jl 1973; f1 1972; 
1964.                                                                                                   198G
JuNTJ. 1984



SDS-a-a -P~II- a-  -3*
P--  -  a. -*3-              -aa        i. MD-.
p-  ~ ~ ~     ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~        m    - a-             3   -          8-  SS.fu        -13
-        -     'aft W    _   311 15  38    1       3     1
`1SA 1-" ~   ~        ~        ~       ~          - *.t*.3    s.Ia *33
-AA-                                                                                               Da,a a31l3~3-.-Sa~3  t   -P-~
W..n  -SAs  j- S. P                                     -      3          *3513.3- -.3t                -   Saa-33
vn-  -s. -                                                                         Qnl     --     3a   n.  -TOWUMMan   "' .4-.-S
~~ -                                                              W      u~~~~  -      qv-l Ts- ..  3.33 S -1   - w-        333-S   1
-J P    3333A "a AR            ISMA)-            11*  -J     5a
3.3-   33335    ~3]333~5333*3*~ - ~                 3111343  P    4-            1 f Al-1   -           -
-.3.3    4 at b1.n  P   -  3 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ DI3 -r. Dmu. 3333 13333..                                 D   -0
go... - -., p-iso  a-a  3.~~ -  £3   -    tl                          .30 3123w 31.3 IMT .335) ni -S IN.3  31
Ss.c s- 1-ip                        - 33I  3313   ma   7--                                              t        S a            s   .Si-  .t       )a
-  as  .s,a.   .a-0-a  ta       ;33.3*        -     LltJ-3 -c02430533*  350  I-Sa   33                                              -a31.3'A-
-- lal          .la j.jaad              3 3. ..    3         lS t33 8-                  Im: a- aa               T -v- Il
:.*31 Ia   , aala- GA.       3l-1  413aja)l".sa    t 1 S                                               lsald 5     .     -lr53    -s    
S-a 161~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  A-1335   3353   I-asg  i33                                                                       *t.33.3.
-al     ftsim At _. ;P    Ma -ts                                                                -   15413333-a   g                 -n
33t~~~~~                  la.-1. -JW ..a-       4q  -1iW3   -1           l*-J* l
r   ~~  o   a  -   .3~  i 1       3  *33aWa  .1 J,53 AIW _                                     -tAl    333 as f3.         1-                           Ala 33  P-, 35
3333   -S P 023         i*~P3333-ii~1                       W                             t      -d0       talf- .d0- - ,.3 41c aa s-~A.-j
ft. d-45                                 3433 35)3333la.                                                 ._ap  "  3-I  -    S.  al3   -a .       .3350
S-                Sal"~~~~333313                                  a   3   333        13  313  3    .33a -                      3
33.34 .33531)3.33.03    -                 n 3am3~                                             3.2333334                       3a ~            la         a
1313.1~~~~-S 333    SttP iai  a    t *;3   S 3                  3  *333   3           3   33-   331    1133   3104
~55  l 15    5 3.e  1a3a-    am 1  33123               5       n      13334a.53.  33a.Ja.1 3M                          
- .3a3l14- 3~   3  IsI   203.)333 3313333
.30 33       3533  -'3.533 *Sa-Il3 153333337               a 033  t-35- 
Ccii'0333    .a  jasl 3.31  3    5333 - -    - *dnaaaaaa            33342                                             A  333   33353 31 31  
.3   513333in '211133'  s331a  3    .aa33     -                                aa3alsa O -321   - 313 tIS   3    51255
*.  st       S2    3i   3.~  .33t.33J*1lJ  -   t.lj8',P.8  3.11   333    ifa) .33  15143s33-   i       3*
3333333**43.1353.a3.33-lj 353  - ~           3   333  33l~   S131            33333   S    1533.3at-   23Z
533.3~tiaa      a~3.   3    3  133   7                                        301  33Pa33  -ta3J.-...5.5SO3 -                     c.333J 33
"-I a- MAS '1--                                                             -J -~~~~~~~13  s    p-  .claiaa* 0 .1s-   3   I
'31.3                  3a3   4   Oj     -1            A 333  31a43  3       -334.3
.3 ~   3.-3*  s  asa   ma  33..           3   333ua   353                                                                                           3
5. sa  133 3 833* - laM-  i.3a.  -   5.3333333 13-S Sa)Alai   3353A11                            l-a 3333 4*   3)a33353.33
rm,..13 5.3    UP  .t53.    333tn.3.  ifla.Z al 13c3                             5   43 z        3     a      .aiaSa.aa   -            3333talla
S    33-   335A.                             43  332I-ip.l   s                                                  ss. S       .a   I.a3    11431, MAINZ3 5
31133315   3.335.3333a.  5   3ft.      * aW 5 -130-  -aS                             Ia-          333-4    .5033-  53 33.    .
-l333   5-133   3-43323  .                 3 -I..   .333 .                          c. a  a-    -    I--- -35I a-   -55               --  A3-2333  1.
S -                                                          lI) 33121352w 312*3   .   33543
3331  ~~~333iil        f.03 -33 -S33 -33J.33                       .....133  1333.  a.3a -53    331.
S, -.m -iu P-   tln         1 -nw5 3.        --S  333   1"tJ333 _23      W ...143  a.........53.3,33
-I.      'Alp -SAM AAS-I   Ill P- Al-    .-I.-                              "alas'33' -          '3:33  "113
5  234  2 3   33337   11   313335   3.133                     PS   3111233a.  a'*53  31333)-                33'31."153    3        Il-3
'333.33 3.3535331*'              *  53.o3..                           -J  a 3 a.ala..           .
33~3333  3 . - 13P'3.3 a  "333.3.*3.a    333-c 33*5                                                                        3c"'3r ~  M333
M M                                                                                 _OE_~~3333  3-.3.aa5  3.133133  33.3j1.:13i*.2  33  ..23.3      32



-31-
RENX I
Page 4 of 5
ECORNMIC DEVELOPNENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1982183 /a                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWN (2. constant Drices)
US$ billion        S           1969170-1974175  1975/76-1980181  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84
GNP at market prices             33.07         100.0               3.5              6.8            3.8     7.3      5.6
Gross domestic investmeant        5.13          15.4              -5.5              4.0            9.4     9.0      3.4
Cross national saving             4.12          14.1              -2.1              6.9            5.0    20.3
Current account balance          -1.00          -1.7
leeource gap                     -3.18         -10.1
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCMTVITY IN 1983/8B
Value Added          Labor Force Lb         V. A. Per Worker
$ Nillion    _        million    S              usS $
Agriculture                      6.679     24        14.1       53             474     46
Industry /c                     7.832      29         5.2      19            1.506    147
Services                        12.812     47         7.4      28            1.731    16°
Total/Average                 27,323    100        26.7      100           1.023    100
GOVERNXENT FIWANCE
Ceneral Covernment /d                            Federal Government
(Re billion)           2 of CDP                (Rs billion)         2 of GDP
1983/84 le    1983/84  1979/80-1983184         1983184 Le  1983/84  1979180-1983/84
Current receipts                   73.2          17.4         16.6                 58.2        13.9          12.8
Current expenditures               71.9          17.1          14.9                55.9        13.3          11.4
Current surplus                     1.3           0.3           1.7                 2.3         0.6           1.4
Capital expenditures Lf            29.1           6.9          8.3                 22.1          5.2          6.5
External assistance (net)          6.0            1.4          2.8                  6.0          1.4          1.3
MONET. CREDIT AND PRICES
1976/77  1977178  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981182  1982/83  1983/84 /a
(Rs billion)
Money and quasi Dney                  51.7     63.7     76.5      90.7    103.5    113.6     146.0    162.5
Bank credit to public sector          29.5     34.3     43.1     48.1      54.1     60.1      71.4      77.8
Bank credit to private sector         30.1     35.7     42.7     50.6      58.7     70.9      86.9    105.6
(percentages or index number.)
Money  nd quasi mney as X of GDP    34.6       36.7     39.0      38.3     37.0     35.1      60.1      38.7
Consumer price index (1975/76-100)  111.8    120.5    128.5    142.2    159.8    175.3       183.7    199.0
Annual percentage changes in:
Consuer price index                   11.8      7.8      6.6      10.7     12.4      9.7       4.B       8.3
Bank credit to public sector          28.8     16.6     25.6      11.6     12.5     11.1      18.8       9.0
Bank credit to private sector         30.3     18.6     19.6      18.5     16.0    20.7       22.6      21.5
la Provisional.
lb Does not include unemployed labor force.
Ic Includes manufacturing, mining. construction and electricity and gas.
1d  Consolidated revenues and expenditures of Federal and Provincial Governments (excluding Federal-Provincial
Government transfers).
Le Revised budget data.
/f Excluding principal repayments of loans. Capital expenditures as defined in government budget include
certain current expenditures.



-32-
-un
Page 5 of 5
BAACE OF P4n1sT                                                                              NECRAZDS  EXPOTSs (AVEIAC  1978/79-1921/83
197/791        0 1W198011  19 m1102  12183 1m 31i                                    fS$ luilin         :
(U5$ williem)
Exports of goods. IFS             2.1O7    2.955    3.461    3.052    3.416    3.140         law cotton                   302.3         12.4
Imports of goods. m               4.485    5J09    6. 66    6.679    6.548    7059           Cotta. yarn                  210.7          8.6
Reaource gap (deficit - -)       -2,378   -2.754   -3,005   -3,627   -3.172   -3.619         Cotton cloth                 252.3         10.3
Nice                         401.9         16.4
Interest paymnts                   -261    -285    -357        -453     -421     -477       All other coodities         1.277.4         52.3
Vorkers' raittances                1.395    1.248    2.097    2.225    2,tU6    2.737          Total                     2.444.6       100.0
Other factor payment. (net)          134      151      Z74      325      162       331
Set transfers                         .
Balance am current account       -1,110   -1.140      -991   -1,530     -554  -1.025                  UXNUFL DNT. JUN  1983                              a
Direct foreign investnt               ..        _        _.
let IL¢  borrowing                                                                                                               DILuillion
Disbursemnts                      813    1.134       956    1.102    1.301    1.234
Amortization                     -235     -310      516      -49       K3j    -564         Public debt. including guarateed    9.141.1
sub-total                         578      824       440      610      915      665         ton-guaranted private debt Lq_
Transactions vith IILFt             -14        78      315      358      413      -15.         Total outstanding and disbursed    9.141.1
Otber items n.e.i. Lb               238      600       546      364      337       296
Increase in reserves (-)            308    -362       -291      198   -1.111       82              DEN SDtVlCE RATIO 78 19821/3 fL
Gross reserves (end year)/e         386      748    1.039       81    1.952    1.870                                                     :
Official Cold (year end;
Million ounces)                    1.8      1.8      1.8      1.8      1.9       1.9
Public debt. including guaranted           11.2
on-guaranteed private debt
Fuel and Related materials                                                                       Total                                 11.2
Petroleum imports LI                530    1.079    1.535    1.710    1.610    1.419
Petroleum exports Ld                 61       178      126      194       77       72
RATE OF EXCEAIGE                                                                          rED/IDA LENDIG (June 1983)(U3 million)
Tbrocab Nav 11. 1972           From Nay 12. 1972-Feb. 15. 1973                                                          n v
USSI - RN 4.7619                      USS1 - as 11.00                           Outstanding and disbursed            353.5    1,105.7
Es I - 0SS0.21                        Rs 1 - US$0.09                            Undisbursed                          114.7      6703
Outstanding including undisbursed   468.2    1,776.0
From Feb. 16. 1973-JAJ. 7.   2    From July 19U1-June 1982 LA        rrm July 1982-Jue 1983 fL         From Julr 1983-June 1984 La
SS I - as 9.90                      US$1  - Rs 10.55                US51 - Rs 12.75                    US$1 - Rs 13.75
N.  I - 1550.10                      Rs I - aSSO.095                 RS I - DSSO-078                    Rs I - U580.073
LA Including TruSt Fund.
/L  Including net aort-tem borrowing and errors and omissions.
fc Excluding gold reserves of abouc 1.8 million troy ounces.
Ld Crude nd derivatives.
LI lNo-guaranteed private debt service is neligible.
Lf Ratio of actual debt  ervice to exports of goods. non-factor services and workers  remittances; debt service does not include
shlort-tern or Di charges.
Lt  Effective J snary 8. 1982, the rapee is being managed vith reference to a veighted besket of currencies.  The average
exchange rate sbown is vis-s-wis SS for the period shown.
Not available.
October 1984          



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATuS or 3AM GROuP OPCATIOnS IN PAXISTAN
A.  STATUECT OF RAK LOANS AMD IDA CRUDITS (as of September 30. 1954) L
(US willion)
Loan/                                                     (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                   Uddi-
number      Year    Pranrse                                Bnak   TV        IDA    burae
Ninety-five loas and credits fully disbursed /b           781.4  32.0    960D.8
630        1976   Second Lahore Water Supply               -                26.6    0.2
648        1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Ehairpur)         -                14.0    4.4
1366T      1977   Punjab Livestock Developaent             -      10.0      -       3.8
678        1977   Third Education                          -                15.0    3.5
751        1977   Hill Farming Tech. Development           -                 3.0    0.1
754        1978   Salinity Control & Reclation             -                70.0   67.0
813        1978   Punjab Ext. 6 Agric. Dev.                -                12.5    5.7
877        1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Mardan)    -                    60.0   54.4
892        1979   Primary Education                        -                10.0    4.5
922        1979   Sind Agricultural Extension              -                 9.0    6.2
968        1980   Third WAPDA Power                        -                45.0    8.9
974        1980   Third Highway                            -                50.0   24.4
1019       1980   PICIC Industrial Development             -                40.0    4.8
l109&      1981   Vocational Training                      -               25.0    9.8
1113La    1951   Small Industries                          -               30.0    3 7
11571g.    1981   Grain Storage                            -               32.0   20.9
1158&      1981   Agricultural Research                    -                24.0   17.0
11631e    1981   On-Farn Water Management                  -               41.0   15.8
1186fe    1952   Industrial Development (IDBP II)          -               30.0   11.0
2122       1982   Fourth Telecomrunication                 40-0            -       20.4
2172       1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5                 -      30.8
2247       1983   Reservoir Maintenance Facilities         10.2            -       10.0
2305       1983   Agricultural Dev. (ADBP V)               10.0            -        7.4
2324       1983   Fifth Sui Northern Gas Pipelines         43.0            -       42.2
1239&      1982   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation        -               40.0   28.2
1243/r    1982  BRluchistan Minor Irrig. 6 Agr.            -                14.0   10.8
1256/e    1962   Technical Assistance                      -                7.0    5.1
1278ke   1982   Eleventh Railvay Project                   -               50.0   41.6
1348/e    1953   Lahore Urban Development                  -                16.0   14.8
1350/L    1983   Population                                -               18.0   14.9
1355k    1983   Coal Engineering                           -                7.0    6.5
1374k    1983   Karachi Water Supply                       -               25.0   22.9
1375ke   1983   Fourth Drainage                            -               65.0   59.3
1380k    1983   Agricultural Development (ADBP V)    -                     47.8   21.3
2218       1983   Refinery Engineering Project             12.0            -        9.5
2351       1984   Petroleum Exploration                    51.5            -       51.3
2374       1984   Second Toot Oil and Cas D-velopment  30.0                -       25.6
Z380       1984   Industrial Investment Credit             50.0            -       49.9
1439kI   1984   Industrial Investment Credit               -                50.0   47.2
1461/e    1984   Integrated Kill Farming Development  -                    21.0   21-0
14180k    1984   Second Technical Assistance               -                7.0    6.6
1487/c    1984   Comand Water Management                   -               46.5   46.5
1499ky   1984   Second Small Industries                    -                50.0   50-0
Total                                                   1,06616   42.0  1.962.2  909.9
of which has been repaid                                503.9   0.7      35.4
Total now outstanding                                     562.7  41.3  1.926.8
Amount sold                    23.9
of which has been repaid    23.9                         -      -        -       -
Total now held by Bask and IDALd                          562.7  V1I.3  1.258
Total undisbursed                                         247.1   3.5    659.0  909.9
La  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, vhich is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors On April 30 and October 31.
/b  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for projects
in the former East Pakistan which have nov been taken over by Bangladesh.
Lc  Not yet effective.
Id  Prior to exchange adjustment.
Le  IDA Credits under the 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs.  The principal
is shown in $SS equivalent at the time of negotiation. Disbursed cmounts are
co puted at the market rate on dates of disbursements.
If  By using the market rate on dates of disbursments. the current principal
for Credit 1066-pAK and Credit 1255-PAX (both fully disbursed) is
542.5 and $77.5. respectively.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30. 1984)
Fiscal                                               Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Oblisor               Type of Business       Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of         Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.         Products              0.63               0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles              0.75      -        0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.       Cement                 5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                 Development
1969-                          Financing               -      0.52       0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles              1.84    0.11       1.95
1965-
1980-    Packages Ltd.         Paper Products        19.26    0.84      20.10
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.             Paper                  5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Davood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers           1.00    2.92       3.92
1979     Milkpak Ltd.          Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.37       2.77
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock       Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.         Petrochemicals       29.00    2.04      31.04
1980     Fauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-
lent bags             1.78     -         1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle Board        2.70      -        2.70
1981     Habib Arkady          Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.17       3.32
1982     Asbestos              Cement                 4.05     -         4.05
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals       86.05    1.56      87.61
Total Gross Commitments                   163.24   10.97    174.21
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales               122.83    0.39    123.22
Total Commitmentc: Now Held by IFC         40.41   10.58      50.99
Undisbursed (including participants)       67.12    0.33      67.45



-35-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Supplementary Proiect Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:
18 months
(b) Agency which prepared the project:
Government of Baluchistan (GOBAL)
(c) Date of first mission to consider the project
September 1983
ld) Date of departure of appraisal wission:
April 1984
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
Septeaber 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
April 1985
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Vehicle revolving fund to be established and maintained
(paragraph 56);



-36-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) Vehicle O&M and staff travel allowances to be reviewed
with the Association, and budget allocations made
available (paragraph 56);
(c) Monitoring and evaluation benchmark studies to be
completed by July 31, 1986 (paragraph 62); and
(d) Plan to streamline Department of Agriculture to be
prepared by December 31, 1985 (paragraph 65).
The following vould be additional conditions of effective-
ness (paragraph 79):
(i) approval by ECNEC of the PC-1 document for the
project;
iii) establishment of the Special Account and sub-
accounts;
siii) appointment of the Director General of
Agriculture, the Project Coordinator, and the
Civil Works Coordinator; and
(iv) signing of contracts for consulting services.



g~~   ~                                                                                                                                                     f
aX            r                                                        4,'                                                                             * 
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION                                                                         /t..'.
AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT                                                                                             B
I                                          'Project Are                                       D o                                .             
' i ,r.i A.s,c                                    0. n   ,cY.cc ,,i "W-4.4 T.c,n-
/ I       Pvnc1 ..: l@ficc.cit..i,,cc roceii.ii;#wlt fi ,o,i Cr. tic cc.,(. Sir c  I,   P*..   /p I15 I,     I N      Q          U     E      T     T
j                      ta*1a~~~~~~~~~~'~,,r f.*icc'ic S1 tic ccliits2 icc itis*u lcd I cci:^*alz*t                                          t|;o  i    iz
@ Acid /cr. iic.cc.i, Inl||>lw 1ll rc,-c.'c  A,,ul  tZ                                          ",     , t*      .fnw I
,$, .,,,,4,,. . ,                   ccr.ci_n rcficf ci (ccii     t !c 'n.  s&  ,.   c *o        A A                     I    U         7        ~          c~i.
e~~~~~~~~~~~~.. Icteic,,ccci         oil rl I.11" (144, tlliUC                                  Il"                                                                       # /  -<   ,,>,  
*    Aci icAcc  I               IG h  AN               c  s             ci,, _ i    f          ,         i
\.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  lcc,i _c. _cc__'                    N...ci,c ji    e                      °z|! L tciii            RRliTc! PL/\J
\ ,                                                                                                                 n           U                  -   TRA        A   I \ S3-A   A
REPU3LIC ~    ~           A\   tccc Icco Acd  :9cc  A  I cticcic  tiucctc                 .v               ' Sr°'fl9t           <   ficcin c01s    l B    I l),.,...."/,,
.-                                                                                      ,            .FGHANISAN  -c (  -   j TII             B U G I I     MccA
**ttU~*            , o      +              K   H                                              A R     A N                                                       PUAIL|_'
REPUBL  '°           C, Ii  A  C  A I                                                                /~ui~i   I          -.          -~IA F G H A8N  I    S/NDA
O . IRAN                                                              - ..cc .                .                                       CIt I     Mt         A   R
,-/-'t  P /                                /   0 G                                                                     P R   )A 
(              M~~~~~~~~~~~ E             T R  AA                                 ji          ' 2),
2t*  t                                     U,,~  R~~  -  A  r              A           L         A/    A   L  A         I_
cc c.di,.t  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 00o                                                                       il   
jC         G  W)  A  D/A  n   ,;,                         --                    !  A   r1.A
OF                                 °{ iRA                                                                                                    I&OCkwia    Nf 104A 41             ,   10,                   (
tga,                        t>4@                                                          _  .       .      .     ^.^.       |   ..                           & D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....ccc.  ie
M  9          ~K  R    A   RANIaL
0                                                            I                                       t AlcctiAfcc',lAP4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SI l 
)  ~ ~ c ~         F U A BAT                                                                                                '~~~:MKrHU     ' DcAt
P4  AAN i' UI






