Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C è        3 iS3 - -d8
Report No. 5201-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
(EXTENSION III)
October 12, 1984
South Asia Projects Departments
General Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients cnly in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$ 1 = PRs 14
PRs 1 = US$ 0.071
FISCAL YEAR
1 July - June 30
WEIGHTS AND HEASURES
1 kilometer (km)               0.62 miles
1 meter (m)             =      1.09 yar s
1 hectare (ha)          =      10,000 m  (0.01 km2) = 2.471 acres
1 cubic meter (m3)      =      35.315 cu ft
1 kilogram (kg)         =      2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (t)        =      1000 kg = 2205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
ADA     =    Assistant Director of Agriculture
ADBP    =    Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
ADP     =    Annual Development Program
AHO     =    Assistant Horticultural Officer
AO      =    Agricultural Officer
APPO    =    Assistant Plant Protection Officer
ARF     =    Adaptive Research Farm
ARI     =    Agricultural Research Institute
ARO     =    Assistant Research Officer
ATI     =    Agricultural Training Institute
AZRI    =    Arid Zone Research Institute
CDWP    =    Central Development Working Party
CINMYT  =    International Maize and Wheat Improvement Research Center
C&W     =    Communication and Works Department
DDA     -    Deputy Director of Agriculture
DOA     =    Department of Agriculture
EADA    =    Extra Assistant Director of Agriculture
ECNEC   =    Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
FA      =    Field Assistant
FAO     =    Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GOBAL   =    Government of Baluchistan
GOP     =    Government of Pakistan
HYV     =    High Yielding Variety
ICARDA  =    International Center for Agricultural Research in Dry Areas
ICRISAT =    International Center for Research in the Semi-Arid Tropics
IDA     =    International Development Association
NFC     =    National Fertilizer Corporation
NWFP         Northwest Frontier Province
PARC    =    Pakistan Agricultural Research Council
PC-i    =    Planning Commission Form 1
RMP          Bank's Resident Mission in Pakistan
PDWP    =    Provincial Development Working Party
SDP     =    Special Development Program
SMS          Subject Matter Specialist
SSMS    =    Senior Subject Matter Specialist
T&V     =    Training and Visit (System of Agricultural Extension)
UNDP    =    United Nations Development Program
USAID   =    United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
(EXTENSION III)
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  TNTRODUCTION ................,.,...,.,.,,.,....    1
II. BACKGROUND            ..1............  I
A. Agriculture in Pakistan .1
General .1
Government Policy and Bank Group Strategy ............    2
Agricultural Extension.                                   2
Bank Involvement in Agricultural Extensioni.              3
B.  Agriculture in Baluchistan .............................    4
General Description.                                      4
Climate and Soils.                                        5
Land Use and Tenure.                                      5
Yields and Production.                                    6
C. Agricultural Administration and Institutios.                 7
Agricultural Administration and Funding.                  7
Agricultural Extension Service.                           8
Agricultural Training ........................,,.,        9
Agricultural Research .....................,              9
Input Distribution .................                     11
Credit...............................................   12
Marketing and Storage .12
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to
Baluchistan in April 1984. Mission members were: Harald Stier
(Economist, Mission Leader) and Rashed-Ul-Qayyum (Agriculturist)
IDA, Ian MacDonald (Training Specialist) and Wayne Freeman
(Research Specialist), Consultants. Rosemary Findlay was
responsible for the typing and layout of the report.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of l
their ofraial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
III.  THE PROJECT AREA              ........................   12
A. Land Use ,.... 13
B. Population and Farm Size.                                          14
C. Crops and Production    ..14
IV. THE PPOJECT.                                                            15
A. Objectives and Main Features    .                .                 15
B. Detailed Description    ..                                         16
Extension Methodology...............                           16
Staffing   . .19
Civil Works   . .20
Transport   . .20
Adaptive Research .......................,,........   21
Training    ...... 22
Monitoring and Evaluation ...........................,. 24
C. Project Costs    ..24
D. Financing              .............,,,... 26
E. Procurement   ..26
F.  Disbursements            ........................   28
G. Accounts and Audits    ..30
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT....                                         30
A.  Project Implementation and Operation         . . .                30
B.  Project Coordination .. ...........................,,.,,. 31
C.  Linkages between Extension and Research            ....   32
D. Consultancy Services                 ....33
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIO                 . . .33
A. Project Justification.                                             33
Economic Benefits   ..34
Project Risks.                                                  34
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .35
LIST OF TABLES IN MAIN TEXT
2.1 - Land Use in Baluchistanl          ..                             5
2.2 - Land Ownership According to Farm Size in Baluchistan             6
2.3 - Area, Production and Average Yields of Major Crops
in Baluchistan ..............      ,    . , .,                7
3.1 - Land use in Project Area    .               .13
3.2 - Irrigation in Project Area .             .                      13
3.3 - Population and Farm Size    .               .14
3.4 - Area, Production and Yields of Major Crops in
Project Area   . .                                           15



-iii-
4.1 - Requirements of Key Project Staff .....................   19
4.2 - Inflation Rate ........................................   24
4.3 - Project Cost Summary            . . .25
4.4 - Summary Accounts Cost Summary       ..                       25
4.5 - Procurement Table .       . ..........................       27
4.6 - Project Disbursements                 .... 29
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1 - PROJECT COSTS
Table 1:  Summary Accounts by Year (Including Contingencies)
Table 2:  Project Components by Year (Base Costs)
Table 3:  Project Headquarters Quetta
Table 4:  Loralai District
Table 5:  Kachhi District
Table 5:  Nasirabad District
Table 7:  Lasbela District
Table 8:  Technical Assistance
Table 9:  Staff Training
ANNEX 2 - Procedures for Operation of Special Account
ANENEX 3 - Disbursement Schedule
ANNEX 4 - Technical Assistance
ANNEX 5 - Contents of Project File
ANNEX 6 - Timetable for Recruitment of Key Incremental Project
Staff and for the Procurement of Project Vehicles
ANNEX 7 - Table 1: Price Buildup for Economic Analysis
Table 2: Assumptions for Economic Sensitivity Analysis
CHART
World Bank 26372 - Organizational Chart
MAP
World Bank 18315R1 - Pakistan
A-



-iv-
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
(EXTEISION III)
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:                Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiary:             Province of Baluchistan
Amount:                  SDR 8.2 million (US$8.3 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Relendinp  Terms:        From the Government of Pakistan to the
Government of Baluchistan on standard IDA
terms.
Project Description:    The objectives of the proposed project are to achieve
sustained increases in agricultural production in
four districts of high agricultural potential in
Baluchistan Province, through the strengthening and
reorganization of the extension services along the
lines of the Training and Visit (T&V) System, and
through the widespread adoption by farmers of proven
and recommended improved farming practices. To
achieve these objectives, the project would include:
(a) redeploying existing and recruiting new staff;
(b) provision of necessary physical components,
including offices, staff housing, vehicles and equip-
ment: (c) the establishment of adaptive research
farms; and (d) staff training and technical assistance
to strengthen the institutions responsible for imple-
menting extension and research activities in the
Province. Other than the lack of training among staff
and implementation capacity the project faces no major
risks.
-~~~~



Estimated Costs: a/
Local      Foreign       Total
-US$ million
Agricultural Extension                           4.59         0.91        5.50
Adaptive Research                                0.87         0.50        1.37
Staff Training                                   0.36         0.21        0.57
Project Administration                           1.28         0.49        1.77
Base Cost                                    7.10          2.11       9.21
Physical Contingencies                           0.55         0.14        0.69
Price Contingencies                              1.29         0.33        1.62
Total Project Cost                           8.94          2.58       11.52
Financing Plan                                  Local      Foreign       Total
--US$ million
Federal and Provincial Governments               3.22          -          3.22
IDA                                              5.72         2.58       8.30
Total                                        8.94          2.58       11.52
Estimated Disbursements:
FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
-SS million-
Annual                                0.7    1.5    2.0    2.0    1.4    0.7
Cumulative                            0.7    2.2    4.2    6.2    7.6    8.3
Map:               No. IBRD 18315R1
A/ Including taxes and duties amounting to about US$0.6 million.



PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
(EXTENSION III)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    The proposed project would be the third IDA-assisted project designed
to reorganize and strengthen agricultural extension in Pakistan following the
Training and Visit System (T&V). 1/ Encouraged by the good results from these
projects and elsewhere where the T&V System has been operating, the Govern-
ment of Baluchistan in 1983 requested IDA assistance in introducing reor-
ganized extension into Baluchistan, starting with four districts. An
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program mission assisted the Government of
Baluchistan in preparing a project proposal in September 1983. Following IDA
comments, the project area was redefined to include four districts with high
potential for increased yields and agricultural output. In addition, housing
and staffing levels were considerably reduced. Appraisai took place in April
1984 and this report is based on the findings of the appraisal team consist-
ing of Messrs. H. Stier (IDA), R. Qayyum (RMP), I. MacDonald and W. Freeman
(Consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
A. Agriculture in Pakistan
General
2.01    The geographical area of Pakistan is some 0.8 M Kim2 with a population
of around 87 N (mid 1982), which is increasing at an annual rate of about 3%.
Average per capita annual income is estimated at abo:t. US$380, with some 30%
of the population having an annual income below the abso:ute poverty level
estimated at US$150 per capita.
2.02    Agriculture 21 is the single largest sector in Pakistan's economy
accounting for about one-third of the country's gross domestic product,
employing about half of the total labor force and providing, directly or
indirectly, about two-thirds of export earnings.
1/ The two projects are described in the following appraisal reports:
"Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development Project"
Report No. 1909a-PAK, May 12, 1978.
"Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project"
Report No. 2387a-PAK, May 7, 1979.
1/ Agriculture Sector includes water and rural development.



-2-
2.03    In the late 1960s, agricultural production grew at a rate of about
6% annually, but this growth slowed to a little over 2% annually during much
of the 1970s. Political turmoil during 1971 and 1972, adverse weather condi-
tions (disastrous floods in 1973 and 1976 and severe drought in 1975), inade-
quate price incentives, deterioration in agricultural supporting services,
short supplies of agricultural inputs, inefficient water management, and
continuing problems associated with water logging and salinity were the major
factors contributing to this disappointing performance. Agricultural growth,
however, increased from 2.5% in FY78 to 4.5% during the 1980s. Although much
of this recovery can be attributed to favorable weather conditicns, improve-
ments in Government ef Pakistan's (GOP's) price support policies and
increased supply of fertilizers are believed to have made significant con-
tributions.
Government Policy and Bank Group Strategy
2.04    For agriculture, Pakistan's Sixth Five-Year Plan (1983-88) places
great emphasis on the need to increase yields with a view to moving from
self-sufficiency towards exports, especially of high-valued crops. While the
Government's agricultural reform program has begun to address some of the
issues constraining rapid agricultural growth, much remains to be done,
particularly with regard to investment priorities and improvements in physi-
cal and institutional infrastructure. Through its lending program and sector
work, the Bank will continue to support the Government's efforts in the areas
of water management, irrigation system rehabilitation, improved inputs,
provision of credit and agricultural services (including extension), and
institution-building at the federal and provincial levels.
2.05    To ensure that the increased provision of public services and
infrastructure leads to an efficient utilization of resources, input and
output pricing policies and producer incentives are being reviewed with the
support of the Bank Group. Moreover) improvements are possibie in the for-
mulation of a program of public investments in agriculture. Such a program
would include striking an appropriate balance between rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing facilities and new investments in irrigation, and
between investments in irrigation/drainage and supporting services;
implementing measures to increase the role of the private sector in fresh
groundwater developments; the phasing out of subsidies; the strengthening of
agricultural support services; and improving current and capital cost
recoveries.
Agricultural Extension
2.06    The agricultural extension services are entirely within the provin-
cial domain and vary considerably between provinces in size, scope and the
methodologies used. Except for the few districts covered by projects aimed
at improving the extension organization in each province, they are largely
ineffective, generally employing outdated extension methods and these efforts
are diluted by heavy burdens of unrelated non-extension duties. Staff num-
bers are generally inadequate and facilities with respect to staff accommoda-
tion and mobility are such as to make wide and effective farmer contact
difficult. Extension workers rarely receive in-service training to keep then
abreast of technological advances. The extension/research dialogue is often



- 3 -
limited to a diecusaion of annual/seaaonal work programs; two-way exchange of
technical information lacks 2atitutional and policy support.
Bank Involvement in Agricultural Extension
2.07    The Government of Pakistan is aware of these problems and, in an
attempt to improve the situation, the Bank is currently supporting two
agricultural extension projects in Pakistan, the "Punjab Extension and
Agricultural Development Project" (Credit 813-PAK for US$12.5 M of June 8,
1978) and the "Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project"
(Credit 922-PAK for US$9 M of June 12, 1979). Both projects aim at reor-
ganizing and strengthening the extension service through the introduction of
the training and visit (T&V) system which has proved to be successful in
other countries. The Punjab project covers 5 of the province's 22 districts
and the Sind project 5 out of the province's 13 districts. The two projects
had late starts due to delays in approval by the Executive Committee of the
National Economic Council (ECNEC). Other problems included: (a) a poor
understanding of the T&V system; (b) delays in relieving extension staff from
non-extension duties; (c) delays in appointment of technical assistance
personnel; (d) low pay preventing recruitment of staff; (e) inadequate travel
allowances reducing staff mobility; (f) weak research and extension linkages;
(g) inadequate funding in the Annual Development Program (ADP); and (h) poor
monitoring and evaluation. However, positive steps have been taken by con-
cerned authorities and the main outstanding problems are now of a lesser
administrative nature, including still unfilled staff positions at the Field
Assistant (FA) level; it is expected that the recent revision in government
pay scales will help solve this problem. ADP funding still remains a
problem. All these problems have been taken into account in the design of
the proposed project.
2.08    In spite of the initial problems referred to, in both project areas
in the Punjab and the Sind a sound base for an improved extension service
has now been established with visits to farmers being conducted on a regular
basis and fortnightly training firmly established and producing appropriate
and timely messages to cultivators. In the Punjab, the adaptive research
work is of high quality with location specific trials being carried out on
adaptive research farms and in farmers' fields. The appropriate linkages
with research have been established and timely and pertinent messages based
on adaptive research findings now reach the farmers. In the Sind, as a
result of consultants' recommendations, adaptive research is now underway and
has been carried out on micronutrient deficiencies, which has led to the
inclusion of recommendations for the application of zinc to rice in the
fortnightly messages and which has already brought substantial increases in
paddy yields.  Project monitoring is firmly established in both projects and
several management-oriented reports have been prepared and which cover the
regularity and effectiveness of FA visits. These signs are all encouraging
and indicative of the potential of the improved extension system once the
teething problems have been resolved. Nevertheless, and in line with
experience elsewhere, in the presence of an entrenched bureaucracy, institu-
tional change takes time. The new system of extension calls for attitudinal
changes on the part of extension staff, farmers, agricultural research
workers and government officials, both within and outside the Department of
Agriculture. Given these circumstances, firm commitment at government level



and strong departmental management are also central to successful implementa-
tion. Both these preconditions of success are now firmly established in the
two provinces. The Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development Project is
scheduled for completion in December 1985. Based on the preliminary findings
of an independent assessment of the project, the provincial governtment has
decided to proceed with the expansion of the area covered by improved
agricultural extension and a second phase project is currently under prepara-
tion. Also in the Sind, preparations have started for a follow-on project to
expand the area covered by the T&V system.
2.09    In support of agricultural extension programs, IDA is assisting the
improvement of agricultural research throughout Pakistan. The Agricultural
Research Project (Credit 1158-PAK, US$15.0 M) provides federal and provincial
institutes with the physical and human resources needed to plan, coordinate,
support and conduct research programs of high priority and also provides
training and technical assistance. A particular feature of the project is
the funding (US$4.5 M) of agricultural research subprojects conducted by
research agencies not directly controlled by the Pakistan Agricultural
Research Council (PARC). The project became effective on June 14, 1982, (a
delay of one year caused by slow government approval procedures). Since then
progress has been satisfactory, with the building program on schedule,
procurement of equipment and vehicles proceeding as anticipated and the first
group of students having left for training overseas. The contract research
program has been slow to start, but with improved knowledge at provincial
institutes of procedural requirements, the number of requests has recently
increased and the program is now expected to gain momentum. A technical
assistance agreement (US$2.0 M) has been concluded with FAQ and the first
scientists provided under the program appointed. USAID also provides con-
siderable assistance to PARC.
B. Agriculture in Baluchistan 1/
General Description
2.10    Agriculture is an important sector of Baluchistan's economy; it
contributes 56% to the province's gross domestic product and provides
livelihood to 65% of the total labor force.
2.11    The total geographical area of Baluchistan covers 347,000 Km2.  It is
Pakistan's largest (44% of the total area), but least developed province and
extends from the Arabian Sea in the South, to the Northwest Frontier Province
and Afghanistan in the North, to Punjab and Sind provinces in the East and to
Iran in the West. The population of 4.3 M represents only 5% of the national
total and is predominantly nomadic and tribal.
1/ All figures refer to "Agricultural Statistics of Baluchistan, 1982-83"
unless otherwise stated.



-5-
Climate and Soils
2.12      The province's climate is generally arid.  In most areas the
average annual rainfall is below 200 mm and is characterized by wide annual
variations. The high altitude plateau and valleys in the North receive up to
350-400 mm of annual rainfall, while the Southern plains, which represent 66%
of the provincial area, receive only 100-150 mm. Except for the Northeast,
which falls under the influence of the summer monsoons, precipitation occurs
mostly in winter (some as snow). The temperatures are extreme, being very
high in summer (June-July), especially in the Southern and Eastern plains,
and falling below freezing point in winter, particularly in the North.
2.13    Soils of the Southern plains are of desert type, extremely low in
organic matter and highly susceptible to erosion. Soils of the plateau and
the Northern highlands are relatively fertile though also low in organic
matter. Soil texture varies from sandy in the desert area to loam and clay
in the Kachhi plain. Most soils are alkaline and calcareous in nature with a
pH between 7.8 and 8.2.
Land Use and Tenure
2.14    Total geographical area of Baluchistan is 35 M ha of which 19 M ha
are thus far reported as used. The remainder (16 H ha) consists mainly of
inhospitable and distant areas of little economic value at the present time.
The area reported to different use:; is shown in Table 2.1.
Table 2.1: LAND USE IN BALU5HISTAN
H ha
a.  Net sown area                          0.66
b.  Area sown more than once               0.02
c.  Total sown area (a+b)                  0.68
d.  Current fallow                         0.81
e.  Total cultivated area (a+d)            1.47
f.  Culturable waste                       5.38
g.  Forests                                1.07
h.  Not available for cultivation         11.16
i.  Total reported area (e+f+g+h)         19.08
Of the total cultivated area in Baluchistan, 598,000 ha are irrigated from
different sources (382,000 ha by canals, 90,000 ha by karezes 1/ and springs
and 125,000 ha by tubewells and open surface wells).  Whereas tubewells, open
surface wells, karezes and springs are ubiquitous depending upon the condi-
tions of geology and sources of fresh groundwater, irrigation is mainly
supplied from the Indus canal system by the Pat Feeder and Kirthar Canals,
commanding 331,000 ha located on the Kachhi plain.
jj Karezes are underground channels.



2.15    Of the total population of Baluchistan, 3.6 million people (84%) live
in rural areas, and 65Z derive their livelihood from agriculture. There are,
according to the 1981 census, 202,000 farms, of which 63Z are smaller than 5
ha and make up 212 of the cultivated area. Table 2.2 shows land ownership
according to farm size.
Table 2.2: LAND OWNERSHIP ACCORDING TO FARM SIZE IN BALUCHISTAN
Farm Size              Z of total             Z of cultivated
(ha)                   Farms                     Area
0 -  2.0                  28                         3
2.0 -  5.0                  35                        18
5.0 - 10.1                   19                       21
10.1 - 20.2                   10                       18
20.2 and above                8                        40
100                      100
The predominant tenure pattern is owner-operated; 78% farms fall in this
category. The remainder are divided between owner-tenant operated farms (7%)
and landless tenants (15Z).
Yields and Production
2.16    Out of the sector's total value of production of Rs 9 B, cropping
(including horticulture) contributes about 70%, livestock 28% and forests and
fisheries 2%. The province accounts for about 50% of Pakistan's total fruit
production. Livestock production is a major source of income for much of the
rural population. Baluchistan has about 26% of the national herd of sheep
and goats (3.2 M sheep and 3.7 M goats), which are distributed according to
available feed supply as sedentary, transhumant, and nomadic flocks.
2.17    The area, production and average yields of the major crops during
1982-83 are displayed in Table 2.3.



- 7 -
Table 2.3: AREA, PRODUCTION AND AVERAGE YIELDS
OF MAJOR CROPS IN BALUCRISTAN
Z of Total                     Average
Area      Cropped        Production       Yield
CROPS             (000 ha)      Area          (000 t)         (t/ha)
Wheat                    280           41              414           1.5
Rice                     116           17              365           3.1
Sorghum                   59            9               35           0.6
Pulses                    34            5               22           0.6
Fodders                   44            7            1289           29.3
Rape seed & Mustard       19            3               11           0.6
Fruits                    34            5              300            -
As is apparent, the province's average crop yields are low.  The average
cropping intensity is 46% while for irrigated areas it is 74% which is vell
below the national average of 111%.  Fertilizer use is negligible, averaging
about 11 kg of nutrients per ha of cropped area.
C. Agricultura1 Administration and Institutions
Agricultural Administration and Fundin&
2.18    Administratively, Baluchistan is divided into four Divisions:
Quetta, Sibi, Kalat and Hekran, each with a Commissioner as its administra-
tive head. Each Division contains 3-5 Districts headed by a Deputy Commis-
sioner. Some larger districts are further broken down into subdivisions,
each headed by an Assistant Commissioner. Districts or subdivisions are
further subdivided into 3-7 'tehsils' each comprising a number of villages
and with a Tehsildar in charge. The number of villages in a district varies
from 57 in Quetta district to 258 in Khuzdar.
2.19    In Baluchistan, one Secretary to the Government heads the Departments
of Agriculture, Agricultural Engineering, Forests and Cooperatives. There is
a separate Secretary for the Departments of Livestock and Fisheries.  In the
Department of Agriculture, the Secretary is presently assisted by two Direc-
tors of Agriculture, one in charge of agricultural extension and training,
and the other of the Agricultural Research Institute. The planning and
coordination functions of departmental activities are carried out by a Plan-
ning Unit, which in collaboration with the provincial Planning and Develop-
ment Department as well as other government departments, is responsible for
preparing development schemes, the Annual Development Program (ADP), and
providing the basis for policy formulation.
2.20    The source of funding has affected the organization of the Department
of Agriculture in Baluchistan. In Pakistan, distinction is made between two
categories of funds utilized for provincial government expenditures, those
coming from the revenue (or non-development) budget and those from the capi-
tal or development (Annual Development Program, ADP) budget. The revenue
budget is made up of the provincial goverrment's own revenues, its share of
certain federal taxes and any additional federal support it might get in case



- 8 -
of an anticipated deficit. The ADP is entirely federally funded through
public savings and borrowings (domestic and foreign) an-d allocated to the
provinces on the basis of a formula, based essentially on a per capita
allocation with some additions for especially needy areas. In addition to
these two main sources of government funding, there is a federal Special
Development Program (SDP) for backward areas, of which Baluchistan is a major
beneficiary. SDP is a capital budget allocated on the basis of economic and
socio-political considerations. A government department-s revenue budget is
established through the normal budgetary process, where a budget request is
submitted to the Ministry of Finance, and essentially covers the day-to-day
operational needs of the Department. Tne ADP and Special Development Program
is entirely for project funding and requires that a project paper (Planning
Commission Form 1, PC-1) be submitted for approval to the Provincial Develop-
ment Working Party (?D'.iP) and, if exceeding Rs 30 H, to the federal level
Central Development Working Party (CDWP) and the Executive Committee of the
National Economic Council (ECNEC). Such funding arrangements permit a rela-
tively restricted permanent cadre of staff at Ministerial and Departmental
levels, whilst a large number of staff are funded under special projects.
These arrangements tend to produce an array of project-related units which
operate independently, leading to problems of coordination and duplication of
effort. These problems would be addressed under the project (para 5.03).
Agricultural Extension Service
2.21    The Director of Agriculture (Extension) in Baluchistan has a total
professional staff (excluding administrative staff) of some 800 persons of
which about one-third are financed under the development budget. Except for
normal turnover vacancies, most positions are filled. Expenditures of the
Department in FY82/83 were Rs 26 M under the revenue budget and Rs 33 M under
the development budget.
2.22    Primary responsibility for agricultural extension and training in
Baluchistan lies with the Director of Agriculture (Extension). The extension
field service consists o' 4 Deputy Directors of Agriculture (DDA) located
at the divisional level, 17 Extra Assistant Directors of Agriculture at the
district level (EADA), 71 Agricultural O'ficers (AO) at the tehsil level and
437 Field Assistants (FA) at the village level. There are 1-3 AO in a tehsil
and one FA is assigned to some 12-20 villages and as such is required to
cover some 500 widely scattered farming families. FA are assisted by one or
two field workers (beldars) and who assist with pest control and other
non-extension duties.  This organization also includes 24 Assistant Plant
Protection (APPO) and Horticultural Officers (AHO). Presently there is no
organized system of agricultural extension and field staff are required to
perform varied tasks not directly related to extension activities.
2.23    At headquarters, the Director of Extension is assisted by the heads
of six administrative sections and of various development scheues and who are
mostly of DDA rank. Tne six sections under the revenue budget are: Planning
and Development, Publicitv, Agricultural Economics and Marketing, Statistics,
Procurement and Supplies and Plant Protection. The development schemes, some
of which are Bank-supported, generally function as separate sections of the
department. They include the following projects: Project PrAparation,
On-farm Water Management (IDA Cr. 1163 of 1981), Minor Irrigation (IDA Cr.
1243 of 1982), Vegetable and Potato Seed (IDA Cr. 620 of 1976), Control of



Black-headed Cricket, Improvement of Government Farms, Plant Protection and
some minor schemes for Mushroom Cultivation, Coconut lnt--duction, Floricul-
ture, Trickle Irrigation and for the Strengthening of Agzicultural Statis-
tics. These development schemes employ 9 DDA, 4 senior scientists, about 50
officers at the ADA, APPO, AHO and junior scientist levels, about 35 AO and
Assistant Research Officers (ARO) and over 160 FA. There is also a develop-
ment scheme covering the -stablishment of the Agricultural Training Institute
(IDA Cr. 678 of 1977, see below).
Atricultural Trainin&
2.24    Baluchistan used to support its own Agricultural Training Institute
(ATI) at Quetta and which provided one-year pre-service training for FA. In
1970, the activity stopped and the Baluchistan Agricultural Research
Institute is now using the old ATI buildings. As a result, the majority of
FA level field staff in Baluchistan now lack formal training and little
attempt has been made to organize training for them. Except for 1-2 day
pre-season seminars, only intermittent on-the-job training is provided.
However, under the Third Education Project (IDA Cr. 678-PAl) the ATI is being
reconstructed at a new location adjacent to the Agricultural Research
Institute in Quetta and completion is scheduled for sulner 1984. Although
the living quarters are not yet complete, the school building has been ready
for some time and a batch of 13 students are completing their first of the
two years training that will be given at the new Institute. When the dor-
mitories are completed, the Institute will accommodate 100 students (50 in
each year of the two-year course). Most machinery and equipment have been
ordered, most staff recruited and substantial preparations made to enable the
courses to start on schedule.
2.25    For the training of its agricultural and research officers, GOBAL
depends upon facilities located in other provinces as it does not support its
own college of agriculture. Annually, some 25 students enter the agricul-
tural universities at Tando Jam in Sind, Faisalabad in Punjab and Peshawar in
NWFP. Some of these graduates continue for a master's degree while others
return to the province to work for the Department o' Agriculture.  Although
the Agricultural Department does not have dlfficulty in filling its positions
with BSc level staff, the availability of candidates with MSc or higher
degrees is a serious constraint.
Agricultural Research
2.26    The major agricultural research activity in Baluchistan is carried
out by the Agricultural Research Institute at Sariab, near Quetta, where a
large proportion of the province's program of experimental work, especially
with deciduous fruits, is conducted. The Institute has major research sec-
tions covering economics, botany, entomology, plant pathology, agricultural
chemistry, food technology, and wneat, potato and vegetable botany. The
Institute, headed by a Director of Agriculture (Research), has some 130 posts
for scientists, but only 75 are filled due to lack of qualified candidates.
Most of them are bachelor or master degree holders with only a few PhDs.
Total expenditures for FY 1984 were about Rs 10 M. The Pakistan Agricultural



- 10 -
Research Council (PARC),I/ a federal research organizaticn, supports some of
the coordinated research programs at the Institute. its budget allocation
for FY 1984 for all such programs at the Institute was about Rs 1 M. The FAD
Fruit Development Project (PAK/73/025) located at the Institute has, since
1981, been involved in research concerning deciduous fruits. Some of the
early plantings under the project are now bearing and the project will be an
excellent, close-by demonstration for the ATI. It has five substations at
various locations, including Loralai District which is part of the proposed
project area.
2.27    PARC has also established an Arid Zone Research Institute (AZRI) at
Quetta in 1974 with a substation located at D.I.Khan (NWFP). These research
centers coordinate research programs for wheat, pulses, sorghum, millet,
fodders and medicinal plants. AZRI has 46 staff positions of vhich 18 are
vacant. its annual budget is about Rs 5 M. Because of the acute shortage of
well-qualified scientists in combination with lack of field and laboratory
equipment, AZRI's productivity is still limited. USAID is considering
providing some US$6 M of assistance to be used for the strengthening of AZRI
through a collaborative agreement with the International Centre for Agricul-
tural Research in Dry Areas (ICARDA, Syria). The project is scheduled to
start in the autumn of 1984 and continue for five years. Coordination of
research activities between AZRI and ARI is weak and presently the Secretary
for Agriculture performs this function.
2.28     Agricultural research in Baluchistan is limited in scope.  Before
Baluchistan became a province in 1970, ARI, Quetta was a substation of ARI,
Tandojam in the Sind and the Government of Baluchistan, because of financial
constraints, never paid appropriate attention to developing this institute to
meet provincial needs.  Furthermore, there are no Adaptive Research Farms
(ARF) at district level for refining research findings of practical value to
farmers.  Nevertheless, there exists a limited range of usable technology,
some of which could now be transmitted directly to farmers and some that
would need to be put into an adaptive research program from which a package
of technology more suited to local conditions would be developed. The
FAO-assisted Deciduous Fruit Development Project, for example, offers some
immediate possibilities. New root stocks are available which enable dense
fruit tree populations and early-bearing trees.   Fertilization and pest
management recommendations exist and preliminary findings on trickle irriga-
tion of orchards offer several opportunities for adaptive research. CIMMYT
is assisting Pakistan in its Coordinated Wheat Development Program and which
is sponsored by PARC. The program is staffed by good researchers and
includes work in Baluchistan. In addition to their breeding program, there
is a continuing infusion of new material for evaluation for yield and for
disease resistance as well as other desirable characteristics. Two wheat
varieties, Zarghoon and Zamindar, have been released through the national
varietal release system. Adaptive research would provide further necessary
information regarding local performance. For wheat in rainfed conditions,
there is some information derived at research outstations on varietal perfor-
mance and some adaptive trials have already been conducted on fertilizer
1/ Supported under IDA Credit 1158-PAK (para 2.09).



- 11 -
rates. The area under rice in Baluchistan, the bulk of which is in Nasirabad
District, is second only to that of wheat. As yet there is no research on
rice carried out in Baluchistan but present technology is based on recommen-
dations to farmers in adjacent but similar areas of Sind. For example, IR6
released in the Sind is grown on 97% of the area and fertilizer recommenda-
tions are essentially the same. The difference is, however, that farmers in
Nasirabad receive new cultural and other practices only with a considerable
time lag. For example, three new rice varieties have been released in Sind
over the last two years but are not known in Baluchistan. Similarly, zinc
deficiency and corrective measures applied in the Sind are only vaguely known
in Baluchistan and not seriously tried. Vegetables, oilseed and fodder
crops, on the other hand, are strikingly lacking in up-to-date technology.
Nevertheless, it should be borne in mind that 40% of the cultivated area of
Baluchistan is in the hands of large farmers (owning holdings in excess of 20
ha) and many of these have highly productive holdings which produce yields
comparable with the best farmers elsewhere in Pakistan. Such farmers have
modified recommendations to suit their particular circumstances and plant
varieties again tested under their farming conditions. Such experience,
however, is not generally known to extension workers. Provision is made
under the project (para 4.21) to take advantage of this situation and incor-
porate such practices as part of first generation extension recommendations.
Whilst overall past achievements in the areas of developing recommended
farming practices are limited, options open to the Department of Agriculture
for improving crop yields (generally developed elsewhere) are many. However,
most basic recommendations need refining to meet the area specific demands of
varying soil, climatic and socio-economic conditions prevailing in project
districts. The project would address these constraints (para 4.19).
Input Distribution
2.29    It is the policy of the Government of Baluchistan to divest itself of
the responsibility for the distribution of agricultural inputs and to allow
the private sector to provide these services. This policy, however, will
take time to fully implement and the Department of Agriculture is still
engaged in the distribution of some fertilizer (about 30X), and wholly
responsible for the distribution of seeds, pesticides and crop sprayers. The
remaining fertilizer requirements are met by local agents of private fer-
tilizer companies and the National Fertilizer Corporation (NFC).
2.30    Fertilizer application rates in Baluchistan are the lowest in all
Pakistan. During 1982-83, fertilizer consumption totaled 7,600 nutrient tons
which corresponds to 11.2 kg of nutrients per ha of cropped land. The
nitrogen:phosphate ratio was about 6:1 while use of potassium was negligible.
The low average fertilizer application rates in Baluchistan are explained by
the relative backwardness of the province where its traditionally nomadic
people only recently started to permanently cultivate their lands in a still
ongoing process of settlement. The high risks associated with using fer-
tilizer under flood cultivation or in rainfed areas are also a factor limit-
ing use.
2.31    The seed replacement requirements of 'armers are being met only
partially and then only for major crops such as wheat and rice. The quantity
of High Yielding Varieties (HYV) seed used as a proportion of the total area
planted to wheat and rice is 62% and 97% respectively and which is deemed



- 12 -
satisfactory. The demand for improved and good qnv±lity seed of sorghum,
which is an important crop in Baluchistan, remains unsatisfied.
2.32    The use of pesticides to protect crops, fruits and vegetables from
insect and disease attack is limited. In 1982-83, only about 23% of the
cropped area received some form of plant protection. Total pesticide con-
sumption was about 82 metric tons. Crop spraying equipment is supplied by
private agencies and is imported as well as locally manufactured.
Credit
2.33    Agricultural credit is supplied by the Agricultural Development Bank
of Pakistan (ADBP), and by five nationalized commercial banks, i.e. the
National Bank of Pakistan, Habib Bank, Allied Bank, United Bank and the
Muslim Comm ercial Bank. Whereas ADBP generally meets long and medium-term
credit requirements of farmers (Rs 27 M in 1981-82), short and some
medium-term credit are supplied by the commercial banks (Rs 52 M in 1981-82).
The commercial banks started lending in 1972 under the GOP-sponsored Agricul-
tural Small Loans- Scheme. In addition, Cooperative Societies advance
short-term agricultural loans to their members (Rs 7 H in 1981-82). Never-
theless, because of the large distances in Baluchistan and because of per-
ceived difficulties in obtaining institutional credit and following tradi-
tional tribal relationships, many farmers stili prefer to obtain credit from
non-institutional sources, such as relatives, friends and money lenders.
MarketinR and Storage
2.34    The trading of agricultural produce takes place under a free market
system. However, constraints are imposed on the system due to lack of market
information, village-to-market roads, shortage of transportation and absence
of laws governing conduct of the marketing system.
2.35    The current facilities for storage and marketing of agricultural
produce and inputs are not adequate in terms of easy access to all farmers.
Public sector storage in Baluchistan is 196,000 metric tons which will be
expanded to 232,000 metric tons by 1985. Some additional storage capacity
exists in the private sector. Similarly the storage capacity for agricul-
tural inputs is limited (4,000 metric tons), but can be augmented by renting
within the private sector.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01    The project areas, comprising the administrative districts of
Loralai, Kachhi, Nasirabad and Lasbela have been selected for their agricul-
tural potential.  The districts chosen account for some 62% of the province's
irrigated farmland (372,000 ha out of a provincial total of 598,000 ha) and
only about 6% of the cropped land is under rainfed conditions.  They also
contain the main fruit growing areas and the farms responsible for producing
the majority of oilseeds and pulses.  In addition, all districts are well
served with roads and with easy access to seed and fertilizer outlets of
neighboring Sind and Punjab provinces. These project districts are further
subdivided into 18 tehsils and 10 subtehsils with 1,865 villages.  Loralai



- 13 -
District is located in the northeast of the province, bordering on the Punjab
and the NWFP, with a mean annual rainfall of some 330 mm. Kachhi and
Nasirabad Districts are contiguous and bordering Sind province in the east.
Both districts are partly irrigated by the Pat Feeder and Kirthar Canals.
Annual rainfall is about 60-100 mm. Lasbela District lies on the coast in
the south near Karachi with a sub-humid climate and mean annual rainfall of
about 200 mm. For location of districts, see Map IBRD 18315R1.
A. Land Use
3.02    The project area accounts for 16% of Baluchistan's geographical area,
52% of its cultivated area and 59% of its annually cropped land. Land use in
the project area is given in Table 3.1 below:
Table 3.1: LAND USE IN PROJECT AREA
Geographical    Cultivated    Cropped          Cropping
District                Area            Area        Area         Intensity (%)
__  ___"-- 000 ha Ö-----
Loralai                 1907            135           30               22
Kachhi                  1233            250            32               13
Nasirabad                462            316          300               95
Lasbela                 1825             67           35               52
Total          5427            768           397               55
Baluchistan            34718           1470          675               46
There are about 372,000 ha under some form of irrigation in the
project area as shown in Table 3.2 below:
Table 3.2:  IRRIGATION IN PROJECT AREA
Karezes
District             Canal          Wells        Tubewells    SprinRs    Total
------------------------- Q00 haÖ---------------
Loralai                1.9            9.7           4.0           16.0     31.6
Kachhi                32.0            3.4           0.6            0.7      36.7
Nasirabad            295.0            0.2           0.5             -      295.7
Lasbela                 -             0.9           2.9            4.5       8.3
Total       328.9           14.2            8.0           21.2    372.3
Baluchistan          382.1          34.1           91.4           90.2    597.8



- 14 -
B. Population and Farm Size
3.03    The project area supports 30% of the total population and 34Z of the
farming households in the province. Details of population, number of farms
and farm size are shown in table 3.3 below:
Table 3.3: POPULATION AND FARM SIZE
Total ha by Farm Size ('000 ha)
District       Population       0-2    2-5    5-10    10 ha and         Total
'000          ha      ha     ha       above
Loralai             391         3.9    7.2      2.9          2.3          16.3
Rachhi              308         2.1    6.0      3.4          6.1          17.6
Nasirabad           393         1.2    8.9      8.7          4.8          23.6
Lasbela             187         2.4    3.8      2.5          2.9          11.6
Total     1279          9.6   25.9    17.5         16.1          69.1
Baluchistan        4305        58.1   70.2    38.2          35.9        202.4
C. Crops and Production
3.04    In general, rainfall throughout Baluchistan is insufficient to sup-
port rainfed cropping and consequefitly most crops are grown under irrigated
conditions. Furthermore, development of reliable technological packages for
low-rainfall conditions have been slow to develop, given the past concentra-
tion of agricultural research on meeting the needs of irrigated farming.
With the strengthening of PARC and AZRI (paras 2.26-2.27) the situation will
change but it will be some years before new technology from these efforts are
available to rainfed farmers. Consequently, the proposed project puts
priority on improving extension and adaptive research in those irrigated
areas where the potential for increased productivity is the greatest.
3.05    Wheat, rice and sorghum are the three major crops in the project area
covering almost three-quarters of the cropped land. 97% of the rice is grown
in Nasirabad District and the remainder in Kachhi District. Wheat is a major
crop in all districts except for Lasbela District where sorghum is the main
foodgrain. Other important crops in the project area include pulses, oil-
seeds, fodder and particularly fruit. 80% of pulses are grown in Nasirabad
District, the remainder being grown in Lasbela District. Nasirabad District
accounts for nearly 59% of the area under oilseeds, growing mainly rape and
mustard. Castor represents about one-third of oilseed production, all of
which is grown in Lasbela District where it ranks after sorghum only in
importance. Virtually all fruit is grown in Loralai District. Area, produc-
tion and yield of major crops in the project area are shown in Table 3.4
overleaf.



- 15 -
Table 3.4:  AREA, PRODUCTION AND YIELDS OF MAJOR CROPS IN PROJECT AREA
Crops            Area               Production             Yield
'000 ha               '000 t                t/ha
Wheat             124                    218                 1.76
Rice               114                   362                3.18
Sorghum             50                   31                 0.62
Pulses              32                    21                0.64 Ia
Oilseeds            31                    20                0.65 Ia
Fodder              22                   707               32.00
Other Crops         16                   146                n.a.
Fruits               8                    53                n.a.
/a Weighted averages
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives and Main Features
4.01    The objective of the project would be to achieve sustained increases
in agricultural production in four districts of high agricultural potential
in Baluchistan through the strengthening and reorganization of the extension
service on the lines of the T&V System 1/ and the widespread adoption by
farmers of proven and recommended improved farming practices. In addition to
supporting the Sixth Plan's strategy for the agricultural sector, the
proposed project would assist the Government in strengthening and upgrading
the quality of agricultural extension and research servic.!s. The experience
and know-how gained by the Bank in developing the extension services (notably
the T&V system) and adaptive research, which have been used with success in
many countries, would be passed on to Baluchistan through the proposed
project. The proposed plan to reorganize the Department of Agriculture,
aimed at rendering it more effective, together with the establishment of
research-extension linkages, would also have a beneficial effect on
non-project districts and would provide a basis for future expansion of
extension and research activities to the rest of the Province. The project
would support this strengthening of the extension service over a five-year
period by:
I/ "Training and Visit System"; the princivles of this system have
been described in Benor and Harrison, "Agricultural Extension -
The Training and Visit System", World Bank, May 1977, and more
recently in Benor and Baxter, "Training and Visit Extension",
World Bank, March 1984.



- 16 -
a) Establishing a single line of command between the Field
Assistant and extension headquarters and by eliminating
non-extension activities from his duties;
b) introducing a systematic fixed schedule for regular and
frequent visits by Field Assistants to farmers and for
Field Assistants' in-service training;
c) intensifying extension work by providing an additional
46 Field Assistants, 7 Agricultural Officers and
18 Subject Matter Specialists;
d) improving the mobility of extension staff by providing
2 cars, 17 4WD vehicles, 7 pickups and 233 motorcycles
together with vehicle operating costs and staff travel
allowances;
e) building extension offices and training facilities and
constructing staff houses where required;
f) developing packages of improved farming practices by
improving the linkage between research and extension and
establishing adaptive research farms and field trials to
adjust research findings to meet farmers' needs;
g) introducing a monitoring and evaluation system; and
h) providing necessary incremental operating funds and equipment
for the extension service and adaptive research farms in project
districts.
B. Detailed Description
Extension Methodology
4.02    Under the project, agricultural services would be reorganized and
intensified in the four project districts following the 'Training and Visit'
System and which has been suitably adapted to meet local conditions. Project
staffing improvements would be phased over a three year period. The project
would provide farmers, on a regular and systematic basis, with up-to-date
advice on farming practices best suited to their specific conditions and
emphasizing proven practices which have an immediate impact on income. This
would be brought about by organizing extension field staff so that they visit
farmers regularly and receive systematic training and technical support from
the Department of Agriculture and from research institutions.
4.03    Each Field Assistant (FA) would be assigned to work with a number of
farm families. The number would vary depending on local conditions, popula-
tion density, cropping intensity and accessibility. Based on available
statistics, one FA would cover, on average, about 400 operating farm families
in all project districts except for Loralai District where, without adding
any new staff, this ratio already stands at one FA per 260 farm families.
Because of the large number of widely scattered pockets of high potential



- 17 -
land (particularly horticulture) the FA to farmer ratio would be more intense
in Loralai District than in the remainder of the project area.
4.04    To reach his farmers systematically, each FA would divide the farmers
in his jurisdiction into eight groups of about 50 farm households (32 in
Loralai District) out of which he would select about 5-6 contact farmers as
the principal channel for conveying extension messages to other farmers.
Contact farmers would be from all levels of village society, and would be
selected for their potential influence and willingness to collaborate with
the extension service in following recommendations.  Changes in contact
farmers would be made, especially between seasons, in order to reach more
farmers over time or if they are shown to be ineffective or should they wish
to discontinue this service. FA, during their field visits, would make
special efforts to reach at least all contact farmers' fields; the latter, in
turn, would share the responsibility of organizing and attendi.ag afternoon
meetings or any other village group activity. FA would also invite neighbor-
ing farmers while meeting contact farmers in their fields, and visit other
farmers' fields while moving from one contact farmer to another. Work
schedules for FA visits known to all farmers in his operating area would be
worked out such that the FA would visit each of the eight groups for a full
day once every fortnight on the same day of the week. FA would visit fields
during morning hours and in the afternoon, either hold meetings in the vil-
lage at a predetermined time or hold discussions with farmers. During each
visit, FA would concentrate their efforts on a few strategically selected
recommendations relevant to that particular phase of the crop cycle. The
extension message to be communicated to farmers at the initial stage would be
simple, concentrating on the few important crops in the locality and on the
most important aspects of crop production practices at that time. Initially,
the emphasis would be on low-cost improvements which the majority of farmers
can afford within their resource capabilities.
4.05    This visit schedule would require four days a week.  One of the two
remaining work days each week would be devoted to in-service training which
is crucial to the program. This training would be conducted either by the
team of Subject Matter Specialists at the training centre located at the
Assistant Director's headquarters (para 4.24) or, on alternate fortnights, by
the supervising Agricultural Officer (AO). Through these training sessions,
FA would learn what to recommend to farmers in the next period of visits and
also bring farmers' problems to the attention of the trainers. This close
ongoing relationship between FA and AO would relieve the former of the need
for formal reporting.  Both would, however, maintain a diary of activities.
During the remaining days of each week, the FA would make visits to supervise
field trials (para 4.19), arrange special extension activities, make up
visits missed because of illness or holidays, and cemplete whatever office
work is necessary.  The project would provide for three months of local
consultancy by an agriculturalist experienced in the operation of the T&V
system to help draw up work schedules, select contact farmers, and assist
project management introduce the operation of the T&V system (Annex 1, Table
8 and Annex 4).
4.06    The next-in-line supervisor of the FA is the Agricultural Officer
(AO). There would be about 3 FA per AO. Besides supervision of FA and
provision of the necessary technical support to such staff,- due to the
prevailing land tenure and cropping patterns in the project area which



- 18 -
manifest in relatively highly developed farms and numbers of well-educated
landlords, AO would be required to provide advice to these larger farmers in
addition to their supervisory and training duties. It would also be the
responsibility of the AO to monitor the timely supply of inputs and credit
and to report any shortages to the supply organizations concerned. Like the
FA, the AO would spend eight days each fortnight in the field on farm visits.
In addition, two days would be spent at the fortnightly training session,
which he attends along with his FA, and in meeting with his FA to review
field experiences, dealing with administrative matters and providing addi-
tional training if required. The remaining two workdays in each fortnight
would be devoted to extra visits, demonstrations and other field activities.
The project would provide for a consultant who would define the scope of work
and method of operation of AO and FA in view of land tenure arrangements and
farming needs (Annex 1, Table 8 and Annex 4).
4.07    To provide for regular training, continuous technical guidance (par-
ticularly to large farmers) and ensure proper operation of field work, two or
three administrative subdivisions--dependent on communications--would be
established in each project district each headed by an Assistant Director of
Agriculture (ADA). The ADA would spend at least three days a week on field
visits to review both technical and organizational aspects of the work of
extension staff in his subdivision. During his visits, he would ascertain
whether visits were being made as planned, inquire from farmers about visit
days in their villages, messages learned, etc., and make adjustments as
necessary. Experience of work in ongoing project districts has shown that
once farmers become aware of visit schedules, they themselves become effec-
tive monitors by complaining if visits are not made regularly and in a satis-
factory manner. ADA would also be the organizer, convenor and leader of
fortnightly training sessions, which would occupy part of his remaining time;
the balance would be devoted to administration.
4.08    A Deputy Director of Agriculture (DDA) would be responsible for the
extension service at the District level. The districts of Kachhi and
Nasirabad, which are adjacent and with similar cropping patterns and until
recently were one district, would be jointly managed under the DDA located in
Nasirabad District. The project would provide one team of two to four (in
total 14) Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) for each district; SMS
specialities would include agronomy, agricultural engineering, plant protec-
tion or horticulture, depending upon the specific needs of each district. A
Subject Matter Specialist would devote about one-third of his time to field
visits providing technical support and guidance to FA and AO, one-third in
building a stock of knowledge through regular dialogue with research workers
and by carrying out farm trials, and one-third on training extension staff,
principally at fortnightly training sessions.  One SMS in each district would
be designated Training Coordinator and would be responsible for the planning
and organization (including substance and material) of fortnightly training
sessions. At the provincial level, a team of four Senior Subject Matter
Specialists (SSMS) would provide greater depth of support and training to
district level SMS and handle specializations not covered by thlem.
4.09    At headquarters in Quetta,-the Director of Extension--under the
Director General (a post to be created under the Project, para 4.14) in
charge of both Agricultural Research and Extension (see organization chart



- 19 -
World Bank 26372)--would be exclusively responsible for the day-to-day opera-
tions of the entire provincial extension service. He would be assisted by a
Project Coordinator and who would assume responsibility for carrying the
administrative burden resulting from the intensive development required under
the proposed project.
4.10    Project extension staff would be relieved from all non-extension
duties. However, given the fact that the Agricultural Department has in the
past been at least partly responsible for distribution of fertilizer, seed
and pesticides throughout project districts, it would be undesirable that
these duties be phased out immediately. Until such times as the private
sector would fully assume these distribution functions in accordance with
government policy (para 2.29), new posts would be created within the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, and financed by GOBAL, to handle input dist:-ibution and
other non-extension duties. Assurances were obtained at negotiat.ons that
project extension staff would be relieved of all non-extension duties and a
timetable for this purpose was agreed.
Staffing
4.11    The project would finance incremental staff salaries and travel
allowances (for details see Annex 1). Requirements for key staff (see Table
4.1 below and Annex 6) to operate the reorganized and strengthened extension
system in project districts would be met by redeploying existing staff
presently available in the extension service and by recruiting new staff.
Agreement was reached at negotiations on a timetable for appointment of key
staff required to carry out the project.
Table 4.1: REQUIREMENTS OF KEY PROJECT STAFF
Existing        Total          Incremental
Staff          Needed         Requirements
Director General                                   1                 1
Project Coordinator                                1                 1
Deputy Directors (HQ)               1              2                 1
Deputy Directors (Field)           -               3                 3
Senior SMS                         -               4                 4
Economist (M&E)                                    1                 1
Assist. Directors (HQ)              -              4                 4
Assist. Directors (Field)           5             10                 5
Subject Matter Specialists         -              14                14
Accounts Officer                                    1                1
Publicity AO                       -               1                 1
Field AO                          22              29                 7
Assist. Research Officer            -              6                 6
Field Assistants (Res.)            -               9                 9
Field Assistants (Ext.)          150             187                37



- 20 -
4.12    Additional Field Assistants required would be recruited and trained
at the Agricultural Training Institute at Quetta, starting in late 1984. An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that project staff vould obtain
priority for training at the Agricultural Training Institute.
4.13    Since Baluchistan has no agricultural university, additional Agricul-
tural Officers required would be recruited from about 25 Baluchistani stu-
dents graduating each year from Tandojam, Faisalabad and Peshawar Agricul-
tural Universities. Tnere should be no problems in recruiting the numbers
required over the project period as employment opportunities for agricultural
graduates are limited.
4.14    Additional posts to be filled would include three Deputy Directors of
Agriculture (DDA) at district level and five Assistant Directors of Agricul-
ture (ADA) at sub-divisional level. These officers and Subject Matter
Specialists (14) and Senior Subject Matter Specialists (4) would be recruited
through advertising by the Public Services Commission (50%) or through direct
promotions from within the Department of Agriculture on a seniority-cum-merit
basis (50%). A new post of Director General of Agriculture would be created
to coordinate the Directorates of Agricultural Extension and Agricultural
Research, as this function is presently performed by the Secretary for
Agriculture who has many other duties. The posts of agreed project staff for
the 1984/85 fiscal year have already been sanctioned.
Civil Works
4.15    Staff Housing - To permit FA to make frequent and regular visits it
is important that they live in or near the assigned work area. It is
generally difficult to find housing in the more remote rural areas of
Baluchistan. However, because of the high cost, the construction of staff
houses has been kept at the bare minimum and where at all possible, extension
staff would continue to use existing facilities. As the result of a prelimi-
nary survey, the project would provide housing for about 30% of Field Assis-
tants (64 in total) where alternative accommodation is not presently avail-
able. An extra room added to the house would serve as office-cum-store.
Additional housing would also be provided for senior extension staff and for
professional staff at adaptive research farms (64 in total). (Details are
given in Annex 1.)
4.16    Service Buildings - Office accommodation is at a premium in
Baluchistan and the project would provide office facilities (48 in total) for
the Director General and his staff at Quetta, for Deputy Directors at dis-
trict headquarters and for Assistant Directors and Agricultural Officers in
the districts.  The Assistant Directors' offices would include training
facilities to serve, inter alia. for the fortnightly training sessions.
Three adaptive research farms would be established (para 4.19) which would
include offices for adaptive research staff and Subject Matter Specialists.
(Details are given in Annex 1.)
Transport
4.17    Field Assistants and Agricultural Officers would be provided with
motorcycles and 233 would be required. Subject Matter Specialists would
share 7 pickup trucks, incremental Deputy and Assistant Directors would each



- 21 -
be provided with a four-wheel drive vehicle (in total 7 since 1 is already
available), and for the use of headquarter staff 2 cars and 10 four-wheel
drive vehicles would be purchased. Agreement was reached at negotiations on a
timetable for purchase of project vehicles (Annex 6).
4.18    Motorcycles would be provided to staff on credit terms which would be
repayable through deductions from their salaries in 48 equal monthly install-
ments.  Since staff would have to pay for the motorcycles, these would be
selected according to their choice but the size would be limited for Field
Assistants (up to 100 cc) and Agricultural Officers (up to 125 cc). In order
to ensure staff mobility in the future, the replacement of motorcycles would
be financed through a GOBAL vehicle Revolving Fund established from loan
repayments. The real value of the fund would be maintained by including
necessary funds in the operating budget of the extension service. An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that such a fund would be established
and maintained. In order to permit staff to travel according to their work
schedules, it is essential that funds for vehicle operating and maintenance
and staff travel allowances be maintained at adequate levels. An assurance
was obtained that GOBAL would set and maintain the travel allowance and
vehicle operating and maintenance allowance for project staff at levels
satisfactory to IDA. Assurances were also obtained that funds for vehicle
operating and maintenance and staff travel allowances would be reviewed with
IDA from time-to-time, would be maintained at levels acceptable to IDA and
that sufficient funds for this purpose would be made available in the budget.
Adaptive Research
4.19    Most adaptive research would take place in farmers' fields: the
project would provide inputs to support these field trials at a rate per FA
of two trials the first year, three the second year and four the succeeding
years. To ensure that agricultural research findings are adapted to the
agro-climatic and socio-economic conditions prevailing in project districts,
the project would establish, equip and staff three adaptive research farms.
These 20 ha farms would also provide a demonstration to field staff of
improved farming practices and all would be located in agro-climatic condi-
tions typical of the districts which they serve. The sites of the farms have
all been identified and are on existing government farm land. One farm at
Usta Muhammad in Nasirabad would serve both Kachhi and Nasirabad Districts.
The farm serving Loralai District at Murgha Kibzai, although located across
the border in Zhob District, is conveniently centered and on a connecting
road between the two, northwards and westwards-oriented, wings of Loralai.
The third farm, to serve Lasbela District, is located just outside the dis-
trict headquarters of Uthal. The farms would be equipped with one 40-50 hp
tractor, one 10 hp tractor with complete sets of implements, a full range of
small tools and research equipment.  The minimum requirement of farm build-
ings, together with staff housing (para 4.16) would also be constructed.
4.20    The project would also provide staff for the farms.  The farms would
serve as the operational base for three (Nasirabad District) or four (Loralai
and Lasbela Districts) Subject Matter Specialists (para 4.08), one of whom
would be in charge of the overall operations of the farm. Two Assistant
Research Officers, each assisted by three Field Assistants, would conduct
trials in farmers' fields.



- 22 -
4.21    It would take some time for the adaptive research organization to be
established under the project to produce results suitable for incorporation
in extension messages. Since farming practices of better farmers constitute
the best proven technology available for any given situation, these would
largely form the basis for developing the first generation of extension
messages (supplemented by any existing results from research) to be dissemi-
nated to farmers. The International Maize and Wheat Improvement Research
Centre (CIMHYT) has developed a methodology for the utilization of such
information and involves the systematic collection of information on what
better farmers are doing and why. At the same time, the perceived tech-
nological needs of these farmers are recorded so as to give direction to
future research and adaptive research programs. The project would provide 14
man-months of consultancy to assist in developing procedures for collection
of data and preparation of first generation extension messages together with
the information needed for planning and implementation of the adaptive
research program. This consultancy would also help in the identification and
planning of relevant applied research, working together with the Arid Zone
Research Institute (AZRI) and the Agricultural Research Institute (ARI),
Sariab, Quetta. In this respect, assistance would also be sought from the
contract research program administered by PARC and funded under IDA Cr.
1158-PAK (Agricultural Research Project para 2.09). (Details are given in
Annex 1, Table 8.) For further information, see the "Consultant's Report
on Adaptive Research" in the Pro,ect File (Annex 5).
Training
4.22    Regular training is considered a fundamental and important part of
the T&V extension system and the project would provide a variety of formal
and in-service training programs for extension staff. A Master Training Plan
was prepared during project appraisal and is available in the Project File
(Annex 5). This Master Plan would form the basis of all project-related
training.
4.23    ATI Pre-service Training.  As a result of the closure in 1970 of the
Agricultural Training Institute (ATI) at Quetta, some three-quarters of Field
Assistants (FA) presently in-post in the four project districts are without
formal ATI training. Pre-service training at ATI throughout Pakistan follows
a national curriculum and FA are not considered qualified extension workers
unt-il they have undergone this training. With priority given to project
staff (para 4.12) and with the start of operations at the ATI scheduled for
the autumn semester of 1984, it would take until the end of the spring
semester of 1988 before all project FA would be fully trained. In the
interim and until such times as FA are able to gain entry to the ATI, short
courses of three months duration would be given to all untrained FA at the
ATI. Training would be for 25 students at a time and cover basic agronomy of
crops grown in project districts, paying particular attention to information
to be passed on to farmers in the form of extension messages and how such
messages should be presented to farmers. The underutilized accommodation and
teacher capacity at the ATI during the 1984/85 school year would permit the
holding of all FA short courses there. To help meet these additional train-
ing requirements, the project would provide additional equipment and
materials for the ATI, including a 40-50 hp farm tractor with implements,



- 23 -
farm tools, laboratory and classroom equipment and books for the library.
Details are given in Annex 1, Table 3.
4.24    FortniRhtly Training Sessions.  Central to the T&V concept are the
fortnightly t-aining sessions during which Field Assistants would be trained
on a regular basis. These training sessions would also be attended by
Agricultural Officers. Small, one room training centers would be constructed
within each subdivision adjacent to the office of the Assistant Director.
Training would be practical and concentrate only on specific recommendations
relevant to farming operations in the coming fortnight. The SMS Training
Coordinator (para 4.08) would prepare the material for these traiuing ses-
sions in collaboration with the Assistant Director. The SMS would generally
impart the training, drawing on SSMS as well as specialists from nearby
research stations.
4.25    Senior Staff Traininu.  The project would provide a series of orien-
tation workshops for senior staff on various project-related topics including
operation of the adaptive research program and the T&V extension system,
general management principles, media production, farm management, message
analysis and monitoring and evaluation. All these workshops would be given
by various consultants and the project would provide 20 man-months for this
purpose. Details are given in Annex 1, Table 8.
4.26    Improving the knowledge of Subject Matter Specialists and creating
a regular dialogue between extension and research workers are crucial factors
in the success of the project and these would be achieved at monthly
workshops which would be attended by all SMS. These workshops would provide
regular contact between extension and research, allowing for review of
results achieved, modifying recommendations as necessary to suit prevailing
field conditions, reviewing findings and progress of field trials and
developing suggestions for future research topics and field trials. In
addition, special courses would be organized by Senior Subject Matter
Specialists to improve subiect matter skills.
4.27    To help remedy the acute shortage of agriculturists with MSc training
in Baluchistan, who are needed to fill the post of SMS and other senior staff
positions in the project, 20 scholarships would be provided for two year MSc
courses given by universities in Pakistan, in subjects relevant to the needs
of the project. Selections would be made within the first two years of
project implementation (10 students would enter universities in each year) in
order that successful candidates would be available to the project in as
short a time as possible and also to avoid undue delays in the scheduled
closing of the project. (Details are given in Annex 1.) No provision has
been made for scholarships abroad since such funds are available under the
IDA-financed Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 1158-PAK). The Government of
Baluchistan has already submitted for IDA comments, the names of candidates
and subjects to be studied of those chosen to start studies in 1984.
4.28    Study Tours.  In order to learn from the experience of others
involved in reform of extension services elsewhere, study tours would be
arranged under the project to other provinces in Pakistan and to neighboring
countries with operational T&V systems. Study tours would also be provided
for research workers to international research centers, e.g. ICARD& (Syria)



- 24 -
and ICRISAT (India) and which carry out research relevant to the project
area. (Details are given in Annex 1, Table 9.)
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.29    Under the project data would be generated to measure output, effect
and impact of project actions, thus providing management guidance to those
responsible for project implementation. Monitoring, by continuous gathering
of information on project inputs and activities (timely provision of staff,
vehicles and equipment) would be maintained. A benchmark study would be
undertaken to establish data on the agricultural conditions of farmers,
agricultural practices used, current use of inputs and credit and crop
yields. A series of regular and ad hoc studies would be undertaken to
monitor and evaluate the quality of training programs, development of
appropriate recommendations, regularity and quality of farm visits, adoption
of reco mendations, increased production and consequent increases in farm
incomes. A Proiect Completion Report would also be prepared.
4.30    Monitoring and evaluation in project districts would be the respon-
sibility of the Planning and Development Cell of the Department of Agricul-
ture, which would follow the general methodology and principles outlined in
the Bank's "Monitoring and Evaluation Manual for Agricultural Projects". The
Planning and Development Cell would need additional staff for this purpose
and would be strengthened through the recruitment of one Economist to lead
the work, two officers of Assistant Director's level and three Investigators.
Six months of consultant services would be provided to help organize and
execute this activity. Two four-wheel drive vehicles and funds to cover the
costs associated with the carrying out of studies and related field work
would also be provided by the project. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that GOBAL would: (a) complete bencbmark studies in project dis-
tricts by July 31, 1986; (b) monitor project activities and progress on a
semi-annual basis; and (c) carry out monitoring and evaluation studies in a
form acceptable to IDA and forward results to IDA, once a year by August 31.
(Details are given in Annex 1, Tables 3 and 8.)
C. Project Costs
4.31    Total costs of the five-year project, including contingencies, have
been estimated at Rs 161 M (US$11.5 M equivalent), of which Rs 36 M (US$2.6
M) is foreign exchange and Rs 8 M (US$0.6 M) duties and taxes. The cost
estimates are based on mid-1984 prices. Physical contingencies (7% of base
costs) have been applied to equipment, training materials and furniture (7Z),
civil works (10%) and on other cost items (5%). Price contingencies (18% of
base cost) are based on expected domestic and foreign price increases and are
shown below:
Table 4.2: INFLATION RATE
(%)
1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89
Local                     8.0       7.0       6.5       6.5     6.0
International             5.75      8.5       9.0       9.0     8.25



- 25 -
Summary project costs by component and by category of expenditure are shown
in Tables 4.3 and 4.4 below and details are provided in Annex 1.
PMSTM
JLUMISTM AGRICULTEW. EXBSION S  ALPTIE REMSCH PROJECT
Table 4.3:           PROJECT COST SWARY  a/
(Rupees Million)       (1S5 million)               Z Total
Z Foreign  Ba
Local Foruign Total  Local Foreign Total Exchange   Costs
A. ARICILTtRAL EXTENSION      64.21   12.72 76.94   4.59   0.91  5.50          17       60
B. ADAPTIVE RESEARCH          12.26   6.95  19.21   0.87   0.50  1.37          36       15
C. STAFF TRAiNING              5.03   2.91   7.94   0.36   0.21  0.57          37        6
D. PROJECT AIJINISTRATION     17.89   6.89  24.78   1.2B   0.49  1.77          28       19
Total BASEINE COSTS             99.39  29.48 128.87  7.10   2.11 9.21            23      100
Phgsical Contingencies        7.64    2.00  9.64   0.55   0.14 0.69           21        7
Price Continsecies           18.17   4.58 22.74   1.29   0.33  1.62           20       18
Total PROECT COSTS             125.20  36.05 161.25  8.94    2.58 11.52          22      125
_                                    = ,                = 
Table 4.4:  SWAY ACCOIDTS COST SAIARM    a/
(Ruprees Million)      (t5$ Million)               7 Total
Z Foreign   Base
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreig Total Exchande   Costs
-   =     =  =_
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL YXX1S                          52.70   9.78  62.48   3.76   0.70 4.46           16       48
B. MICLES                                4.86   3.39   8.25  .0.35   0.24 0*59           41       6
C. EGUIPHENT , MATERIALS  FURNITURE      1.77   1.69   3.45   0.13   0.12 0.25           49       3
D. TECWICAL ASSISTANCE                   2.09   8.36  10.44   0.15   0.60 0.75           90       8
E. TMINING                               1.41   0.10   1.51  0.10   0.01 0.11             6        1
Total INUESTENT COSTS                     62.82  23.31  86.13   4.49   1.67 6.15           27       67
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. STAFF SALARIES                      15.85      -  15.85   1.13       - 1.13           -       12
B. TRWLEL OIANCES                       6.59      -   6.59  0.47        - 0.47           -       5
C. OPRATION I MAINTENANCE              14.12   6.17  20.29   1.01   0.44  1.45          30       16
Total RECIRRENT COSTS                     36.57   6.17  42.74  2.61   0.44 3.05            14       33
Total BASELIJ COSTS                        99.39  29.48 128.87   7.10    2.11  9.21         23      100
Physical Contingncies                    7.64    2.00   9.64   0.55   0.14  0.69         21        7
Price Contingencies                      19.17   4.58  22.74   1.30   0.33  1.62         20       18
Total PROJECT COSTS                        125.20  36.05 161.25   8.94    2.58 11.52        22      125
a/  =fn               =   -r_u
a/ Differences are due to rounding.



- 26 -
D. Financing
4.32    The proposed IDA credit of SDR 8.2 M (US$8.3 M) would finance 78% of
total project costs excluding ta73s, duties and vehicles other than motor-
cycles. This includes all foreign exchange costs estimated at Rs 36 M
(US$2.6 M) and Rs 80 M (US$5.7 M) of local costs.  The remaining  Rs 45 M
(US$3.2 M) of local costs (including taxes, duties and all vehicles) would be
financed through budget allocations by the Government of Pakistan through the
Baluchistan Special Development Program. Approval of the project PCI by
ECNEC would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
4.33    Retroactive financing of up to US$0.5 M would be provided to cover
expenditures incurred after June 30, 1984 including: staff training, purchase
of training equipment, consultants' services and incremental staff salaries.
4.34    Since the Government of Pakistan has experienced difficulties in
providing adequate and timely financing for its development projects and in
order to speed up IDA resource transfers to Pakistan and reduce the time lag
between IDA commitments and disbursements, a Special Account at the federal
government level would be established with the State Bank of Pakistan with
two subaccounts (one for each implenenting agency) in Baluchistan.
Withdrawals from these subaccounts would be made by: (i) the Communications
and Works Department for civil work; and the (ii) the Department of Agricul-
ture for other eligible project expenditures. The procedures for operation
of these accounts would be similar to those followed under other IDA-assisted
projects in Pakistan (IDA Crs. 1163, 1375 and 1487-PAK) and are described in
Annex 2. Assurances were obtained at negotiations on the establishment of
these accounts on terms and condLtions and with operational procedures that
are satisfactory to IDA. The establishment of the Special Account and subac-
counts would be a condition to the effectiveness of the proposed credit.
E. Procurement
4.35    Items to be financed by the project include civil works (US$5.63 M),
vehicles (US$0.66 H), equipment, tools, training materials and furniture
(US$0.29 H), both foreign and local consultants (US$0.87 M), training costs
(US$0.13 M), incremental staff salaries (US$1.45 M) and allowances
(US$0.61 M) and project operating costs (US$1.88 M). Procurement would be
carried out by the Department of Agriculture.



- 27 -
Table 4.5: PROCUREMENT TABLE
(US$ M)
Procurement Method                      Total
Project Element         ICB      LCB       Other      N.A.          Cost
Civil Works              -      5.63         -         -            5.63
(4.50)                              (4.50)
Vehicles                 -      0.25        0.41        -           0.66
(0.25)      C-)                     (0.25)
Equipment, Tools,
Materials, Ag. Inputs,-        -          0.29       -            0.29
Furniture and Books                      (0.28)                  (0.28)
Technical Assistance    -        -          0.87       -            0.87
(0.87)                  (0.87)
Training                 -       -           -        0.13          0.13
(0.13)       (0.13)
Incremental Salaries    -        -           -        2.06          2.06
and Allowances                                     (1.33)        (1.33)
Incremental Operation   -        -           -        1.88          1.88
and Maintenance                                    (0.94)        (0.94)
5.88       1.57       4.07        11.52
(4.75)     (1.15)    (2.40)        (8.30)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by
IDA and include the initial deposit and a prorated share of
unallocated funds in Table 4.6.
4.36    Civil Works (US$5.63 M).  Buildings to be constructed would be small
in size, remote and dispersed both geographically and over time throughout
Baluchistan, consisting mainly of standard design housing, offices and train-
ing facilities; these buildings would not be of interest to international
bidders. Therefore, contracts would be let after local competitive bidding
according to government procedures which are satisfactory to IDA.



- 28 -
The local contracting industry is well developed and adequate competition
would be offered. However, if due to the small size of the individual con-
tracts, no responsive bids or no bids at all are received, force account
would be utilized. Vehicles other than motorcycles (US$0.41 M) would be
reserved procurement and therefore not reimbursable under the credit. 11
Motorcycles (US$0.25 M) would be sold to staff on credit. They would, there-
fore, be procured consistent with the choice and the level of staff concerned
(para 4.18). Price quotations would be invited from all local and foreign
manufacturers who have a service network in Pakistan and are from member
countries. The quotations would be supplied to the applicants, choices given
by them collated, and orders placed by the Department of Agriculture. Equip-
ment, tools, materials, agricultural inputs, books and furniture (US$0.29)
for the proiect would be assorted and mostly required at different times in
small lots throughout the project area and would, therefore, not be suitable
for international competitive bidding. Such items would, therefore, be
procured following goverrnent local procurement procedures which are satis-
factory to IDA. Consultants (US$0.87 M) for technical assistance would be
selected in accordance with Bank guidelines.  Training and incremental staff
salaries and operating and maintenance costs ($4.07 M) would be handled
following normal goverment practices and would not involve procurement. All
the above figures include contingencies which amount to US$2.31 M.
4.37    Contract Review - About 130 contracts are expected for civil works.
Since they would all be procured according to standard procedures by the
Communication and Works Department, prior IDA review would only be required
for the first procurement and any subsequent procurement exceeding US$0.1 M.
The balance of contracts would be subject to random checking in the field in
the course of IDA supervision missions.
F. Disbursements
4.38    Disbursements under the project would be completed by June 1990,
about one year after project completion. The six-year disbursement period
compares with about eight years for a typical IDA project in the South Asia
Region, in agriculture. The difference is considered reasonable considering
the small volume of simple procurement and civil works, against which most
disbursements would be made and which would take place early in project
implementation. Furthermore, designs for all buildings already exist and a
1j  Recently the Government has become more reluctant to allow the import
of vehicles (and certain other goods) in favor of those locally
produced or assembled, and has prepared a list of goods which may not
be imported without a special "No Objection Certificate" (NOC) from the
Ministry of Production. Given the previous difficulties experienced in
obtaining NOCs for the import of goods awarded to foreign suppliers
under ICB, vehicles (excluding motorcycles) required for the proposed
project would be treated as reserve procurement and would not be
reimbursable out of the credit. For motorcycles, assurances were
obtained that they were not included in the list of items requiring
NOCs and that there would be no restrictions on imports for the project
should a contract be awarded to a foreign supplier.



- 29 -
Special Account would be established to ensure adequate funding and speea up
disbursements (para 4.34). Disbursements would be against:
Table 4.6: PROJECT DISBURSEMENTS
Credit Allocation     Z of Expenditures
(US$000)           to be Financed    _
1.  Civil Works                        3,600                80%
2. Motorcycles, equipment, tools,
furniture, materials, books          500
a) directly imported                                 100% of foreign
b) locally manufactured                               100% of ex-factory
c) locally procured                                   60% of local
3.  Consultants' services & training    950                 100%
4. Incremental staff salaries,
operations and maintenance       1,500                50% /a
5.  Incremental travel allowances        550                100%
6. Initial deposit in Special
Account to prefinance
items under Categories 1,4 & 5    600
7.  Unallocated                          600
8,300
/a  50% represents an average for declining disbursement rates over
the five project years starting 1984/85 of 0%, 65%, 55%, 45% and 35%.
4.39    Disbursements against expenditures for the following items would be
against certified statements of expenditure: a) payments under civil works
contracts not exceeding Rs 300,000 and those under force account; b) locally
procured equipment, tools, furniture, materials, agricultural inputs and
books under contracts costing Rs 150,000 or less; and c) local and overseas
training costs, staff salaries and allowances and other operating and main-
tenance costs. Supporting documents for these items would be retained by the
implementing agencies and made available to IDA review missions for their
inspection. Withdrawal applications for other items would be fully docu-
mented. Monthly reimbursement requests would be submitted to IDA for
replenishment of the Special Account. Nevertheless, no reimbursement
application should be submitted to IDA for amounts of less than Rs 300,000
except for direct payments in foreign exchange to overseas suppliers and
consultants. Civil Works, incremental staff salaries and allowances and
other incremental operating and maintenance costs would be financed through
subaccounts of the Special Account (para 4.34) and disbursement applications



- 30 -
for these categories should also be accompanied by: a) a statement of trans-
actions on the subaccounts since the previous application, with the balance
certified by the State Bank of Pakistan, b) a reconciliation showing that the
balance represents the amount deposited in the account at the beginning of
the project (or subsequent years) less payment awaiting IDA reimbursement.
G.  Accounts ard Audits
4.40    Current accounting procedures followed by the Department of Agricul-
ture and Communications and Works Department are satisfactory. Audit reports
would include inter alia a statement verifying that funds disbursed by IDA in
advance for the Special Account (para 4.34) against statements of expendi-
tures had been used for the purpose for which they were provided.
4.41    Project Accounts would be audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA and in accordance with generally accepted auditing stand-
ards. Assurances were obtained that separate project accounts would be main-
tained by each implementing agency and that the unaudited accounts would be
submitted to IDA for independent audit within three months of the fiscal year
end, and audited statements made available to IDA no later than six months
after the end of such year. The audit report would include a statement
verifying that funds reimbursed by IDA against statements of expenditures had
been used for the purpose of the project.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Implementation and Operation
5.01    The project would be implemented under the overall responsibility
of the Director Ge.eral Agriculture (DGA) which is a new position created to
ensure continuing coordination between extension and research (para 4.14).
'He would also be zesponsible for operation of one of the subaccounts (para
4.34). The appointment to this post would be a condition to credit effec-
tiveness. The DGA would report directly to the Secretary of Agriculture and
Cooperatives and would be assisted by the two Directors of Agricultural
Research and of Extension (see Organizational Chart). The Director of
Agricultural Extension would be in charge of the entire extension service in
the Province (para 4.09). He would be assisted by a Project Coordinator
reporting directly to him and who would work on matters concerning project
planning, coordination and day-to-day implementation. The Project Coor-
dinator had been designated prior to negotiations and his appointment would
be a condition to project effectiveness.  Also reporting to the Director                  2
Extension would be the Principal of the Agricultural Training Institute, the
two Deputy Directors for Adaptive Research and Training & Publicity and the
Deputy Directors in charge of field extension operations in all districts of
the Province.
5.02    The building component would be implemented by Communications and
Works Department (C&W). Since these works are scattered over four districts,
a Coordinator would be located in the C&W Department and would be responsible
for the implementation of the building program. The Civil Works Coordinator



- 31 -
would also operate the other subaccount (para 4.34) for project works and
make necessary payments, collect bills and certificates of payments made from
field offices, and prepare and submit withdrawal applications to IDA. The
tender committee to evaluate bids on project works would, inter alia, include
one representative from the Agricultural Extension Department designated by
the Director General. The appointment of the Civil Works Coordinator would
be a condition for effectiveness of the project.
5.03    The reorganization of the extension service in project districts and
at headquarters with well-defined responsibilities and a single line of
command and the establishment of research-extension linkages would help
ensure the successful implementation of the project. To complement these
changes, however, it is necessary to look at the overall organization of the
Department of Agriculture in order to provide a sound organization for the
coordinated agricultural development of the province. Because of Govern-
ment's budget procedures, many independent units within the Department have
been created as various development projects became funded under the ADP
(para 2.20). There is now a need to streamline the organization. Under the
aegis of the Secretary of Agriculture and Cooperatives, a study of the
present organizat:on of the Department of Agriculture would be undertaken and
a plan developed to render the Department's organization more effective. The
project would provide three man-months of consultancy to assist the Secretary
in this study. An assurance was obtained from the Government of Baluchistan
that a plan for the streamlining of the Department of Agricuiture's organiza-
tion be prepared for discussion with IDA by December 31, 1985.
B. Project Coordination
5.04    Many government departments and agencies are directly involved in or
affected by agricultural extension activities. In order to provide overall
guidance to the project and to involve concerned government departments, a
Project Steering Committee would be established. The Committee would be
chaired by the Additional Chief Secretary of the Planning and Development
Department. The Secretary, Agriculture, would serve as secretary and con-
venor of the Committee and members would include the Secretaries of Planning
and Development, Finance, Services and General Administration, Communications
and Works, Local Government, Irrigation , Livestock and the Director General,
Agriculture. The Committee would meet on an ad hoc basis from time to time
to review progress of the project and give broad directions in its implemen-
tation.
5.05    For more specific guidance at the working level, there would be a
Proiect Review Committee which would meet on a regular basis before each of
the main cropping seasons (Kharif and Rabi) to review achievements in the
previous season and set guidelines for future operations. The Secretary
Agriculture would chair the meeting, the Director General Agriculture would
be the secretary and convenor and members would include the Directors of
Agricultural Extension and Agricultural Research, the Project Coordinator,
the Deputy Directors, Monitoring & Evaluation (Economist), Adaptive Research,
Training and Publicitv and District Extension Service, the Chief Engineers of
the Communications and Works and Irrigation Departments, the Civil Works
Coordinator, the Registrar Cooperative Societies, Director Agricultural
Engineering and provincial heads of the Agricultural Development Bank (ADBP)
of Pakistan, Commercial Banks and input supply organizations.



- 32 -
5.06    At the field level, District Advisory Committees would be established
in each of the project districts and would review project operations, bring
problems to the attention of the Deputy Director in charge and advise on
action required to improve the effectiveness of the extension service. The
Deputy Commissioner of the District would chair the meeting, the Deputy
Director Extension would act as secretary and convenor and members would
include the District Engineer of C&W Department, the Assistant Registrar
Cooperatives, Assistant Agricultural Engineer, District heads of ADBP, Com-
mercial Banks, input supply organizations and selected farmers. An assurance
was obtained at negotiations that GOBAL would establish according to a
timetable and with membership and responsibilities satisfactory to IDA, and
thereafter maintain, a Project Steering Committee, a Project Review Committee
and for each of the districts in the project areas, a District Advisory
Committee.
C. Linkages between Extension and Research
5.07    As neither research nor extension can function efficiently without
close cooperation, it would be necessary to formalize the responsibilities
of both agencies. The research institutes would assume full responsibility
for the development of suitable new technology, while the extension service
would have the responsibility for the transfer of technology to farmers,
including the widespread testing of research recommendations on farmers'
fields. The research organization would continue to identify and select
improved varieties of crops, and also identify economically appropriate
practices directed to substantially increasing crop production and, at the
same time, lowering farmers' risk. Selected varieties and production prac-
tices would then be tested at research sub-stations and adaptive research
farms and, finally, on farmers' fields (para 4.19). Research staff would
work closely with extension staff, particularly Subject Matter Specialists,
as much of the work at research stations would be in response to the needs of
local extension staff and farmers.
5.08    Strengthening of the arrangements for close coordination between
research and extension would be promoted in two ways. Firstly, the appoint-
ment of the Director General Agriculture would ensure close cooperation and
coordination at the Departmental level and further strengthened through the
Project Steering and Project Review Committees. Secondly, the project would
establish technical committees at the provincial and district levels; and an
assurance was obtained at negotiations that GOBAL would establish and main-
tain such committees according to a timetable and with membership and respon-
sibilities satisfactory to IDA:
Provincial Technical Committee (PTC). This committee would comprise the
Director General of Agriculture (Chairman), Directors of Extension and
Research, senior research staff of ARI, AZRI, UNDP Deciduous Fruit Develop-
ment Project, PARC/CIMMYT Wheat Program and Senior Subject Matter
Specialists. The Committee would meet twice a year and provide a formal
mechanism for review of research and field trials, and for review of future
research programs and extension recommendations made by District Technical
Committees.



- 33 -
District Technical Committees (DTC). Each committee would be chaired by the
Deputy Director of Agriculture of the districts concerned and comprise dis-
trict field staff, Subject Matter Specialists, research workers, irrigation
and water management field staff and farmers' representatives. The Commit-
tees would meet at least twice a year to review and suggest recommendations
for agricultural practices, including the identification of research
priorities and adaptive trial needs.
D. Consultancy Services
5.09    The project would provide for 77 man-months of consultant services
to be appointed by the Director General of Agriculture and covering the
following specialities:
Man-months
Extension Methodology (local)                    3
Training and Extension Planning                 20
Development of Adaptive Research Programs       14
Monitoring and Evaluation                        6
Management Organization Study                    3
Training                                        20
Development of Agriculture Information
and MpAia                                      5
Unallocated                                      6
77
(Terms of Reference for the above are given in Annex 4
and cost details appear in Annex 1, Table 8.)
There is a need for rapid and early introduction of this assistanee into
project implementation. GOBAL has, prior to negotiations, selected the
consultants required to carry out all those assignments identified above.
Draft contracts for employment of consultants would be submitted for IDA
review by October 15, 1984 and assurances were obtained at negotia-ions that
GOBAL would employ suitably qualified consultants for the above assignments
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Formal approval of t1e con-
tracts appointing consultants by GOBAL and GOP were a condition of board
presentation. Signing of the contracts would be a condition to the effec-
tiveness of the Credit.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Justification
6.01    Total project costs over the five year development period, excluding
price contingencies, amount to US$10 M, which is US$25 per ha of cropped land
or US$145 per farm family. Incremental annual costs after the project
development period, to be met from GOBAL budget resources would be US$0.93 H
or US$14 per farm family. These costs are somewhat higher than those



- 34 -
associated with similar projects elsewhere but reflect the low population
density, big distances between farming areas and present low intn-sity of
cropping.
Economic Benefits
6.02    Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of project is
difficult since it is not possible to determine what proportion of benefits
are due to extension and adaptive research efforts and what are due to addi-
tional purchased inputs and other factors.  In practice, it is the combina-
tion of a number of factors, with adaptive research and extension playing the
role of a catalyst that brings the desired benefits. It is also difficult to
estimate acceptance rates of recommended practices.  However, since the
project relies primarily on reorganization and strengthening of an existing
extension structure, the incremental cost is low. Hence, even very small and
slow production increases in the project area would generate a high rate of
return. Due to the speculative nature of the results, no effort has been
made to calculate a precise economic rate of return. However, in a sen-
sitivity analysis, certain calculations have been made on the benefits
required to justify the project investments. These calculations, based on
economic values, show that overall y-ield increases of about 2% are required
to justify project expenditures (Annex 7). This would amount to increases in
wheat yilUds of about 35 kg/ha, of rice by 65 kg/ha, and of sorghum by 10
kg/ha. Yield increases of 3% would give an economic rate of return of 24%.
In fact elsewhere in Pakistan, yield increases have far exceeded this level
where the extension system is operating effectively. One significant feature
of the system is that the practices initially stressed by the extension
service focus on improving cultural practices (timely operations, good land
preparation, proper seed rates, line sowing and weeding) to maintain adequate
and healthy plant populations in the fields. As these operations usually
involve more work and little cash outlay, they are particularly well suited
to the needs of many small farmers.
Project Risks
6.03    The major risk facing the project would be the lack of good education
and training among staff in the Baluchistan Department of Agriculture and its
capacity to implement the project. This is a general problem in Baluchistan
which faces all development efforts and is indicative of the province's
backwardness relative to other provinces in Pakistan. In order to reduce
this risk, strong emphasis has been placed on staff training under the
project, including the training of senior staff (para 4.22-4.28). Also, to
compensate for the lack of training and management experience, a strong
technical assistance component has been included in the project (para 5.09)
and the selection and availability of consultants provided for early on in
project implementation. Experience in Pakistan has shown that project
implementation is often delayed because of insufficient funding in the Annual
Development Program. The Special Development Program, under which the
project would be financed, is less constrained than the ADP and, in addition,
the Special Account (para 4.34), into which IDA funds would be disbursed in
advance, would help to minimize this risk.
6.04    Other risks appear to be minimal.  Farmers  responsiveness to recom-
mendations has been generally good wherever visits by extension staff are



- 35 -
made systematically and where FA have gained confidence in their own profes-
sional ability to introduce improved knowledge and skills. The ability of
the service to develoD and disseminate recommendations leading to yield
increases well above the level needed for a satisfactory rate of return has
been demonstrated adequately. Initially, in most situations, availability of
suitable technology for different conditions has not been a constraint as
there is a backlog of research findings as yet not widely adopted. This is
not the case, however, in Baluchistan where research services have been slow
to develop. Nevertheless, the province is well endowed with numbers of
well-educated progressive farmers who consistently obtain yields well above
average. Thus major yield increases are possible even in the process of
bringing the production level of average farmers to that of best farmers.  To
reduce the risk of technological constraints lowering anticipated project
benefits, the project supports programs of field testing of research results
and development of strong working relationships between extension and the
agricultural research institutes. Furthermore, a separate project, the
Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 1158-PAK), is directed at strengthening
the agricultural research capabilities throughout Pakistan to ensure a con-
tinuous flow of recommendations adapted to specific regional needs.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01    During negotiations, assurances were obtained that GOBAL would:
(a) relieve extension staff of all non-extension duties according
to a time-schedule satisfactory to IDA (para 4.10);
(b) appoint key project staff according to a timetable acceptable
to IDA (para 4.11);
(c) give priority to project staff for training at the
Agricultural Training Institute at Quetta (para 4.12);
(d) procure project vehicles according to a program and time
schedule acceptable to IDA (para 4.17);
(e)  establish and maintain the GOBAL revolving fund for the
replacement of staff motorcycles (para 4.18);
(f)  set and maintain the travel allowance and vehicle operating
and maintenance allowance for project staff at levels satis-
factory to IDA, from time-to-time review such allowances with
IDA, and make adequate budgetary allocations for this purpose
(para 4.18);
(g)  complete benchmark studies for monitoring and evaluation in
project districts by July 31, 1986; monitor project activities
and progress on a semi-annual basis; and carry out
monitoring and evaluation studies in a form acceptable to
IDA and forward the results to IDA once a year (para 4.30);



- 36 -
(h) establish operational procedures for the Special Account
and subaccounts on terms and conditions and with operational
procedures satisfactory to IDA (para 4.34);
Ci) cause the implementing agencies to maintain separate project
accounts and to submit the unaudited accounts to IDA and for
independent audit within three months of the fiscal year end,
and to make audited statements available to IDA no later than
six months after the end of such year.  The audit report would
include a statement verifying that funds reimbursed by IDA
against statements of expenditures had been used solely for
the purposes of the project (par 4.41);
(j) prepare a plan for the streamlining of the Department of
Agriculture's organization for discussion with IDA by
December 31, 1985 (para 5.03);
(k) establish, according to a timetable and with membership
and responsibilities satisfactory to IDA, and thereafter
maintain, a Project Steering Committee, a Project Review
Committee and, for each of the districts in project areas
a District Advisory Committee (para 5.06);
(1) establish according to a timetable and with membership and
responsibilities satisfactory to IDA, and thereafter main-
tain, a Provincial Technical Committee and, for each of the
districts in project areas, a District Technical Committee
(para 5.07);
(m) employ suitably qualified consultants (para 5.09); and
(n) that motorcycles were not included in the list of items re-
quiring a special "No Objection Certificate" (NOC) for imports
and that there would be no restrictions on the importation of
motorcycles for the project (para 4.36).
7.02    As a condition for Board presentation, GOBAL and GOP had formally
approved the contracts appointing consultants under the project (para 5.09).
7.03    As conditions for credit effectiveness,
(a) ECNEC would approve the project PC-1 (para 4.32);
(b)  GOP and GOBAL would establish the Special Account with
the State Bank of Pakistan and the two subaccounts in
Baluchistar (para 4.34);
(c) GOBAL would appoint the Director General of Agriculture
(para 5.01);
(d) GOBAL would appoint the Project Coordinator (para 5.01);
(e) GOBAL would appoint the Civil Works Coordinator (para 5.02); and



- 37 -
(f) GOBAL would sign the contracts for the consulting services
(para 5.09).
7.04    With the above assurances and covenants, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 8.2 M (US$8.3 M) to the Government of
Pakistan.



-38-
PmXSTm                                       AIR=X 1
.LUmns     A8RIQLUM  EXAL.I u x  am       E i ESEND  RJ                Tables 1 and 2
Sarv tcoInts  b Tsar
Totals Irluding Continiarcies
(Rupm '000)
Table 1 1/
84/95    85am6    8687    87/98    9B9/9    Total
_==z==Z=   =                          ==
1. DKES CIISIS
A. CIVIL   S                        14,132.52 27,344.74 25,773.77 11,505.21      - 78,756.25
1.   IBES                             4893.16 3,355.18 1,063.25         -        -  9,301.60
C. E0DIPIN  s, rATRiLLS , FtIIITUE      968.46 2,116.48   950.33    61.55         -  4,096.83
D. 7EDIIM  ASSISTANCE                S5016.54 3,919.00 1,936.92   955.27   413.23 12,140.96
E. TRAINING                             312.31 1,011.36   451.01        -         -  1,774.69
Total IiIESTNENT COSTS                 25,312.99 37,646.77 30,175.29 12,522.04   413.23 106,070.33
II. rEDOR    COSTS
A. STrAFF SRUIAEB                    l18.21 4,050.93 4,725.37 5,032.52 5,346.65 20,343.6
. TRPAEL A.LIICES                      354.14 1,511.71  2,060.67 2,215.92 2,354.24  89516.69
C. UFERAnTI Z HTrAbEJNCE             19944.24 49338.01 5,481.51 69884.51 7,669.57 26,317.84
Total RECLURRET COSTS                   3,486.58 9,900.65 12,287.55 149132.95 15370.46 55,178.20
=  ==   =                          =         =      
Total PROJECT COSTS                     28,799.57 47,547.42 42,462.85 26,654.99 1573.69 t61,248.52
Septber 26, 1984 14:11
ProJect Conmts by Year
(Rues Nillion)
Table 2  1/                                                             TouI
ase Costs
(USS
84/BS 95/86 86/87 87/9 8a989 Rures Million)
= = =  = _= =_
A. AGRICiLTI3& EXaENSIUN    12.06 22.82 22.94 12.65 6.47  76.94    5.50
B. ADAPTIVE FESEARCH        4.10 4.97 5.30 3.56 1.28  19.21    1.37
C. STAFF TRA1ININ           2.52 3.30  1.41  0.35 0.35   7.94    0.57
D. PROET ADMINISTRATION     7.20 8.48 3.26 2.92 2.92  24.78    1.77
Total DASBELE COSTS          25.88 39.57 32.91 19.48 11.03 128.87    9.21
Pbisical Contingencies      1.93 3.13 2.64  1.38 0.55   9.64    0.69
Price Contingencies        0.99 4.85 6.91  5.79 4.21  22.74    1.62
Total PROJECT COSTS          28.80 47.55 42.46 26.65 15.78 161.25   11.57
= = =3 = =3 = ==
Taxes                      2.84 2.65 1.28  0.66 0.70   8*14    0.58
Foreiin Exchanßt           9.33 11.04 8.1? 4.70 2.79  36.05    2.58
Sutamber 26. 1984 14:12
1/  Differences due to  rounding.



-39-
Pow"20                                                                      Ai4lC   I
mmosrWM ~Mu.RW riuM AM 4TVE NEEM  MMTbl I
DhMIOd Coat T*1.
omutm                                      Totasllo .1dzm Catznwcans              Ph,.
Coat. ra.. Greos Swam,
out     MM1  MM11  WV13  WINS WV Tat.  outA Dart  011    OYU6   WV0   VIM3   MM    Totl   9.2,  amb. Ta. Rt.o *cmAt
I. DOSAWa
k  wct. Fewralm  Uhf,                                     de        0.5  0.5        -        -     2      1.147   625.2  679.2                          1    .311.3    L 0.1 02     0      el
546-206. So=V2  32201                                                                                                 632.2  679.2       -       -      -1.311.3
haul.. Eu...                                              in        0.5 0.5      -    -    -       I        110    4624  4574                             959.5      11.25          G      el
P.suct Cawasec2a,                                         No        0.5  0.4     -    -    -       2        446    251.7  273.        -       -      -   13.3    0.1  0.25          0      a
but. Oa,wcta hOwli. 1Wvm..4                               ig        0.5  0.5     -    -    -       1        446    24.7  273.6        -       -      -   13.3    0.1 0.15           0      CB
smofter Iwact hhUe. 9wz.1zst.                             95        0.s  0.5     -    -    -       z        44    254.7  2n3.6        -       -      -   313.3    0.2  0.25         a      a
btszta,t huLC. TMMNaf                                     go        04  04.5     -    -    -       I        446   251.7  2234         -       -       -   5Z.3    0.1  0.25         a      el
0mus~hwta.L    t  PdaI=t.                                 MO        0.5  0.5     -    -    -       1        446    254.7  273.6       -       -      -   13.3    0.2  0.25          0      CB
-                b~~~~~~fnmIta     ottuew  1P3*lzeltu)                     a5        0.5  0.1      -    -      -    2        446    254.7  273.         -      -       -   13.3    0.1  0.15         0      El
S6-Tota  STAFF  019                                                                                                  .M00. 2.131.7       .- 0.1229.
C. Vow=mE
tinWWI Jmw                                                $9          5    5        -    -        10        220  1,119  0.276.9       -       -        -  W.67   0.05  0.1        0.1      GO
Stoacul.                         00          2    -    -    -            ~     ~ ~~~ ~~~~           ~~      ~ ~~ ~~              ~~~~~2 13    3.1 -   -  2 3.2   0.05  0.4    O.M  9
56-tota  906.MES1                                                                                                   2.667 2.2)69         -       -      -20.
1. 1319002
Slzd.P,o.,Ktor                                      95                2    -    -    -    2            1is            42.5                           412 0.07. 0.            25CA C  a
0,,bOdP.scta.                                          a0                2     -    -    -    2            6             14.2      -               -    2.20L070.4            0.M       a
Taw  btu . do5No                                                        4           -    -      4          2        -    9.5                             P    .5 0.070.A      0.2       a
Cm                                                     95          .    4    -    -    -        4          2        -    9.5       -                       .5 0.07 0.4        0.M       U3
Mmko-comette Bm46di                                        2     -    -    .      2          3        -     7.2                             7.10L070.4          0.35      to
Pm*ieIOdm   hmta.                                      00          -          -    -    -       I         122            10.2                            1    4.2  0.07  0.4  OM2       a
fosduzrdKztt                                          SET               I     -    -    -       1          2       -    2.4                       -      2.4 0.070CA          0.5      a
six*&   Uw  tOA                                       SET                I    -    -      -    I           2        -      .2      -                       .2  -C.0 LA.   0.25          Ul
0u46ucau.tt.he4gt1Ibuta.                               90                I     -    -    -    2           25        -   29.        -               -    2.5  0.07  0.4    0.2           Ul
fp.abfr 6       - to.    I    -                                                                 I          25       -29.5 3                             29.5 0.0704            0.3      U
,dmo.ks                                               SET          -    I    -    -    -    1             so        -59.3          -               -    5.30.070.S             0.1      U
hi VMIS 201Tef
TrautwfSo .                                         No                I    -    -    -       1        220        -2130.0            -       -        23.00.07 0.7           0.2      a
biwesmuIs                                             sET          -          -    -    -       I         10        -106.7         -       -       -     06.7 0.07 0.5         0.2     U
f6mr r,uwn                                             U                 2    -    -    -       2         20        -27.7          -       -       -    27.70.07 0.            0.3      Ul
raw Swam"                                go95              2    -    -    -       2          1        -    2.4       -       -       -      2.40.070.5           0.3      U
hhtmuuIlmISmmumeaa                                    SET                I    -    -      -     1         50        -   VA.        -       -       -    59.1  0.N   0.9          0      a
Os,malturalTmml                                       SET                I    -    -    -       I         20        -  21.9        -       -       -    12.9 0.070A            0.3      U
Im,h  ImMfaml                                         SET                I    -    -    -       1         20        -   23.7       -       -       -    23.0.07 0A             0.3      B-
Fnnt ,gc,uaivuunsut                                   SET                I    -    -    -       I         ig        -   33.6       -  -        -        25.6  0.07  0.0        0.3      U
Sub-TetaI iargmltw.2 Tmomaw  itt!                                                                                         612.9 7                         621.9
2. 464u Cauta
p7mul6ToW1                                             MD                2    -    -    -    2             3        -    7.1               -      -      7.10L070.2            6.3     U
Lift Tahl.                                             a5                I    -    -    -       I          2        -    2.4       -               -     2.40.07 0.2           0.       10
Omai.glEmai.mt                                        SET          -     I    -    -    -       I          5       -      .9       -                       .90.0704            0.5      a
nectn   1- 0t4,                          m                 I    -    -                      20             21.6      -                      12.6 0.07 0.6        0.3      El
Fhofa Cwsm                                             95          -    I    -    -    -        I         so            94.6                            WA- -    9 .60.0 0.6  0LS       U
PurtaIble   vataur                                     No                I    -    -    -    1             5 229.5                 -       -            29304L7?0.6            0.3      ER
Swb-Total mod2. Cant.                                                                                                     232                             2I3.2
3. Oaraie 1"Wmamt (mg stt,.,2
ElmctntuliT~ator0                                      95          I    -    -    -    -    2             20     23.0      -       -       -       -    22.0  0.07   0.6       0.3      U
Twunwsvt                                               go         22    -    -    -    -    20            12  122.3        -       -       -       -   132.3 0.070L            0.3      a
-                I~~~~~~h4. Cwgar                                        a5          I    -    -    -    -        I        95      0.2       -       -       -      -    98.20O.070.4            0.3     U
NA mkcla2m1.a                                          AG          2    -    -    -    -        2          3                                                   L. - - -    L6.00   0.3  a
Ptm  .122f01.tw                                        46         2s    -    -    -    -    is            .  0.3 8                 -3-             -     1.   0.07  04         0.3      Ul
1*total lEft. OMiin  (NW. ometVi                                                                                  2S7.4       -       -      -            257.4
S4b-lTotl. EE21N                                                                                                      257.4  771.2       -       -       -  1,672.
C. F461, Idga uto. mmAs.1 at? mlc
T*2,e twU W5                                                          -    2                       I 1        I        -    3.6       -       -       -     3.60.0.0.LO           0.2      El
Ta*1*mr Oflicems                                          95          -    0    -    -    -    20           2.5       -   29.9        -       -      -    29.90.070.0             *.1     ED
Tablanfor Ltaff                                           in          -   25    -    -    -    21             I       -   17.9        -       -      -    17.9 0.0  0.05          0.1     a
Outrforn                                                  o           -    I    -    -    -        I          I        -    2.2       -       -       -      1.2 0.070OM          0.2      El
Doi's a,for  wm,r                                         no          -   20    -    -    -    20           0.2       -    2.4        -       -      -      2.4   0.07 4.0        0.1     a
025s06m Dirs                                              No          -2080      -    -    - 100          0.25        -  29.9         -       -      -    291.9 0*0.LO            0.1     a0
0t,dd  d rI,                                              00          -   20    -    -    -    50         0.14        -    0.4        -       -      -      0.4  0.07 C.0         0.2     10
1?wd otrasfltr  icmr,                                     no          -   13    -    -    -    23         0.9"        -   25.2        -       -      -    15.2  0075..0           0.1     to
Sidrb.w! t?r Stat?                                        W           -3A        -     -    -  30          0.3        -    23.6       -       -       -    13.6 0.07 0.0          0.2      u
stm2 Call,uto                                             W           -   le    -    -    -20e             1.25        -  26.9        -       -       -    24.9 0.070.  0.0                101 
Stud.                                                     MD          -231    -    -    -213                0.2       -    1.6        -       -      -      2.60.067 0.           0.1      El
Sw6-Tota FAaotpw, IdlaeUta  Unwals aMmi)                                                                                 -   20.5                             5.
TOWa  0009507T 0521                                                                                                    4,419.15 UN -A                        -P50.



ANNEX 1
_40_                                                                            Table  3
Page 2 of 2
Paragonm
taoustit                                  Tatals Irwlodgo   wtraazaa s            no.
11. IlE9iV7 C1572                                                                                                                                                     Cast far. F  In.     to-w
uit      wo di s4ir  m"W  wAS 3       Tw9   rest        sIM    M"   564     3719 flu'  Tfal   now Et. L   Ta lam  tut
a. T.-,c.e..  S.af" Salaries ,a                             _        _    _    _
Z..r^-t  Sew4:                                    staff-war    0.5     1    1    1    2  4.!          57.9    314    67.    72.4   77.1   31.9   330.9  0.5    0              0    St
Ptoss  :,crl:ncar                                   staff-war   0.5    I    1    1    2   4.5           34.2    10.7   40.1   42J    454    49.5   295.8  0.05    0             0    St
eSt    .    --r &drtit.e raa.sv                     staf-war    0..      1    1    1    1  4.5          34.2      I.9   40.    42.8   454    4T.5   195.0  0.05    0            0    SO
Sasir 9.:rct latter Smc:a aiss                      staff-war       1    4    4    4    4    17           44    40.0  2064   220.5  234.9  24?.    W5. 4  0.05    0             0 o   S8
-,rsas∂ 'IEq                                        staff-wo.       -    I    I    I    I    4            a         -   51.4   55.1   39.7   62.4    a,.a   0.05    0           0    SIL
SS.L r '.I   n   aIs  5) ta-WT    2.                                    2    2    2    2   9.5         30.2    20.9 P .7    95.7  301.9  10.3   416.5  0.05    0               0    St.
!-ostsatos (IZ'                                     staf-war    4.5    3    3    3    3  12.5           17.2     9.4   00.,   64.4 M.    73.1  21764   0.45    0                0    SA
9:. 4altrr-a-            CY,rami;                   staff-Wr    0.5      1    :            I  4.5      3J.2    20.9   44.1   47.9   51.0   54.1   2TS.7  0.05    0              0    SL
issistint Direptor Trar. s                          stuffwar    0.5    1             I    1  4.5        3.1    14.4   35.3   37.7   40.2   42.7   172-J  0.05    0              0    S4L
iss:stat*  lrectc  Pujant.                          staff-war      5    1            I    1   4.5       30.1      4.    35.3   37.7    0.2   42.7   172.3  0.05    0            0    SA
Z-'ral,a' r ?f'irs  (shblinte'                      staf'-wa?    0.5    1    I    1    1  4.5           ±9.9    10.0   23.2   24.0   26.4   20.1   113.3  0.05    0             0    SL
r:m 1n-itrPtttvatftet                               steftwar    0.5      1           1    1  4.5        17.2    '.4    20.2   20.5   22.9   24.4    99.5  0.05    0             0    SIt
cers.a1 lIssastt t*3 Dtrr.ow? Sreal                 staw-f- w      .5    : ±         I    1  4.5        23.1    12.6   27.1   23.9   30.9   32.7   132.2  0.05    0             0    StL
acc-,s 2f':cer                                      sta,-war    C.             I    I    1  4.5         26.3    14.4   30.9   32.9   35.1   37.3   150.5  0.05    0             0    S.
t:e  S. v;rdmn                                      stef-wa    1.5       1    1    1    2  4.5          26.3    14.4   30.9   32.9   35.2   37.3   150.5  0.05    0             0    Se
Stor.o-Trzsts                                      s-war    1.5    o  *             6    6 25.5        19.7    39.6  131.7  1404   149.7  19.0   611.6  0.05    0              0    SA
Serr C1~.ts!Stv'.e.n-.-                             staff-war    1.5    5    5    5    5 31.5           124      204    73.9   71.9   04.1   99.3   346.?  0A5    0             0    SA
Junac. 'tessfTw:sms                                 s,taff-wr       !    4    a    4    4    17           12    13.1   56.3   60.1   44.0    O.0   2*1.7  0.05    0             0    S.L
staff-wa.           1 ;    0   13   10   10   '3    13.5    37.7  15.1  144.1  355.4  163.0   432.2  0.05    0             0    SA
Fprs                                                staff-wa        3   12   12   12   12   51           9.7    31.9  136.0  145.9  135.3  165.0   634.5  0.05    0             0    SA
St-ToTal  :mrmota  Staf Salaris ;a                                                                                396.3 1.337. 1a.43.1 1.520.9 1.615.8 6.299s.
3. Staff 1a1l ant f       ait  llOowet 4,
!. T¢c-~.oeca: Staf'
h.cttr SGnral                                    staff-war    0.5    1    I    I    1  4.5              9      4.9   10.6   12.3   12.0   12.1    31.5  0.05    0            0    TM.
ProXelc   a     r.     - M   .SSISoroast         staff-wa,   2.5    9    e    9    9  34.5            7.0    21.3   73.    7L2   93.3   U.s   344.4  0.05    0               0    TM.
Assista,t 2:.rrta-s                              staff-war       !    4    4    4    4    17          4.0      5.2   22-5   24.1   35.6   27.2   104.7  0.05    0            0    TM.
FSP                                              staff-war    0.5    I    I    I    1  4.5            5.9      3.2    6.3    7.3    7.7    L2    33.2 0.05    @              @    TML
AD                                               staff-war    0.5    :    1    1    2   4.5           94      5.2   22.3   12.0  12J   13.6    ss.0  0.05    0               0    T1IL
Pmtase r.we .rs stsatan                          staff-w         1:    4    4    4    a    17         *.a     5.2   22.5   24.1   25.6   27.2   104.7  0.05    0             0    TMl
7r5   .                                          statf-wt        3   10   10   10   30   43           6.3    20.6   73.9   79.9   04.2    5.3   346.9  0.05    0             0    T4L
,-Cotai :c.          SUaf                                                                                        65.7  270.9  25.9  351.1  2MA  1.04.3
-'r.otal Trawl Alicoaf    r t    autEssns SaF
sraruliart f:c,rr                                staf-war    D.5      1    :    I    1  4.5           5.4      3.9    6.3    6.9    7.2    7.7    30.9  0.05    0            c    Tat
t-hTotal Staff Tral ad 3ail. Alio_cs lb                                                                            60.7  227.2  242.5  250.3  274.4  1.071.2
C.  riwe Garratiss Costs IMS Offi:-e
stat:onary                                               IT       0.5    1    1    1    1  4.5            20    10.9   23.4   35.2   27.0   23.9   1L12   0.05   0.3          0.2     W
-=star. Tplnrasf                                      HuNT        0.5    1    1    1    1  4.5             5      2.7    5.9    6.3    6.7    7.2    2rT1   0.05  0.3         0.2      P
T1loo                                                 SCOO        0.5    I    : I       1  1 .5           20    10.9   23.4  25 7 27.0   2.1  I32 0.05 0.3                    0.2      P
L'til:t:s ;E ctrts  Gas. Matr.)                       haNT          -  0.5     1    I    1  13.5          20        -    11.7   25.1   27.0   2L9    92.6  0.05  0.3          4.2    up
Liserues                                             01Tff       0.5    1                 1  4.5          0    32.6   70.3   75.3   00.9   3.7   35.6  0.05  0.3    0* P2
Printinr                                              SCO         0.5    1    1    I    1  4.5            30    11.3   35.0   37.7   40.5   43.3   172.1  0.05  0.3           0.2      W
StW&Lis                                               A  JIT      0.5    1    1    2    1  4.5             9      4.4    9.3   10.0   1o.9   114.    46.1  0.05  0.3          0.2     W
SatI,o ta! Ofur, frratin. Casts Il Oifficem                                                                        77.8  173.6  204.   219.3   25.5   916.3
9. lada Cot, Opraln  ailts
Draae:s 1Gra.Ns taterials                             0900          -  0.5     1    1    1  1.5           10       -    3.3   12.4   13.    14.4    46.3  0.05  03            0.2     DP
Fri.sing Ratr:als                                     SCO           -  0.5     1    1    1  3.5           40       -   23.4   50.2   33.9   57         1 05.3  0.05  3.3      0.2     GP
P7.talrwtac Materials 1 Prsrssi                       fiOT          - 0.3      1    1    1  3.5           00       -    5.8   12.6   13.5   14.4    46.3 0.05    3            0.2     w
P,*lc:ta. ir.zclIral Fairn                           010C          -    .35         I 1    1   3.5       50       -   29.2   62.3   67.4   72.2   231.6  0.05  0.3           0.2    GP
S.,dracs                                              NeT           -  ;.5           I     1  3.5         10       -    5J    12.6   13.5   14.4    44.3  0.05  0.3           4.2      P
sA-Tatal PoCI. Centre ),rrtirg Costs                                                                                  -   70.1  13.6  261.9  173.4   535.9
E. Fu:lCding Raartesa,c Costs
Sasser hiulevis                                        Tm-    16.2   34.7    D.1   39.6   127.   0.05 0.15                                                                      0     GP
Staff li,S:ss                                         50037Ö-    51.0  10'.2  216.7  124.4   401.3  0.05 0.15                                                                   0      P
S.F-Tswal Ialdi *astarve til-s                                                                                        -   67.2  :43.9  153.2  264.0   522.9
F. tL'nu!p Orevat;rd Casts /C
Car                                                      IS         I    2    2    2    2    9            40    43.4  93.2  100.5 109.6  117.0  462.7  .G5  0.5               0.2     DP 
a as.. Or:,.                                            go        2.5   10   10   20   15 42.5            63   170.9  733.2   71.7  355.4  921.7  34n.4 I  0.05   0.35         .2      P
SA-ratal Wharie tOr atin  Casts /C                                                                                224.2   26.2   a2.2   64.2 I.03.1  3.w92.6
5. 'aritr-is   nC EvaZ.aWao
!ai &Mrstud.                                                             2    -    -    -    4           290   393.1  42.5         -      -       -   915.6 0.05    0           0     OP
A  -W PESli Slues                                       AO               3    3    4    4    17          150   491.4  529.2  5363.9  BN.    50.3  3.2 .4   0.05    0            0     OP
St-Tofal kon:mtr   ai E.oaluatasn                                                                                 94.5  950.7  sz.e   moo.5  ase.3 4.050.0
Ttal MECIP!T C0S                                                                                                    [.641.5 3,457.8 3,625.8 4.07.4 4,3*2.5 17.356.9
,ota!                                                                                                                6.13e.6 9.479.1 3.625.8 4.079.4 4.352.5 26.66.4
/a  4115/I  staft sa!ar:  ard alOloacn  based on mra. onlr_no t of 4 ats at ta:i  Le Staff   rsn    iicatd
lb  Trawl *:lra       c wrat  ataomelel Plus Dalo AOlloaes Ifor ftad.lods: trS .) for  I                 te ntal stafr. Trm?l Allaonce oOis fr instant staff (Iuch anstittas inrcourstal est).
Jr i4/M  wwIchi Yr,a:fl  costs based an as ra-taia of son ack nc at:r  of tairr the rador indrcated.
Sat r 26. I24  13:36



-'4-
PSIrM                                                                         4715EX I
MKAfl7SI I3JKWA  7a5151 M 43361123  WSEIRD  3327                                                          table  4
Tablr102. LMA! 013131                                                                  P.1g., 1 .'?2
Mailed Enst Table
(alrow; 'No
-  _____________-----------------             ---Cot. ro,.   St..,  Iwo'..
tot    PS5OMEflhlit  U           IO91  K   Toisl lt out C 043t  93106   U6/7          8  WIN 09   Total   Rate  E00. .  uT&R. &~At.a
6. Sense.f bImosn
asostist Snemi, of asnosllre  Office                   Id        0.3     2  0.3      -     -    2        a62   39.7  441.2   273.7                       11-111.7   0.2  0.25      2     tB
O.ncuhiw oOffico. Off icy                              go          2    2    4    -             a         212   225.3  W0.2  I.36.2         -        -2.429.6   0.2  0.23          2     cm
Emognted ter                                           me                      I                3        1ig   229.9  171.8   203.9         -             152.6   0.2  2.25       0      tof
C  tCle. .nih hots libs  fmm                           33 l        -          .3  0.3            1     2.239        -       -  1.417.V 1.525.'         2.9m34    0.2  2.25         0      22
Sdb-Tota  Sonic  MIsl...                                                                                           .1.   P.53!203.62.323.4              -6,746.0
hoot. Diroci, of ",rDcIUMP                             *         5.5  0.5     -    -      -    2         743   424.3  055.3                 -            U.2    LI1 0.23          a      cm
Ioassta.t boots,. or Aoncita-                          U           -    2      I    -    -       2       446        -  517.3   53054        -            .3l    0.1 LOS5           0      c1o
Smlart Sette  Snesa.IsL                                MD                -     2    2           '        406        -       -          t.,.Z 42.2   -2.03.7   2.1  0.25            0     cm
-                        ewoliaw  SOfas, Itotassod                               N           2Msc  2    3    2    -       1        446   300.4 1,140.5  20757.4  W I21.       -4625        4.023            4      0
-                       Io~~~~~~~~~~Asaot.ot bordo AofOot,                       0                -     2    2    -    2          446        -       -   3933.   426.1          2,129        t.  0.25      I.   I.'
Field Ooostmt (Eontamol                                No          2    5    5       4          26       23    320.3 2.2,0.  1.497  1.30.2           -4,697.2   0.1  0.2S          0      co
Fieldasossatt c (NW)-    2    2    -    2                                                                I26        -       -   222.'  460.4        -   65.    I.9 4.23           0      £5
Ndad iU                                                            -     -  0.5  0.5            I         2         -M-   220.   22.2               -     M.2    0.1 0.IS         0      cm2
I.odo.Denor                         33         -    -0~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~.5   0.5  -    140    -            0.703              - 29.20O.,0Gas                0      cm
SfrIoOsI Staf boon.                                                                                              1.4545 2.46.5  6.125.2 5.306.4         - 6.310.7
C. LOAa Swbee wttot at SW
2s62owloum                                                        so 5      -     -        -5 o         2.26    In7..    Ö         Ö         Ö         Ö     I   I1  0.3         0.2     Ch
a.O.mmtdls                                           10,00 it          2.5  2.5      -     -              A5        -   209.4   223.4        -       - 422.1   0.1  0.05           a      cm
Motor..Ss                                              as          -           I     -    -      2       223        -0142.1    032.4        -             92-.   0.2 0.25          0     00
Ta.22oll                                               do                I     1          -     2         f         -16.5    390.7          -          741.2    Sd3  0.3           i     CO
S-d-tal Lad loooleoo. cost at IN                                                                                   22.    "9        212        -         - 23U.0
am OffitoaSWTnsmns Cote                                In          2    -    -    -             2          2      4.6       -        -       -      -      4.4   0.2  0.05         0     cO
Lsnnltun Affocot 1ffV Io                                                 -    -                          0.7      64.       -               -       -       .    0.2  0.23         0      OS
lotostat 111reco. of brotsltoiwbosdoo.                 MD          2    -    --    -            2        2.3      3.4       -        --                    3.4   Sd1 0.25          0     coO
Oono.lIaw 091st, iEtataomi bles.                       33          4    4      -     -     -    I        3.1      5.2     5.'                             14.4   0.1  0.25         0     co
Floid *oomstmt Ifotoosoal hoadoot                      33          0     I                      26        .4      3.2    2.9                               7.6   0.1  0415         0      CB
SOT.*Tta  La kooisltsa                                                                                              23.1    9.3         -      -       -     32.4
E. 0.Siloo
4 060.2or..                                            NO          1    2I                      2        220   23. 2   ZN3.'4                            49.3.  0.45   2.4       0.5     WI
PiosT.                                                C0            I    I                      2        160  1753225MA              -      -       -       .bO S4 0.5           0.4     ID
flutomolo                                33~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M  22  24122  -         a ii        3  34.3341.7229.9               -         1.1030.90.23 0.4          4.33      C.
Sd-~TOO.! WoOsel.                                                                                                  22.5027           2.9       -       -29.
F.fac t
E. EoMMA Ca.te
Slid5.  oc.                                         33          -     3    -    -      -     3         Is        -   631.         -  -           -      3.1o4.70O..          2.55     II
IISIOCaIOOOIIOSeW.6                                 No          -           -    -    -       5         2        -  10.6          -      -             10460.07 0.1          5.25     a
Sd*-Total tmroaoo aser                                                                                              -    744         -                    74.4
2. Sortie booed. foc
Faterot. 43,                                        NO                                       I         2 I21     -            142.0      -             141.0  0.0    0.7    0.13      10
Arm ~P2ems                                         33          -     -     2                          .e        -1.                     -       -     2.0.07   0.7    0.215          ED
IaseO.n.                                            3           -     -     2     -    -     1        22.6                     2.:2      -       -      26.0.07   0.7    0.02         ED
Coliioso                                            no          -           I        1 -     2        2 3        -              7.       -              7.290.07 0.7        0.25      03
CG6s 1`0f101                                        so          -           I    -             I 2     .0-I                     4.5      -       -      6.501.07 0.7         0.25     10
Sdat                                                            -           I    -     -      1       7.3        -       .        1      -              94 0.07 0.7         0.23      [O
MAaoIs                                              33          -                                       22       .             4.                -     0     .11.707         0.23      ED
ESoowwlk"ll                                         33          -     -     I                          253                     321       -       -        ' 12.00.7 0.7     L:I!      la
rootlh   Iso                                         3                                                14.3                     20.9              -     20.   1.07   0.7    0.2         aI
Tollew                                              No          -I                                   :9.3                      23.7      -       -     23.7i0.07   0.7    Gas3        ED
eAaer                                               No          -     -     I                 2         22       -              5.4      -       -     234 0.0170.7          0.5      I
oaowotar-cutto.l06.Cr  33  -    -     I    -    -       2      22.3        -       -    41.7       -       -    42.7  2.07   0.7    0.25        17~~~~~41    1.07 7  Is 
Th0eidm,                                            33          -                            1          25       -              2.0      -              2.00.07 0.7         0.25      to
Sbiaa....,                                          no          -        -    -              2         20        -       -     53.6      -       -      35.40.0705.7        0.15      10
Trt.ehm kw-                                                           -                 -o    5         £        -               .4      -                .4 0.070.7         0.25     Ea
froel. ow                                          lo          -                             1         40       -5- 3.3                 -       -     52.0.07   0.7    0.153         co
brpltoio oawtdo                                     No          -                            2       2.4         -             2.        -1 2.3  0.07   0.7    0.25                   E0
IOex Irofl  Ega n-&o.oo                             33          -     -                 -     2        S         -              4.1      -       -     64.10LOY70.7          0.12     E0
OhucoIImon                             13          -    -      2    -    -~~~~~~~~~L  I    5        -6 44                   -              6h .07 0.7          2.25      ED
s-otalo   Mets.. bears Foeo                                                                                         -             672        -            6.1
2. 09th9 CMPaoo
T    it.orta                                        No          2    3      -          -     3         12    26.5   42.6          -                     9.0  0.07   0.4       0.3     (1
hIkCIltoIoto                                        33          I    -                        I          I     3M        -        -                      .3 4.07   0.6       0.3      to
rookt olcetloars                                   No          5    6    -                   1       4.3      2.9    3.5         -6  .350.07   2.6                           2.3      ED
Sd-TotolINOTico Isanoon                                                                                          32.5   46i.2                       -     7.
Sd-Total bolosot                                                                                                    32.3  220.5   349.:                      2.
I.FweoiLur
AisLiost lIbotto  of i6s" ltrt  0006i.                 so          -    2    -    -    -    2           11.7        -   213.0        -      -       -      13.0   0.07  1.05     0.2     El
Aw#titolinoricfftotooicop                              lo3            13    4    -    -                  4.9      5.3   27.2    24.5        -       -     47.1  0.07  2.05       0.2     70
Flold ossototoOOrroeo                                  lo          2    3    3    4             1 6      2.9      6.3   26.7   2V.-   25.3          -    56.2  5.27  1.05       CA1      Et,
T'rajori Cod"                                          No          2     2                      3        9.0    M0.    21.7    12.5         -       -     32.2  0.27  O.05      0.2      En
IN  ats.                                               inl         -                                    92.4        -       -3 23.          -            tS.2 4.i07  .tl         0.1     T.
Sd-Total Formiin.                                                                                                   22.3   33.6   140.2   23.3         -   37.5
TOta 5(5101f MM11                                                                                                   5..96712.1 21.t29.2 46.M0             -2.0.



ASfEX I
Table -
-42-                                                      r~~~~~~~~~~~~age - 0. -
33. P l   CUS                                                                      e ts l_trTu~s Italian C|astiicr                                                    ho.
--MOK" cum  Rawlit.  111,112C  t. F..m  Suoss   Seasaef
. l. aotat  taffataieS        a                          bi.t        6 5141 5M       4 pin  OM   let bit Cast  145   OSY          we      D37      U0    T,Al   SAP   Db  .  l_ate iceat
lait. lats  of ,larclti.                          staff-ea.   1.5       1     1    1    1  4.5         39.3    31.5   44.1    49.2   52.4   55.7   325.   G.05           a        a     3
Astuteet ft.~  ofr , Mnsr                         staff-wa,   4.5       2     2    2    :   6.5         33.6    36.5   79.4      B.T      0.5    9.31   349.4  *4.5      a        a     Sat
S    t  aIT lIrKs1aist                            staff-wa      0.5     a    4    4    4 14.5          32.1    17.5  150.7    3e.9  1713.3  112.0         32.4  0.35     0        0     SL
.incelto,.If Of                                   staff-wa,       -     I    I    I    3    4          32.         -   24.9    21.7   30.6  32.1    11   4.05    6                4     S3.
lot_slas. twinelftfm                           staff-oea      - -         2    2    2       4   2 2.           -       -    57.4   41.1   449    364   0.05          0        a     3W4
tcts.aa.e                                         staff-var.      -    -     ;      I    I 3    1      14.5        -       -    16.2  19.  220.4   Y .14 .5              0        6    liL
Fid 4.sist Ibsolrrbil                             stuff-we,       -           3    3    3       9      10.1        -       -    Y.aj    40.4   43.6   323.3  4.5         0        6    SAL
Offr Seeo st                                      staff-wa      4.5     I     I    I    1  4.5         2.3    14.4    MA.    32.9   35.3    37.3   156.5 4.05    0                6    SAL
Stasutrost                                        staff-v.a.    3.5     I     I    I    3   4.5        13.4    10.0   21.4    21.1   24.6    2.1   303.3  4.015    0              0    SaL
3.Sar C3e,OJStaesOnor                             staff-was,      I    3    4    A  *          I4      11.9    33.6   41.9    5.4   43.5    7.3   245   3.05    0                 0    lam.
er CutsktiT t                                     s        r     .3    4    4    4    4 17.5           11.1   13.3   5L1         5.4   Me.a    @i.1   252.4  6.65    0            4    St
1.aclr,fl7ns                                      sutff-wa.       -    -      I    I    3    3          9.1        -       -    11.4   32.1   12.9    14.4  4.05         0        0 914
Sei                                               s utarf-wa.    1.5    5    5    5    5 21.5          10.7    17.5   42.6    47.0    A.   75.6  234.4  6.05  *@                        SAL
bms"                                                 f-,l, safw   1.5   5    5    5    32t.5            6.4    14.4   51.4    35.1    1.7    42.4   242.3  .A5           0        0    SAt
blare                                             s.taff-lp.      -    -    4    4    4         6       19.6       -       -    64.1  7.4  74.1 211.4 9.05               0        a     So.
Hatofes                                           s         .taff,wa.   3.5    2  2    2    26  .5       6.5     4.6   20.7    22.0   23.5    4.9        55.0  .05                a     39L
3o-Ta    latnenrasastal Staff Salarins'.                                                                          ±5I.2   S5.3   833.2  J5.2  94 .5  3.30
b Sti f  Taserl -  laLIs 431a    lb
1. Imron_d  Stiff
t. lae                                          staff-a      4.5     I     3    :    3  4.5           7.1     4.3    9.2       6.6   60.4   13.3    44.4  4.05        6        0    Tat
A,Sstat hsnO.s staff-war    7.5    2    2    2    2   L.5                                            4.6      2.4   11.3    12.4   12.4   13.4    53.3  1.05          0        0     Oat
Shet Htter  Ws""alat                             ff-a."   .5         0    4    4    *  13.5          5.4      3.2   27.2    21.1    31.0   32.9    I.3  L.IS          0        4     141
vnctmtel fucrs                                  staf-wa.       -    I      I    I    3    4          11.2       -     2.l    14.0   34.9    ml.   56.0  0.05          6        4 a   Ta
5ust_        brrf OffiCer                       staff-ar      - -          2    2    2              10.2        -       -    25.    27.2   26.9  n .7   4.05          0        0     IL
FrUldisssstats                                 vtaff-ar        -    -      3    3    3       9                          -    22.   24.0   2.5         72.1  6.05      0        a     Tat
SW-Tota IrSeul Sta                                                                                              10.0   4.    113.0  3203   U7.5    42.1
2. Ifseal Tr-l alla m ftr Eeista.e  StaT
tnalt   fficrs                                  stff-.v   1.5        4    7    7    7 29.5           5.4      t.4    3.6   4*7        54.4   53.4  131.12   0.5       0        0     1IL
F1tld isustats                                 sLaff-r       t.5    39   55   53   55 Z25            5.4    56.0   20.2    372.1  396J   425.0  342.6   6.05    0              0     34L
,Tel lacra_wta T,sel all r  for CaE-st               Sf f                                                       44.9  2.2    419.4  444.7  474.4 3I- B
it-Total Staff Trl .,   i Oasnls          lb                                                                      74.9   344 h      2.4  57.1  4625 21U2.J
C. Offe", bsrat.t.d at,s
1. Attu         Ha.h F.  IN& SaCs OIM)
Stataasaes                                       flitS       0.S     I    I      1    3  4.5          10      5.4   11.7       .6   13.5    1.4    57.4  3.05   0.3         0.2       P
T*He.tr.lea             I Wr ts                       t      3.5    I      1    3    1   4.5          12      4.5   14.0    I5.1   14.2   17.1    49.1  9.05   0.3           6.2      p
eL I aldBat,Orin                                  fliSW        -    -    .5      I    1   2.5         10        -       -      4.3    3.5   14.4    24.2  3.05  0.3          6.2     up
Uilts                                            fl            -    -   0.5      I    1  2.5          60        -       -    37.7  9L         86.7   211.3  .05   6.3        0.'      p
L tei                                            NOit        0.5     1    1    I    1  4.5             5      2.7    3.6       6.3    6.7    7.2       3.6  0.05  r;3        0.3      P
e-ans                                            llt90T      1.5     1    1    1          4 3 .5       5      2.7    5.9       6.3    4.7    7.2      2.6 J h45  G3         4.2      W
'.-ToTal adu.t. 1I,eent.a  [NW  S               3 OM)                                                           37.4   37.       84.1        37.5   10.4    423.3
. Field Wr
issistt Ihentirs                                 amd         0.5  1.5      2    2    2       6      20.5    11.1   35.6    52.5   533    S.z   213.0  3.05   0.3            0.2       P
4wet'CllT.a  officers                             not          1    a    I       3    6   29           5      5.4   23.4    50.2   S.9   37.6    190.7  3.05  *.3            0.2      P
t-ToTaI Field Off x6.4   59.3   101.7  309.2  117.3   463
S-&-otd  Orfasr OraUm Cats                                                                                         34.0   9.4   1035.0  244.1  26 .4   S.6
L   W   r rats. Csts
Trat         45 N9                                    No          -    -0.5         1    1  2.5        24.3        -       -      5.3  33.0   35.4       DJ      .5  0.5       0.2      W
Tracts.  0t W                                         me          -    -  3.5       1    1   2.5        9.4        -       -      4.0   13.0   14.3    31.1  4.05   0.5        8.2       p
Peberrs                                               56          - w         1    2    2      5         12        -       -    15.1   3.6   3.1         63.3  .05 .    .5      0.2      p
_l_Iets IIIars                                      flit?         -    -   3.5      I    1   2.5        9.4        -       -      4.0    3.0   34.       33.1  0.05   9.5       6.2      p
emplls.    letrciti                                   no          -    -    I    2    2        5        5.         -       -      7.0    12    U4.4      3.6   0.05   0.5      0.2       p
TtsIlse !s         i                                  46          -    -    3 1    2    2      5                   -              133    2.7    2.9       4.9 0.L5   .5        0.2       P
Fae.  cvt                                             .           -    -0.5         1    1  2.5          3         -       -    22.    47.5   1.2120.7  0.05  e.5               0.2      DP
Iftn.d l                                             itL -    -e.s                  1    1 2.5          2.5        -       -      7.    3.7   37.7 T       .2   .05    6          4      P
Sti-TOtl  aF brrtza   -tess                                                                                           -       -       .5  173.6   1.3   44.3
C. Field lmutlratson I Trials
;_ts I HaaiasU                                      fliT        310       a         2e   220 n U5      0.75     6.4  344.2   237.2   ma23    2n.y    94.3  0.05   0.5             1     GP
Se-Total Field hoatretis         I Trials                                                                          69.   144.2   207.2  223.3  239.9   t04J
F. laldas Ra        c  Costs
S rs       d buss                                   aaiTÖ-   13.4                                                                 4.1  140.5  390.2   403.2  *.05   0.35          3     D 
St"                                                    T                -tbe  4   _ _    _Ö-    37.1   329.5  297.3   44.2   916.3  0.05   0.5                                    I      P
Sa-TuIoa  bzlatd rHo e    Casts                                                                                       -   53.5   1854    427.   6 444.  Se nJ
S. Afiacle Oratgt Casts /C
4 owe, Iriw                                           no        0.5    2      2     2         2   8.3  42.0    24.3   34.  157.6  1704   15.9    0 2.   0.e5   0.3              0.2     *P
FacCe   Trea                                          do        0.5    2      2    2    2   6.5        46.3     2.3  307.6   134.4  323.6  U3.5   530.5  0.05   0.5             0.2      W
se-Total o;sr. berird Casts Ic                                                                                     59.2    3.t   270.2  294.3  319.2  -.20.A
Total lcRIIIT cos                                                                                                     4*7.6 1.4115.  2.2m7.0 2.13 3.1t7.9 12135.1
Tot                                                                                                                  3. 30.7 8192.71 3371.2 9.5t .3 3.197.9 t J02.t
/a  ;4ts etar   lris   ad   lsates basd wp air. _Ilit C 4 rbs or  taCe th*. stff Tir    s tinledic
hb  Trawl 1Ulr_   It oerate  stoMIcll r              baile  3lmwcos 1. f  dfet, for a nwal strr. T_el AIaa .c  a]. ft.r  stsars staf Tfid  wasteat    eme ta TIt.
C w8s WIeit   n          wrast    costs d uw   anrav  C cr   oa. hsX   erator, or tlctr th  ste, lodaetod.
SWUM. 24. 1.96  M31



las.-m alM   aims An-10eh11 04.049(0C454 
was nmIAM W     "  WA  blI1O1am   W   1r,1 (.a..                         3..
A P~                                     -~~a   m     4430   mip     ."b    05.    i9 4*    6                 I       2..1    LA1 GA.S.              At601
nsncono....                 a           2  -  -  -  -  iii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t       7         3 . 74            -  '2J11.1 6.13                 
D. 25W.V3 
3n11  U.0r ~~~0 4411.10.60   49       0.1  4.5    -    -    - ~~~~  I W0    2W4.   2734          -              - 233   LI  IIU             S 
3d-.  NIl-3.305.                                              .  f6.1                       I -    0   4.   50.3   W2.,        -         I-         Cs0* L   L0           CMa
hnStw. WOoer                     49          0    2~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ 2 I    7   0    50.3   W 3 I0.M.114    421.      I-VA46      C LIS61        a      a.
ri.I.naal-I.                    49         1    4    3~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3    -    1213    1 461.103420.10404.I     -2.7T4        LILI1S         I      a
m..  v.    m                                                                                   1.231.434    3.13.I1.3  4.2h          'MM83
49696..inIn.aC.r  49..  Li                                                              .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.i *.1 u.n   6  CM
lots.  LAW                                                                                              AM$a 4.    03.0   I-      -        -13.4
0. . 0     300                                                                                                                                          C    J
4  -c-0~3.                                                         -     -    -     -     I21    2332                                     13.   LII  6.4         I
2.Pt'.  CI
I24l.ab                                                     .     2    -     -            3           - .                   -      -     1.SISC               412 
6n.Cd.3 49                                       49a                                        .' - 2    -    7.                             1    .2  L.6   "M  LU 
MaI..uIAoIO                                       5                           -     -     2.1          -     L      04      -A       -       .2.1640I
U. l9volaCM
no64 nt..t l .~  a7                                3d'    -  3S           I    I    I    2' 32.7        -   34.4   C-       .L  'A          460.7LLI OA        a     UL
5*210  06.0  97.O36                                         13    2    2    3          0.  I. E      ..j    11.1   W0.    EL1     -.   no        .4     0      L
11l.44Ols   lift.,                                 3.1       2.     *    4    2    -   .32 V.8        a.:   M3.    04.3   ILa         -.  So.5  14.47            .
Tel  mCI 12                                                                        I 73               2.53  ..OJ 4449..1.431.             - 13.573.
16o6d1491-Wnb kW  W..u. 1b.                     M632           .                         .sn            .   INJ   WA.   aU.   Ias  244.;I 
Lastf 36- . 34        AL0.640-9. 65                                  2                     I2.         3.      51 4.6 6.             16A44 l                              0
h.".0642.n                                            4.           3     2     I4.   3.         a.  a16 3.     3I.  it.             6.a   650       a       I    0
V.   101.Um442-. F.".5W                                           I    2    I    2  0.  2.2                               ": 45 3.  .  1.  32 II          
On..,. l-427.....                                            2            2        2    I  Ila      12.7   22.    34.4   3.4    3.3                                   IL565   
04.                                .1429~~~~~~~~~~~-.n  2.  27  2   3  22  74.6   6;Ii   ML322.023.52WA  4J4.5   a                                   0I
blake                                         flGAINI     .5                          17.31.1       4.4   34.    62.4   MA.   13.612IJ46L:                            Ta 
saon-f  5trini   30*0 3.1-o...'*              "gu                                                     10L2   5.6  la..  7117.632 I"         0.4
4.3770... T-   "Il 43.. ..6 A                                                                       A 20                 L, W0 1
2. DRdad Q..0
0  lb knt.                               ..0..    3.2         3    I       1  I   4.214J        2.42   5.4            4.1VA   . PA    I2 I.E       6        6
n.t'd6~~~~o  Elba    *6427..o.            3    2    2    3    22~~~~~~~~~~~  322    26.3  40.3   ILI5  1743   34L.   L.        S        l
113w3.634                                  .177o         .5   21 21 22 21.92                     KA3.   02.7  242.4  226.   P0.1   44.1649           6       6 
L1..Idftd4j  I.n6 1- 3.77                                                                             21.2 U    0  S  L    242.   13.6  20.4   MA    924.3 L       0
3.  t..2Tno 61m.  1jlo 37
gum     3&VW 177..                                               i     1 2    2         731         16 II.    4.    tLS    WA6   £V16.7           S 4 .6    0    
3l dA-T.w. 10.7 Sosol        I120. i                                                                     34   9.   46.   243.   Sw.  3.434
r.  ftj . 3....  rt. 
-                             49.226l12771eo.s204                                 S          1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L  4  3 6 3    1 J.   3.    42.9   2.9    21.    217.5   LOS  6.2   6.3 
la-Tel 67303o.4.1. 2-44~ftW                                                                                   I.3   M9.7    941   3.4    S-I,
Om    tas.                                            t--Wu.                                                         39.72269 U..0 4271   449  .35                  0     6
1. 0.o. top 6    494



ANTIEX I
PAKISTM                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~Table 6
4AUDIISTM auuaTIN  rM .IO -N ayM  RES    ME                                                             Page 1 of 2
Table 104. 009S330 3191311
DetailSd Cost Table
(BMes '0001
Parasdetrs
Ruantat,                                    Totas aiScisb Cantmdnwcis                 "W,.
_____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___- Cankt.   For.  Gros  Sum mr,
tlit    84A/5 OM36367 VI/M  OM  Totarl Unit Cost  94/U   O5M3             R3     37/11   am/3    Total   Rate  Each. Tax Ratdarms
A. 0PV1M wIUILIS
Assi stant Piroctor of Asraculterm  Office              NO        0.5  0.5      -    -    -       1        326    136.2   200.0        -       -       -    3316.2   0.1  0.15        0      cm
Osriculture Officers Office                             NO          1    2    3    1        -     7        217    247.8   532.5   355.0  304.6         -  1.940.0    0.1  0.15        0      cm
TrazauleCoder                                           No          1    1    1    -        -     3        126    143.3   154.6   165.5        -       -   464.0   0.1  0.15          0      cm
W    mmlre .itA  erftt, Directors or-2re              No        0.3  0.5  0.3       -    -      I      1.943   554.0 1I92.1   628.0          -       -  2.334.9    0.1  0.15        0      cm
Sub-Total S02CC 1WINIt1S                                                                                           1.132.7 2.479.2  1.63.5   304.6        - 5r175.1
3. STAFF lC61I6
Dentrt kroctor of Agricultur                            No          -  0.5  0.5       -    -      1        660        -   409.0   423.7        -       -     400.3    *.i  0.15       0      cm
Assistant Director of Aorsculture                       No1       0.5     I  0.5      -    -      2        Si1   229.0   492.0   263.3         -       -   984.4   0.1  0.15          0      cm1
Sebiect Hater See.iehst                                 MD          -    2    1       -    -      3        401        -   984.1   526.7        -       -1I.510.0    0.1  0.15         0      cmI
fariceltuire Officer (EC motosiu                        W0          1    3    3       1    -    3         401    453.0  1.076.1  1.30.1  562.9         -  4.077.1    0.1  0.15        0      3V
koiistant bserch0ffieer                                 No          -    I    I    -        -     2       401         .   492.0   326.7        -       -  1.010.?   0.1  0415         0      cmI
Field Assistant (Egtmonsm)                              No          2    5      7    '      -    13        206    420.6  1.263.9  1.194.0 1.156.7      -  4M.13.    0.1  0.15         0      cm
Field Assis eintlr IAC)N                                            -    2      3    -    -       3        147       .    360.3   193.2        -       -    553.3   0.1  0415         0      Di
feanmr                                                  NO          - 0.5  0.5        -    -      2        301        -    184.7   1W7.7       -       -    302.3    0.1 0.15         0      cm
Tractor Driver                                          NO          - 0.5   0.5       -    -      1        126        -    71.3    82.7        -       -    160.1   0.1  0.15         0      cmI
Sth-TOWa  STAFF 1609156                                                                                            l.157.6  5.740.7 5.703.0 1,729.6       -1:4.320.9
C. Laid Devliwee  Cost it lOF
La,d Levllu.a                                          Acre        50    -    -    -    -50o                 I    56.8        -        -       -       -    56.3    0.1 0.5         0.2      cm
iater D.uols                                         1000 Ilt     2.3  2.5      -    -    -       5         65    103.6   I99.4        -       -       -   315.0    0.1  04 5         0      cmI
Sulh-Total Laid b.eloesn  Cost at AW                                                                                242.4   179.4                              443.0
3.LadS Aceujistimn
SIM ffice aodTraining osAer                             IC          I    -    -    -    -         I         2      2.3                     -                  2.3   0.1  0.15         0      co
Aoraculture Officers Office                             NO          3    4    -       -     -     7        0.7      2.4      3.4       -       -       -      5.3   0.1  0.15         0      co
Assistant Director of Aatricltaare Residence            No2         1    I    -    -    -         2        1.5      1.7      1.3       -3  .6   0.1  O.'s                             0      Di
Ianiculture Officer (Extensimd Residuim                 No          4    4    -    -    -         I        1.1      S.D     5.4        -i  1.    0.1  *ri                             0      cm
Field Assstant (Eotu.simuI Rsidence                     In          9    9    -       -    -    13       0.42      4.3      4.6        -       -       -      9.0   0.1  0.1.5        0      co
Sut-Total Laid kunoiitimn                                                                                            15.7    15.3         -       -       -     31.1
E. SlIMES
4 Raeel Drive                                           le          2    -      -     -    -      2       210    476.3        -        -               -   476.3  0.05   0.4        0.3      IN
PickupTruck                                             ND         1I                -     -      2       160    173.1   135.6         -       -       -   30.895.05  0.5           0.4     16
Aftorcecl                                               No         25 25  22    -    -  72                  13 331.5    376.3   359.9          -       -1.0I.1 0.05 0.4            0.55      W
Sib-Tota 5020.1                                                                                                    1.001.0   562.4   309.9        .       - 1,923.3
F. [DMEPlT
I. Traooma Cuter
Stide Projectar                                      No          -    3    -    -    -         3         i3        -    63.3        -       -       -    63.310.07 0.4          0.55      to
Radio lassttaRecor*                                  16 l        -    3    -       -    -      3          3       -     10.6        -       -       -    10.6 0.07 0.4          0.55      El
Stb-ToaUl Tranirs Center                                                                                             -    74.4         -       -       -    74.4
2. Adaptive Research Va,, /a                           set          -    I    -    -       -      2     452.7        -   5353          -       -       -   535.3 0.07 0.7          0.15     El
3. Office [apewjt
Twosriters                                           N           2    2    -             -     *         12    26.5    23.4         -       -       -    54.890.07 0.6           0.3      El 
"ktlalcelsatrs                                       No          1    -    -       -    -      1          3      3.3       -        -       -       -      3.3  0.07   0.6       0.3      ED
PodctetCalculatrs                                    No          5    5    -       -    -    10         0.5      2.8      5.0       -       -       -      3.7 0.07   0.6        0.3      El
Sib-Total Office EguiPsen                                                                                         32.5    31.3         -       -       -    63.3
5ulh-Tota  EUIMPoT                                                                                                    32.5   641.1        --   673.6
6. Furniture
Assistant Director Aof Airicuti   Office               set          I    -    -    -    -         1       11.7    13.0o                -               -     13.0  0.07  0.05       0.1      El
fariculture Officers Office                            Set          I    2    3    1    -         7       4.3       5.3    1 1.5    13.4     6.5       -    43.7  0.07  0.05        0.1      El
Field  Assstants Offices                               set          2    5    7    4    -    13           2.3       6.2    16.7    25.0   23.3         -    63.2  0.07  0.05        0.1     ED
Trainiat Cente                                         Set          I    1      a    -    -       3       9.3     10.0    ii.)    12.5         -       -    30.1  0.0?  0.03        0.1      Eg
WEaCompex                                              Set          -     -     I     -     -     1      32.4        -        -    105.2       -       -    105.2   0.07 0.05       0.1      El
Sth-Total Furnitur                                                                                                    35.5    39.9   161.2   21.3              238.3
TOta lMNVIVIET CEUT                                                                                                  3.617.4  3,271.1  7.882.! 2.046.0       -22,124.0



t * *. . | | e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i!                                                                     -  -' - - -  - - -  - - - - -  -  - ___w~ ,r           
ß~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W                                                                                                    . . . .   .  . . . .-  . . . . . . . . .
5 | f ~~~~~~P N                                                                !UUSS1;SUL - ;F;    , :∞ ,P  *  SI  p
D~ ~~~~~~~~r rI   L. IA .       ^ID I"|F|                  . .                                                                      9 F,, P  P,, . .; . .



PSISTAS
DALLIEIISIAN  IctLRTUIL EXTOGI  MD AIWMPI   BESCIC  Pfli                                              ANNEX 1
Tabl. 105. LEASR  uISfRICT                                                         Table  7
Detiled Cast TabIe                                                              Page I of 2
(RuPes '0003
Parneters
Dumntate                                   ToaUls Includirg Contumingnas           Pi..
--      anCt. For.  Gros   Snare
bhit    D4UE 856 86/87 9741 8W/8  Total Unit Cost  54/85   3/86   56/57   37151   WV/    Total   Rate  Each. Tax Ratep Acema
I. IWJS12OT CASTS
A. 113ICE IUIUIIES
Assistant Directr of Agrinulturus Office               No2         -  0.5  0.5    -    -         1       326        -  200.5  214.1         -      -   414.1   0.1  0.15          0      co
Agriculture Officers Office                            No          1    2    2    1    -         6       217   247.0  532.5   530.0   354.6        -  1.655.0   0.3  0.35         0      cm 
Trainird Center                                        No        0.5     1  0.5    -    -        2       126    72.0  154.6   52.7          -      -   309.3   0.3  0.15          0      cm
AF Caries viii Anfti, Directors  ret-er                No        0.5  0.5      -    -     -      I      1.943  MOM9.  3,192.1       -       -      -  2F301.7   0.3  0.15         0      0*
Stb-Total M 1  W   iLIESP                                                                                         1,429.4 2.079.2  966.9  304.6       - 4.080.1
3. STAFF 2435DB
Deuts Director of Agricultur                           MD        0.5  0.5      -    -     -      1       668   351.5  40T.5         -       -      -   791.3   0.1  0.15          0      cm
Assistanvt Director a? Arencutuare                     ND          -  0.5  0.5    -       -      1       402        -  246.5  213.3         -      -   509.4   0.1  0.15          0      cm
Suhaect Ratter Seecialist                              ND          1    2      2           -     4       401   45B.0  984.1  526.7          -      -  1.960,5   0.1  0.15         0      cm
Agriculture Officerr (Eatensienl                       NO          1    2    2    1    -         6       401   458.0  984.1 1,053.4  562.9         - 3.05B.4   0.1 0.15           0      co
AssistantlReserch Officer                              NO          I    I    -    -        -     2       401   40.0 492.0           -       -      -   950.0   LI1 0.15           0      of
Field Assistant (Eateesiml)                            No          1    3    4    1    -         9       206   T5.3  758.3 1,0912.3  289.2         -  2,365.0   0.1  0.15         0      co
Field Assistant (WI)                                   No          I    1    2    -    -         3       147   167.9  190.4  193.1          -      -   541.3   0.1  0.15          0     01t
Wechaic                                                No        0.5  0.5      -    -    -       1       302   172.9  184.7         -      -       -   306.6   0.1  0.25          0     elf
Tractor Draver                                         No        0.5  0.5    -    -    -         1       126    72.0   77.3         -       -      -   149.3   0.3  0.15S         0     09
Sub-Total STAFF 191515                                                                                           2,402.5 4,316.7 3.119.8  852.1       - 101690.l
C. Lad Develmeant Cast
Land Levelling                                        Acre        s0    -    -    -        -   so       2.25    127.9       -       -       -      -    127.5   0.3  0.5        0.2     03
loKate0mmals                                         NOft        2.5  2.5      -    -    -       5        65   385.6  1I9.4         -       -      -   3M50    8.1 0.15           0     eV
Mateir TMAk                                            NO          I    I    -    -    -         2       115   331.3  141.1         -       -      -   77.5   5.1  5.15           0     03
Tbeumli                                                No          I    -    -    -    -         1       300   341.3        -       -       -      -   341.3   0.1 0.5            0     co
Sub-Total Lend Devlmen  Cast                                                                                       756.1  340.5        -              -I126.6
0. Laid Aceunsitimn
Assistant Director of Agricultere  Office              No          I    -    -    -    -         1         2      2.3       -       -              -      2.3   0.2  0.15         0      cm
Anenclture Officer  Office                             No          3    3    -    -    -        6        0.7      2.4    2.6        -      -       -      5.5    Ga1 0.15         0     co
Assistant Dirvector of Agriculture Residenc            No          1    -    -    -    -         I       1.5      1.7       -       -                      .7   0.3  0.15         0     03
Agriculture Officer (Exameniu, Residence               No          3    3    -    -    -         6       1.1      3.8    4.0        -       -      -      7.8   0.3  0.15         0     03
Field Assistut lExttenim) Residence                    No          4    3    2    -    -         9      0.42      1.9    1.5    1.2                       4.6   0.3  0.15         0     03
Sub-Total Lad Acmfsitimn                                                                                            12.1    9.2    1.1        -       -     21.4
E. 0E30L15
4UOhuIlSrise                                           No          2    -      -     -    -      2       220   476.3        -       -       -      -    476.3  O.K5  0.4        0.5     en
Pidhw Trqgk                                            No          1     1    -    -    -        2        160   173.1  185.6        -       -      -    350.0 0.05   0.5        0.4      UN
Notorcwle                                              No         15   i5   30    -        -    40        13   210.9  226.1  163.6          -      - 600.5  0.05   0.4    0.55           UN
Sub-Total AIfi.E                                                                                                   8604   413.7  2643.                     .3.
F. LIGIIEN
1. Training Center
Slide Projector                                     No          -    2    -    -    -         2         18       -   42.5                -            42.504.07 0.4         0.5       0g
Radio Caseette RKcorder                             N0          -    2    -    -    -         2         3        -     7.1       -       -      -      7.1  0.07   0.4    0.55        ED
Sub-Total Trainingd Center                                                                                          -   49.6        -      -       -     49.6
2. Ada*tiv, Resarc  Farm /a                           Sit          I    -      -     -     -     1       444   429.7        -       -      -       - 459.7  0.07   0.7    0.15          10 
3. Office Eausument
Isesitors                                           No          2    2      -     -     -     4        12    26.5   25.4         -      -       -     54.804.07   0.6        0.3     a
Dsk Cliculato                                       No          I             -         -               3      3.3       -       -      -       -      3.3 0.07 04           0.3      ED
Packet Calclultr                                    JIB         5    5      -lo-             1        0.5      2.5    3.0        -       -      -      5.7  0.07   0.6       0.3      ED
Stb-Total Ofice Enaiant                                                                                          32.5   31.3        -      -       -     63.9
Sub-Total EIPAENTf                                                                                                 522.2   90.9        -       -      -   603.1
6. RFIIM
Resistman Dirctr of Agrmceltums Office                set          -           -     -    -      1      11.7        -    14.0       -      -       -     14.0  0.07  0.05       0.1     ER
Agriceltore Officers Office                           Set          1    2    2    I    -        6        4.3      5.3   11.5   12.3    6.5         -    35.6  0.07  0.05        0.1     ED
Field AssiLstants Offices                             Set          1    3    *    1    -         9       2.5      3.1   10.0   14.3    3.9         -    31.3  0.07 0.05         5.1     El
Training Centr                                        Set          -    2    -    -    -        2        9.9        -    23.4       -      -       -     23.4 0.07 0.05         5.1     El
PUf Cosels                                             Set       0.5  0.5      -    -    -       1      82.4    45.0   49.2         -       -      -     05.1  0.07  0.05       0.1      El
Sub-Total FSITUF                                                                                                    54.3  310.2   26.6   30.3         -    199.3
Tota DR&SEIITf MME                                                                                                  6,066.9 7,345.5 4,176.9 1.167.0      -18,756.3



AN5EX139 
Table 7
p.o. 2 of 2
&M"te                                      Ictis lwlivird ms Cluwnie              the.
- -                                       041~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ti  UM 05/364/71W U 8 KRNM  Total lutI COL   64/0   404  134/7  VAR5   WV0   3dta2   Oil. (.Ch. Te. lAte k.a,1
A3cw.     fta mii St afsithais*.....                                                     .
I-.sA   hellr.' of krliSutsf                      staff-a.    0.5       2  3  a          2   4.15      i.J       1.s    at.   49.2   52.4   53.7   225.0  0.45          6       *      aI
Ogusgatt 3usd. o0 OAwlit'asll                     tAeff-ses,   0.3      2     I    2    3   4.1        n1.9     26.5   31.0   42.3   05.2   46.13294.3  0.01            0        0    St
MtAKItS RUG  sewraltst 311aifuIiI                 stat -ise       3    4    4    4    4    37          32.2     3.2  li0.7  200.9  172.2  362.0    O9.9   0.03    4             6    St
Ion,olloe, Oft,e, V..    toeuioti                 stuff-d,        -     t    2    2    2        7      72.9        -   24,9   57.4   41.3   44.    210.3  0.45    4              6     SC4
d.sa.Taftb.aanhlffacer                            statf-agr       -    3    2    2    2                22.9        -   24.9   57.4   42.1   64.9   216.3   O.K5    6            0      aF
ftdeos,                                           it.ff-a,    0.1       I    I    2    2   4.2         34.3      7.9   37.0   38.2   39.1   294         43.0  0.05    0          6    SOL
It-arotast                                        staff-wee    0.2      a    I    I    3  4.5          39.4    34.0    2.4   231.   24.0   24.3    20.2   0.45    4             6    St
field Iwsistat IfAtamia                           stafr-waer   4.3      9     9    9    9 40.2         30.2    49.   334.7  13239   222.2  329.9   52.3  0.OS    *               o     SAL
13.24 lustitat lloaddrhel                         .tff-avor   3.2       3    3    3    3  132.1        30.2     34.5   25.4   36.0   40.4   43.4   273.4  0.45    6              6    St
lift, S-wrni,Oa i ttaeff-wce,   0.5                                     I    I    I    I  4.1          24.3    34.4   10.9   32.9   29.3   V7.3   356.5  0.05    0              0     St.
5este  C3.fhStaeta.ser                            staff-see      a3           3    3 3   2     31      21.9    23.0   43.9   44.7   47.0   516.    397.9  0.45         4        0    06.
later c2e.hJlw.t                                   Letaf-.-d      3    4    4    4          al 37       1.      172.3    3.2I   24.4   40.2   44.3   244.4  0.415    0          0     SAL
Sea-t, Brs",                                      .t.f-.eer    0.5      2    2    2    2  4.1           9.2      5.0   30.7   33.4   32.3   22.9    52.2   0.05    4            0     St
riL.r                                             staff-w,   1.2        4    4    4    4  37.1         304      37.3   30.2    23.4   37.3   44.       239.2  0.45      4       6    St
Pea                                               etuff-wer    3.1    4              4      26.1        0.8    24.    42.0   44.1   '04    74j          97.4  0.41      4       6    StL
Eels'       .tff-....       4    4    24   34   34   50           8.6    37.2   42.0  354.3  144.4  374.4   613.6  0.45           0       0    St13.   0-05 0  0  SA
bufaide                               ~~~~~~taff-e..r,     2    2    2    2        I        I.0     9.4320.7722.;   2V.234.9    30L.70.91                  0        6     aI
Ih-e-Ital lawcnat.al hat? Sa3linas /b                                                                             331.4  062.4 3.002.) 2.400.4 1,224.6  4.331S
I. Staffrr ove aid Ba33. 02lsmaim IC
5                        3~~~~~~. Stcieettl Starf
hsts Ditret                                    staff-wa,a  0.5       I    3    2       3  4.5        7.3      0.3    9.2    9.6   30.4   33.3        446  0.OS    a           0    TM.
ft. i'llat Irectar                              staff-,*.,   4.1     I    a    I    3  4.1            4.0     2.4    3.4    4.0    4.4    0.9    27.5  0.62          6        4     TM.
SiL6tS utte  Sniaa.sts                         starf-wse,      3    4      0 4 a       4    37       3.3      4.3   27.2   29.3   33.6   72.9   124.5  6.45          4        4     TaL
4rac dita. Otfiteri                            staff-sear      -    a    2    2    2         7       I1.,            23.3   29.1   79.9'   32.0   302.0  0.45    6            0    Tit
awssislait Research Offim,                     starff-s        -    3    2    2        2     7       30.2       - 12.0   25.4   27.2   29.9    93.7  0.45    0                0    TM1.
Fi.3a Ass.tat                                  stafI-see     2.2   14   12   12   12 48.3              6     30.4   70.4   19.2   94.3  242.3   P57.3  6.9           4        0     TM.
StTotal 2eI.    taI Staff                                                                                       29.4  337.4   231.7  200.9  21L3    770.3
7. Isrue.stl STat 43A.lw.r to,  anstids Staf
Mr'sSutew  office                              staff-wr        2    3    4    4    A    a4           2.4      5.9   29.0   27.31   2.91   30.6   323.4  0.63         6        a     TaL
rieold Leistata                                 staff-...,     4   23   24   20   26   75            5.4    21.4   93.31  315.3  244.3  1353.13533.2  0.05    0               0    TM.
Sib-Toadt Inedetal Tra-I 41allsai   1., (.Itiee Staff                                                           29.3  334.3  342.4  172.*  362.7   #67.4
Swo-Total Suaf Tr-..  aM  Sils alllascs I,                                                                         SP.3  253.4  J12.0  373.   36.2  1-37.87
C. O~rni therilmes Cat.
3. Oddrtue Oes-s.arehft cl. Mt 30"ft3
Stmain...                                         SIT        0.3     3    3    3    3  4.3            30      1.4    32.7   12A    33.5   34.4    57.3  0.45   0.3          4.2     AP
lelgeO-*. Madamrs 3 P"4sta,                       SMT        0.3     1    I    3    3  4.3            32      0.    34.0   33.1   34.2   37.3    49.3  6.05   0.1           4.2     W
Ntt   Cold MeAt.rCUMf.                           dmV31       0.3     I    3    I    3  4.3            34      1.4   33.7    124    23.3   34.4    57.   0.45   0.3          4.2      Up
U3tilities                                        MAlAT      4.3     3    3    3    3  4.5            40     22.4   70.3    7.3.   010.9   06.2   344   6.0S  0.1           4.2     W
SAtan.                                           aNT         0.3     3    3    3    34.3               3      3.7    3.3    4.1    4.7    7.2        26.0 0.450.1           4.2     up
S'-Ttal  MadIne b,aarecl Fant '110'. M3  I ONs)                                                                 27.7  325.2  121.7  236.6  240.2   S3.7
Asisenta  Directee                                             -  0.2         3        2   3.3      24.5        -    22.0   21.7   27.    24.  9.4 65 .45   0.1             4.2      Up
4.AcetweIu  Officrs%                             affiF       4.3    I    5       0    0 20.3           3      2.7   37.5   31.    44.2   03.2    133.4  0.45   4.3          0.      W
l.h-et.   Field Office.                                                                                          2.7   29.  527.3   iLl3   73.0   230.
Sial-fetal Offic  C'ereta   Cat.                                                                                   1.3  342.7  170.9  306.9  233.2   209.3
D. OF owsneas CGet.
Trator. C5                                            eQ        0.3     3    2    3    2  4.3          24.3    33.2   20.3   30.S323.0   21.4   340.3  0.45   0.1             4.2      3P
r.Mr.clOll                                            06        0.5    I    I       3    3  4.3         9.4      5.2   21.2   32.3   23.0    3.0    33.1  0.45   0.1           0.2     up
Paw. bpras                                            06        0.3    I    I1         12  4.3           12      4.3   14.6   15.3   34.3   37.4    49.   0.45   0.1           4.2     3p
talons,i best..                                      wi         6.3           I    2    I   4.3         9.4      5.2   21.2   32.3   13.0   34.0        5.3.  0.4S  6.5       3.2      UP
T1b31 ESetracit,                                      No        4.3     I     I    3    2  4.5          2.4      1.4    4.3    7.4    7.4    3.2    72.4  0.01   0.3          4.2      up
ThubvstI. Pass Shares                                 06        4.5     2    I    3    I  4.3             3      0.3    1.2    3.3    3.4    3.5         3.1  0.45   0.5       1.2     GP
Fref leests                                         00F         6.3     2    I    2       3  4.5         21    39.0   40.7   44.4   47.5   33.2   262.   0.65   4.5            3.2     GP
stated lob.,                                        iel         0.5    I      1    3    2  4.3         12.3      4.0   34.7   15.7   14.7   37.7    fl.a   0.65         I       0      GP
Seb-1.ta3  SW twarin  Cast.                                                                                        59.5  i77.7  12r.7  144.5  259.3   413.2
1. Field OideestrAtiu 3 Trial.
iveuts 3 Nat-.3a3                                   tOOlS        70   i 329   3 72 2    3in   723      0.15     03.3  222.6  142.0  27.6.   337.0   706.3   0.15   4.5          0      Wf
5a-TOtld  Field Pasttatawt, 3 T,L.I,                                                                               23.3  222.6  242.3  374.4  IV7.,   7146.5
F. Poi341f4 fatInts.. Casts
-                       bo~~~~~~~~Sic.m 113distEn.                          MAleS-                                                         -   24.7   92.3  326.   132.5   364.9  0.53    6             0      W
SD"afftaiw                                          NW MUS        -        -      --                   -           -     1.7  274.3  204.7  304.9   3019.4   0.05    0          0      GP
SiS-letl 043mmr  tLsitruoce Cast.                                                                                     -    9.   200.4  317.3  446.4  3.I194.3
S. Vehtcle Scertlset Cast. Id
*                     ~~~~~~~~~~4 oel Pas                                    go          2    2    2    2    2        9       62.8    00. 1344.2  337.1  370A   25.9    724.4  0.0   0.3              0.2     up
Pic4w Track                                           go        C.,    2    2    2    2  6.5           44.1    23.3   2 07J0  1164.  273.6  115.5   520.3  0.15   4.5         0.2      W
Sa-Tot  al ltcle Seratirs Cats Id                                                                                  93.2  25.9  574.2  2941.3  219.2  3.231/9
1.4*3 KMD r  115,;                                                                                                    443.4 I.M7.11 2.374  2W.44. 2453.4 0411.6.
Soal                                                                                                                 4,23.4 .1735.2 4.53J.3 3.013  2,02..4 2.6
/a SM a Lianal.
/b PM/4 staff salaried aW~lwasee besad a -aese, as.leeesst of 4 sIlh irf timt UNitestff eNabr idmItted
Ic  ,alwel lIl-dm,se   t (A i,te,, ota,,rlal 'i.     Sa,; ils OII.,rc, leer fsod.Iedine.et.i ., f erera   taff.  'a-I All2aece at. for .eiitaim safwf 1403,1 cuitiiata imnawsital cast).
Id  PM/4  Vehcle werUl rests based          Ma area     u. ste .0t. "lot.t   of lair  tte deader sadiratd.
5Sorte,r 24. 29104 1 4:47



PMKISTM
BALUCHISTMA  AGRICLLTURAL EXTENSIN MO  D ANDPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Table 106. TECHNICAL ASSISTACE
Detailed Cost table
(RU,HS '0001
Paraoeters
Ouantitw                               Totals Including Contlnimnie.s            Phv.
----------------           ------  Unit  ---------------------   Conti Fort  Bmoss   Sumuriv
Unit     84/85 85/86 86/97 97/BB 8B/89 Total  Cost   84/95   95/96   86/97  97/89 89/B9  Total    Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Account
znna-asn a zx  Samoa a nesw  X Susans Sagan a xs  Bonn  nozszn oxwzxn  a:wgso   Ssans sans w:axsagn  sagas sagas maxsana Banana
Is INVESTHENT COSTS
................
A, Expatriate Consultants
Hanagfemnt Organization             man-months       3      -     -      -     -     3   140    454.7         -        -     -     -    454.7   0.05   0.9           0      TA
Extension Plannlng and Training   man-months         6    12      2     -      -    20   140    909.3 1W950.1   352.2        -     -  3&211.6   0.05   0.9           0      TA
Adaptive Research                   *nnonths         5      3     3     3      -    14   140    757.9   487*5   529.3 573.2        -  2,346.7   0.05   0.9           0      TA
Training                            man-months      12   5,5   2.5      -      -    20   140  1919,7   993.9   440.2         -     -  3,152.7   0.05   0.9          0       TA
Airic. Inforsation I Media          man-onths    3.5   1.5        -      -     -     5   140    530.4   243.8          -     -     -    774.2   0.05   0.8           0      TA
Honitorins I Evaluation             man-months       3   1.5   1.5       -     -     6   140    454,7   243i9   264,1        -      -    962.6   0,05   0.9          0      TA
Unallocated                         man-wonths       -      -     2      2     2     6   140          -       -   352.2 382,1 413.2  1,147.5   O.OS   0.8            0      TA
Sub-Total Expatriate Consultants                                                                  4,925.6 3,91Y90 1,936.9 955.3 413.2 124050#0
3. Local Consultants
Extension Methodology               aarwonths        3      -     -      -     -      3    28     90,9        -        -     -      -     90.9   0.05   Ole          O      TA
Sub-Total Local Consultants                                                                           90,9            -      -         -     90.9
_.. .. .._  ..... . .       ........
Total INvSTIENT COSTS                                                                                 5,016.5 3,919.0 1493649 955.3 413,2 124141.0
*sagau'  *Bsawsw WISSUL' nuxww  sagas 11=82m
Total                                                                                                  5,016.5 34819.0 1,936,9 955.3 413.2 12,141.0
_ - -- - ----- - -----.    .... _._. . .......... .. ..... ._  .......... ...................... .... ........ . ._. ........ .. _._ ....... ____ ........ ............ . ...... ...  _       * _c 
SePtnber 26, 1984 14109
.3        ,.                                                                                                      .



PANISTMI
U4LUCHISTAII A1ICtLTURL EXTENSION MID AlTIE RESUCH  MJECI
Table 107, STAFf TRAININS
htailed Colt Table
(Ru m   '000)
Paramtrs
umntitv                             Totals Includir Continunies            Phl.
---- .Unit   ---------                             -----   Conti For    Gross   Sumry
Unit      84/85 85/8O 86887 97/88 8/89 Total Cost  84/85  85/86  96/87 87/18  88N/   Total    Rate  Exch. Tax Rat kccount
....uxas ..xu  mass  asa  saa   ..s.  "an   Bx                 m* iro ."g  Bass. Rus  ona.  *|."8s ........ sam.  *s."sa  .g.| ".
lo IWNESThERT COSTS
A. Short Cource"
FAs at Ar  Train. Inst. /a                       roups          1     4      1     -     -      6    25   27.3   117s4  31.3              -   176.0   0.05      0         0      TR
Senior Staff Workshops  b                       Grons           2     6      -     -     -      G    19   39.3   126,S       -     -      -   166.1   0.05      0         0      TR
SubTotal Srt Caurces                                                                                          66,6   244.1  31.                  342,1
3. Jisits to other Ty swstm
PuMb    A Sind /ce                              GroWs           I     I      -     -     -      2    15   16.4    17v6       -     -      -    34     0.05      0         0      TR
India/Sri Lw*alThailnd /d                       Grows           -     I      I     -     -      2   125       -147156.6 I- 303.3   005                          0        0       TR
Sub-Total Visiti to-other TIW  swstes                                                                         164   1643 156I 6       -      -   3373
C, Visit to Inteational Resarch Centrn
ICAR/ICRISAT ;ec /                              BroMs                 I                  *      1    95       -   110,0      -     -      -   110.0   0.05      1        0       TR
Sub-Total Yisit to International Research Centres                                                                    ;1100                       110,0
D. Scholarships
MSc Courus in PaIkistan /t                   student/war       10    20    10      -      -    40    21  229.    492s9 263.1       -      -   995.4   0.05      0         0      TR
Sub-Total Scholarshirs                                                                                       229.3   4.9269 .1        -           M984
Total INKSTMNT COSTS                                                                                             12.3;  1011.4 451,0      -           4- ;;77;;
Total                                                                                                            312.3 141Ol4 451.0        -     - 1277407
/a  In drous of 25.  Costs includc tranl and   kistancc For iroup for 3 monUths                                                                                                              e
/b  In irouw  ot 20.  Costs include trawl and aibslstnce mr  irow for 20 dam
/c  In irws of 10 for 15 dews
/d  In grous of 5 for one onth
/I  Om  grow  of five for 21 dm
/7  Two grous of 10 students fop two wars
......e....... .. . _.4_. - ---- - _   - -.  _.    ........ .  .                                                    .  .. .    .  ........
SeptnWr 26t 1984 14110



-50-
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
(EXTENSION III)
Procedures for Operation of Special Account
1.      A separate "Special Account" would be operated under the Baluchistan
Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project.  The Special Account
would be opened in the State Bank of Pakistan by the Ministry of Finance,
Government of Pakistan.
2.      The Government of Baluchistan shall open two subaccounts in the
Provincial Treasury for purposes of receiving funds from the Special
Account and making payments to all items eligible for financing from the
proceeds of the IDA Credit. The two subaccounts would be individually
administered by: (a) the Director General, Agriculture, Baluchistan and
(b) the nominated Civil Works Coordinator, Communications and Works
Department, Baluchistan.
3.      Promptly after the effectiveness of the Credit and on receipt of
a withdrawal application, IDA would withdraw US$0.6 M ($0.45 M for
Category 1, Civil Works and $0.15 M for Categories 4 and 5, Salaries and
Allowances) equivalent from the credit account for deposit in the Special
Account. This amount would then be transferred from the Special Account
to the Provincial Consolidated Fund Account No. 1, "Non Food", of the
Government of Baluchistan. Under the advice of Baluchistan-s Planning &
Development Department, the Finance Department shall credit the subac-
counts with money received in the consolidated fund. The amount of IDA
advance to a subaccount shall not exceed that required for a subsequent
four-month period as provided in the annual work program for the project
and as approved by the appropriate provincial policy coordination commit-
tee (Project Steering Committee). No Government matching funds would be
deposited in the Special Account and the subaccounts which would contain
IDA funds exclusively. However, Government matching funds may be kept in
separate subaccounts operated by the Civil Works Coordinator and Director
General Agriculture.
4.     Payments from the subaccount would be for all eligible expendi-
tures. However, the Association will continue to accept, in appropriate
cases, withdrawal applications for direct payments and agreements to
reimburse. All withdrawals from the subaccount would be in accordance
with the procedures prescribed by the Government of Baluchistan for such
accounts. Copies of these procedures would be forwarded to IDA. Checks
to withdraw funds from the civil works subaccount would be signed by the



-51-
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
Civil Works Coordinator and for other items, from the second subaccount,
by the Project Director (Director General, Agriculture) and co-signed by
an appropriate officer designated by the Government of Baluchistan. All
documents substantiating any payment made from the subaccounts would be
retained by the implementing agencies.
5.      The Director General Agriculture and the Civil Works Coordinator
would prepare and submit to IDA, monthly statements of transactions
verified by an official designated for this purpose by the Government of
Baluchistan and kept available for IDA review missions.
6.      The Director General Agriculture and the Civil Works Coordinator
would prepare monthly reimbursement applications for signature by the
authorized Provincial Government official and submit them to IDA (through
the Resident Mission, Islamabad). The payment instructions in the
applications should clearly state the name and number of the subaccount to
ensure proper transfer of funds. IDA would withdraw from the Credit
Account the reimbursable amounts and remit them in lump sum to the Special
Account at the State Bank of Pakistan as indicated in the payment instruc-
tions.
7.      The Government of Pakistan would obtain from the State Bank of
Pakistan and furnish to IDA a monthly statement of the Special Account
and any information relating to the Special Account and subaccounts as IDA
may reasonably request.
8.      If for any reason IDA should disallow or reduce a submitted claim,
the Provincial Government would be required to make up the amount in the
subaccount.
9.      All the subaccounts would be audited in accordance with section
3.02 of the Project Agreement.
10.     No further deposit in the Special Account would be made when the
total unwithdrawn amount of the credit allocated to categories 1, 4 and 5
for the project (minus the amount of any qualified agreement to reimburse
made by IDA and of any other special commitment entered into by IDA with
respect to the project) has reached the equivalent of SDR 1.2 M
(US$1.2 M).



-52-                       ANNEX 3
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
(EXTENSION III)
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ M)
Disbursement
Year    Quarter    IDA FY    Quarter         For Quarter   Cumulative        Z
1984      III       FY 85         I
IV                    II
1985        I                   III
II                    IV             0.7            0.7          8 Ia
III      FY 86          I              0.3           1.0         12
IV                    II             0.3            1.3         16
1986        I                   III              0.4            1.7        20
II                    IV             0.5            2.2         26
III      FY 87          I              0.5           2.7         32
IV                    II             0.5            3.2         39
1987        I                   III              0.5            3.7         45
II                    IV             0.5            4.2         51
III      FY 88          I              0.5           4.7         57
IV                    II             0.5            5.2         63
1988        I                   III              0.5            5.7         69
II                    IV             0.5            6.2         75
III      FY 89          I              0.4           6.6         80
IV                    II             0.4            7.0         84
1989        I                   III              0.3            7.3        88
II                    IV             0.3            7.6         92
III      FY 90          I              0.2           7.8         94
IV                    II             0.2            8.0         96
1990        I                   III              0.2            8.2        99
II                    IV             0.1            8.3        100
/a  Figures include initial deposit of US$0.6 M into the revolving fund,
which will be used for civil works, staff salaries and allowances,
and operating and maintenance costs.



-53-                             ANNEX 4
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
(EXTENSION III)
Technical Assistance
A total of about 77 man-months technical assistance would be
provided under the project, principally in areas of training, extension
planning, adaptive research and monitoring and evaluation. In order to
provide coordination among the consultants, it is envisaged that one firm
will be contracted to provide all the technical assistance services this
may sub-contract any given component to a individual or any other
organization with expertise in that particular component. Details of
technical assistance are as follows:
Consultants                     Man-months        Attachment No.
Extension Methodology (local)               3                    1
Training and Extension Planning            20                    2
Adaptive Research                          14                    3
Monitoring and Evaluation                   6                    4
Management Organization                     3                    5
Training                                   20                    6
Development of Agriculture Information
and Media                                 5                    7
Unallocated                                 6
Total                                    77



-54-
ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
(EXTENSION III)
Local Consultant on Extension Methodology
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.      Obiective.    The consultant, recruited locally, would assist the
Director of Agricultural Extension and the Project Coordinator primarily
in developing the training and visit schedules for project staff.
2.      Responsibilities.  Specifically, the consultant would assist in:
a) dividing the farmers between the Field Assistants and forming
farmer groups;
b) developing criteria for the selection of the contact farmers,
paying dy-e attention to their being representative of the group
and the extent to which other farmers would follow their advice
or practices;
c) establishing a system, including training of staff, of time
schedules for regular visits by field staff (Field Assistants
(PA), Agricultural Officers (AO), Subject Matter Specialists
(SMS) to the farmer groups and for the fortnightly training
of Field Assistants by Subject Matter Specialists and
Agricultural Officers;
d) establishing the relationship between extension and inputs
supply, services and marketing organizations; and
e) providing advice on the organization and scheduling of the
two levels of technical committees, the provincial level
Research Extension Committee and the District Technical
Committees.



ANNEX 4
.55.                            Attachment 1
Page 2 of 2
3.      Qualifications.   The consultant must have a B.Sc. degree in
Agriculture, and direct operating experience of the T&V system in an
agricultural extension organization (for example in Punjab or Sind
province).
4.      Time Required and Duty Station.   The consultancy would be for a
three-month duration. The consultant would be based in Quetta, attached
to the Director of Agricultural Extension, but a large part of his time
would be spent in the field.



-56-
ANNEX 4
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
(EXTENSION III)
Traininz and Extension Planning Consultant
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.      Obiectives:
a) To advise and assist in establishing improved organizational
structure and systems of management;
b) to advise and assist in developing an annual work program which
would be split into seasonal operational activities;
c) to advise and assist in developing systems of communication and
monitoring in the implementation and administration of the
project; and
d) to coordinate the work of short-term consultants in organizing
various training workshops.
2.      Responsibilities.  The consultant would work primarily with the
Project Coordinator and Deputy Director (Training and Publicity). His
duties would include, but not be confined to:
a. Training
i) Providing assistance to the Director of Extension and
Deputy Director of Training on all training matters;
ii) assisting the DD Training to plan and implement the exten-
sion training plan;
iii) Assisting the Principal/ATI to plan and implement the ATI
training schedule;
iv) visiting the training centers to ensure the training
program is being implemented and advising local staff on
any problems identified;



ANNEX 4
-57-                            Attachment 2
Page 2 of 3
v) assisting the adaptive research staff on the selection of
messages for testing on Adaptive Research Farms;
vi) advising field staff on planning of field days, demonstra-
tions and other extension activities; and
vii) developing training and extension materials in collabora-
tion with the Training and Adaptive Research Consultants.
b. Extension Planning
i) Ensuring that tested extension messages reach the extension
staff;
ii) advising on the field-level operation of the service,
especially the detailed scope of work of FA and the AD;
iii) reviewing reporting requirements to keep them simple and
relevant; and
iv) liaising between the ARF staff, the extension service and
the Directors of Research (ARI & AZRI).
c. Coordination
i) Ensuring that D.G. Agriculture/Project Coordinator and
their staff are ready to make the best use of short-term
consultants;
ii) liaising with and assisting in the organization of consult-
ant visits;
iii) following-up the implementation of any recommendations made
by the consultants; and
iv) assisting in coordinating the activities of the various
project components.
3.      Qualifications.  The consultant must have at least a masters
degree in Agriculture, specializing in agricultural extension and/or
education, and must have had direct operating experience with an agricul-
tural organization. He must have had experience in an agricultural
environment similar to Pakistan.



ANNEX 4
Attachment 2
-58-                               Page 3 of 3
4.      Time Required and Duty Station.  The consultant should be avail-
able on January 1, 1985 and remain in Pakistan for 20 months. He would be
based at Quetta, attached to the office of the DG (Agriculture)/Project
Coordinator.
a



-59-
ANNEX 4
Attachment 3
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
t
BALUCRISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
(EXTENSION III)
Adaptive Research Consultants
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1. Obiectives. To improve the present system of applied agricultural
research aimed at solving the problems faced by farmers in the various
agroecological zones of Baluchistan. The consultants functions would
include: (a) to advise and assist in the preparation and organization of
the adaptive research program in the project districts, (b) to advise and
assist in the organization and operation of the adaptive research trials
at adaptive research farms and in farmers- fields, and (c) to help estab-
lish linkages between extension and research on an institutional basis.
2. Responsibilities. The specific responsibilities of the consultants,
working with local counterparts, would include:
a) Extension MessaRe Development
i) Organize an initial survey to determine practices
used by better farmers. This information together with
available research information would be used to develop,
together with the Deputy Directors of Training and
Adaptive Research, packages ef recommended practices
for the various crops being grown by farmers. These
initial surveys would also determine farmers- major
production problems which would be incorpor-
ated into basic, applied or adaptive research trials
depending upon their nature.
ii) Develop specific proposals for adaptive research work to
be funded by the Pakistan Agricultural Research Council
(PARC) under its 'Contractual Research Grant Scheme'.



-60-                          ANNEX 4
Attachment 3
Page 2 of 3
b) Adaptive Research PlanninR and Implementation
i) Work with the Technical Committees, the Deputy Director
Adaptive Research, the members of the adaptive research
farms, the Agricultural Research Institute, Quetta (ARI)
and Arid Zone Research Institute, Quetta (AZRI), and
develop a research work plan to be carried out at the
adaptive research farms and in farmers fields;
ii) review the annual reports of the research stations and
advise on ways to increase the effectiveness of the
internal monitoring and evaluation process;
iii) visit the adaptive research farms supported under the
project, review research work and evaluate ongoing
applied research programs and advise on any changes of
direction on new programs considered necessary; and
iv) visit the sites of some of the trials conducted on
farmers' fields and assess the relevance of the treat-
ments to the farmers- needs.
c) Planning of Applied Research Relevant to Farm Problems
i) Together with the Deputy Director Adaptive Research,
establish a list of priority areas for agricultural
research institutes. This list should be agreed at
at tho highest level and used in planning the research
programs of AZRI (PARC) and ARI; the list would be
compiled after evaluating information on major
production problems faced by farmers and collected
in the study under item (a);
ii) review the methods of allocating priorities to research
programs, assist in establishing adequate linkages with
extension and the farmers, ensure that research is
responsive to the farming problems; and
iii) advise on methods to test, disseminate and utilize the
research results from the programs at the researLh stations
and on fatmers- fields.
2. Qualifications. The consultants must hold at least a Hasters degree,
in one of the disciplines of agricuJ-aral sciences. They must have a wide
experience in applied/adaptive research, research extension linkages and
must have been exposed to working in developing agriculture.



ANNEX 4
-61-                              Attachment 4
Page 3 of 3
3.  Time Required and Duty Station.  The project would require the serv-
ices of at least 2 consultants for a total period of 14 man-months. Their
services would be required quired on an intermittent basis: about 6
man-months during the first year (Extension Message Development) and about
4 man-months each during the second and third years of the project life.
There would be one visit by each consultant each year. The consultants
would be based in Quetta and would be responsible to the Director General
of Agriculture.
a



-62-
ANNEX 4
Attachment 4
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
(EXTENSION III)
Monitoring and Evaluation Consultant
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.      Obiectives:  to assist the Baluchistan Agriculture Department
Department in setting-up and operating a system vhich would effectively
monitor and evaluate the functioning and impact of the reorganized exten-
sion service under the "Training and Visit" system.
2.      ResDonsibilities.  Using the World Bank Guidelines on the Monitor-
ing and Evaluation of Training and Visit Extension and working with the
Project Coordinator and the Deputy Director (Planning), the consultant-s
duties would include but not be confined to:
a) organizing the monitoring and evaluation organization within
the Department of Agriculture;
b) developing questionnaires that would secure information from
the project area (principally drawing upon from the survey
conducted by the Adaptive Research Consultants for developing
the extension message) that would indicate the present benchmark
situation regarding productivity, agronomic and socio-economic
factors;
c) training the staff (enumerators as well as processors) in
the conduct of the survey mentioned under (b); and
d) assisting with the analysis and interpretation of the data
to enable the Director of Agricultural Extension and the Project
Coordinator to improve the operation of the extension service.
3.      Qualifications.  The consultant would be a qualified statistician,
with extensive working experience in developing countries, especially with
survey work in rural communities.  He should preferably have participated             !
in agro-economical surveys, especially in the supervision and control of
field enumerators.



ANNEX 4
-63-                             Attachment 4
Page 2 of 2
4.      Time Required and Duty Station.  The consultant would be required
for six months, spread over the first, second, and third years of the project.
The first stay would be for three months, following six weeks during the
subsequent years. He would be based in Quetta.



-64-
ANNEX 4
Attachment 5
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
(EXTENSION III)
Management Organization Consultant
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1. Obiectives:
a) to advise and assist in overall organization and management
of the Baluchistan Agriculture Department;
b) to guide and assist in integrating the activities of various
development schemes and projects to fit into the working of
the Department; and
c) to suggest a future pattern of growth of the Departmernt in
line with its institutional requirements.
2.      Responsibilities.  The consultant would be working primarily with
the Secretary Agriculture, liaising closely with the Director General of
Agriculture, and the two Directors of Agricultural Research and Extension.
He would liaise with other line departments, and especially with the
Provincial Planning and Development Department. His duties would include
but not be confined to:
a) studying the existing organizational and management structure
of the Department, including those of the various development
schemes and projects linked to the Department;
b) formulating recommendations to bring in internal consistency
in the Department to promote efficiency and eliminate waste;
c) suggesting a pattern for a sound and sustainable working
relationship with agencies outside Baluchistan, including
federal and international organizations;
d) advising on the formulation of a broader framework into which
future development activities can be meshed to avoid an
unbalanced growth of the Department.



ANMIEX 4
-65-                          Attachment 5
Page 2 of 2
In addition, the consultant would assess the need for training of
Baluchistani students in various disciplines of agriculture, using skill
gap analysis techniques related to Department objectives, for basic and
higher degrees, so that local expertise is generated not only to fill the
existing gaps but also to meet future requirements.
3.      Qualifications.  The consultant must be qualified in Organiza-
tional Management, preferably up to Masters level and he must have five
years experience in dealing with problems of organization and management.
Experience of working with agricultural institutions, particularly in the
developing countries would be essential.
4.      Time Required and Duty Station.  The consultant would be required
for 3 months and his services should be available from March 1, 1985. He
would be based in Quetta, attached to the Secretary to Government of
Baluchistan, Agriculture Department.



-66-
ANNEX 4
Attachment 6
Page 1 of 6
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
(EXTENSION III)
Training Consultants
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.      Obiectives:
a. to analyze training needs by using appropriate techniques
(for instance, skill gap analysis) and develop training
programs to fill gaps;
b. to prepare and implement various training programs of the
Master Training Plan for extension staff at all levels;
c. to conduct training and management workshops for trainers,
managers and technical staff;
d. to assist in the design and implementation of short courses
for Field Assistants at the Agricultural Training Institute
(ATI);
e. to advise the ATI on curriculum needs, teaching methods and
upgrading of teaching capabilities; and
f.  to analyze and provide training in the analysis of the ex-
tension messages, their efficacy and responses from target
farmer groups.
2.      Responsibilities.  The consultants- duties, together with counter-
part staff would include but not be confined to the following:
A. Message Analysis Consultancy
i) assessing the utility of existing extension messages through
a Message Response Analysis (MRA) Survey;
ii) collecting agricultural technical information from research
stations, universities, commercial enterprises, technical
publications, etc.;



-67-                          AflEX 4
Attachment 6
Page 2 of 6
iii) assessing farmers  information needs;
iv) selecting new extension messages by matching up farmer
needs to the technical information available; and
v) training selected staff in the process of "Message Response
Analysis" and the collection of technical information.
This consultancy would be for 4 man-months during the first
year of the project.
B.  Field AssistantsC (FA) Short Course Consultancy
i) designing a curriculum, in consultation with the
ATI staff for the FA short course;
ii)  producing lesson plans to implement the curriculum;
iii)  designing student projects and practical sessions;
iv)  initiating the production of teaching materials (slides,
overhead transparencies, charts, etc.) needed to implement
the curriculum; and
v)  training the ATI staff in the technical knowledge required
to implement the short courses.
This consultancy would be for 2 man-months, beginning February 1985.
C. ATI Consultancy
i advising the Principal ATI on any identified problems;
ii) checking the curriculum for the 2-year FA certificate
course to ensure it meets the requirements of the project,
and suggesting modifications, if necessary;
iii) ensuring tne most effective teaching methods are being used
to implement the curriculum;
iv) designing lesson plans;
v) designing student projects and practical sessions;
vi) initiating the production of training materials; and
vii) initiating a training program to further upgrade the
technical capabilities of the ATI staff.



ANNEX 4
-68-                            Attachment 6
Page 3 of 6
This consultancy would be for 5 man-months, starting April/May
1985 (4 m/m), with a follow-up consultancy in June 1986
(1 m/m).
D.  Training Workshops
This group of consultants together with their counterpart staff
would carry out a series of workshops of about 15 weeks total
duration, excluding the preparation time, field visits, and
follow-up/on-the-job training.  Detals of subjects for the
workshops would include:
a) Adaptive Research - The curriculum would include:
i) planning an adaptive research program;
ii) conducting field trials;
iii) statistically analyzing results; and
iv) preparing extension messages based on experimental results.
The workshop would be for 1 week and would begin in early 1985,
primarily conducted by the Adaptive Research (extension message
development) consultant.
b) T & V Extension Workshop - The curriculum would include:
i) planning T&V schedules;
ii) implementing T&V schedules;
iii) monitoring T&V schedules; and
iv) selecting of fortnightly messages.
The workshop would be for 1 week, preferably in early 1985
would be conducted by the Extension Methodology Consultant.
c) Trainers Workshop - The curriculum would include:
i) training as part of the T&V extension;
ii) selection of extension messages;
iii) training methods;



-69-                           ANNEX 4
Attachment 6
Page 4 of 6
iv) practical skills in training;
v)  lesson and demonstration planning and presentation;
vi) production of training materials (overhead transparencies,
charts, flip charts, posters, slides, etc.); and
10                  vii)  operation and maintenance of audio-visual aid equipment.
The workshop would be for 3 weeks, including field visits and
practice sessions. Approximate dates would be in Spring 1985.
d) Advanced Trainers- (SMSs. ATI staff) Workshop - The curriculum
would include:
i) Advanced training methods;
ii) curriculum design;
iii) course planning and management;
iv) micro-teaching;
v) advanced production of training materials;
vi) photography; and
vii) assessment and evaluation of training.
The workshop would be for three weeks, scheduled for March 1986.
e) Technical Advisers- (ADAs. AOs) Workshop - The curriculum would
include:
i) Extension message analysis;
ii) selection of extension messages;
iii) extension theory and methodology;
iv) planning and implementing a demonstration;
v) production of extension training materials
(slides, posters, flip charts, etc.);
vi) photography;



-70-                           ANNMiqE 4
Attachment 6
Page 5 of 6
vii) operation and maintenance of basic audio visual aid
equipment;
viii) advising farmers (groups, visits, etc.);
ix) demonstration plots;
x) work planning and problem solving; and
xi) extension-research relationships.
The workshop would be for three weeks, including field visits
and practice sessions, and would be scheduled for August 1985.
f) Manazement Workshop - The Curriculum would include:
i) administrative management;
ii) program planning;
iii) analysis and selection of extension messages;
iv) problem solving/decision making;
v) extension/research relationships;
The workshop would be for 10 days in October 1985.
g) Farm Management Workshop - The curriculum would include:
i) Planning and implementing an adaptive research program;
ii) financial techniques (gross margins, cash flow, partial
budgets, etc.);
iii) farm planning;
iv) farm records;
v) farm reports; and
vi) managing staff.
The workshop would be for two weeks, scheduled for May 1986.
3.      Qualifications.  The  participating consultants would have, at
least, Bachelor's degree in agriculture, preferably with specialization at
Masters level in agricultural extension, education or training. Each one



ANNEX 4
-71-                         Attachment 6
Page 6 of 6
must have at least five years experience in organizing training prograns
and in train.ag staff of agricultural organizations in developing
countries whose environment are similar to Pakistan.
4.     Time Required and Duty Station.  All training activities must begin
from early 1985 on intermittent basis. Different consultancies are
required for a total of 20 man-months 'ill m/m for A,B and C categories
above and 9 ml/ for the workshops).  The consultants would be based at
Quetta, attached with the Office of the Director General Agriculture.



ANNEX 4
-72-                         Attachment 7
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
(EXTENSION III)
Agricultural Information and Media Consultant
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.      Objective.  The objective of the consultancy would be to advise
and assist the Media and Publicity unit in developing media plans,
appropriate production techniques and setting up a distribution system
responsive to needs of the project extension staff and the farming com-
munity.
2.   -  Responsibilities.  The consultant would principally work with the
DD (Training and Publicity) and ADA (publicity) as his counterpart staff.
The duties would include but not confined to:
a) Designing media plans for the project;
b) selecting appropriate media for given extension messages;.
c) designing a media distribution system to ensure extension
media reaches al' the extension staff and is available
to all farmers;
d) training appropriate staff in media production techniques;
e) assisting in producing extension training materials (leaflets,
posters, slides, etc.);
f) establishing a feed back system for various components of media
to be more effective carriers of extension messages; and
g) planning and conducting -Media Workshop' which will be for six
weeks in approximately November 1985 and will include the
following subjects:
i) media planning;
ii) use of media in extension;
iii) production techniques (flip charts, posters, overhead
transparencies, leaflets, etc.);
iv) photography and slide production;



ANNEX 4
-73-                         Attachment 7
Page 2 of 2
v) operation and maintenance of audio visual aid equipment;
and
vi) catalogue and storage of media.
The workshop will include a period of on-the-job training and
production of materials for use within the project.
3.      Qualifications.  The consultant would have a Bachelors degree,
with post-graduate training in communications/agricultural communications.
At least five yearsC experience in media planning, advertising and produc-
tion techniques would be essential. Work experience in developing
countries, whose environment are similar to Baluchistan province of Pakis-
tan, would be desirable.
4.      Time Required and Duty Station.  The consultant would be required
for 5 man-months over a period of 2 years on an intermittent basis; 2 m/m
in November 1985 for the media workshop and 1 1/2 m/m each in April 1986
and November 1986. He would be based in Quetta, attached to the office of
the DG (Agriculture).



-74-
ANNEX 5
List of Contents in Project File
1.      Preparation Report, April 1984 (PC-1 Proforma)
2.      Master Training Plan, May 1984
3.      Consultant's Report, "Adaptive Research", May 1984
4.      Agricultural Statistics of Baluchistan 1982-83 (Government
of Baluchistan)
5.      Supporting Tables
6.      Consultants' Proposals
7.      Consultant's Contract
r



-75-
ANNEX 6
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION A.ND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
(EXTENSION III)
Proposed Timetalile for Recruitment of Key Incremental Proiect Staff
anid for the Procurement of Project Vehicles
-I
,A.  Incremental Staff                          Fiscal Year
1984185  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  Total
Director General                       1       -      -      -       -      1
Project Coordinator                    1      -       -                     I _  1
Deputy Directors (Adapt Res)           1       -      -      -       -      1
Deputy Directors (Field)               3       -      -      -       -      3
Senior SMS                             1      3       -      -       -      4
Economist (M&h)                        -       1      -      -       -      1
Assist. Directors (HQ)                 3       1      -       -      -      4
Assist. Directors (Field)              4       1      -      -       -      5
Subject Matter Specialists             5       9      -      -       -     14
Accounts Officer                       -       1      -       -      -       1
Publicity Ag. Officer                  1       -      -      -       -      -
Field Ag. Officer                      2       5      -      -       -      7
Assist. Research Officer               -       3      3       -      -      6
Field Assistants (Res)                 3       3      3      -       -      9
Field Assistants (Ext)                17      20      -      -       -     37
B.  Staff Vehicles                               Fiscal Year
1984/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  Total
Four Wheel Drive                      11       6      -      -       -     17
Cars                                   2       -      -      -       -      2
Pick-up Trucks                         4       3      -       -      -      7
Motorcycles                           84      84     65       -      -    233



-76-                 Table 1
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARC PROJECT
PRICE BUILD-UP FOR ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(mid-1984 constant prices)
Item                                      Rice/Paddy    Wheat    Urea    TSP    HP
1.  Projected Vorld Market Price (USSIt) /a                410          185       265    190   105
2.  Adjustment for quality differentials and
bags (factor or USS)                                  0.70 /b         1       -      *30   *30
3.  Adjusted Projected Price (USSIt)                       287          185       265    220   135
4.  Freight to Karachi Port (USS/t) /c                     -25          -25        15     40    40
5.  CIF/FOB Price at Port (USSIt)                          262          160       280    260   175
6.  Handling and transport between port and
local store                                           -15          -15        15      15    IS
7.  Price in local store (USS/t)                           247          145       295    275   190
8.  Processing, handling and transport between
store and farugate (USS/t)                            -23          -10        10      10    10
9.  Subtotal (USS/t)                                       224          135       305    285   200
10.  Processing ratio                                       0.65         1.0       1.0    1.0   1.0
11.  Farugate price (USSIt)                                 145          135       305    285   200
12.  Farugate price (PRs/t)                                2030         1890     4270   3990  2800
/a  Source:  IbRD Price Forecasts dated January 1984.
Pricing Basis Rice : Thai silled 5: broken. FOB Bangkok.
Wheat:  Canadian No. I Western Red Spring. in store, Thunder Bay.
Urea :  Bagged. FOB Europe.
HP      In bulk, FOb Vancouver.
TSP     In bulk, FOB US Gulf.
/b  For 30-35: broken.
/c  Export parity price basis for rice and wheat; import parity price basi. for fertilizers.
Id  Exchange rate used throughout report unless othervise stated PRr 14 - USS1.



.~  I, #  < f. 
PAKISTAN
BALUCHIISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS FOR ECONOMIC SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
(1)             (2)                 (3)                (4)               (5)                   (6)
Total       Present Level        Benefits as        Incremental       Incremental       Incremental Benefits
Project        of Crop           % of Ultimate    Gross Benefit         Production        Net of Incremental
Coat /^      Production /b        Benefits        of 1% Yield /c         Costs /d        Production Cost /e
YEAR                Rs M            Rs M                  Z           Increase Rs M            Rs H                Rs M
1                  25.0            1945 
2                  38.4            1945                 10                 1.95              0.59                 1,36
3                  32.0            1945                 30                 5.84              1.75                 4.09
4                   18.8           1945                 60                11.67              3.50                 8.17
5                  10.4            1945                 80                15.56              4.67                10.89
6                   10.1           1945                 90                17.51              5.25                12.26
7-25                 10.1           1945                100                19.45               5.84               13.61
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS /f
Economic            --------------Switching Value Ö------------
Yield Increase %         Rate of Return Z          Benefits. Prices. Yields %            Costs x
2                        13                               -6                        +6
3                        24                              -37                       +59
4                        33                              -53                      +112
5                        41                              -62                      +165
6                        49                              -69                      +218
7                        57                              -73                      +271
VI FIp
/a  Converted to economic costs using a SCF - 0.9
/b  Using economic prices from Table 1 for rice and wheat (59X of total value) and a SCF - 0.9 for other crops.
/c 1Z of columns (2) x (3)
/d Taken as 30Z of gross value based on relationship for rice assuming 10 mandays of labor at Rs 18/day
plus 50 kg fertilizer nutrient (NPK 4:2:1) at Rs 8.5/kg (from Table 1).
/e Column (4) - (5)
/f Discounting columns (1) and (6).



-78-
PAKISTAN
BALLCHISTAN AGRICUL1URAL EXEMNSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PRQJECT
Agriculkol Extnson Oigo0   lon
ODA          D~~~~~~3ODA
Tf~ ~~~~EorW.g&           i b        2DDLHac
PPOCUM-WiI a                                  Iupm D.cfw
[23~~pahr R + v R wh
BAm  mAO   IAC  2MC   ?A,80   A0                                     A
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i,
,~~~~~~~~~~~~5A    SFs                            5MS      3.       AF,              2,V      M
tCA   -A  uorA0ih,
- -        A WSceoaD
AFO   -A 1Q.!ar se~Ofc
ADA  - AW   -V~am                         AA&3AD$                                                     S
MA   - RsIDAV
£A1   - Oft AiWUd T.O,vmg AWI?U
= =Peor Dfrct                                                                                                   W    .-23 72



PAKISTAN                                                                            4.f           w 
i                         BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION                                                     IW"
Project Area                                                        I  H  0 Z                     I O -1  I
;   r                                      If <^    1'.1            '{             -{i
;0s*1.-, tS,,-.  ¢,, .,+*.   s.. 'i.ii  I ;  I  S  H    I  N  I
0                                  d,             nilu;.;A,~  Ai ri;
/*AND  ADPT,i I    RESAR             PRJC llh, .......                                   H o              1 c
0       AO       1,!t5 -10  I@|e AR I                                                                                    I*         | F  -,   ,t  
L               "
0                ,,:I,','.'. %J.i,,;: Sin',,,  - Xi z.   r,'r.,   ii *,- ,                                              5)      / ~>.  ~-  
3A  Aj, T)r  Ir...'ffi (Alt)                     ; I  r .  .I               1,                                 A *   .    3.
<s~~~~~~~~~~I ,       )L v ,1 0 . fi. .-j '1 IIIM (I WtBo I!           // B
.  ~~~.,,^  ~A F CG H A N I S T A N         ,__          _,       Nr               Mn.,                 \                    ;
I    I o b. i   M  A  RR I         PUNJAB
|     4                   - I        r -   -                                   {E                   >        //>.F  '~ u  E T  T 
'∞teißG<XF   K  H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A               L A  I                 r  >!
*~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~/                                            ',--.'.i   ,
ISL AMIC'FG AISAN(                                                                       o    V~1
IIA'       AI0 _                                                                  I   
r                  /K A1,,b,I          M        R       K U A :A,
{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UJ. ∞Xa                                                        - C -    '
Sw    T      T       A J                       T                                                     2|"
ISlAMIC                   U E(    K R                      A NAY    )                                   rA H  A  R AmN  I
m                                                                          / i4SI.C>n*k,                 .*#;1 ^s               _~~~~~~~~SIN
(0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H UUlDA 
e ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' .4                                                                              '.-_,1
E    K    R   A    N                              Itf    7- A.H I 
/  A0~~~~,M,,, ,4oru s~~~~f A -11rW..4~
L A'r'.,i    L A                                           l ...*-
1.W  D                                        AA.               , R 
Ci,,JqiH  K  H  A~~M, RIAN          
-1 ~ ~      ~      ~      ~       Ili                                                               '10
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*'A   l,r4flr
FUR  BAT  %.-.                                                 'AAI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -'  -'~~~~J 



