Doazmt of
The World Bank
FOR omaAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 12893
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE
RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1533-PAK)
MARCH 31, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit - Pakistan Rupees (PRs)
Appraisal year (1984): US$1 =  PRs 14.0
Average 1985-1991: US$1  =  PRs 19.1
Completion year (1992): US$1 = PRs 25.1
Fiscal Year of Borrower
July 1 to June 30
Weights and Measures
Tons are metric tons of 1,000 kg (2,204 pounds)
Abbreviations
ADA           Assistant Director of Agriculture
AO            Agricultural Officer
ARF           Adaptive Research Farm
ARI           Agricultural Research Institute
ARO           Agricultural Research Officer
ATI           Agricultural Training Institute
AZRI          Arid Zone Research Institute
BAC           Balochistan Agricultural College
CF            Contact Farmer
CWD           Communication and Works Department
DDA           Deputy Director of Agriculture
DGA           Director General of Agriculture
DOA           Department of Agriculture .
DTC           District Technical Committee
EADA          Extra Assistant Director of Agriculture
EEC           European Economic Community
FA            Field Assistant
GOBAL         Government of Balochistan
OFWM          On-Farm Water Management
PARC          Pakistan Agricultural Research Council
SMS           Subject Matter Specialist
SSMS          Senior Subject Matter Specialist



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 31, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Pakistan - Baluchistan
Agricultural Extension and Adaotive Research Proiect (Credit 1 533-PAK)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Pakistan - Baluchistan Agricultural
Extension and Adaptive Research Project (Credit 1 533-PAK) prepared by the South Asia
Regional Office. The Borrower contributed Part II. The Ministry of Agriculture was more
favorably impressed with the project than Bank staff, and commented on the good relations
with the Bank's resident mission staff.
The project aimed to increase agricultural production in four districts (containing
most of the irrigated land in the state) in Baluchistan. This was to be achieved by introducing
T&V, improving research-extension linkage, and supporting adaptive research. The T&V
system was installed and most of the physical implementation targets were achieved. Serious
problems, however, arose in trying to make both the extension and adaptive research work
effectively. There was little evidence that the project was having any impact on uptake of
improved technology, and it has been rated as unsatisfactory. Institutional development was
partially achieved, but major changes are necessary to improve performance. Operational
problems and lack of demonstrated impact, as well as major difficulties in funding recurrent
costs subsequent to the project, make sustainability uncertain.
The Project Completion Report provides a good account of project implementation
and performance.
The project may be audited in conjunction with a similar project in the states of
Punjab and Sindh (Extension and Adaptive Research II) after its completion.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Bank authorization.



i



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE
RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1533-PAK)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE                         ...................................                                              i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ............................................  ii
PARTI           ...........................1............................. 
1. Project Identity  .................................................                                          1
2. Background   ...................................................                                             1
3. Project Objectives and Description  .....................................    2
4. Project Design and Organization  ......................................    3
5. Project Implementation ..................5: .-                                                               5
6. Project Results ..................  10
7. Project Sustainability .............................   11
8. Bank Performance  ....                                                                                      12
9. Borrower Performance   ............................................   12
10. Lessons Learned            .......................                 .........................    13
11. Consulting Services ........           ..............                ........................   15
12. Project Relationship, Documentation and Data  ...........                ..................   16
PART II         ...........................                    .............................    17
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART III        ....................................   22
1. Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits  ...................................   22
2. Project Timetable ....................................   24
3. Credit Disbursement ....................................   24
4. Project Implementation - Key Indicators ..................................  25
5. Project Costs and Financing ..................................... 27
A. Project Costs (Including Contingencies) . .............................  27
B. Project Financing ..................................... 28
6. Project Results  ....................................   29
A. Direct Benefits . .................................... 29
B. Economic Impact ..................................... 30
C. Financial Impact . .................................... 30
D. Studies ........................................... ..   30
7. Status of Covenants  ....................................   31
8. Use of Bank Resources . .................................... 33
A. Staff Inputs  ....................................   33
B. Missions ............................................ 34
ANNEXES
Annex 1       Staff Positions and Recruitment
Annex 2       List of Higher Level Staff Training
Annex 3       List of Equipment Purchased for Use in Training
Annex 4      Wheat Output in Balochistan 1984-1991
Map: IBRD 18315R1
ii



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH
PROJECT
(Cr. 1533-PAK)
PREFACE
1.         This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Baluchistan Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research Project for which Credit 1533-PAK in the amount of SDR 8.2 million (US$8.3 million
equivalent) was approved in December 1984. The credit closing date was extended twice by one year
each to June 30, 1992, and the credit account was kept open four months beyond the final closing date.
Total credit disbursement amounted to SDR 7.09 million (86 % of the credit), and the undisbursed balance
of SDR 1.11 million was cancelled as of November 25, 1992.
2.         Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
mission " that visited Pakistan in November 1992, and reviewed by the Agriculture Operations Division,
Country Department III, South Asia Region. Preparation was based on the Staff Appraisal Report,
Development Credit Agreement and Project Agreement, IDA supervision reports and project files,
documentation provided by the implementing agency, field visits to all four project districts, and meetings
with project staff and IDA staff associated with the project. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
"  C.J. Bevan, agronomist and mission leader; J. Cook, extension specialist (consultant); and A.F. Zagni, irrigation engineer
(consultant).



i



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE
RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1533-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.         The objective of the project was to achieve sustained increases in agricultural production in
four districts of the Province of Balochistan through the strengthening and reorganization of the extension
service on the lines of the Training and Visit (T&V) System of extension, and the widespread adoption by
farmers of proven and recommended improved farming practices. The proposed plan to reorganize the
Department of Agriculture (DOA), together with the establishment of better research-extension linkages,
was expected to have a beneficial effect on non-project districts and to provide a basis for future expansion
of extension and research activities to the rest of the Province. The project was based on the provision
of housing, offices, laboratories and training centers, vehicles and motorcycles, specialist equipment for
research and training, staff training and technical assistance. The project also provided for recurrent costs
associated with incremental staffing, travel allowances and demonstration trials.
Implementation Experience
2.          With the exception of some of the training, all key performance indicator targets were met
or exceeded. The IDA credit became effective some seven/eight months after signing and, initially,
implementation began more or less as scheduled. However, delays in release of local funding, the need
to relocate a number of construction sites, and poor liaison between the Civil Works Coordinator and DOA
resulted in substantial delays in the building program, the largest single project component. These
problems were ultimately resolved, but overall the civil works program is estimated to have been
completed four years behind schedule. Fewer problems were experienced with vehicle purchase, although
there were some delays in providing all field agents with motorcycles. Most of the specialist equipment
was provided, although little of the scientific equipment had been utilized at project completion because
of the delays in construction of the adaptive research laboratories. The technical assistance component
began as scheduled, the signing of a technical assistance contract being a condition of credit effectiveness.
The initial technical assistance input was completed, although the extended input (utilizing savings arising
from currency movement against the SDR) was curtailed owing to contractual problems between the
consultants and the tax authorities in Pakistan. The training was completed more or less as planned,
although the local MSc program did not fully get under way until the project's fifth year, and the pre- and
in-service training of field staff was interrupted by changes in the structure and programs offered by the
Agricultural Training Institute. The credit was extended twice, for a total of two years, to allow extra time
for the completion of the civil works program and the MSc training program.
ii



3.          At credit closing, 86 % of the credit was disbursed, with an undisbursed balance of SDR 1.11
million to be cancelled. However, actual project expenditure, as estimated from data supplied by DOA,
was US$13.0 million, or US$1.48 million more than anticipated at appraisal. This additional expenditure
was possible largely because of depreciation of the US dollar against the SDR over the project period, but
also because of a larger than anticipated contribution from the Government of Balochistan (see Part III/SB).
The successful implementation of the project is attributed to good supervision by IDA, good management
by project staff, and to the fact that there were few changes in senior project management staff during
implementation. This management achievement should not be underestimated, given the shortage of
trained staff and general lack of experience of DOA in implementing such projects at the time.
Results
4.          The project was successful in meeting its physical targets, the credit was largely disbursed,
and there is now a more organized extension service operating on a more structured basis in the four
project districts. In these areas field staff are making regular visits to farmers, demonstrations are being
laid out and regular training sessions for field staff are being held. Many, if not most of the project
supplied motorcycles are still operational, providing field workers with mobility, and the revolving fund
established to provide for motorcycle replacement has accumulated some PRs 4.0 million. Sadly, however,
there is little evidence to date that the service is resulting in the uptake of new or improved technologies
by farmers thereby increasing agricultural production as intended. An analysis of wheat output in the
Province (see Annex 4) indicates that yields and production have increased at roughly similar rates over
the project period in both project and non-project areas. This failure to bring about the use of new or
improved technologies is attributed to a shortage of appropriate extension messages, inadequate training
of Field Assistants (FAs), a high turnover of all higher level district staff, and ineffective use of contact
farmers. The adaptive research component has only been successful in so far as the physical targets for
facility construction have largely been met, and a number of trials have been set up on both the three
Adaptive Research Farms (ARFs) and in farmers fields. The program has not, however, generated
significant results, mainly due to the shortage of suitable staff and the high turnover of staff actually
recruited. The links between research and extension, though initially good, appear to have been weakening
toward the end of the project; and during the last year of the project the District Technical Committees
and Provincial Technical Committee did not meet. Neither local trainin'g nor overseas training, with the
possible exception of the study tours, has had much of an impact. The local training has generally been
too theoretical, and the academic standard of FAs was too low. Overseas training has been ineffective,
largely because of inappropriate selection of staff and high staff turnover on return. Demonstrations have
had some impact, but the contact farmers have rarely met the selection criteria, and there appears to have
been little spread of messages beyond the larger farmers - even where appropriate messages for smaller
farmers have been promoted. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) has been carried out throughout the
project, but since this has been done by the Department itself (as intended by the project), some of the
results are questionable. More importantly, the monitoring surveys are now more than one year behind
schedule which means that much of the relevance of findings is lost due to the rapid recent changes in the
Department. Media use both for training and extension has been inadequate.
5.          Whilst the project, with the exception of the physical targets and organizational structures,
has achieved significantly less than anticipated at appraisal, overall it should not be considered as too
disappointing. Since the project was appraised, experience elsewhere has led to the recognition that it takes
longer than one single project period to reorganize and make functionally effective an agricultural extension
service. The adaptive research and training achievements of the project do, however, give cause for
particular concern. The adaptive research activity largely duplicates the work of the Agricultural Research
Institute at Sariab, whilst the failure to adequately train staff has severely hindered the effective
iii



development of the service. The poor performance of these activities can be attributed to poor project
design that failed to adequately develop and build on institutions and facilities existing within the Province
at the time of appraisal, and partly to shortfalls in the Government's implementation of the project.
Project Sustainability
6.           The sustainability of the project depends, in the first instance, upon the continued payment
of staff salaries, allowances and maintenance of the regular staff training programs.  It is, therefore,
encouraging that over 50 % of the staff recruited under the project have been transferred from development
budget posts to established posts funded by the regular budget. The balance of the staff will, it is
understood, be similarly transferred in the next financial year. In the meantime, it is expected that their
costs, and that of the travel and daily allowances of all field agents will be met by development budget
funds. Providing these funds are forthcoming, there is every reason to believe that the regular training
program will continue, and that in the short to medium-term the project initiated activities will be
sustained. Long-term sustainability will, however, depend not only on regular funding, but on the service
becoming demand driven, that is by integrating farmers into the planning and evaluation of extension
programs. This, in turn, will require a significant upgrading of field agent training and a more responsive
way of delivering better extension messages than regular visits to poorly selected contact farmers. If this
does not happen, field agents will loose their motivation and will revert to undertaking routine data
gathering and monitoring activities, and providing subsidized demonstrations for larger farmers.
Lessons Learned
7.           On the downside, the main lessons learned deal largely with project design. In the first
place, insufficient attention was paid to rationalizing the structure of the DOA extension service, leading
to considerable inefficiencies and inconsistencies. Secondly, the project has demonstrated the need to
undertake a detailed preparation study that pays full attention to aspects such as the nature and extent of
local resources and circumstances, as well as extension delivery methods appropriate for different areas
and the location and types of civil works required. Thirdly, T&V extension systems, which are heavily
dependent on manpower to disseminate information, are expensive to run, especially in sparsely populated
areas such as Balochistan. Fourthly, insufficient consideration was given to the capabilities of available
staff and the demands the project would make on them. Finally, the project timeframe was probably over-
ambitious, as it was unrealistic to expect a reorganization and retraining of a field force, and the
introduction of an adaptive research program to be effective within the five-year project period. On the
positive side, the project has demonstrated the capacity of line managers of DOA to introduce a relatively
complex extension system over a large area, and secondly that providing field agents with motorcycles
purchased on an instalment basis is an effective way of increasing staff mobility and morale. Any second
phase initiative must take into consideration the above lessons.
iv






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
BALUCHISTAN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE
RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1533-PAK)
PART I
1. Project Identity
Project Name      :      Baluchistan Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
Credit No.               1533-PAK
RVP Unit                 South Asia Region
Country                  Pakistan
Sector            :      Agriculture
Sub-sectors              Agricultural Support Services
2. Background
2.1         Balochistan is the largest but least populated province of Pakistan. Of its 35 million ha,
some 19 million ha are cultivated, of which some 0.6 million ha are irrigated from a number of sources.
Rainfall is low throughout the province, averaging 200 rrnm per annum but rising to 400 mmn per annum
in parts of the hills in the north. Major crops include wheat, rice, sorghum, fodders and deciduous fruits.
At the time of project preparation yields were among the lowest in Pakistan, reflecting the low rainfall,
relatively low use of irrigation, low cropping intensities, and low input usage (especially fertilizer).
Despite this low productivity some 65% of the provincial population depend on agriculture, which
accounted for over 55% of provincial GDP in the early 1980s.
2.2         Agricultural Extension. At the time of project appraisal the provincial extension service
consisted of some 800 staff responsible to a Director of Agriculture (Extension) who, in turn, reported
to the Secretary of Agriculture. The field service consisted of a hierarchy of 4 Deputy Directors of
Agriculture (DDA) at the divisional level, 17 Extra Assistant Directors of Agriculture (EADA) at the
district level, 71 Agricultural Officers (AO) at the tehsil level, and 437 Field Assistants (FA) at the
village level. Each FA was assigned to some 12-20 villages covering some 500 widely scattered farm
families, and was assisted by one or two field workers (beldars). There was no organized system of
agricultural extension, and field staff were required to perform tasks not directly related to extension,
such as selling and applying pesticides, seeds and fertilizers, especially in remote areas.
2.3         Agricultural Training. Training of field staff in Balochistan has not, in general, received
the support and attention it deserves. Until 1970, when the Agricultural Training Institute (ATI) was
taken over by the Agricultural Research Institute (ARI), one-year pre-service training was provided for
FAs. However, the institute being located in Quetta, the course was biased towards orchard crops and
1



provided limited training in cash crops. Subsequently, until the construction and equipment of a new ATI
under the Third Education Project (Cr. 678-PAK) in the early 1980s, there was no facility for training
FAs. For the training of agricultural graduates, the Government of Balochistan (GOBAL) traditionally
depended upon the universities of the other three provinces. More recently, the new ATI has been
reconstituted as an agricultural training institute and college, known as the Balochistan Agricultural
College (BAC), to provide undergraduate training in agriculture, and at present little, if any, FA training
is being done as almost all facilities are needed for undergraduate student training (see para. 5.16).
2.4         Agricultural Research. Before Balochistan became a province in 1970, the ARI was a
substation of the main research institute of the Province of Sind. It suffered from financial constraints
and was never fully developed. In 1984, ARI had an establishment of 130 scientists, but some 55 posts
were vacant. The institute had sections covering economics, entomology, plant pathology, agricultural
chemistry, food technology, wheat, potatoes and vegetable botany, but most of its work was in connection
with deciduous fruits. In addition to ART, the Pakistan Agricultural Research Council (PARC) established
an Arid Zone Research Institute (AZRI) just outside Quetta in 1974 " to develop more productive
technologies and cropping systems for arid areas, and coordinate national programs on wheat, pulses,
sorghum, millet, fodders, and medicinal plants. At the time of project appraisal only a limited range of
appropriate technologies had been developed for Balochistan, and there was no recognized program of
adaptive research being carried out at district or farm level. Linkages between extension and research
were almost non-existent.
2.5         In the above situation, and encouraged by the  results of two other provincial projects
(Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development Project, Cr. 813-PAK; and Sind Agricultural Extension
and Adaptive research Project, Cr. 922-PAK) and other information about the operation of the Training
and Visit System, GOBAL requested IDA assistance in introducing reorganized agricultural extension and
adaptive research services into Balochistan in 1983.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1         Project Objectives. The main objective of the project was to achieve sustained increases
in agricultural production in four districts (Loralai, Kachhi, Nasirabad and Lasbela) of high agricultural
potential in Balochistan, through strengthening and reorganization of the extension service on the lines
of the T&V System 2' and widespread adoption by farmers of proven and reconmmended improved
farming practices.  The reorganization of the Department of Agriculture (DOA), together with
establishment of better research-extension linkages, was also expected to have a beneficial effect on non-
project districts, and to provide a basis for future expansion of extension and research activities to the
rest of the Province. The project period was to be five years.
3.2         Project Description.  To achieve its objectives, the project included redeployment of
existing and recruitment of new staff; provision of necessary physical inputs; establishment of adaptive
research farms (ARF); and staff training and technical assistance. Specifically, the project included the
following: (a) establishing a single line of command between FA and extension headquarters and
eliminating non-extension activities from FA duties; (b) introducing a systematic fixed schedule for
"   No effective research started until the early to mid-1980s.
21  The principles of the system have been described in Benor and Harrison, "Agricultural Extension - The Training
and Visit System", World Bank, May 1977, and more recently in Benor and Baxter, "Training and Visit
Extension", World Bank, March 1984.
2



regular and frequent visits by FAs to farmers and for FAs' in-service training; (c) intensifying extension
work by providing an additional 46 FAs, 7 AOs, 18 Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) and 4 Senior
Subject Matter Specialist (SSMSs); (d) improving the mobility of extension staff by providing 2 cars,
17 4WD vehicles, 7 pickups and 233 motorcycles, together with vehicle operating costs and staff travel
allowances; (e) building extension offices and training facilities and constructing staff houses where
required; (f) developing packages of improved farming practices by improving the linkage between
research and extension and establishing ARFs and field trials to adjust research findings to meet farmers'
needs; (g) introducing a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system; and (h) providing necessary
incremental operating funds and equipment for the extension service and ARFs in project districts.
3.3         Of the total estimated project cost (see Part III/SA) of US$11.52 million (PRs 161.25
million), US$5.63 million (49%) were for civil works construction, and a further US$3.94 million (34%)
for recurrent expenditure (salaries and allowances, O&M).
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1         The project was prepared by local consultants with some assistance from the FAQ/World
Bank Cooperative Program in late 1983, and was appraised by IDA in April 1984. It was designed to
address a number of recognized weaknesses in the provincial extension service -- heavy burden of non-
extension duties, inadequate staff numbers, inadequate offices and housing, poor mobility, insufficient
pre- and in-service training, poor research/extension linkages, and inadequate generation of new
appropriate technologies by research workers. As already noted (para 2.5), the design was based on
similar projects in Punjab and Sind that appeared to be making good progress. The main features were:
(a)     Introduction of a Systematic Extension Methodology.  The FAs were to
disseminate key messages on a regular (monthly) basis to groups of leading or
contact farmers (CFs). Each CF in turn was expected to pass on the messages to
six of his peers so that in total each FA would cover about 400 farm families.
Once a month, when not visiting farmers, the FAs would receive training that
would form the basis of their next farmer visits. This FA training was to be
provided at district training centres by SMSs or AOs. In addition, FAs were
responsible for demonstrations on farmers' fields. The AOs in the project
districts were responsible for supervision of and technical support to FAs and for
provision of advice to larger farmers.
(b)     Provision of Mobility, Office and Housing Accommodation. Given the large
distances and the need for FAs and AOs to travel regularly, the project provided
motorcycles to be purchased by users on an instalment basis, through regular
deductions from their salaries. These payments went into a revolving fund to be
used to finance motorcycle replacements. Offices and housing were required as
such facilities were considered to be extremely modest or non-existent in most
districts.
(c)     Introduction of Adaptive Research Farns and Programs. Three ARFs were
to be established, one in each of the principal agro-ecological zones of the project
area. They were to be the focal point for a program of on-station and on-farm
adaptive research designed to develop appropriate new production technologies.
3



(d)     Provision of Additional Staffing. The project was to add a substantial number
of staff, especially SMSs and FAs needed to provide the appropriate
farmer/extension agent ratio.
(e)     Provision of Additional Staff Training. This included the re-introduction of
pre-service training for FAs and the introduction of monthly technical training
(see (a) above). In addition, training in the operation and management of a T&V
system was to be provided for senior management.
4.2         The main organizational arrangements called for: (a) appointment of a Director General
of Agriculture (DGA) to oversee all Directorates within DOA, reporting directly to the Secretary of
Agriculture; (b) supervision of the civil works program by a Coordinator located in the Communications
and Works Department (CWD); (c) a Project Steering Committee chaired by the Additional Chief
Secretary, Planning and Development Department (P&D), with the Secretary of Agriculture as secretary;
(d) a Project Review Committee within DOA, chaired by the Secretary of Agriculture, to review progress
seasonally and make recommendations for the forthcoming season; (e) District Advisory Committees,
chaired by the District Deputy Commissioner, to review and oversee project operations; (f) a Provincial
Technical Committee, chaired by the DGA, to review research and field trials and extension
recommendations made by District Technical Committees at the start of each season; and (g) District
Technical Committees, chaired by the Deputy Director of Agriculture of the district, to review twice
yearly agricultural recommendations, research priorities, and adaptive trial needs.
4.3         Given available experience at the time, the state of extension in Balochistan, and
government priority under the Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY84-88) to raise yields, the overall project concept
was appropriate and timely. Nevertheless, some of the problems experienced later can in part be
attributed to insufficient consideration at the design stage (see paras. 5.2 and 5.3). In the first place, the
problems experienced with recruiting graduate staff (SSMSs, SMSs and AOs) could have been predicted
from experience in Punjab and Sind, and from the recruitment difficulties experienced by ARI. Greater
consideration should, perhaps, have been given to paying special allowances to such staff or minimizing
the number required. The design was, perhaps, modelled too closely on similar projects in more densely
populated parts of Pakistan, where staffing had been less of a problem and where a relatively large
number of farmers live close together so that groups of contact farmers can easily be assembled. Greater
attention should have been given to the use of low cost means of delivering extension messages, such as
radio, rather than relying so heavily on a large number of staff; and more attention should have been
devoted to introducing methods of developing specific priority impact point messages rather than general
messages.
4.4         It was also, perhaps, optimistic to expect the effective development from scratch of an
adaptive research service capable of generating new extension messages and the effective retraining of
staff within the five-year project period. Experience elsewhere since appraisal suggests that a period of
10-15 years is needed to introduce and make effective new extension systems. More consideration
should, perhaps, have been given to broadening the scope of research at ARI instead of introducing a
parallel adaptive research service.
4



5. Project Implementation
5.1         Variances. The main variances, apart from delays (see paras. 5.7 and 5.11), between
planned and actual project implementation resulted from failure to: recruit and retain an adequate number
of staff (SSMSs, SMSs and AOs; see Annex 1); provide adequate pre-service training of all FAs,
especially more recent recruits; develop ARFs quickly enough, with the result that few new technologies
have been generated; develop appropriate local extension messages for FAs and farmers; use all civil
works, especially service buildings, as planned (see para. 6.2); and maintain and use organizational
structures and committees.
5.2         While some of these variances could have been avoided or minimized by better project
design (e.g. better use of ARI staff and less dependence on new graduate recruits), the main ones can be
attributed to political and structural factors which are outside the scope of influence of DOA. The DGA
has done his best to recruit on merit, but at times he was unable to prevent appointment of people at the
request of politicians. Retaining staff in post has also been difficult, partly because of the lower
allowances paid to staff in most districts outside Quetta ", and partly because of the existence of transfer
allowances which encouraged officers to move as frequently as possible. The PCR mission was informed
that the Civil Service Commission has recently altered the regulations regarding transfers to make annual
or more frequent transfers impossible.
5.3         The failure to adequately train FAs, after the establishment of BAC, can partly be attributed
to DOA, which should have made a greater effort to keep the FA diploma course operational. However,
it should be remembered that political pressure calling for Balochistan to produce its own agricultural
graduates was very strong during the late 1980s. This was especially the case given the poor security
situation at the agricultural university at Tandojam in Sind where most students from Balochistan were
trained in the past. Slow ARF development, particularly in Loralai, might have been avoided if (a) an
appropriate site had been selected at preparation, (b) staffing problems had not been so severe, (c) the
Director of Adaptive Research had been able to devote his time exclusively to adaptive research, rather
than to the project as a whole, and (d) cooperation between ARI and the Directorate of Extension had
been better.
5.4         Initially, the organizational requirements of the project were met by the creation of the post
of DGA and the establishment of the various committees. However, the Project Steering Committee does
not appear to have played a significant role either in providing overall guidance to the project, or in
coordinating the activities of the various Departments involved. Similarly, the Project Review Committee
has been less effective than anticipated, largely because it did not meet regularly before the beginning of
each cropping season. The Provincial and District Technical Committees have functioned more or less
as planned, although contrary to the SAR proposals the DTCs have not played their intended role in the
direction of adaptive research. The District Advisory Committees have tended to meet rather infrequently
and to discuss general district development rather than specific project issues. Placing the Civil Works
Coordinator within CWD was not effective. However, during the project the post was transferred to
DOA with an engineer being seconded from CWD; this worked well and serves as a good model for the
future. Since July 1992 the position of DGA has been downgraded, and once again each Director reports
directly to the Secretary of Agriculture.
Quetta allowances are reported to be some 40% more than for most districts.
5



5.5         Project Risks. The main risk identified at appraisal was shortage of well educated and
trained staff within DOA. To reduce this risk considerable emphasis was placed on training and use of
consultants early in the project period. A second risk identified at the time was delay in local funding.
However, financing arrangements made on the government's and IDA's side were expected to minimize
this risk. Implementation experience shows that these risks were correctly identified. Inadequate and
inappropriate training of field staff is almost certainly the main reason for the failure of the project to
bring about changes in farm productivity. There were some local funding delays, but they were not too
serious.
5.6         Project Area. The project was executed, by and large, as planned in the areas of the four
districts selected. However, some administrative complications regarding district staffing and location
of facilities arose as a result of decisions to increase the number of districts in Balochistan. The main
changes from the SAR are: (a) transfer of the ARF complex from Murga Kibzai to Loralai; and (b)
development of two ARFs in Lasbela district, one at Wayaro and the other at Uthal. With hindsight, it
appears somewhat wasteful that one of the ARFs was sited at Usta Mohammed in Nasirabad district,
given the recent completion of the Japanese funded demonstration and seed farm complex between Usta
Mohammed and Jhatpat.
5.7         Credit Disbursement. Credit 1533-PAK was signed in January 1985 and became effective
in September 1985, five months later than expected. This was due to delays in: project approval by
ECNEC; release of funds by the Finance Department which prevented timely appointment of key project
staff (DGA, Project Coordinator and Civil Works Coordinator) called for as a condition of effectiveness;
opening of Special Account and Sub-Accounts; and ratification of the Project Agreement by GOBAL.
Disbursement was substantially lower than anticipated. At the original closing date (June 30, 1990), it
amounted to SDR 4.52 million (55 % of the appraisal estimate); at credit closing, it had reached SDR 7.09
million (86 %), and the undisbursed balance of SDR 1.11 million was cancelled as of November 25, 1992,
the date of the final disbursement (see Part 111/3). This development was due largely to delays in the civil
works program (see para. 5.10) and the devaluation of the Rupee and US$ against the SDR--actual
disbursement in US$ totalled 9.29 million (112% of appraisal estimate).
5.8         Project Cost. Estimated and actual project costs are shown in Part III/5A. Actual cost
amounts to PRs 281.6 million (US$13.0 million). This represents a cost overrun of 75% in PRs, but
only 13% in US$ terms. The highest absolute increase occurred in civil works costs (+ PRs 53.4
million, or 44% of the total cost overrun).
5.9         Procurement. As specified in Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement, civil works were to
be carried out by force account or contracts awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding.
Equipment, tools, materials, agricultural inputs, books and furniture were to be procured in accordance
with the standard procedures of the Province, whilst purchase of motorcycles was to be in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to IDA that allowed staff an opportunity to select brands of their choice,
including those to be procured from international sources. Because of difficulties associated with
obtaining import clearance, it was agreed that GOBAL would procure all other vehicles with its own
funds. Consultants were to be selected following the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" dated August 1981. Signing of contracts
for consulting services was a condition of credit effectiveness. No difficulties were experienced with
procurement during the project period as all procedures outlined above were satisfactorily followed.
5.10        Civil Works. A total of 182 buildings (48 service and 134 housing units) were to be
constructed between 1984/85 and 1987/88 at a cost of PRs 78.8 million (49% of total costs; Part III/5A).
6



By the final credit closing date (June 30, 1992), 182 buildings (53 service and 129 housing units) had
been completed (Part III/4), although many of them required finishing in terms of decoration and
installation of essential services such as water and electricity. Implementation started more or less on
schedule, with the award of some 100 construction contracts, but it was only during 1988/89 that
construction of the first lot of buildings was completed. The main reasons for this four-year slippage
were slow release of funds from the Finance Department to CWD, need to relocate a number of sites
(e.g., ARF complex from Murga Kibzai to Loralai), and poor liaison between the Civil Works
Coordinator and DOA.
5.11        By the end of 1987 the building program was at a virtual standstill and the supervision
mission recommended that the Civil Works Coordinator be outposted from CWD to DOA, and the civil
works Special Account be similarly transferred. This change resulted in a considerable upturn in civil
works performance, although two credit extensions were required largely to enable completion of the
program. By mid-1992, the cost of civil works was estimated at PRs 132.17 million, some 68% more
than the appraisal estimate. However, the cost in US$ was actually 5% less than estimated at appraisal.
The cost escalation in PRs is attributed " to a gross under-estimation of price and physical contingencies
at appraisal.
5.12        The general quality of the basic building construction is considered to be sound. Some poor
finishing of brick work, poor installation of doors and windows, and poor painting is reported, and some
roofs are said to be leaking. The main construction weaknesses concern electrical, water and sanitary
service installation. Poor workmanship and fittings are frequently in evidence. This is particularly
serious in the case of washing and toilet facilities, and overall can be expected to lead to considerable
repair and maintenance costs. Designs for housing followed standard government regulations and few
problems were encountered. However, major problems were encountered with some of the service
buildings. For example, the DOA media centre in Quetta lacks a suitable work area, a number of the
ARFs have inadequate laboratory facilities, and a number of buildings were poorly sited with regard to
access to services.
5.13        Staffing. Project funds were specifically allocated to cover hicremental staff salaries and
travel allowances. Requirements for key staff to operate the reorganized extension system were to be met
partly by redeploying existing staff and partly by recruiting new staff. Incremental requirements and
actual recruitment are given in Annex 1. A majority of the incremental posts have been filled, although
SMSs and AOs were particularly difficult to hire and retain, and for much of the project period there
have been a number of SMS and AO positions vacant. Since the success of all extension services depends
essentially on their staffing, it is disappointing that throughout implementation there have been severe
problems in recruiting and retraining staff, except in the most junior (FA) and senior headquarters
positions. In particular, the inadequate capabilities of SSMSs and the shortage of SMSs has had a serious
adverse effect on the adaptive research program and the development of appropriate messages for farmers
such that the program has produced only very modest results to date. The shortage of SMSs has also
affected the training of FAs and AOs. On the other hand, it is encouraging that DOA has succeeded in
transferring the majority of project posts from the development to the non-development budget, which
is essential to retain staff in the long term. Another neglected area was the technical positions in the
media unit. With vacant posts for script writer, program producer and cameraman it is not surprising
that few attempts were made to produce new training and publicity materials since the departure of the
project consultants.
"   See memo from RMP to Washington dated 4/6/1989.
7



5.14         Vehicles. SMSs shared 7 pick-up trucks, while higher level staff (DDAs, EADAs and HQ
staff) received a total of 3 cars and 20 four-wheel drive vehicles. A total of 263 motorcycles were
provided to FAs under an instalment plan. The motorcycles contributed substantially to FA mobility and
facilitated the program of visits. It is therefore particularly encouraging that most of the motorcycles
have been paid for, many are still operational (after seven years of use under difficult conditions), and
that there is some PRs 4.0 million in the revolving fund set up for purchase of replacements [para 4.1
(b)]. Procurement of vehicles is also given in Part III/4.
5.15         Travel Allowances. In the early years of the project, payment of travel expenses (TADA)
caused particular difficulty as payments were frequently delayed by up to 12 months owing to late release
of local budget funds to DOA. However, there was some improvement over the years, and there were
fewer reports of non-payment of TADA in the final years of the project.
5.16         Training and Demonstrations. The training program has had mixed success. Higher level
training (MSc and overseas short courses) was conducted as planned (see Annex 2). However, few of
the staff sent on overseas courses remained in post on their return, and of those who have, few if any
made much use of what they have learned. This may have been partly due to inappropriate selection of
staff for training, but stricter controls on transfers following training need to be implemented, together
with better follow-up, if such training is to have any significant effect on the operation of project services.
Three-month induction training courses for FAs were held at ATI during the first three years of the
project and 169 FAs attended between October 1986 and December 1988. However, since the merger
of ATI and BAC in 1988 " no induction courses were held. The curriculum developed under the
project, with assistance by the consultants, had a practical basis, though the course location in Quetta was
questionable for staff working in other very different agro-ecological zones, especially given the emphasis
on orchard crops in Quetta district. But the training did not appear to significantly improve the FAs'
skills, probably because of the poor teaching standards of the trainers, and the very low basic education
of the FAs. Two-year diploma courses were also taught at ATI, and the intention was ultimately for all
FAs to become diploma holders. Courses commenced in 1984 with 13 students and a further 77 students
were enroled in 1987. Since 1988 no diploma courses have been taught.
5.17         Regular T&V training of FAs and AOs has in general taken place monthly. Its quality
however left much to be desired, as it appears to have consisted almost entirely of lectures with the
occasional use of slides produced by the project consultants. There has been very little practical training
and virtually no use of handouts or other training aids, despite attendance by senior DOA staff of a
number of overseas courses on training methods and use of media. With the exception of a few
headquarters produced leaflets (see para. 5.20) no new training materials were produced after the
departure of the consultants. Since few FAs have much agriculture training other than the three-month
course taught at ATI (para. 5.16), lecture based training is completely inappropriate. This was pointed
out by supervision missions on a number of occasions, and is borne out by the limited staff attendance
at the monthly training sessions (generally around 50%).
5. 18        Under the project, ten District Training Centres were constructed (three each in Loralai and
Nasirabad, two each in Kachhi and Lasbela). The original design for the centres had to be abandoned
BAC was expected to use the ATI building on a temporary basis, until a new college was built at a nearby site with
EEC funding. However, it has recently been confirmed by the EEC commission in Islamabad that BAC will not
now be funded and that EEC sees little need for a BSc awarding institution which will only have an intake of around
100 students per year.
8



and a new design approved, which caused delay in construction and use of the buildings. The new
training centre at Loralai appears to have been built following the old design, and is significantly smaller
than the other units. Each training centre received a slide projector with screen and a radio-cassette
recorder. Some centres have also been provided with an overhead projector and stencil duplicator. A
list of training equipment purchased is in Annex 3. The majority of the equipment seen by the PCR
mission was in working condition, though almost none of it appeared to be in regular use, largely because
of shortage of slides and pre-recorded tapes.
5.19        In general, FAs appear to have visited their contact farmers (CFs). However, in most
instances CFs have not disseminated information to other farmers, nor was much done to promote transfer
of information from CFs to other farmers. Unfortunately, many CFs are large farmers (zamindars) and
are not representative of the majority of smaller farmers. These larger farmers are usually landlords who
traditionally only associate with smaller farmers on a landlord/tenant or landlord/share-cropper basis.
It would seem that they do not consider it appropriate or worthwhile to try to inform or educate their
tenants, as decisions on what crops to grow and what inputs to use rest with them. Part of the problem
derives from the fact that few FAs have better technical knowledge than their CFs, and so have little
advice to give. The original intention of the project was that AOs would work with separate CFs and
that these "AO contact farmers" would be the larger farmers while the "FA contact farmers" would be
more representative small farmers. Due to the small number of AOs and the great influence of zamindars
in many areas, this has not been the case in practice. The result has been that large farners have
continued to monopolize the services of DOA. Instead of using CFs, future extension development
should work with natural or existing farmer groups or organizations to disseminate information. These
groups, for example, could be an organization of water users, a sub-watershed, a village, or a clan. The
extension service must strengthen, if necessary, the farmer organizations with which it works, and bring
them into the planning, design and review of extension programs.
5.20        Minimal use has been made of audio-visual aids. The establishment of the HQ media unit
was only completed in November 1992 and the equipment, provided through USAID ", was moved in
during the PCR mission's visit. This equipment is for video editing only, and the new media centre is
adequate only for video editing and possibly some graphic art work, but not for video production or
sound recording as the roof is too low for video lighting and there is no provision for sound proofing.
The media unit was intended to play a major part in production of materials for monthly training sessions
and farmer field days, and to back up the extension messages. Partly due to lack of technical staff during
most of the project period, but perhaps also due to lack of management emphasis on this aspect of
extension, virtually no new training or publicity materials have been produced, other than those produced
initially by the consultants' team. A few printed leaflets have been produced by the publicity unit and
used in training of FAs. Their usefulness and quality could have been greatly improved by simpler text
and greater use of graphics, as recommended in supervision and assessment reports. The quarterly
magazine Zaraat Balochistan has apparently not been produced for the last two years. An attempt has
been made to produce a small number of video films on general aspects of agricultural production, though
as yet there are limited facilities for use of video outside the DOA headquarters.
5.21        Properly laid out demonstrations represent one of the most effective methods of extension,
and wherever they fulfil needs, farmers are quick to respond.  While the scheduled number of
demonstrations has largely been achieved, they have not been used to their full potential. There are no
control plots, demonstration plots are too large and are usually on large farmers' fields. DOA provides
The graphic equipment called for in the SAR was not purchased.
9



all inputs and most of the labor, and work on the plots has not been integrated into the normal FA
schedule of visits. In addition, results are not compared with other demonstrations, costs and returns are
not calculated, and most FAs are not aware of the results of other FAs' demonstrations and so cannot use
them in their discussions with farmers.
6. Project Results
6.1         As outlined above, project results have been mixed. Physical targets have largely been met
and the credit was largely disbursed. Compared to non-project districts, the extension service in the four
project districts is now organized and operating on a more structured basis: Field staff are making
regular visits to farmers in some areas, some demonstrations are prepared, and regular training sessions
appear to be held in most cases. These are important achievements. However, there is little evidence
to date that the service is resulting in the uptake of new or improved technologies by farmers. This can
be attributed largely to a shortage of appropriate, relevant, impact point extension messages, inadequate
training of FAs, and a high turnover of all higher level technical staff. At appraisal it was stated that
although research results were not available on which to base extension messages, some farmers were
using better technologies, and the aim was to extend the use of these technologies to more farmers.
Unfortunately, attempts to develop appropriate extension messages in this manner failed. This was partly
because of the difficulties in recruiting and retaining SMSs in the districts which severely hindered the
development of suitable local extension messages, and partly because of insensitivity to farmers' real
extension needs. Greater emphasis should have been placed on developing priority impact point messages
that are of direct interest to  farmers, and on producing messages specifically for identified
recommendation domains, that is, for groups of farmers with roughly similar practices and socio-
economic backgrounds for whom a given recommendation would be broadly appropriate. In addition,
problems with recruiting and retaining suitable SSMSs restricted both the development of the adaptive
research program and extension messages with the result that, overall, relatively few new ideas and
messages became available for transmission to FAs and farmers. In retrospect, it might have been better
to have involved the research staff of ARI in the development of extension messages, either through joint
research/extension technical committees, or by contracting research workers on a seasonal basis. This
would have been quicker, not being dependent on recruitment of SSMSs. It would also have been more
efficient and cheaper, as specialists would then have been hired as and when needed rather than
permanently. Some two years into the project, extension staff, with the assistance of the consultants,
undertook diagnostic surveys of the project area.  This produced a considerable amount of new
information concerning cropping systems, production constraints and recommendation domains, and
helped in planning the extension and adaptive research programs.
6.2          The adaptive research component has also been only partly successful. Physical targets
for facility construction have largely been met, and a number of trials have been set up on the three ARFs
and in farmers fields.  But the program has not generated significant results, mainly due to high
turnover/shortage of staff, and because the initial emphasis has been more on verification trials. Links
between research and extension, though initially good, have shown signs of weakening toward the end
of the project, and the Provincial and District Technical Committees did not meet in the last year.
Neither local nor overseas training, with the possible exception of the study tours, has had much of an
impact. Local training has generally been too theoretical, and the academic background of field staff (FA
matriculate) too low. Overseas training has been ineffective largely because of inappropriate selection
of staff and high staff turnover on return. Demonstrations have had some impact, but contact farmers
rarely met selection criteria, and there appears to have been little spread of messages beyond the larger
farmers--even where appropriate messages for small farmers have been promoted. Monitoring and
evaluation has been carried out, but since this was done by the Department itself (as intended by the
10



project), some of the results are questionable. More importantly, the monitoring surveys are now more
than one year late, which means that much of their relevance is lost due to the rapid recent changes in
DOA. In general, the service buildings are being used for the purpose originally intended, but it is
doubtful if all are really needed. The ten training centres are only used once a month, whilst many of
the ARF offices and laboratories are not used at all.
6.3          Benefits. Quantifying the benefits of this type of project is not possible since the benefits
arising from adaptive research and extension cannot be separated from those arising from the associated
use of additional inputs or other factors. Therefore, no attempt was made at appraisal to calculate an
economic rate of return for the project. However, the SAR estimated that overall yield increases of 2%--
equivalent to 35 kg/ha of wheat, for example--were required to justify project expenditure. In the
absence of reliable pre- and post-project production data for the project districts it is almost impossible
to determine whether or not the project has resulted in such increases in output. According to GOBAL
agricultural statistics, crop production has increased over the project period, but not significantly more
in the project than in the non-project areas.
6.4          A simple analysis of wheat output in project and non-project districts over the project period
is presented in Annex 4. It shows that for project districts yields and production have increased on
average by 17% and 66%, respectively. This would suggest that incremental production in project areas
was more than sufficient to cover project expenditure. However, yields and production in non-project
districts have similarly increased by 28% and 75%, respectively. This suggests that factors such as the
expansion of tubewell irrigation " have had much greater influence on output levels than extension. The
virtual lack of any difference between T&V districts and non-T&V districts can partly be attributed.to
the fact that, as indicated in para. 4.4, it takes time to introduce new systems, and at present few T&V
area FAs have any better training and knowledge to impart than non-T&V area FAs--who basically supply
inputs, spray crops, and collect agricultural data, but give little systematic advice to farners. If the level
of training and knowledge of FAs in T&V areas was raised, it is likely that there would in future be a
greater improvement in farm production in these areas compared to non-T&V areas because of the more
targeted direction of extension messages.  Nevertheless, the overall conclusion must be that the
introduction of the T&V system has taken longer than expected and the production results to date have
been modest. In view of the pressures on the Government's recurrent or operating budgets, consideration
must be given in the future to finding more cost effective ways of helping farmers improve their
productivity, based on the use of mass media and fewer, better trained field staff.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1          In the project areas, the potential for an extension service capable of responding to farmers'
needs now exists. Long-term sustainability of the extension and adaptive research service will depend
on: (a) adequate funding for operating expenses including staff pay, TADA, inputs for trials and
demonstrations, and production of training and publicity materials; and (b) substantial improvement in
the quality of the services offered to farmers. This can only be achieved through improved staff training,
reduction in staff transfers, and more appropriate adaptive research. The latter would require closer links
between farmers, research scientists and extension workers.
"   Provision of electricity in much of Balochistan over the last ten years has encouraged a rapid expansion of tubewell
irrigation in many districts.
11



7.2         As regards staff costs, most senior posts have now been moved to the non-development
budget. This should make it easier to recruit and retain staff. However, the FAs recruited under the
project still remain under the annual development budget, because of insufficient funds. TADA also
remains a problem as unlike during the final years of the project no funds have been allocated for the
purpose since project closing in June 1992 . Unless regular funds can be found for FA salaries, travel
and other operational expenses, the future of the T&V program remains in jeopardy.
7.3          Provided funding constraints can be overcome, two other factors will affect the
sustainability of the program. First, there must be full integration or at least collaboration between the
different extension activities being carried out under DOA. There are at least three other extension
initiatives supported under other projects, i.e., On-Farm Water Management (OFWM), Baluchistan Minor
Irrigation and Agricultural Development (BMIAD), and the Deciduous Fruit Development Centre
(DFDC). Long-term sustainability of an effective extension service in Balochistan will depend upon
streamlining the service into a single line agency within DOA. Second, re-establishment of the lines of
authority so that all Directorates report to the Secretary of Agriculture through the DGA must be ensured.
This is particularly important if a unified extension service is to be developed.
8. Bank Performance
8.1         The Bank's main weakness was in assessing critically the project design which was
insufficiently adapted to the particular conditions of Balochistan (see paras. 4.3 and 4.4). This is
attributed largely to the shortcuts taken in project preparation and appraisal. There was no formal
identification, and the appraisal was based on an incomplete preparation report. The appraisal mission
was unable to determine the actual need for housing and service buildings in the project districts and had
to use what proved to be rather unreliable estimates, and it under-estimated the problems of recruiting
graduate staff in Balochistan. It also failed to incorporate the existing research service in a constructive
and cooperative way, which led ultimately to conflicts within DOA between the original research
Directorate and the adaptive research initiative promoted by the project. Further, it failed to adequately
prove the existence of technologies used by leading farmers waiting for dissemination to a wider audience
(see para. 6.1).
8.2         The Bank's main strength was the effective and close supervision of the project. Missions
were very regular, every six months on average, and had a remarkable degree of staff continuity, with
the same agriculturalist and agricultural economist for most of the project period. The missions played
a major role in resolving problems regarding release of funds, establishment and use of Special Accounts,
and initial functioning of the Civil Works Coordinator. The missions were less successful in affecting
the staffing and training problems (see paras. 5.13, 5.16 and 5.17), and in ensuring that the M&E
program was pursued as planned.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1         While it is true that the project experienced considerable delays, that there were particular
staffing problems, and that few new messages have been developed and transmitted to farmers, the
borrower's performance should not be rated as unsatisfactory, particularly as almost all key physical
targets were met (see Part III/4).  Also, the project has been more successful than a similar
contemporaneous project in Sind which for a time had come to a virtual standstill due to lack of adequate
local funding. Given the political and tribal influences in Balochistan, and the relative inexperience of
DOA with Bank projects at the time, considerable credit should be given to GOBAL and DOA for what
they have achieved. Strengths to be noted are willingness to seek assistance from and, where possible,
12



to act on the advice of Bank supervision missions; and continuity of many of the senior staff involved in
the project at DOA headquarters in Quetta. Other strong points are the performance of the CWD
Coordinator seconded to DOA; the operation of the motorcycle revolving fund, and interaction with and
use made of the technical assistance consultants. Major weaknesses during implementation were failure
to: develop enough appropriate extension messages; address the issue of staff recruitment and retention
early enough; ensure that ATI continued to provide diploma courses for FAs; and operate the various
committees established under the project (Part III/7).  Also, no meaningful baseline survey was
undertaken at the inception of the project. The two credit extensions were necessary to complete the civil
works program--delayed by poor initial performance of the CWD Coordinator--and the senior staff
training programs.
9.2         The many legal covenants (Part III/7) were by and large adhered to. There were certain
delays in the release of local funds in most years. A number of covenants, such as those calling for
establishment of the various committees and carrying out of annual M&E surveys, were technically
complied with. However, in many cases once complied with, the purpose of the covenanted action was
ignored or forgotten, or it was complied with in a mechanistic rather than functional way (see para 5.4).
Non-compliance was observed in regard of two covenants, namely Project Agreement, Sec. 2.10, calling
for the streamlining of the organization of DOA, and Sec. 2.12, calling for T&V staff to be given priority
training at ATI. More recently, compliance with Sec. 2.07 (a), calling for the creation of the post of
DGA, could be called into question as the DGA no longer has responsibility for all Directorates within
DOA (see para. 5.4). Some problems and delays were experienced with audit reports, but by project
closing all queries raised by the Auditor General, GOBAL, were reported to have been resolved and there
were no audit reports outstanding.
10. Lessons Learned
10.1        Lessons from project experience are:
(a)     The need for the GOBAL to unify and rationalize the structure of the DOA
extension services. The proliferation of agricultural projects with their own
extension components has led to considerable inefficiencies. In particular, it has
encouraged staff to move from project to project regardless of their skill and
experience, has resulted in an uneven distribution of extension agents, with some
areas having virtually no staff and others having both regular DOA staff and
project staff, and has engendered an overall apathy with regard to developing a
consistent approach to extension. Failure to develop a unified extension service
is largely due to lack of concern on the part of donors to coordinate their
agricultural project aid and jointly persuade DOA to develop a unified system.
Until this happens, DOA may maximize its access to resources by securing
support for as many extension initiatives as possible. Future support should,
therefore, be geared to rationalizing and improving DOA structure, and the
unification of its extension services; together with support for the development of
private extension services.
(b)     The need to develop extension messages and delivery systems appropriate to the
13



needs of all classes of farmers including women, paying particular attention to
aspects such as the nature and extent of local resources and circumstances.
Further extension messages and their delivery systems should address specific
recommendation domains and problems; and extension agents should be trained
to respond to individual problems and situations and not merely be equipped to
deliver standardized messages.
(c)     The importance of minimizing recurrent costs and organizational complexity in
order to maintain long term sustainability of the extension service. Given that
conventional T&V extension systems are heavily dependent on manpower and are
expensive to run, especially in sparsely populated areas such as Balochistan, the
emphasis under a future operation should be on using fewer, but better trained
staff combined with a highly mobile field force, working with natural farmer
groups and the use of audio-visual and other mass communication techniques, and
a simpler organisational structure (e.g., the number of committees should have
been limited to the Project Review Committee and the Technical Committees).
(d)     The use of contact farmers to spread extension messages is ineffective.  As
already stated, the extension system needs to work with natural farmer groups or
farmer organizations. In fact, the extension system should promote viable farmer
organizations which can have an effective input into planning, implementing and
reviewing the extension program.
(e)     Greater use could perhaps have been made of ARI and AZRI resources. While
neither of these institutions had much to offer in the way of adaptive research
results at the project start, their staff were a potential resource for development
and use under the project.
(f)     The time frame was too ambitious. Thus, it was over-optimistic to expect the
adaptive research program to become established, generate significant research
results, and derive extension messages for farmers within a five-year period.
(g)     Too much was expected from poorly trained staff, with little emphasis being
placed on recruiting and training the right people for the right job. FAs in
particular need a solid grounding in all aspects of practical farming in their area.
With their actual educational background, they could hardly be expected to be
respected givers of advice to farmers. Similarly, SMSs' and AOs' own training
was largely theoretical with no emphasis on training skills, hence the monthly FA
training sessions have been of very limited use. EADAs have frequently been
transferred and, along with DDAs, appeared to have little understanding of their
role within the system. It appeared practically impossible to obtain suitably
trained staff to fill SSMS positions. In short, without a practically trained, well
motivated staff, the T&V extension system adopted by the project could hardly
be expected to work well.
(h)     The building program was also too ambitious, and at least partly unnecessary.
Many of the staff houses are unused and in practice probably not required since
many staff (FAs in particular) would prefer to have a rent allowance and make
their own arrangements rather than get free accommodation. A more detailed
14



survey of building needs, especially service buildings should have been
undertaken.
(i)     The scheme whereby motorcycles were purchased on an instalment basis by FAs
and AOs and their payments returned to a revolving fund has worked well.
11. Consulting Services
11.1        Most of the technical assistance (TA) was provided by a UK consulting company. The
company's technical performance in providing practical guidance and operating manuals for the extension
system was generally good, and there is no doubt that the consultants made a major contribution to
project implementation. They also did much to develop early extension messages based on existing
knowledge and information. It is therefore regrettable that because of a contractual dispute beyond the
control of GOBAL the consultants did not complete the extension of their assignment, with some 12 staff-
months remaining unutilized. Through the TA, training courses were designed, field worker manuals
and adaptive research plans prepared, and general guidance through a resident consultant given for
management and operation of the project.
11.2        The project originally provided for 77 staff-months of consultancy which was augmented
by a further 20 staff-months as shown below:
.... Original Proavision ...   ... Extended Provision
Consultancy         Staff-Months | Staff-Months  Staff-Months  Staff-Months
Budgeted      Utilized     Budgeted       Utilized
Resident Consultant            20            20            12           3.57
Input Consultant                              -             -            1.37
Training and Media             20            20             -            1.47
Weed Consultant                 -             -             -            0.40
Adaptive Research              14             14            -
Media/Information               5             6             -
Monitoring and Evaluation       6             6             -
Management Organisation         3             3             -
Extension Methodology           3             3             -
Tropical Crops                  -             -             -            0.93
Unallocated                     6             5             8
Total                      77             77           20            7.74
Unutilized                                    -             -           12.26
15



Funds remaining in the consultancy budget due to the withdrawal of the consultants were used for training
of some project staff in the UK.
12. Project Relationship, Documentation and Data
12.1       Throughout the project,the relationship between the Borrower and the Bank was generally
good as a result of regular communication between the senior staff of DOA and the Bank, and continuity
of Bank staffing. Some minor difficulties and delays can be attributed to frequent changes of Secretaries
in the Agriculture and P&D Departments, and more recently to GOBAL's inability to appoint a Minister
of Agriculture. From the Bank's side, continuity of staffing contributed substantially to the good
relationship. The SAR, Development Credit Agreement and Project Agreement provided a very useful
framework for the Bank and the Borrower during project implementation. The Borrower generally kept
good records, detailing the nature, time and cost of almost all expenditure. These records were available
to the PCR mission and contributed substantially to the preparation of this report.
16



PART II
Introduction
1.          Agriculture being the mainstay of economy of Balochistan was experiencing certain
shortfalls as regards agriculture production in the province. The crop yields were not only low when
compared to other parts of the world but were low even as compared to the other three provinces of
Pakistan. The quality of the produce was also not up to the mark. The agriculture extension service
being the main vehicle for dissemination of knowledge, technology and information was not only weak
but traditional in its performance. The old system of Agriculture Extension was invogue and was not
education oriented but providing actual services. The approach towards improving the crop production
was of project type and not programme type. Resultantly whatever resources were made available those
were utilized by preparing special type of projects on adhoc basis and trying to overcome the bottlenecks
on short term approach.
2.          The Government of Balochistan approached the World Bank in 1983 when IDA was
considering the implementation of the second phase of the Agriculture Extension and Adaptive Research
Programme in the Punjab and Sind, to provide similar assistance to Balochistan for improving the
agriculture extension service in this province with the ultimate objective of improving crop production.
The World Bank appraised the project in 1984 and decided to implement it in 4 districts of the province
on pilot basis. The districts selected for the implementation of the project were Nasirabad, Kacchi,
Loralai and Lasbela which have now been multiplied into 8 districts i.e. Jaffarabad, Nasirabad, Jhal
Magsi, Bolan, Loralai, Musakhel, Barkhan and Lasbela. Having established the guidelines with the
assistance of the World Bank, the project was prepared.
Project Objectives
3.          The main objective of the project was to achieve sustained increase in agriculture production
in four districts of high agricultural potential in Balochistan through strengthening and reorganization of
the extension service on the lines of T&V system, by developing the package of improved technology and
quicken its transfer to the farmers through field demonstrations, trials, regular meetings and extension
training. The project period was five years in the first phase. The project was restricted to four districts
only in order to see its applicability under Balochistan conditions and then replicate it in other parts of
the province with certain adjustments or maybe as such.
Project Description
4.          To achieve the above objectives, the project included reorganization and strengthening of
agriculture extension service through providing additional staff, necessary physical inputs, establishment
of Adaptive Research programme, staff training and technical assistance. It was also envisaged that
developing and introducing training and visit system in the project districts to develop regular and closer
links with the farmers would also be instrumental in motivating the farmers to adopt improved agricultural
practices. This was planned through establishment of a single chain of command whereby all the related
disciplines would work under one umbrella, introducing a systematic fixed schedule for regular and
frequent visits by Field Assistants to farmers and for Field Assistant in-service training, intensifying
extension work by providing additional staff wherever felt necessary, improving the mobility of the staff,
providing office, residential and training facilities wherever required, developing package of improved
17



farming practices and its dissemination, introducing a monitoring and evaluation system and providing
necessary operational funds and equipment.
Project Implementation
5.          The IDA credit became effective on September 30, 1985 and was closed on June 30, 1992.
To accommodate final disbursements the project account was kept open up to November 25, 1992. The
disbursement was lower than the planned rate i.e. it was 86% at the time of the close of the project. It
was largely due to delays in the civil works programme and the devaluation of the Rupee and US$ against
the SDR.
6.          Except for implementation of the training and visit system more empirically almost all the
other performance indicator targets were not only met but exceeded. However, substantial delay occurred
in the construction of buildings which could hardly be completed even with the reduction in scope of
works by 30th June, 1992. Since the civil works were not completed according to schedule, therefore,
all other activities of the project got dragged inevitably. The major constraint was the recruitment of the
staff in time and for the project life. The frequent turnover affected the development and mobilization
of the project philosophy. It consumed more than half of the project life to understand and back up the
T&V methodology. The Adaptive Research programme was also delayed due to late establishment of
the Adaptive Research Farms. However, four Adaptive Research Farms, 12 training centres, 129
residences, 29 offices of various levels have been established in the four project districts. Besides, field
and office machinery and teaching aids etc were provided. 20 departmental employees did their M.Sc
in the Agriculture University Faisalabad. Besides, 100 Field Assistants were given three month short
courses in order to give them basic training on the agriculture. The overall successful implementation
of the project is certainly attributed to a very good supervision, cooperation and guidance by IDA, by
the project staff and very few changes in the senior project management.
Project Results
7.          Not only that project was successful in meeting its physical objectives but has been able to:
(a)     Strengthen agriculture extension service in the pilot districts.
(b)     Devise a modernized line of action for carrying out effective agriculture extension service.
(c)     A substantial change in the crop production took place which according to the final area
production and yield figures released by the Agriculture Department when compared with
the baseline figures in case of wheat comes to 45.97% in Nasirabad, 107.37% in Kacchi,
44.83% in Loralai and 112.5% in Lasbela i.e. on an average there has been an increase of
77.66% in the project districts and not 45.45% as indicated by the World Bank in PCR
Part-I. "  Similarly in case of non project districts the average increase in wheat
production has been 58.35% and not 45.86% thus it will be observed that the percentage
increase in project districts has been substantially more as compared to non project districts.
Comment refers to earlier text version. SA3AG.
18



(d)     The project districts showed a faster change in the adoption of technology and response to
the advanced techniques as compared to the non project areas some of which are still as
back as they were in 1983-84.
(e)     The awareness in the farmers on one hand and confidence in the field staff on the other
have again been the two major achievements in the project districts.
(f)     A sustained increase has taken place in crop production.
8.          Undoubtedly the effects did trickle down to other parts of the province as well. The main
reasons being:
(a)     All the areas fall under the same organizational setup and were getting the benefits of
improved approaches.
(b)     A better start by the beginner farmers on the receipt and development of infrastructure such
as electric power, road network, pricing policy and the departmental efforts.
9.          Yet it is strongly believed that results of agriculture extension service cannot be
instantaneous but are always seen over a longer period of time. For example in the Punjab it is during
the implementation of the third phase of the project that the results of agriculture extension could be
observed visually. Therefore, to rate the project as partially successful would not be fair. The overall
achievements must be visualized in the complete perspective of the circumstances, conditions and the
facilities under which the project was implemented. However, the weak performance could not be
attributed to poor project design because the project design was based on experience gained in other parts
of the country as well as other countries. It can be attributed to the managerial and executional problems
which were somehow beyond the control of the executing and the implementing agencies. In fact
Department of Agriculture having been encouraged by the results of the Phase-I project has very strongly
requested the implementation of the Second Phase throughout the province.
Project Sustainability
10.         As regards the objectives of the project it has certainly been able to develop a sustainable
agriculture in the project districts where people have become technology minded and are more responsive
and eager to increase their crop production through better and judicious use of inputs and management.
11.         Insofar as sustainability of the project is concerned more than 50% of the staff have been
taken on the regular roll of the department and additional funds are being provided to pay the salaries of
the remaining project staff through the development budget. It is believed that the remaining project staff
will also be picked up by the Department very soon. However, it may be added that again the fact that
necessary infrastructure has to be developed to sustain the developmental activities, there is hardly any
choice left but to absorb the project activities in the department permanently. Long term sustainability
is only possible when
(a)     its importance is appreciated
(b)     regular funding is done
19



(c)     significant upgrading of field staff training and a more responsive way of delivering better
extension messages to the contact farmers are undertaken.
If this does not happen the field staff may loose their motivation and revert back to routine type of
activities.
Project Design
12.         The project was designed based on the experience in the Punjab and Sind in Pakistan and
other countries of the world. The main features were:
(a)     Introduction of a systematic extension methodology.
(b)     Provision of mobility, office and housing accommodation.
(c)     Introduction of Adaptive Research programme.
(d)     Provision of additional staff.
(e)     Provision of staff training in the project districts.
(f)     Establishment of demonstration blocks, demonstration plots and conduction of trials on the
farmers' fields.
13.         No need was felt at any stage to bring any change in the project design. It was observed
that except for the regular visit programme by the Field Assistants to the Contact Farmners which was
more of a mechanical nature and both farmers and Field Assistants could not stick to the visits schedule
due to multifarious and unforeseen activities, the rest of the programme sailed very smoothly and had
generated a sense of demand and keenness among the farmers for adoption of new practices with a view
to have more returns.
14.         The Department of Agriculture Balochistan feels that the remaining components such as
regular training of the field staff, adaptive research activities, establishment of demonstration blocks and
conduction of trials on farmers' fields, establishment of Adaptive Research Farms, formation of technical
messages, highlighting critical points of crops, holding technical advisory committee meetings regularly,
provision of mobility and housing and office accommodation, played much significant role in bringing
a substantial change in the attitude and temperaments of the farmers.
Bank Performance
15.         The Bank performance may be summarized as follows:
(a)     Overall cooperation of the Bank with the borrowing agencies remained highly satisfactory.
Efficient release of funds and extension of the credit closing date were the chief points of
strength and extending on the part of the Bank. The amounts of initial deposits into the
fixed account by IDA were lower than the optimum requirements of the province.
(b)     The Bank mission has always been flexible during its appraisal, follow up and evaluation
visits and has been accommodating the requests of the Department very generously which
20



helped the Agriculture Department to move forward and fill in the gaps which could not
be foreseen at the time of inception of the project.
(c)     Procedural problems were faced with the World Bank following its accounting procedures.
Some difficulties were also faced during the early two to three years due to delayed
reimbursements which occurred as a result of faulty preparation of reimbursement
applications by the immature and inexperienced staff. No sooner the staff was trained and
had understood the procedures of the World Bank this problem was overcome.
Borrower Performance
16.         The Borrower performance has neither been extremely good nor extremely poor. There
were certain areas and certain tiers where the Borrower performance was above the mark while serious
problems were faced in two major areas i.e.
(a)     The release of counterpart and provincial funds in time and according to the requirements.
(b)     Recruitment of technical staff particularly of Grade 17 and 18 in time and according to the
need of the project. At times frequent turnover of staff was also experienced which was
mainly due to the political pressures and was inevitable because it normally trickled down
from the top.
Project Relationship
17.         A fairly cordial relationship existed between the Borrower, the Bank and the Consultants.
However, towards the end of the project the Consultants withdrew due to some tax problem with the
Government of the Punjab. Thus the remaining amount outstanding against the Consultants got adjusted
by utilizing the balance amount against the training of the project staff abroad.
18.         It has been observed that so far the borrower comments on the draft PCR 1 and 3 have not
been taken into account by the Bank improving some of the impressions expressed by the Bank in their
draft of PCR Part 1 and 3. l
Comment appears to refer to earlier text version. SA3AG.
21



PART III
1. Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Loan/Credit Title             Purpose                                 Year of    Status          Conunents
Approval
Cr. 813-PAK                   To reorganize and strengthen the       1978         Completed      Despite initial problems, the
Punjab Extension and          extension service through introduction                             project established a sound basis
Agricultural Dev. Project     of the Training and Visit (T&V)                                    for an improved extension service,
(US$12.5 million)             system in 5 of the 21 districts of                                 with staff receiving fortnightly
Punjab. The project included a                                     training and visits to farmers
staffing program, housing and service                              being carried out regularly.
buildings, adaptive research farms,                                Performance audit report issued
equipment, and vehicles to increase                                June 1988.
staff mobility.
Cr. 922-PAX                   Similar to Cr. 813-PAK, covering 5 of   1979        Completed      Overall, the project experienced
Sind Agricultural Extension   Sind's 13 districts.                                               similar delays to that in Punjab,
and Adaptive Research                                                                            but the basis for an improved
Project (US$9.0 million)                                                                         extension service was established.
However, the adaptive research
program made little headway, and
there were major problems in the
civil works program--poor design
and construction, under-utilization.
Performance audit report issued
June 1988.
Cr. 1762-PAK                  To achieve sustainable increases in    1987         On-going       Punjab: Progress reasonable in
Punjab and Sind               agricultural production by completing               (closing date   establishing and operating T&V
Extension and Adaptive        the introduction of the T&V system                  June 1993)     system, but doubts exist regarding
Research - Phase II Project   and strengthening adaptive research in                             effect on agricultural production.
(SDR 35.5 million)            Punjab and Sind.                                                   Sind: Security situation has
retumed to normal; field
operations were restricted by
insufficient funds, but funds have
recently been allocated and
operations are expected to
improve soon.
Cr. 678-PAK                   To increase the quality of professional    1977     Completed      This was an umbrella project
Third Education Project       and technical manpower in agriculture,                             involving all 4 provincial
(US$15.0 million)             and improve basic education. Project                               Departments of Education and
activities included reconstruction of the                          Agriculture. Physical targets were
Agricultural Training Institute in                                 achieved albeit with considerable
Quetta.                                                            delay, and design weaknesses.
Technical Assistance input was
unsatisfactory, and inadequate
staffing and support resulted in
failure to fully utilize facilities at
the time of the performance audit.
The audit also found course work
too pedagogic and insufficiently
practical. Performance audit
report issued June 1990.
22



Loan/Credit Title           Purpose                                Year of    Status         Comments
Approval
Cr. 1163-PAK                To increase agricultural production by    1981    Completed      The project was successful in
On-Farm Water Management  improved management of water saved                                 achieving civil works targets with
(OFWM) Project (SDR 33.4   through watercourse renovation and                                strong farmer interest and support.
million)                    cleaning, precision land levelling,                              However, its impact on
construction of water storage tanks,                            agricultural production is difficult
and establishment of demonstration                             to quantify due to lack of data,
plots in the 4 provinces.                                       and may be less than anticipated
indicating a need for greater
emphasis on extension. PCR
issued June 1988.
Cr. 1603-PAK                To consolidate gains achieved under   1985        Completed      With 3 one-year extensions the
Second On-Farm Water        Cr. 1163-PAK and improve OFWM                                    project substantially surpassed
Management Project (SDR     programs in the 4 provinces to enable                            physical targets. However, its
34.8 million)               them to realize their potential. Project                         agricultural and institutional
also emphasized coordination between                            achievements were less than
provincial OFWM and Extension                                   anticipated. Draft PCR issued
Directorates and strengthening of water                         February 1993.
management advisory capability of
Extension Services.
Cr. 2245 / Ln. 3327-PAK     To expand the OFWM program to         1991        On-going       Satisfactory start has been made.
Third On-Farm Water          remaining areas of the 4 provinces as            (closing date
Management Project (SDR     well as FATA and Northern Areas,                  Dec. 1995)
33.4 million / US$36.3      with increased emphasis on barani
million)                    areas, irrigation agronomy, and
strengthening of water users
associations.
Cr. 1243-PAK                To increase agricultural production and    1982   On-going       The project started very slowly
Baluchistan Minor Irrigaion    farm incomes through improvement of            (closing date   and by 1991 only 2 schemes were
and Agricultural            28 minor irrigation schemes (3,800 ha)            Dec. 1993)    complete. Since then progress has
Development Project (SDR    including renovation of watercourses                             improved and by the final closing
12.5 million)               and channels, land levelling, and                                date 42 schemes are expected to
introduction of improved water                                  be completed. This will be
management practices. Also to                                   achieved in part by extensive
strengthen the Departments of                                   technical assistance involving local
Agricultural Extension and Irrigation.                          and expatriate consultants.
Institutional strengthening and
agricultural development to date
have been disappointing.
23



2. Project Timetable
Item                   Date Planned         Date Revised          Actual Date
Identification/Preparation         September 1983              -             September 1983
Appraisal                             April 1984               -                April 1984
Negotiations 2/                     September 1984             -              September 1984
Board Approval                      December 1984              -            December 13, 1984
Credit Signing                       January 1985              -             January 30, 1985
Credit Effectiveness                 April 30, 1985            -            September 30, 1985
Project Completion                   June 30, 1989             -              June 30, 1992
Credit Closing                       June 30, 1990       June 30, 1992 3/    November 25, 1992 4/
" FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program assisted GOBAL in preparation.
2/ No major issues needed to be resolved. Agreement was reached on financial/accounting
procedures, procurement of motorcycles, and establishment of project committees.
3/ Second of two revisions.
4/ The credit account was kept open four months beyond the final closing date and the last withdrawal
application was received October 21, 1992, and paid November 25, 1992.
3. Credit Disbursement (Cumulative, in Million)
IDA Fiscal Year          Appraisal Estimate         Actual '/           Actual as % of
Appraisal Estimates
SDR  US$              SDR  US$               SDR  US$
FY 85                    0.7  0.7                  0                     0
FY 86                    2.2   2.2            0.75   0.81             34    37
FY 87                    4.1   4.2            1.59   1.87             39    45
FY 88                    6.1   6.2            2.82   3.53             46    57
FY 89                    7.5   7.6            3.89   4.93             52    65
FY 90                    8.2  8.3             4.52   5.73             55    69
FY 91                     -    -              5.30   6.81             65    82
FY 92                     -    -              6.37   8.27             78   100
FY 93                     -    -              7.09   9.292/           86   112
Higher disbursement in US$ terms due to depreciation of US$ against SDR.
2/ Date of Final Disbursement: November 25, 1992.
24



4. Project Implementation - Key Indicators
..... Appraisal Estimate .....  ........... Actual .
Quantity           Cost              Quantity              Cost
PRs '000                               PRs '000
A. CIVIL WORKS
Service Buildings
-Director General Office               1                  1,311.3            1                    1,338.0
- Publicity Office                     -                       -             1                     273.0
- Audio-visual Complex                 -                       -             1                   2,535.0
- DDA Office                           -                       -            2                    1,650.6
- EADA Office                          5                  2,148.8            5                   2,401.2
- AO Office                            28                 8,178.2           26                   7,791.3
-SMS Office                            1                    92.5             2                   1,095.2
- Training Centers                     10                 1,620.6           12                   3,577.7
- ARF Complex "                        3                  7,619.8            3                   5,861.8
Housing
- Director General                     1                   959.5             1                    1,315.0
- Project Coordinator                  1                   528.3             1                     583.0
- Deputy Director AR                   1                   528.3             1                     583.0
- SSMS                                 1                   528.3             1                     583.0
- Assistant Directors (HQ)             3                  1,584.9            3                   1,749.0
DDA                                   3                 2,520.0            3                    3,036.9
- EADA/ADA                             6                  3,155.2            5                   3,166.2
- SMS                                  13                 6,998.2           13_                  9,017.5
- AO                                   29                15,736.4           28                   19,630.7
- ARO                                  6                  3,180.6            6                   4,057.2
- FA                                   64                17,096.1           61                  20,306.3
- Mechanic                             3                  1,194.0            3                     873.3
- Driver                               3                   499.6             3                     663.4
Subtotal                                                 75,480.6                                92,088.3
Misc.: Building Works and
Connection of Services                                    3,162.3                                25,882.7
Land Acquisition & Devel.                                   113.3                                14,199.0
TOTAL CIVIL WORKS                     182                78,756.2          182                  132,170.0
B. VEHICLES
- Four-wheel Drive                     17                 4,152.0           20                   4,615.0
- Cars/Vans                            2                   389.8             3                     557.5
- Pick-up Trucks                       7                  1,249.5            7                    1,700.6
- Motorcycles                         233                 3,510.2          263                   7,297.0
TOTAL VEHICLES                                            9,301.6                                14,170.1
25



..... .* Appraisal Estimate  .....    ........... .........Actual .
Quantity            Cost               Quantity               Cost
PRs '000                                 PRs '000
C. EQUIPMENT & MATERIALS
- Agric. Training Institute             Set                   611.9            Set                     683.0
- Media Center v                        Set                   163.2            Set
- Office Equipment "                    Set                  1,479.4           Set
- Training Centers                      Set                   248.0            Set                   6,669.0
- Adaptive Research Farms 4'           3 Sets                1,594.2          3 Sets                 9,266.0
TOTAL EQUIPMENT &                                           4,096.8                                 16,618.0
MATERIALS
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
- Expatriate Consultants          74 staff-months           12,050.0       81.7 stf-mos             17,170.0'
- Local Consultants                 3 staff-months             90.9         3.0 stf-mos                120.04
TOTAL TECH. ASSISTANCE                                     12,141.0                                 17,290.0
E. TRAINING
- Short Courses
a) FA Training                   150 individuals             176.0       100 individuals              326.0
b) Senior Staff Training         160 individuals             166.1        33 individuals               18.0
- Visits to Other T&V              20 individuals             337.3        15 individuals            1,574.4
Systems "
- Other Visits Overseas             15 individuals            110.0        11 individuals            2,588.8
- MSc Scholarships                 20 individuals             985.4        20 individuals            1,344.7
TOTAL TRAINING                                              1,774.7                                  5,851.9
Including building works and connection of services.
v Equipment largely provided by USAID.
" Includes projectors, tape recorders, screens and fumiture for training centers.
4' Includes one 50 hp; three 45 hp and three 10 hp tractors and matching implements.
" Includes PRs 964,200 paid as an advance to the consuitants but actually spent on training of five staff by the
consultants in the UK, following the withdrawal of the consultants from Pakistan.
' PCR mission estimate.
" Turkey, Thailand and Philippines.
Note: Appraisal figures may not add to totals due to rounding.
26



5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs (Including Contingencies)
......... .Appraisal Estimate ........ .    ............ Actua............
Local    F.E.     Total        Total      Local    F.E.      Total       Total
......  USS Mllion           PRs Million    ...... U Million .....   PRs Mllion
Investment Cost
Civil Works                    4.73     0.90      5.63        78.76      4.50      0.84      5.34       132.17
Vehicles                       0.39     0.27      0.66         9.30      0.48      0.34      0.82        14.17
Equipment                      0.15     0.14      0.29         4.10      0.43      0.40      0.83       16.62
Technical Assistance           0.17     0.70      0.87        12.14      0.18      0.73      0.91        17.29
Training "                     0.03     0.10      0.13         1.77      0.09      0.23      0.32        5.85
Recurrent Cost
Staff Salaries                 1.45        -      1.45        20.34      2.14         -      2.14       42.80
Travel Allowances              0.61        -      0.61         8.52      0.72         -      0.72        14.36
Operation & Maintenance        1.41     0.47      1.88        26.32      1.35      0.57      1.92       38.32
Total                        8.94     2.58     11.52       161.2S      9.89      3.11     13.00      281.S8
Overseas training trips considered to be 100% F.E. Cost.
Note:
Actual foreign exchange (F.E.) expenditure estimates based on those at appraisal (e.g., civil works 16%, vehicles
41 %, equipment 49%, technical assistance 80%, training 6%, O&M 30%). Actual US$ expenditure on buildings
construction and vehicles based on exchange rates at the time of purchase; other USS expenditure estimated on the
basis of a weighted average exchange rate for the period. The high average exchange rate, i.e., US$1.0 = PRs
24.7, for civil works reflects the late completion of the program, with most work finished between 1989 and 1992.
There were no major changes causing formal revision of project costs. Due to some modest changes in the building
program there were some cost revisions, and there was also an increase in the expenditure on technical assistance.
However, most of the latter was as a result of savings arising from the depreciation of the US$ against the SDR
rather than a reallocation of funds.
27



B. Project Financing
Planned " (US$ million) ..  .... Actual (US$ million) ...
Expenditure Category                Govt.      IDA      Total    Govt.    IDA        Total
Civil Works                          1.13      4.50      5.63      0.62     4.72      5.34
Vehicles                             0.41      0.25      0.66     0.53      0.30      0.82
Equipment                            0.01      0.28      0.29     0.51      0.32      0.83
Technical Assistance                 0.00      0.87      0.87      0.00     0.91      0.91
Training                             0.00      0.13      0.13      0.01     0.31      0.32
Staff Salaries 2'                    0.73      1.33      2.06      1.36     0.77      2.14
Travel Allowances 3'                   ..       ..        ..       0.07     0.65      0.72
Operation and Maintenance            0.94      0.94      1.88      0.62     1.30      1.92
Total                              3.22     8.30     11.52      3.72      9.28     13.00
" SAR, Table 4.5 (Procurement).
v In SAR including travel allowances. See footnote 3/.
F Financing not separately available in SAR (allowances, totalling US$0.61 million, are part of
'Incremental Salaries and Allowances' in Table 4.5).
28



6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
SAR Estimate        PCR Estimate
Jobs Created (Number)
- Director General of Agriculture                                 1                   1
- Project Coordinator "                                           1                   0
- Civil Works Coordinator                                         0                   1
- Deputy Director Adaptive Research                               1                   1
-Deputy Directors (Field)                                         3                   3
-Senior Subject Matter Specialists                                4                   4
- Economist (Monitoring and Evaluation)                           1                   1
- Assistant Directors/Extra Asst. Deputy Directors                9                   9
- Subject Matter Specialists                                     14                   7
- Accounts/Admin. Officer                                         1                   1
- Publicity Officer                                               1                   1
-Agricultural Officers                                            7                   4
- Assistant Research Officers                                     6                   6
- Field Assistants, Research                                      9                   9
- Field Assistants, Extension                                    37                  37
Total                                                          95                   85
Staff Training (Number)
- ATI training of FAs (3 months)                                150                  1692'
- Senior staff update training (20 days)                        160                  54 3'
- Visits to other T&V systems in Pakistan (15 days)              20                  10'
- Visits to other T&V systems abroad (1 month)                   10                   941
- Visits to int. res. centers/short courses abroad (1 week)      15                  519'
- MSc course in Pakistan (2 years)                               20                  17
= estimated.
' Post deleted on project completion.
21 150 FAs trained during 1985-88; no subsequent training at ATI.
31 Some 15 DDAs and EADAs attended 2 week course in Quetta on project objective and
organisation in March 1991; 39 senior staff (AOs, SMSs and EADAs) attended 5 week
course at Faisalabad University in mid-1991.
4 Two-week visit to T&V project in Turkey and second visit to T&V project in Thailand.
Also visit to Philippines.
51 Some unspent funding for technical assistance consultancy was used to send 5 staff on a
3 week course in the UK in 1991. Six other staff also attended short courses or visited
educational institutions in the UK during the project.
29



B. Economic Impact
Not Applicable
C. Financial Impact
Not Applicable
D. Studies
Title                                Purpose                                Status and Impact
Project Monitoring and            Establishment of benchmarks for farm output,   200 farmers interviewed in each district,
Evaluation and Baseline/          farmer practices and input use, against which    by 20 trained FAs. Implementation of
Benchmark Survey Design,         to monitor increase in output over the project    survey ran into data collection problems
August 1986                       period.                                     largely due to poor FA understanding of
their role. No subsequent data collection
and assessment.
Diagnostic Study of Farming       To determine farmers' major production      Used to design the adaptive research
Systems in Loralai, Kachhi.       problems, to be incorporated into basic,    program and give general information on
Nasirabad and Lasbela Districts,  applied and adaptive research trials.       project area farming systems.
1987
Baseline Study and Message        Provision of baseline data on output and    Completed early in project period and
Analysis, April 1986              extension impact indicators including       formed basis for all subsequent annual
infrastnucture, vehicles and staffing.      M&E surveys.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation    To provide regular information on project  Supported Baseline Study and
Progress and Procedures, 1987     progress.                                   M&E methodologies.
Adaptive Research Report          To identify priorities for the Adaptive     Used to some extent in design of Adaptive
No 1. University College of       Research Program.                           Research programs.
N. Wales
Farming Input Supply in           Assessment of farmer input use and input    Completed, usage uncertain.
Balochistan - Situation and       supply difficulties.
Recommendations, 1989
Evaluation of Impact Point        To develop and improve basis for preparation    Used in planning of FA training programs.
Messages for Different Crops in   of extension messages.
Loralai and Lasbela Districts,
1989/90
Annual Progress Report of         To provide management with information on   Generally followed pattem established by
M&E Unit                          strengths and weaknesses of project.        Baseline Study; emphasis on monitoring
mechanisms, e.g., visits by FA, rather
than achievements in terms of farmer
uptake of new technologies.
Note:
In addition to these studies and surveys a number of ad hoc monitoring surveys were undertaken by the M&E Unit. The most
important are: District Level Training in Lasbela Kachhi and Nasirabad; and Situation Analysis/Diagnostic Study of Project
Districts.
30



7. Status of Covenants
Agreement Section                     Description               Compliance               Remarks
Date
DCA 2.02 (b) (c)                 Borrower/Province to open and          04/30/85             Complied with.
maintain a Special Account/Sub-
Accounts in the State Bank of
Pakistan.
DCA 3.01 (a)                     Borrower to cause Province to                               Complied with.
perform in accordance with Project
Agreement, and to provide funds and
other resources necessary to enable
Province to fulfill such obligations.
DCA 3.02 (a)                     Borrower to employ consultants to      04/30/85             Complied with.
assist in carrying out project.
DCA 3.04 (d)                     Prompdy after project completion,                           Complied with.
Borrower to furnish to IDA a project
completion report.
DCA 3.05                         Borrower to acquire all land and land               Partially complied with. IDA
rights required for the project.                   was to be formally notified by
GOBAL as and when Agriculture
Dept. authorized land transfers.
Proj. Ag. 2.07 (a)               Not later than effective date, Province  04/30/85           Complied with.
to appoint Director General of
Agriculture.
Proj. Ag. 2.07 (b)               Not later than effective date, Province  04/30/85           Complied with.
to appoint Project Coordinator.
Proj. Ag. 2.07 (c)               Not later than effecdve date, Province  04/30/85    Complied with more or less on
to appoint Civil Works Coordinator.                time. Initial location of
Coordinator within CWD proved
unsatisfactory, and in 1988 a
CWD executive engineer was
deputed to DOA.
Proj. Ag. 2.08 (a) (i)           Province to establish a Project                             Complied with.
Steering Committee.
Proj. Ag. 2.08 (a) (ii)          Province to establish a Project Review                      Complied with.
Committee.
Proj. Ag. 2.08 (a) (iii)         Province to establish District                              Complied with.
Advisory Committees.
Proj. Ag. 2.08 (b) (i)           Province to establish a Provincial                          Complied with.
Technical Committee.
Proj. Ag. 2.08 (b) (ii)          Province to establish District                              Complied with.
Technical Committees.
Proj. Ag. 2.09                   Province to ensure that staff/vehicles              In progress. Mosdy complied
will be appointed/provided in                      with.
accordance with program sadsfactory
to IDA.
Proj. Ag. 2.10                   Province to streamline organisationof  12/31/85     Not fully complied with.
Department of Agriculture, furnish
plan to IDA for review nd comment.
31



Agreement Section                       Description                Compliance                Remarks
Date
Proj. Ag. 2.11                     Province to release all project agric.                        In progress.
ext. staff in direct contact with
farmers from all responsibilities not
directly related to agric. ext. work.
Proj. Ag. 2.12                     Province to give project staff priority               Not fully complied with,
for training at the Agric. Training                   especially after merger of ATI
Institute (ATI), Quetta.                              with Bal. Agric. College.
Proj. Ag. 2.13 (a)                 Province to establish a vehicle                               Complied with.
revolving fund for replacement of
motorcycles.
Proj. Ag. 2.13 (b)                 Province to deposit in the vehicle                            Complied with.
revolving fund amounts required to
pay for replacement of motorcycles
provided to project staff.
Proj. Ag. 2.14 (a)                 Province to set and maintain travel                   Generally complied with.
allowance and vehicle O&M
allowance for project staff.
Proj. Ag. 2.14 (c)                 Province to make adequate budgetary                   Generally complied with.
allocations for above travel allowance
and vehicle O&M allowance.
Proj. Ag. 2.15 (a)                 Province to carry out benchmark         07/31/86              Complied with.
surveys in each project district.
Proj. Ag. 2.15 (c)                 In FY 86 and each year thereafter,                    Partially complied with.
Province to prepare M&E studies on
the project.
Proj. Ag. 3.02 (a)                 Province to have accounts and                         Generally complied with.
financial statements for each FY
audited by independentauditors.
Proj. Ag. 3.02 (b)                 Province to furnish to IDA not later                  Some delays occurred due to
than 6 months after end of each FY                   queries by auditor general, but at
audit reports, including separate                    closing date all audit reports due
auditor's opinions in respect of SOEs.                had been submitted.
32



8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff weeks)
Stage of     FY82/
Project Cycle   FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93              Total
Preappraisal       0.3    26.5                                                                                     26.8
Appraisal                  31.0    11.4                                                                             42.4
Negotiations                        2.8                                                                             2.8
Supervision"                        5.1      6.7    13.0    11.5        4.6     6.1      8.7      1.7      1.4      58.8
PCR v                                                                                                     23.0      23.0
Total            0.3    57.5    19.3        6.7    13.0    11.5       4.6      6.1      8.7      1.7    24.4    153.8
Excluding PCR.
V PCR mission also responsible for preparing inception report for possible follow-up project (about 10 staff weeks).
33



B. Missions
Date          No. of    Days in       Speciallsation"    Performance   Types of Problems
Persons      Field                           Rating "             SI
Preparation        October 1983   ...................... .No data available .
Appraisal            April 1984         4           17         2A, AE, Ex
Supervision
I            January 1985        2            4             E, A              2Sta                F2
2             April 1985          2           4            AE, A              2Sta                M2
3           November 1985         1           4               A                2                  M2
4             May 1986            2         -6             AE, A                2                 M3
5           Oct/Nov. 1986         4          29        AE,E, A, DDC            2                F2, M2
6           Mar/Apr. 1987         2          13            A, CE               3                F3, M3
7            October 1987         3          10          AE, A, CE             3              F3, M3, 12
8           Mar/Apr. 1988         2          13            AE, A               2              F3, M2, 12
9           Nov/Dec. 1988         2           9             A, Ac              2              F2, M2, 12
10             May 1989           2           8             AE, A               2             M3, C2,12
I I         FeblMar. 1990         3          11            AE, 2A               2             M3, C2, I2
12          Nov/Dec. 1990         2           7             Ex, A               2               M2, 12
13          May/June 1991         5          17        AE, Ex, 2A, CE           2               M2, 12
14          May/June 1992         2          18             A, CE               2               M3, 12
PCR               November 1992         3          21           A, Ex, CE
" A = Agriculturalist;  Ac - Accountant;  AE   Agricultural Economist;  CE = Civil Engineer;  E = Economist;
Ex = Extension Specialist; DDC - Deputy Division Chief.
2' Status:  I = problem free or minor problems;  2 = moderate problems;  3 = major problems.  Sta = situation
stationary. Same ratings apply to types of problems.
" C - compliance with covenants; F - financial; I = development impact; M - managerial.
4 Mission also responsible for preparing inception report for possible follow-up project.
34



Project Completion Report
PAKISTAN: 8aluchistan Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
Arwex 1.   Staff Positions and Recruitit
|                       ~~~~~~~Posts Fitted
Post Title            Target       1985    196    1987     19       19       1990    1991    1992      Vacant    To  on-Devt. Budget    To Det. Budget
QETTA HEADARTERS
DGA                              1          1       1       1        1       1        1       1        1         0                                        1
Project Coordinator              1          1       1       1        1       1        1       1        1         *
CiviltUorks Coordinator          1          1       1       1        1       1       1        1        1         0                                        1
WA Adapt. Research               1          1       1        1       1       1        1       1        1         0                 1
Agricultural Econrlist           1          0       1       1        1       0        1       1        1         0                 1
SSmS                            4           0       0       3        3       4       3        3        4         0                 4
ADA M L E                       2           0       0       1        1       1       2        2        2         0                 2
ADA (Trg. nd Pub.)"              2          0       0        1       1       1       0        1        2         0                 2
SS (Training)                   1          1       1       1        1       1       0        1        1         0                 1
Accounts Officer*                1          0       1        1       0       0        0       0        0         0
AG (Publicity)                   1          1       1        1       1       1        1       1        1         0
Office Superintendent"           2          1       1        1       1       0       0        2        2         0                 2
Progrm ProducerI                 1          0       0       0        0       0       0        0        0         1
W      CCoputer Progr_r                  1          0       0       0        1       1        1       1        1         0                 1
un'     Investigator                    3           3       3       3        3       3       3        3        3         0                 3
Private Sec."                    1          0       0       0        0       0       0        1        1         0                 1
Cmerman"                         1          0       0       0        0       0       0        0        0         1                                        1
Adin. Officer                    0          0       0       0        1       1        1       1        1         0                 1
Draftsn                          1          0       0       0        0       0       0        0        0         1                                        1
Electr. Engineer"                1          0       0       0        0       0        1       1        1         0
Script Writer"                   1          0       0       0        0       0       0        0.       0         1
DISTRICTS
DOA                             3           3       3       3 i      3       3        3       3        3         0                 3
EADA                             5          0       4       5        5       5       5        5        5         0                 5
SIS                            13           0      10      12       12      11       8        6        6         7                13
AO                               7          0       6       6        6       6        7       7        4         3                 7
ARO                             6           0       3       2        2       0        5       5        6         0                 3                      3
Office Superintendent            3          3       3       3        3       3       3        3        3         0                 2                      1
Mechanic                         3          0       3       3        2       2        3       3        3         0                 3
FA (Ext.)                      37          16      37      37       37      37      37       37      37          0                                       37
FA (Res.)                       9           0       6       9        9       9       9        9       9          0                                        9
Tractor Driver                  3           0       3       3        3       3       3        3       3          0                 3
TOTAL:                    117         32       90     100     100       96     100     103      103         14               58                      54
As amerded in revised PC-I (1990-91).  SAR total waS 108.   2' These posts have not yet been transferred to the non-development budget.
*   Position abolished.   **   Accounts Officer redesignated as Aciinistrative Officer in 1988.



Project Completion Report
PAKISTAN: Bsluchistan Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
Annex 2. List of Higher Level Staff Training
MSc course (2 years) at Agricultural University, Faisalabad: 20 students of which 18
have since returned.
Short course (3 wks) for 33 SMSs, AROs and AOs at Agricultural University, Faisalabad, July 1991.
Two week course on project organization, objectives and implementation for DDAs and EADAs, March
1991, Quetta.
Two week training in accounting methods at Railway Accounts Academy, Quetta for accounts staff of
project HQ and districts, Febmary 1991.
OVERSEAS TRAINING
Study Tour to Turkey
1. DDA (Adaptive Research)                    Mohd Riaz Khan
2. SSMS (Economics)                            M. Tariq
3. SMS (Agronomy)                              Mohd Syed
4. SMS (Agronomy)                              Mohd Azhar
Study Tour to Thailand
1. DDA Utal                                   A. Samad
2. DDA DM Jamali                               G. Jan
3. DDA Loralai                                 M. Shameen
4. SSMS                                        M. Naqibullah
S. SSMS                                        Mohd Ishaque
Study Tour to Philippines
1. Deputy Secretary Agriculture               M. Saddat
2. DDA PP cell                                 M. Arshad
3. Economist (M & E)                           M.G. Rasool
4. ADA (M& E)                                  M. Bahauddin
5. SMS (Training)                              M. Wazir
Philippines Training Course: Field and Middle Level Management and Supervision
Project Coordinator                           Pir Mohd
Visit to UK Educational Instltutions
Principal ATI/BAC                              Mumtaz Ali Khan
UK Training on M & E plus Computer Use
Economist (M & E)                              M.G. Rasool
UK Training on Training Methods & Media
1. Instructor ATI/BAC                         Mohd Ahmed
2. Instructor ATI/BAC                          Javaid Ahmed Khan
3. Instructor ATI/BAC                          M. Khalil
4. SMS (Training)                              M. Wazir
36



Project Completion Report
PAKISTAN: Baluchistan Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
UK Training on Extension Management
1. Director of Extension                            A. Salam
2. DDA                                               Saido Khan
3. Project Coordinator                               Pir Mohd
4. DDA DM Jamali                                     Mohd. Afzal
5. DDA Uthal                                         Zafar Iqbal Awan
37



Project Completion Report
PAKISTAN: Baluchistan Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
Annex 3. List of Equipment Purchased for Use in Training
Itemi                    SAR Estimate       Purchased     Difference
1. Slide projector                            12               12
2. Screen                            .          12              12
3. Radio/cassette                              16                16
4. Overhead projector                           2                5             +3
5. PA system                                    1                1
6. Video cassette recorder                      1                1
7. Video cassette player                        0                 1            +1
8. Generator                                    2                2
9. Television set/monitor                       1                5             +4
10. Video camera M7                             1                1
11. Camera                                      4                4
12. Drawing table                               1                0             -1
13. Light table                                 1                1
14. Drawing equipment (set)                     1                0
Office Equipment
15. Electric typewriter                         1                1
16. Photocopier/photostat                       2                9             +7
17. Manual typewriter                          10               15             +5
18. Stencil duplicator                                           5             +5
19. Fax machine                                                  6             +6
20. IBM computer and printer                                     1             +1
21. Amstrad laptop                                               3             +3
22. Desk top calculator                         5                5
23. Pocket calculator                          48               50             +2
24. Printer calculator                                           7             +7
38



Project Completion Report
PAKISTAN: Baluchistan Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
Annex 4. Wheat Ouput in Balochistan 1984-1991
1.           Using data " collated by the Statistics Wing of DOA, a comparison has been made of the
area and yield of wheat produced in the project and non-project districts of the Province over the project
period. The data are presented in the following table.
2.           Only districts for which comparable data exist over the full project period have been
included. It should be noted that the comparisons are based on simple averages that do not take account
of special production circumstances such as intercropping within orchards in the northern districts.
Nevertheless, it is clear that most of the increased production can be attributed to the increase in the
irrigated area in all districts except Zhob, and that yields have increased similarly in both project and non-
project areas.
"   Agricultural Statistics of Balochistan - Statistics Wing DOA Quetta.
39



Project Completion Report
PAKISTAN: Baluchistan Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
I  I  I     I          I          I                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Inc. %
Distrkt    |    84/85  |  85/86       86/87  1  87188  |  88/89  |  89190       90/91    85/91
WHEAT PRODUCTION: IRIUGATED AREA (ha)
Projed Areas
- Nasirabad            101.600    106,400    120,000    96,380    124,110     72,100   138,590     36.4
- Kachhi                 6,400      5,400     6,700      9,700     10,000     11,200    13,970    118.3
- Lasbela                 S00        870        870        800      1,000       700       800      60.0
- Loralai                8,000     9,500      9,600     10,000     10,000     10,500    11,000     37.5
NonPoet:t Area : sI :                               
-Pishin                 10,500     10,430     10,510     l1.000    12,700     10,600    11,300     7.6
-Chagai                  1,250      1,160     1,200      1,090      1.500      1,700     1,550     24.0
-Zhob                    4,200     3,060      5,000      4,000      4.800      1,340     1,200    -71.4
-Sibi                   9,230      10,850     10.810    13,700     12,810     12,900    14,100     52.8.
- Kht1zdar   -      I     9,40Q    10,5(0    13,840     12,930     16,510     18,000    18,270     94.4
- Kalat                 10,00      8,20D     12,000   12.020       11,550     14,500    14,800     41.8
-Trubt         -290                   110       150        400       390        690       5 70     96.6:
WHETF PRODUCTION (latow)
Proje  Areas
- Nasirabadb           213,600    232,200    276,000    227,350    290,600    168,100   342,200    60.2
- Kacdhi                11,380     10,570     13,400    18,550     21,600     24,300    30,400    167.1
-Lasbela                 1,000      1.530      1,740     1,600      2,000      1,400     1,680    68.0
- Lorili                16,120     15,550    18,280     18,500     22,700     23,800    27,400     70.0
Average Project Area'                                                                              65.9
Non-Project Areas
- Pishin                20.910    20,620     27,620     28,600     34,700     30,900    34,060     62.9I
- Chgapi                 2,100      1,700     2,400      2,200      3,200      3,60(     3.150     50.0
- Zhob                   7,610     4,930      9,600      7,800      9,300      2,570    2,860    -62.4
-Sibi                   18,290    21,550     21,430     26,700     25,150     25,610    34,200     87.0
- Khuzdar               17,090     19,100    25,070     25,600     31,000     35,120    42,550    149.0
- Kalat                 20,130     16,010    23,200     20,600     20,750     26,400    33,600     66.9
-Turbat                   510        190        295        700       760       1,370     1,180    131,4
Ave. Non-Ptoject Armas                                                                            75.0*
WHEAT YEELDS (tons/b1)
Project Areas
- Nasimabad              2.10       2.18       2.30       2,36       2.34      2.33      2.47      17.6
-Kachhi                   1.78       1.96      2.00       1.91       2.16      2.17      2.18     22.5
- Lasbela                2.00        1.76      2.00       2.00       2.00       2.00     2.10      5.0
- Loralai                2,01        1.64      1.90       1.85       2.27       2.27     2.49     23.9
Avenge Project Areas      2.08      2.13       2.26       2.28       2.32       2.30     2.44      17.3
Non Project Areas
- Pishin                  1.99       1.98      2.63       2.60       2.73      2.91      3.01     51.3
- Chagai                  1.68       1.47      2.00       2.02       2.13      2.12      2.03     20.8
- Zhob                    1.81       1.61      1.92       1.95       1.94       1.92     2.38      31.5
- Sibi                    1.98       1.99      1.98       1.95       1.96       1.98     2.43     22.7
- Khuzdar                 1.82       1.82      1.81       1.98       1.88       1.95     2.33     28.0
- Kalat                   1.93       1.95      1.93       1.71       1.80       1.82     2.27      17.6
-Turbat                   1.76       1.73      1.97       1.75       1.95       1.99     2.07      17.6
Ave. Non-Project Aras     1.91       1.90      2.05       2.03       2.07      2.10      2.45     28.3
*   88.2% excluding Zhob.
40






