Report No. PIC2941
Project Name                      Panama-Social Investment Fund Project (@+)
Region                            Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                            Other Social Sector
Project ID                        PAPA7837
Borrower                          Republic of Panama
Implementation Agency             Fondo de Emergencia Social (FES)
Apdo. 87 1479, Panama 7, Panama
Fax:  507-264-3044,
Phone: 507-223-0002
Date Prepared                     February 14, 1997
Appraisal Date                    February 17, 1997
Board Date                        June 1997
1. Background. With a per capita GNP of US$2,580 (1993) and low
inflation, the Panamanian economy is among the most prosperous and
stable in the region. But the economy is highly segmented between
the dynamic, internationally-oriented services sector and the
domestically-oriented sector. The latter's poor performance has
kept output growth far below potential at only 2.5 percent annually
during 1981-93. This has impeded job creation, and about 14
percent of the labor force is currently unemployed, despite the
preponderance of services in the country, deceleration in the
growth of the labor force, and a relatively slow rate of migration
to the cities. It has also swelled the ranks of the poor, and
contributed to the sharp increase in income inequality. In 1979,
about 38 percent of the households lived in poverty, in 1986, 36
percent and in 1989 41 percent; 1989 data show that, in rural
areas, poverty was about 14 percentage points higher than in urban
areas, and poverty among the indigenous population (about 8 percent
of the total) was particularly serious.
2. While social indicators are relatively favorable by regional
standards, they are low if one takes into account the substantial
amount of resources the country spends on basic services and social
programs. Although social spending as a proportion of GDP is among
the highest in Latin America, the efficacy of social spending is
reduced greatly by resource misallocation and wastage, and the
strong bias of social programs in favor of urban and higher-income
groups. As a result, as shown in the table, social indicators in
rural areas are similar to those in much poorer countries.
Table. Social Indicators, 1990
Urban        Rural       National
Life expectancy (years; Aug. 1985-90)       74.1         69.9           72.4
Infant mortality (per 1,000)                22.0         27.6          22.7
Illiteracy rate (%)                         3.6          19.7           10.7
Population with less than a                 2.7          15.2            8.2



3rd grade education (%)
Children ages 6-15 years not               5.7          22.5          14.3
in school (0)
Source: CEM, 1995
In the 28 poorest of the 68 districts of the country, infant
mortality ranges from 40 to 100 per 1,000 (two to five times the
national average). In these districts, the incidence of
malnutrition in young children and breast-feeding and pregnant
women is about 40 percent, and 40-70 percent of the children enter
school suffering from growth retardation. About one-third of the
households in these districts do not have access to safe drinking
water and basic sanitation; more than half lack sufficient income
to purchase minimum food requirements, and 40-50 percent do not
have access to primary health care. Nation-wide, many primary
schools lack educational materials, and a large majority of primary
school students are ill-prepared because of the low coverage of
preschools.
3. Government (GOP) Strategy. GOP is well aware of the above
challenges, and has taken important steps to implement a
comprehensive domestic reform program. Its strategy for mitigating
poverty and inequality consists of four chief elements. The first
is the introduction of conditions that will revive sustainable
growth. In this context, the economic program emphasizes reform
policies that will mitigate the bias against employment creation,
and reduce the high cost of the consumption basket. In addition,
the incentive framework will be altered so as to encourage
increased agricultural production and employment opportunities in
the countryside, where most of the poor are located. Second is the
introduction of new mechanisms to protect those most susceptible to
malnutrition and vector-transmitted diseases. Third is improving
efficiency and equity in social expenditures through sector
reforms, especially in education and health; curbing growth in the
wage bill; instituting cost recovery, and targeting subsidies to
the most vulnerable groups, and fourth is institutional
modernization and capacity-building.
4. The Fondo de Emergencia Social (FES) plays a crucial role in
dealing with the third element aimed at improving efficiency and
equity in social expenditures, and targeting subsidies to the most
vulnerable groups. FES was established in 1990, with substantial
assistance from USAID, to generate emergency employment and to
(re)build social and economic infrastructure quickly and
efficiently. Since its establishment, FES has allocated about 63
percent of its total investment to small-scale infrastructure and
37 percent to programs such as social assistance and micro-
enterprise credit. With the support of an IDB loan, a Japanese
grant, and government funding, FES is currently: (i) reviewing its
strategy and organizational structure; (ii) setting up improved
management information systems; (iii) reviewing the project cycle,
and preparing new operational manuals; (iv) estimating the demand
for FES-type projects during the next five years; (v) improving
project evaluation; and (vi) establishing coordination agreements
-2 -



with line ministries and agencies. These measures are well under
way, and should help FES in providing a more substantial
contribution to GOP's poverty alleviation effort. GOP has asked
that the Bank assist FES in this effort.
5.  Project Objective and Description.    The proposed project would
assist GOP in accelerating and improving its poverty alleviation
efforts, and in maintaining social cohesion, while economic reform
measures are being implemented. The micro-credit program would aim
at employment generation.
6. The project would assist: (a) the expansion, replacement,
rehabilitation, improvement, and equipping of pre-primary and
primary schools and health posts and centers, as well as the
construction, rehabilitation, and improvement of water supply and
sanitation facilities, and infrastructure such as bridges, access
roads, drainage ditches, and retention walls; (b) pilot programs
dealing with: (i) the needs of disadvantaged groups, such as the
indigenous population, Afro-Panamanians, women, children, and the
elderly; (ii) supplemental school feeding; and (iii) micro-
enterprise development; and (c) strengthening FES' production
cycle, including the involvement of the final beneficiaries. The
allocation for social and economic infrastructure (component a)
would be limited to communities in subdistricts meeting agreed
poverty criteria. Subprojects (pilot component b) could be
requested by the line ministries, local governments, NGOs, and all
communities within the 510 subdistricts.
7. Project Costs and Financing. Total project costs are estimated
at about US$80 million, based on an estimate of social sector
investment needs and FES' absorptive capacity over a three-and-a-
half year period (1997-2001). FES is currently committing about
US$10 million each year, but expects to more than double that
amount shortly. Its subprojects cost, on average, about US$30,000,
which may increase to US$50,000 with a shift to particularly more
water supply projects.
8. Project Implementation. The loan would be committed over a
three and a half year period, and disbursed over four. FES is
currently being strengthened with the help of local and foreign
consultants, and has already obtained a new, dynamic management
team. It has established close cooperation with the line
ministries.
9. Procurement. Purchases to be financed under the proposed
project would be in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines.
FES' statute would exempt it from standard government regulations,
thus enabling a relatively fast decision-making process. In view of
the relatively small size of the contracts for civil works and
equipment, no international competitive bidding is expected. The
smallest contracts for civil works would be negotiated between FES
and private contractors, based on a periodically adjusted unit
price system. All other contracts would be awarded on the basis of
national competitive bidding, or three quotations.
- 3 -



10. Environmental Impact. The proposed project would have no
significant environmental risks. Standard safety and environmental
procedures are being reviewed during preparation, and their
coverage in FES' operational manuals would have to be approved by
the Bank. FES might also become involved in environmental
subprojects. An environmental rating of category "B" is proposed.
11. Program Objectives Category and Poverty Category. The
proposed project in the poverty reduction and human resources
development category would be part of the program of targeted
interventions since resources are allocated to subprojects by
utilizing a poverty index.
12. Participatory Approach. The success of any project of this
nature hinges upon community participation at all stages of the
subproject cycle, and this would be pursued during project
preparation. As part of this effort, considerable time is being
spent on ensuring the proper participation of women, indigenous
groups, and NGOs.
13. Preparatory Activities. Lessons learned from the first 100
subprojects funded under the IDB loan has been used in project
design. Preparation is also benefiting from: (a) IDB, Japanese
grant, and government-funded project consultancies; (b) the Bank's
Poverty Assessment work; and (c) the assistance of Ruta Social. A
Japanese Grant Agreement, signed on October 17, 1995, has allowed
for the early start of specific studies of critical issues and,
subsequently, intensive project preparation.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 18, 1997.
- 4 -



Annex
Environmental Issues (Rated "B")
Environmental specialists, funded by the IDB and the Bank,
are currently helping the FES to design and establish an
appropriate environmental assessment mechanism. To ensure its
implementation, the conditions of loan effectiveness include: (a)
the revision of the FES' Operational Manual to reflect the approved
environmental assessment mechanism; and (b) the establishment of an
environmental unit with organization, functions, and staff approved
by the Bank.
It is expected that the environmental assessment will have
implications for the FES' substantial involvement in small-scale
water supply and sanitation, as well as rural road infrastructure.



