                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32715

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-41910)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$28.0 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                     THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA

                                                 FOR A

                               SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT




                                              June 30, 2005




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective )

                            Currency Unit = US$
                                    B/.1.00 = US$ 1.00
                                 US$ 1.00 = B/.1.00

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 - December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
EU                    European Union
FES                   Fondo de Emergencia Social (Social Emergency Fund)
FIS                   Fondo de Inversión Social (Social Investment Fund)
IBRD                  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB                   Inter-American Development Bank
IFAD                  International Fund for Agricultural Development
IO                    Intermediary Organization
LSMS                  Living Standards Measurement Survey
M&E                   Monitoring and Evaluation
MIPPE                 Ministry of Planning
MIS                   Management Information System
MOH                   Ministry of Health
NGO                   Non-Governmental Organization
OED                   Operations Evaluation Department/World Bank
PAD                   Project Appraisal Document
PHRD                  Japan Policy and Human Resources Development
PIP                   Project Implementation Plan
PROGENIAL             Program for Gender Mainstreaming in World Bank-financed Projects in
                      Central America
USAID                 United States Agency for International Development



                           Vice President:    David de Ferranti
                         Country Director     Jane Armitage
                          Sector Manager      Evangeline Javier
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Andrea Vermehren

                                           PANAMA
                                  Social Investment Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution: Retrospective Report                           30
Annex 9. Map IBRD 33462                                                          38

Project ID: P007837                                                  Project Name: Social Investment Project
Team Leader: Andrea Vermehren                                        TL Unit: LCSHS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 27, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Social Investment Project                                L/C/TF Number: SCL-41910
   Country/Department: PANAMA                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (37%); General water, sanitation and flood
                            protection sector (30%); Health (10%); Roads and highways (23%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Social risk reduction (P);
                            Indigenous peoples (S); Small and medium enterprise support (S);
                            Child health (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/24/1995                                     Effective: 08/31/1997                01/05/1998
     Appraisal: 01/01/1997                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/17/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF PANAMA/FES/FIS
                      Other Partners:      IDB

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:                Evangeline Javier                              Ana-Maria Arriagada
Team Leader at ICR:             Andrea Vermehren                               Willem Struben
ICR Primary Author:             Lorena Cohan


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Panama Social Investment Fund Project aimed to contribute to the higher order Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) objective of poverty alleviation by helping to improve the policies, and expand and
strengthen the operations of the Fondo de Emergencia Social (FES), and specifically by: (a) providing
beneficiaries in the poorest districts with high-priority, small-scale infrastructure, based on community
demand-driven proposals; and (b) supporting three pilot programs to (i) provide particularly disadvantaged
population groups nationwide with priority social services, (ii) contribute to micro enterprise development
nationwide, and (iii) meet the nutritional needs of extremely poor children, and thereby increase school
attendance in selected underserved districts through a pilot school feeding program.

Assessment. The project objective was clear and realistic, in line with and important to Government and
Bank policy and strategy.

The Government recognized that despite Panama's relatively high per capita income, there remained major
pockets of poverty in the country; there was a need for better poverty data and targeting of public sector
investments to address some of the country's priority social needs. These issues were central in the 1994
CAS, which focused on the need to support government policies aimed at introducing measures to revive
sustainable and labor-absorptive growth, and at contributing to poverty alleviation through (i) redirection
of social expenditures to the poor and improvement of the efficiency of expenditures in the social sector and
(ii) implementation of targeted programs. FES was an essential instrument in this policy; it was established
by the Government with USAID support in 1990 as an emergency operation, primarily aimed at
employment generation. It also received support from the European Union (EU) and the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (IFAD) for rural development, indigenous peoples' development, and rural
micro-credit programs. In addition, considerable government funding was managed by FES, including
financing from a special fund available to Legislative Assembly members for small-scale community
infrastructure and services. In 1994/95, FES established a full portfolio of poverty-targeted infrastructure
with support from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).

The Government's aims to increase access to small-scale social and economic infrastructure for poorer
communities and to introduce new efforts in social services for vulnerable groups, school feeding for
children in the poorest communities (to improve school attendance and learning capacity of primary school
students), and expanding micro-credit were all addressed by the project. The project appropriately focused
on the poorer, rural, isolated communities, as well as vulnerable population groups (children, women, the
elderly, Afro-Panamanians, and indigenous population). This project was designed to be implemented as
part of a package of Bank support, together with projects in health, education, and rural poverty and
natural resource development, and was to contribute to poverty alleviation through additional and better
data and mechanisms to reach the needs of the poor, improved efficiency and equity in social expenditures,
capacity building in social participation and operation and maintenance of small-scale infrastructure, and
greater community involvement in poverty alleviation efforts.

Overall, the objective was relevant and appropriate. In hindsight, the objective may have been relatively
complex, although not unreasonably so given what was known about FES's implementation capacity up to
that point. While launching three pilots at the same time may seem ambitious, it should be noted that these
pilot programs were intended as modest and even experimental efforts, and again, the prior experience of
FES suggested that these were manageable.          In general, the Project Appraisal Document's (PAD)
assessment of the risks and the probabilities that they would occur was reasonable; unfortunately, even
risks that have a low probability of materializing sometimes do, and in this case, a number of significant



                                                    - 2 -

ones did.

3.2 Revised Objective:
No revisions were made to the project objective. In November 1999, the name of the implementing agency
was changed to Fondo de Inversion Social (FIS), to reflect its activities better. (To avoid confusion, the
following text uses "FIS".)

3.3 Original Components:
The project had three components to be financed with a US$28.0 million IBRD loan, the same loan amount
from the IDB (later increased, as per para 3.4), US$20.0 million in government counterpart funding, and
US$4.0 million in beneficiary contributions:

Component 1. Infrastructure (US$55.5 million, IBRD US$13.2 million). This component would finance
a wide range of community-based, demand-driven proposals for small-scale infrastructure, in accordance
with detailed selection criteria and procedures established in the Operational Manual and Project
Implementation Plan. The majority of demands were expected to be for improving existing or new water
supply, sanitation and latrine systems, health posts, foot paths, access roads, bridges, culverts and drainage
systems, sports fields, retention walls, and pre-primary and primary schools (to the extent that financing
under the Basic Education Project was no longer available). In all cases, local user committees would be
established. Complementary training would be provided to staff of line ministries, municipalities, and
NGOs in participatory planning, environmental concerns and subproject maintenance, as well as to
beneficiaries of all infrastructure subprojects in social management, operation and maintenance, and
environmental concerns. User committees would be trained, and provided with basic tool kits to help with
operations and maintenance.

Component 2. Pilot Programs (US$21.9 million, IBRD US$13.3 million). This component would
finance (a) supplementary school feeding, (b) social services for disadvantaged groups, and (c) micro-credit
activities. Supplementary school feeding would be provided in 11 of the country's poorest districts, and
would include the formation of school nutrition committees, composed of parents and teachers, and a
training program for parents. The social services would be channeled through NGOs to poor indigenous
and Afro-Panamanian population groups, women, youth, children, and the elderly. The micro-credit
activities would include credit for entrepreneurs channeled through intermediary organizations (commercial
banks and NGOs), as well as training of staff of those organizations.

Component 3. Project Management (US$2.6 million, IBRD US$1.5 million). This component would
finance improvement to the management information systems (MIS) and data analysis capacity; technical
assistance and training for micro-credit activities and the new Environmental Unit; and training of FIS staff
in various areas, including participatory planning, community maintenance, and environmental concerns.
The component would also finance external concurrent/quarterly auditing and a project impact evaluation,
a modest amount of equipment and vehicles, and the contracting of some specialized staff.

Assessment. The project's design was appropriate to achieving the objectives, and consistent with good
practice for similar operations at the time. Capacity was reasonably assessed--FIS had relevant experience
and was judged to have adequate implementation capacity to implement the components successfully,
including the pilot programs. In retrospect, these assessments may seem to be somewhat optimistic,
although many of the extra burdens that were placed on FIS (see para. 5.2) could not have been foreseen,
and it was these "extra" burdens, which drew on FIS's finite institutional capacity, that rendered a
reasonably diverse project overly complex.




                                                      - 3 -

3.4 Revised Components:
The project did not undergo major changes. However, several smaller changes are worth noting. First, the
IDB approved a US$48.85 million loan for FIS, instead of the original US$28.0 million estimated during
appraisal. Second, at the end of 2000, rural electrification was introduced in the FIS menu when the
Government abolished the Rural Electrification Office, merged it with FIS and proposed to make US$1.4
million available from the existing Rural Electrification Project financed by the Bank. Following detailed
discussions with both Government and FIS, the Bank accepted this decision, and agreed in addition that up
to US$1.65 million of the loan could be used for a pilot effort covering electric net extensions, as well as
solar and diesel equipment for isolated communities meeting the agreed poverty allocation criteria. Third,
as described below, the micro-credit sub-component was closed in 2003, and US$1.8 million of the original
allocation of US$3.2 million was reallocated to the other components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's quality at entry is considered satisfactory. The project was consistent with the Government's
sector policies and its poverty reduction strategy, the Bank's CAS and Safeguard Policies related to
indigenous peoples and environmental assessment. Assumptions regarding external factors and risks that
could affect the project were reasonable (although as mentioned above, the materialization of several of
these risks despite mitigating efforts eventually had a negative impact on project implementation).

The design of the project took into account important lessons learned from experience in Panama and from
other social funds, including issues related to:
Targeting: Although not financed with project funds, FIS agreed to carry out the Living Standards
Measurement Survey (LSMS) as the basis for a poverty map, in collaboration with the Planning Ministry
(MIPPE). The poverty map was used by the Government for its social policy decision-making and by FIS
for its poverty targeting.
Quality: Panama has always had high technical standards for social infrastructure subprojects, and the
project continued this emphasis.
Sustainability: The project emphasized community participation as part of engaging poor communities in
their own development and in order to enhance ownership; and supported community organization and
training as a factor (along with good subproject quality and coordination with relevant line ministries) in
infrastructure use and maintenance.
Institutional strengthening: The project emphasized the need for a more efficient FIS organization in
managing the project cycle, including improvement in the MIS. Although many social funds at the time
were beginning to place increased emphasis on working with local governments in planning, implementing,
and sustaining investments, this was not included in this project--a sound choice given the lack of a
relevant local government structure at the time of project design. However, the project did emphasize
community capacity building and involvement of NGOs where there was a comparative advantage.
Implementation performance: At appraisal, the usefulness of key performance indicators and impact
evaluations were recognized as essential tools to monitor implementation performance.              The Project
Implementation Plan (PIP of May 19, 1997) contained a list of indicators, based on standard practice for
social funds at the time, although these were a bit vague and focused more on output than outcome (see
para 7.1). Additionally, a set of evaluations were agreed, but could have benefited from detailed TOR
already defined at effectiveness, instead of during project implementation.
Subproject cycle: The need to evaluate the project cycle systematically, which is crucial for efficient project
processing and successful completion, was also incorporated in the project design.

Project design and preparation were supported with a Japanese (PHRD) grant in the amount of
US$340,000, approved in 1995. Under this grant, an experienced local consultant was contracted to work
full-time on coordinating project preparation activities, including the following studies: (a) an assessment of



                                                      - 4 -

the effectiveness of FIS, evaluation of options for its expansion and/or redirection, and recommendation of
institutional changes to permit its realignment and strengthening, (b) design of the organizational, legal, and
functional changes needed to adapt FIS to its new mandate, and (c) evaluation and recommendation of
mechanisms to maximize effectiveness of FIS activity through coordination with relevant line ministries
and decentralized line agencies of the Government, including analyses of their institutional structure,
decision making hierarchy, and means of determining and providing the recurrent costs of FIS subprojects.

The new concepts, policies, and operational procedures were reflected in the PAD and a detailed Project
Implementation Plan (PIP), which covered all relevant issues in substantial detail, including targeting,
infrastructure and community strengthening, credit, nutrition, vulnerable groups, FIS strengthening,
procurement, disbursement, environmental assessment, key performance indicators, impact evaluation, and
auditing. The PIP chapters also reflected comprehensive social, indigenous, and gender assessments,
carried out with the help of Bank staff and consultants. The IDB had earlier helped FIS advance with
respect to environmental assessment, and the Bank agreed that further donor support in this area would
continue to be spearheaded by the IDB.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's outcome and achievement of objective are rated unsatisfactory (would be MU if this rating
was an option). This is partially due to the fact that a full assessment of this project's achievements was
not possible. In the aftermath of the 2004 election, the subsequent transition to a new Government and the
changes in FIS personnel, the critical end of project monitoring and evaluation information--including the
results of impact evaluation work expected to be financed by the project--was not received. This situation
occurred despite repeated efforts by the Bank, and extensions in deadlines. The ICR team thus had no
choice but to rely on existing and available sources of data, realizing that there would be gaps in
information that affected its ability to present a comprehensive completion of the project.

Using this available information, the project's achievements in a number of respects were considerable, and
in line with the needs of the country (see also assessments in Section 4.2):
·        The program financed a substantial quantity of good quality small-scale infrastructure, in
accordance with local demand. Evidence from Bank missions and from an IDB evaluation of a sample of
subprojects suggests that beneficiaries are largely satisfied with these projects, and that the vast majority
are providing services on a sustained basis.
·        The project introduced a new emphasis on, and mechanisms for, targeting poor communities.
With the completion of an LSMS-based poverty map and allocation of Bank and IDB resources in
accordance with that map after its completion in 1998/99, the project contributed to introducing the poverty
targeting concept. Beginning in 2000, the infrastructure financed by the project benefited mainly the
poorest communities (see Table 1 below).
·        The project strengthened the roles and capacities of communities to participate in decisions
affecting their development, and in contributing to operation and maintenance of local investments.
Although decision making in Panama in general, and the FIS in particular, had historically been
"top-down", the project successfully promoted and gradually introduced "bottom-up" decisions, by
providing for community involvement in all phases of the subproject cycle for communities (including
indigenous communities, which had historically been more marginalized from such activities), and by
providing training in subproject operation and maintenance.




                                                      - 5 -

·        The project initiated new efforts to support vulnerable groups, including indigenous communities
and urban vulnerable groups (working through NGOs ­ also an innovation in FIS) both of which had not
benefited from FIS benefits before.
·        The project established a school feeding program which was implemented with adequate
nutritional content, at a low cost, with effective targeting, and good coverage.

Thus, the program's outcomes appear both relevant and largely efficacious. What was done was done well.
However, the project does not appear to have been very efficient. Its achievements were produced at quite
a high cost in terms of time and efficiency of implementation, including a 30-month extension of the loan
closing date, substantial problems with the micro-credit component. Additionally, a large share of
subprojects that were to have been implemented were not carry out (due to slow processing and
cumbersome procedures related to the Auditor General's Office) which causeed the cancellation of
US$6.1.million of the loan at closing. Important activities, such as the carrying out of an impact evaluation
that would give FIS and the Bank important data to evaluate the project--and build FIS capacity in
M&E--was designed but never finalized.

Achievement of Social Objectives

Poverty Reduction. Modest.        The Poverty Reduction objective is assessed on two aspects:                 poverty
targeting and poverty impact. With respect to poverty targeting, the project is rated as substantial. FIS
was a Program of Targeted Intervention. Although FIS introduced a poverty targeting approach with an
IDB-financed project in 1995, there were no recent and reliable poverty data, and the allocation of
resources was quite even across the country. Upon completion of the LSMS and poverty map in 1998/99,
and as required by the Loan Agreement, FIS and the Bank agreed on a new and progressive poverty
allocation formula. The results below show that overall the poorest districts (grouped in categories
"G1-G3", and accounting for 26 percent of the population) received 54 percent of total Bank-financed FIS
investments in 1998-99, whereas under the new formula, these groups received 63 percent; the second
poorest districts (G4-G6, with 23 percent of the population) received between 22-23 percent of FIS
investments during the full implementation period; and the less poor (G7-G8, with 51 percent of the
population) received 23 percent at the beginning and 14 percent under the new allocation formula.
Considering that two-thirds of the investments were made under the new formula, this improvement was
quite significant for overall project targeting. The IDB-financed program used the same formula and its
mid-term evaluation indicates that most projects were well targeted. Additionally, the pilot school feeding
subcomponent was also very well targeted1.



_________________
1
 Two notes are important: (i) only a portion (about 62 percent) of FIS's resources were poverty-targeted --these
corresponded to the share of the overall FIS program that was financed under, and considered "part of" the project;
the remainder of FIS's resources included Government financing for small-scale infrastructure in all (not just poor)
communities; (ii) even within the "poverty-targeted" portion, the allocation formula did not aim for 100 percent
allocation to poorest communities; the program balanced poverty targeting goals with the goals of broad
geographic coverage, recognizing that poor pockets exist even in wealthier districts, and in light of political
economy issues: sustaining support for a progressive program requires that the program achieve a certain degree of
broad coverage.




                                                       - 6 -

         Table 1.Poverty targeting at the sub-district level in 1998-99 and 2000-04
         Poverty Level                                                Actual Allocations in Percent
                                                                                 1998-992000-04
           Extreme poor (26% of population)                                               5463
           Poor (23%)                                                                     2223
           Less poor (51%)                                                                2314
           Total                                                                         100100
                                                                 2
         Source: FIS MIS (Memoría retrospectiva ­ September 2004) . Amounts limited to IBRD project.


Despite this very good performance in terms of targeting, though, the overall output of the infrastructure
component and the outcome of the project overall were not as significant as had been hoped, and for this
reason, poverty impact can only be rated as modest. Therefore, poverty reduction overall is rated as
modest.

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan.                                Substantial.          The project supported a pilot integrated
development program for selected indigenous communities.                                       The program was carried out with the
assistance of NGOs selected by the beneficiary communities. These communities participated in all
decision-making, in subproject development, and in construction of small infrastructure works with
appropriate technology and local materials. A participatory internal (FIS/IBRD) evaluation found that the
beneficiary communities were satisfied with the program's process and results, and child malnutrition was
almost nonexistent in the communities at project closing.

Gender: Negligible. Although the importance of this issue was emphasized by an international consultant
during project preparation, it was only explicitly taken up by FIS with the support of PROGENIAL3 in
2001. This assistance led to successful incorporation of gender considerations in the methodologies of the
training units working with vulnerable groups. To follow up, a local consultant wrote an action plan to
incorporate gender in all aspects of FIS operations--management, planning, evaluation, and follow-up and
control; however, FIS did not dedicate the time necessary to carry out this action plan.

Achievement of Environmental Objectives: Modest. The project, with IDB and Bank financing, did help
establish an appropriate environmental assessment unit in FIS, including staff training and manuals. The
project complied with these procedures throughout the implementation period. This would have been rated
"substantial", were it not for a decline in both staffing and budget in recent years.

Achievement of Private Sector Development Objectives: Modest. The project, through its contracting
of private firms for works and services, did help strengthen the private sector, and this was significant.
However, midway through implementation, FIS's new management decided to change their procedures and
stopped using NGOs as project administrators. In addition, FIS could no longer provide advance payments
to contractors for works (see Section 5.2). As a result, only larger construction firms could afford to
participate. The Government missed an opportunity to help develop smaller firms and, thus, competition.
Micro enterprise development was also limited due to the difficulties encountered in implementing the
component, which was eventually dropped and funds reallocated to other components.
_______________
2
 Extreme poor: districts with more than 70 percent poor population. Poor: 40-69 percent poor. Less poor: 20-39 percent poor population.
3
 The Program for Gender Mainstreaming in World Bank-financed Projects in Central America­PROGENIAL was created to address the challenges
related to gender equity in the sub-region by providing targeted technical assistance to government projects benefiting from World Bank financing.
PROGENIAL was launched in 1999 with funding from a Japan Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) Grant and it continues with
Netherlands funding.




                                                                         - 7 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Infrastructure. Unsatisfactory. A total of 225 social infrastructure subprojects were
completed, far short of the more than 1,000 anticipated at appraisal - an unrealistic assumption in the first
place.   Some of this shortfall may be due to the fact that subprojects (especially water and road
subprojects) were often larger than anticipated at appraisal (and served a greater number of
beneficiaries--hence not a problem). However, not all of the increase in average subproject cost can be
characterized as efficient, and it must be recognized that FIS only spent about 35 percent of the resources
allocated under the project for subprojects. Supervision missions found the infrastructure to be generally of
very good quality and in operation--in part because contractors were only paid upon completion, and thus
                                                                                                    4
could be held strongly accountable to FIS. The IDB's mid-term evaluation carried out in 2003 randomly
selected 30 projects and evaluated their design, technical quality, costs, benefits, sustainability and
environmental impact. The evaluation concluded that in general, beneficiaries were satisfied with completed
projects, and the vast majority of the evaluated projects were providing services on a sustained basis, albeit
with various levels of effectiveness and efficiency. Some water supply subprojects proved problematic, due
to design or operation problems.       As mentioned above, targeting of subproject resources improved
considerably after incorporation of the LSMS-based poverty map.

Component 2. Pilot Programs. Experience under the four subcomponents that make up this component
was varied. The component is rated, overall, as Satisfactory, in light of the significant poverty impact and
relative cost of subcomponents (a) and (b), which are both rated S.
(a)      Vulnerable Groups. Satisfactory. This activity provided support through experienced NGOs for
(a) selected indigenous communities and (b) other disadvantaged population groups (Afro-Panamanians,
women, youth, children, and the elderly) at a total cost of US$6.0 million. The results of the ex-post
internal evaluation of the indigenous program showed that this innovative, integrated, participatory
development program had various positive outcomes, including: (i) establishing and/or strengthening local
indigenous NGOs that are expected to continue providing services to their communities; (ii) increasing crop
production, through higher yields and larger cultivated areas, which has resulted in the reduction of child
malnutrition, as reported by health personnel in the project's area of influence. It is reasonable to expect
that increased production would also lead to some increase in income; (iii) promoting community
involvement in definition of priority infrastructure, subproject design and construction using traditional
methods and materials, and providing labor for construction; (iv) training of communities in improved
agricultural techniques, health and feeding practices; and (v) increasing female participation in traditionally
male areas of expertise. In general, the beneficiaries and FIS staff reported being satisfied with the process
and outcome of the program, although not all planned investment took place due to budget cuts.

(b) School Feeding. Satisfactory. This subcomponent reached far more poor children than projected at
appraisal. It was expected to provide about 100,000 primary school children in the 11 poorest school
districts with supplemental school feeding, with substantial parent participation and training.            The
estimated cost was US$7.3 million for food and its distribution, as well as US$1.0 million for training. At
project closing, the program was expanded to 141,300 children in 57 districts at an average direct cost of
US$9.86 per student/year, fully financed by the Government, making this a very cost effective program.
The 1999 LSMS results showed that this was the best targeted social program in the country, reaching the
poorest children, with minimal leakage. During project implementation, FIS conducted annual audits of the
program that confirmed that the food was reaching its intended destination and groups of mothers were
______________
4
 In Project Files.



                                                      - 8 -

preparing daily meals. In addition, the program has substantial in kind beneficiary contributions since
communities are responsible for collecting the food packages three to four times per year, and groups of
mothers prepare the daily meal at the school. Another success of the program is the close and continuous
collaboration with the Ministry of Education since the regional offices ensured adequate supervision during
program implementation. However, no impact evaluation was conducted therefore, there is no evidence of
its overall impact on nutrition.

(c) Micro-Credit. Unsatisfactory. The results of this pilot subcomponent were disappointing. As agreed
during negotiations, the start of these activities was subject to the establishment of the responsible FIS unit,
including credit regulations and staffing. With the help of both local and international consultants, this was
achieved after a lengthy delay. However, even then, implementation was slow, and the first US$1.0 million
loan was made in 2001 to an experienced commercial bank, which had developed a substantial micro-credit
window, and another US$0.5 million was made to an experienced micro-credit NGO (Credifundes), which
did need strengthening before meeting FIS eligibility criteria. Credifundes later received an additional line
of credit for US$0.5 million. By the time this was achieved, and with very limited FIS management interest
in the activity, the Bank and FIS agreed to forego any further investments in 2003 and the funds were
reallocated to other components. About 400 entrepreneurs benefited from the micro-credit program. At
project closing, the intermediary organizations (IOs) are in good standing and are repaying their loans and
interest to FIS on schedule.

(d) Rural Electrification. Unsatisfactory. This pilot subcomponent was not anticipated at appraisal, but
was introduced in 2000. The results were also disappointing. It was expected that the pilot would offer an
opportunity to try alternative methods of reaching poor and isolated communities, through 62 conventional
network extensions, and 14 solar/diesel generation subprojects, at a total cost of US$5.1 million. Instead,
only 29 network extensions were completed and 9 of those are not yet benefiting the population to be served
due to a FIS delay in paying the subsidy to the electricity distribution firm. In addition, the planned study
of alternative policies regarding the substantial tariff subsidization of the poor did not take place.

Component 3. Project Management. Unsatisfactory. This component, at a total cost of US$4.0
million, was mainly aimed at strengthening FIS management through training and technical support for
participatory planning and community maintenance of subprojects, environmental concerns, micro-credit,
and MIS. Most of the planned activities took place, although senior management showed little interest in
the micro-credit and M&E activities and frequent staff turnover diluted the benefits of these efforts (see
comments on monitoring and evaluation activities in Section 7.6). As a result, work on community
participation was more limited than would have been hoped, focusing mainly on project identification and
design. Environmental assessment lost priority and staff during the last part of project implementation,
although compliance with the minimum requirements was maintained throughout the project. The MIS
remained weak for much of the project, and the impact evaluation work of the project was designed, but
never contracted due to a freeze in the budget prior to elections.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.




                                                       - 9 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, the project's institutional development impact was modest. The impact on various stakeholders is
assessed as follows:
Impact on Central Government. Modest. FIS management worked particularly well with the Ministry
of Planning (later renamed Ministry of Economy and Finance), and helped finance the LSMS, which
became the basis for the country's new poverty map and poverty-focused policies. FIS also worked closely
with the responsible line ministries and agencies, and helped ensure the use of proper design and
contracting procedures.

Impact on Communities. Substantial. The project introduced the concept of community participation
through: (i) their involvement in key stages of the subproject cycle; (ii) training of beneficiaries in
subproject maintenance and distribution of tool kits for this purpose; (iii) their active participation in the
school feeding program; and (iv) their active involvement in the indigenous program's design and
implementation. Community training was well-received, as indicated by workshop evaluation results and
communities realized their rights and obligations as "subproject owners". The subproject maintenance
committees are now well-established.

Impact on NGOs. Modest. NGOs did play a substantial role in community training and programs for
vulnerable groups, both of which were quite successful. For these activities, the NGOs were exposed to,
and learned from, FIS's contracting procedures. At the outset, NGOs also played a role as project
administrators, but this was stopped with the change in administration. Still, NGOs could probably have
played a larger role, particularly in micro-credit and continued subproject administration. In micro-credit,
less experienced NGOs and cooperatives should have received more training and information to prepare
them for accessing the micro-credit resources. This could have decreased the management burden of FIS
and, where applicable benefit from NGOs' comparative advantages.

Impact on Financial Intermediaries. Negligible. One NGO, Credifundes, was strengthened and judged
to have undergone sufficient improvement in 2002 to provide it with an additional US$500,000 line of
credit.

Impact on FIS. Modest. FIS benefited from substantial Bank staff and consultant support throughout
project implementation. As a result, it introduced new and essential policies, mainly on poverty targeting,
community participation and the inclusion of vulnerable groups (indigenous and urban marginalized), and
became more aware of the need for proper planning and contracting, as well as on issues such as gender
and environment. Although individual managers and staff were generally highly qualified and competent,
institutional coordination was poor, and frequent changes in both groups made matters worse. Issues such
as setting-up a timely and reliable data system, and evaluation of activities never received the attention they
required (see Section 5.3).

Impact on Local Governments. Not Rated. At the time of project preparation, local governments were
not yet playing any role of substance and the issue of municipal strengthening was thus not pursued.
However, the role of local governments is mentioned here because it has been discussed in recent years, and
is now being supported by the IDB under its second loan to FIS.




                                                    - 10 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Panama suffered from an economic recession and crisis that affected implementation of FIS projects. In
years for which data is available (2000-2002), the FIS actual budget ceiling was reduced between 40-57
percent from the amount approved by the legislature.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Change in government and FIS staffing. Although in many countries, changes in government often result
in changes in senior management of government institutions, the change in FIS in late-1999 literally applied
to almost all staff, causing a delay in project implementation of at least one year. Changes in key staff and
political appointments caused changes in direction and priorities that seriously compromised
implementation of some project activities (micro-credit, MIS, and institutional strengthening).

Fiduciary Controls. Panama has strict auditing rules, which take considerable time to follow. When the
project launched, FIS was exempted from contract pre-approvals up to US$100,000 by the Auditor
General's Office (Contraloria), but the change in administration removed this exemption, which resulted in
extreme slowdown in operations. Because both the Bank and the IDB carry out ample procurement
reviews, the Bank proposed exempting Bank and IDB-financed activities from such time-consuming rules,
even if only on a pilot basis. This was almost agreed just before the change in Government, but was then
rejected by the new administration. The Bank continuously dialogued with Government about the
cumbersome and lengthy procedures installed by the Auditor General's Office which significantly
hampered the implementation of FIS and other Bank projects, however, with little success.

Budget Constraints. Panama's budget rules are also strict and although they did not hamper project
implementation in the early years, this changed in recent years. FIS continued to receive adequate funding,
but the line item for project funding was very limited.

Use of relatively expensive Bank funds in environment of ample funding. On occasion, during recent
years, the Bank was informed by Government that the terms of the Bank loan were more difficult to access
and less attractive than those of other funding sources available to FIS.           The consequence of this
situation--combined with the fact that the IDB approved a US$48.85 million loan for FIS, instead of the
original US$28.0 million estimated during appraisal--was not only that Government did not fully avail
itself of the loan resources (esp. for the infrastructure component, for which IDB resources could also be
used), but also, that there was limited "leverage" of activities financed by the Bank, in terms of informing
or influencing broader practice in FIS (e.g., the micro-credit pilot program).

Transfer of government programs to FIS (PROINLO and Rural Electrification), may have stretched
FIS institutional capacity beyond its limits. In early 1999, the Government transferred the rather large
PROINLO program, which provided fixed budget amounts (i.e., not subject to the targeting criteria used
for this project's funds) to each district and sub-district (corregimiento), to FIS from the then Ministry of
Planning (MIPPE). Then, as described in para 3.4, at the end of 2000, rural electrification was introduced
in the FIS menu when the Government abolished the Rural Electrification Office and merged it with FIS.

Prohibition of advance payments to contractors. Despite being encouraged by both the IDB and the
Bank, the Government did not allow for the use of advanced payments to contractors. This decision
prevented participation by smaller firms with limited access to the banking system and caused larger firms
to include sizeable mark-ups for banking costs.




                                                     - 11 -

Increasing political interest in indigenous and other vulnerable groups. The project's component
dealing with indigenous and other vulnerable groups benefited from a gradual shift in political thinking in
favor of supporting minority and vulnerable groups, including through the use of NGOs.

Increasing interest in role of communities and municipalities. The Government started to see the
advantage of community participation throughout the project cycle. It took a while longer for local
governments, but that too has changed, and the latest IDB-financed project provides some support for local
government participatory planning.

Increasing interest use of LSMS and poverty map to target poor communities. Earlier FIS support for
poor communities was distributed more or less evenly around the country, but, at the time of project
preparation, the Government developed a major interest in a more effective focus on the poor. This led to
the LSMS and the development and use of the poverty map, as well as a progressive allocation of resources
in line with the districts' poverty levels.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Inefficient management. FIS managers and staff were changed frequently during the implementation
period. FIS had four different executive directors during the project implementation period, and all of the
management and most of the staff turned over with the change in administration in 1999 and again in 2004.
An exception to this high level of turnover was the social programs (school feeding, vulnerable groups, and
community training), which had staff continuity throughout most of the project period. Although FIS had
highly qualified managers and staff throughout its implementation, management never worked well as a
team. The different units responsible for the FIS production process lacked coordination; units such as
micro-credit and rural electrification did not receive adequate supervision and support; the vulnerable group
received a smaller share of the (reduced) budgets than infrastructure projects despite their satisfactory
progress in implementation readiness.

Ineffective MIS and Evaluation. Despite major investment in consultancies, staff training, and equipment
for the MIS by both IDB and the Bank, the MIS was not sufficiently developed and used to function as a
management tool. The MIS was able to produce data per unit, but did not provide the necessary integration
of operational and financial data, nor rapidly available and reliable key performance indicators. This
weakness was compounded by the fact that the planned impact evaluation was never completed.

Lack of interest in diversified pilot rural electrification. After the Government decided to place the
Rural Electrification Office in FIS in 2000, this program remained a "step child" throughout the remaining
project period. This pilot program limited itself to conventional electricity network extensions (see Section
4.2(d)) and did not explore ­ as initially envisioned ­ alternative energy sources.

High-quality works and services. The quality of the services provided by construction firms resulted in
good quality social infrastructure and services.

Improved relationship with NGOs. Although FIS had little cooperation with NGOs at the start, this
developed considerably, and NGOs played a major role in the implementation of programs for vulnerable
groups, as well as in community training programs.

5.4 Costs and financing:
As detailed in Annex 2, the total project cost estimated at appraisal was US$80.0 million, with IBRD
financing of US$28.0 million. At appraisal, FIS had expected US$28.0 million in co-financing from a
second IDB loan, US$20.0 million in counterpart funds, and a further US$4.0 million in community



                                                     - 12 -

contributions (labor, materials, and in-kind). The IDB approved a US$48.85 million loan in 1999. The
actual total project cost, as of June 30, 2004, was approximately US$59.2 million with the disbursement of
US$21.9 million from the IBRD loan (78 percent of the loan amount) and, as of June 30, 2004, US$17.3
million from the IDB loan. As of the date of this ICR, US$6.1 million remained in the loan account. As
mentioned earlier, project expenditure information for different donors are kept in separate data systems.
Since detailed data could not be easily retrieved, only totals are reflected in the annex. Similarly, although
communities contributed substantial labor and materials, this was not quantified and reflected in the MIS;
thus, these contributions do not appear in the table.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
As mentioned above, a paucity of data--especially the lack of the final results of the impact
evaluation--prevents a full assessment of the project's sustainability. For this reason, and although a few
relevant comments are provided below, it would be appropriate to rate the sustainability of this project as "
non-evaluable" if that were an option.         In the absence of that option, we have rated the project's
sustainability as likely, for the reasons described below.

FIS sustainability. The probability that FIS will be able to continue its operations is high. Apart from
ongoing support from IDB, Taiwan, IFAD, and the EU (see Section 10), FIS has always received the larger
part of its financing from government funding, and can continue to expect such funding because of political
support of both government and opposition parties for most of FIS activities. After about 14 years of
operation, including seven with Bank support, FIS has become an experienced, although not always
efficient, organization, that fostered poverty targeting, community participation and the inclusion of
vulnerable groups (now also through the participatory municipal investment planning exercise supported by
FIS) in its investments. Moreover, the cultural changes supported under the project--more emphasis on
targeting, community involvement throughout the project cycle--seem to have taken root.

Subproject sustainability. There is also a high probability that the subprojects funded by FIS will be
sustainable. Available evidence (from supervision visits and the IDB evaluation) demonstrates that the vast
majority of subprojects appear to be providing sustained benefits. The project also appears to have
provided many of the key ingredients required for subproject sustainability. While training and equipping
of community committees cannot guarantee maintenance, it can make a contribution, and the project has
ensured that completed infrastructure subprojects have trained maintenance committees, and many water
supply subprojects have extensive technical and financial arrangements for operation and maintenance.
The committees were provided with well-designed manuals and handbooks, and tool kits. FIS subprojects
are of high quality (see Section 4.2); experience from social funds in many countries has demonstrated that
the initial quality of subprojects is a key factor in the sustainability of investments. All contracts have
guarantees for up to one year. Moreover, cooperation with relevant line agencies (another important
factor) generally works well.

Pilot Programs. The pilot programs are expected to be sustainable on average. As for the pilot programs,
the NGO-managed programs for vulnerable groups were designed in such a way that they would continue
without further FIS support.        The indigenous peoples' program is expected to continue under the
communities' leadership. The school feeding program, developed in close coordination with the Ministry of
Education, is already sustainable because fully funded by Government. The two credit lines established
under the micro-credit pilot are fully functional and financially sustainable, yet the program as designed
under the project does not have further funding and was not continued, although FIS currently has IFAD
funding for rural credit, Finally, the rural electrification pilot did not prove sustainable, mainly because of



                                                      - 13 -

the high tariff subsidy for the network extensions and operational problems in service delivery. It should be
noted, however, that this pilot was not an original component of the project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
FIS's poverty focus and community participation policies have received wider acceptance, and its
vulnerable group programs can be expected to continue with NGO support. The school feeding program is
already fully funded by the Government. Infrastructure subprojects continue to be funded by the IDB and
the Government.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during the lending phase was satisfactory, although the rating of "marginally
satisfactory" would have been used if it were available.
Project identification appropriately took into account Government strategy and priorities, and as described
in Section 3 above, the project was consistent with these and with the 1994 CAS. Subsequently, during
preparation, the Bank spent ample time and effort on preparing the project with the help of the PHRD
preparation grant and a variety of consultant trust funds, including studies about FIS organization and
management, poverty targeting, social sector investment needs, community participation, vulnerable
groups, gender, environment, and fiduciary aspects. The findings helped the Bank, Government, and FIS to
decide on the project scope and composition, as well as a range of implementation issues covered in the
PIP. The Bank mobilized lessons learned from other social fund programs, and lessons from previous
projects in Panama, and from previous experiences under the FIS itself, were all duly considered and
incorporated into the design of the program. During preparation, it was decided that FIS would help fund
the LSMS as the basis for a poverty map and allocation of FIS funding. An emphasis on community
involvement and training was also introduced to the institution.

The project team emphasized monitoring and evaluation as part of preparation, and arrangements and
indicators in this respect were consistent with standard practice for similar operations at the time.
Nonetheless, M&E proved to be an area of shortcoming. Although the PAD included general indicators to
be monitored, and the PIP included more specific targets for a number these, the indicators were largely
focused on project output, and were inadequate for monitoring project performance. Compounding this
situation, efforts to improve monitoring and evaluation under the project were not very fruitful, and the
impact evaluation expected to be financed under the project was not finalized.

Appraisal of the project drew on the set of studies and consultations that had taken place during
preparation, and an extensive and detailed PIP. The quantity and quality of staff/consultants involved in
appraisal, and the degree of coordination with other donors, were appropriate.         The appraisal team
thoroughly and reasonably assessed stakeholder commitments and capacities, sustainability and safeguard
arrangements, and risks. Nevertheless, given subsequent implementation difficulties, the ICR team tried to
assess whether the preparation team should have caught certain issues: whether the project as designed and
appraised was overly complex; whether capacities of the institution to manage the project were adequately
assessed; whether the staff turnover at the time of the 1999 administration change, and subsequently, could
have been foreseen and if so, should have been considered a risk; and whether requirements set by the
Office of the Auditor General (which became more cumbersome over time) and the Budget Office of the
Ministry of Finance should have been identified as risks. In addition, the operation was designed as a
"project" rather than as a programmatic contribution to an already established Social Fund institution ­ an
approach that in the late 1990 was already implemented in other Social Fund operations in the region. On
balance, however, the appraisal team appears to have taken these questions into consideration and to have


                                                     - 14 -

made reasonable judgment calls. While the project does appear somewhat complex, the appraisal team
recognized that Panama is a country with highly-skilled managers, and that FIS was already an existing
organization successfully managing a wide range of ongoing programs, and concluded that they could
handle the degree of complexity involved--especially since the more "complex" elements were in the
context of modest pilot programs. Also, for this reason, subsequent high staff turnover was not considered
a risk and the degree to which this ended up happening (i.e., more than a typical project) could not have
been foreseen. A strong program of technical assistance and a longer-than-typical implementation period
for this type of project in the region were also appropriate mitigating measures. Likewise, subsequent
additional burdens placed on the FIS institution (see Section 3.4) were not foreseeable, and these (more
than the project itself) seemed to have overtaxed the institution. As to risks posed by the cumbersome
auditing and budgeting constraints, these perhaps should have been recognized--given prior experience in
Panama--but this does not diminish the obvious seriousness of fiduciary analysis during preparation and
appraisal; and the extent to which these country issues were later to become problems to this and other
projects does not appear to have been known during preparation.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance in supervision was unsatisfactory (although it would be "marginally unsatisfactory" if
that option were available). An analysis of the supervision effort shows that throughout the project,
supervision was intensive and consistent, and mobilized high quality experts with appropriate expertise.
Staff and manager consultations on problems were frequent and proactive. However when evaluated in
retrospect, it appears that supervision efforts could have focused earlier on specific actions by the Bank to
ensure that the project would fully meet its objectives. Instead, an optimistic view was retained that the
modest advances that were often observed from one supervision mission to the next would eventually add
up, and that the project would achieve all of its objectives. On a broader level, a more regular dialogue
between the Bank and the Government Administration during this period (on counterpart funding and
budgets, administrative procedures, etc.) could also have helped project implementation.

That being said, the Bank's performance during supervision was not fully unsatisfactory.               During
implementation, the Bank provided ample support to FIS with the preparation of the LSMS, the indigenous
peoples development plan, the vulnerable group approach, the school supplemental feeding program, and
the micro-credit program, as well as training on procurement and disbursement policies. These efforts
appear to have contributed greatly to subsequent positive project achievements (see Section 3), and in the
incorporation of much-improved targeting mechanisms.

The original task manager retired in 1998, but he continued to stay involved in the project as a consultant
throughout the program. Other key staff and experts also provided continuity throughout implementation,
even though the task management changed hands two more times during implementation. The project's
diverse components required a variety of specialized expertise (particularly under the pilots programs), and
although inaccessibility of consultant trust funds prevented task managers in later years from fielding larger
missions to cover all activities financed under the project, relevant experts for each of those aspects appear
to have been mobilized throughout implementation.           (A notable exception is in the area of rural
electrification; the subcomponent in this area, added in 2000, appears to have been undersupervised.) As
mentioned above, the project team, managers, and other members of the country team consulted regularly
and were proactive in trying to solve implementation challenges; these included intensive focus on financial
management and procurement issues associated with increasingly cumbersome rules of the Offices of the
Auditor General and of the Budget in the Ministry of Finance, and considerable efforts to strengthen M&E
and to set up the impact evaluation. Loan proceeds from less productive components were reallocated to
more productive ones. Eventually, when the Borrower requested an extension of the Loan closing date until
December 31, 2004, the Bank denied the full extension, but permitted an extension until June 30, 2004, in



                                                     - 15 -

the hopes that the shorter period would allow tighter follow-up. Unfortunately, the implementation issues
proved relatively intractable, despite the Bank's efforts and, perhaps, optimistic hopes that project
management would improve.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Taking into account the above assessments of the Bank's performance during lending and supervision, the
Bank's overall performance is rated unsatisfactory (marginally unsatisfactory if this rating were available).

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government's and FIS's performance in preparing the project was satisfactory.
The project was prepared with PHRD grant financing and an experienced local consultant was designated
as the project preparation coordinator. The preparation team also agreed with the new poverty focus and
community participation policies as suggested by the Bank. The team welcomed the LSMS proposal and
developed the detailed PIP. In general, the Bank and the Borrower collaborated well and effectively on all
preparation activities (see also para. 7.1).

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance during project implementation was unsatisfactory, with the exception of
the initial two years.
The Government did not provide the project with the support it required. First, all of the FIS managers and
most staff members were changed in late-1999. Frequent management and staff changes continued in
subsequent years. Second, despite intensive discussions of Bank staff with the Auditor General, the
country's time-consuming audit requirements were never relaxed, and continued to hold up project
implementation. Third, in later years, the project received limited budgets, which contributed to slower
project implementation. Although the budget cuts were partially the result of the country's general budget
constraints, FIS was receiving adequate funding for other programs. In addition, the Government seems to
have relayed to FIS that the terms of the IBRD loan, even compared to the IDB's terms, were relatively
unattractive, and that other sources of funding should be committed relatively faster. On the positive side,
the Government was actively involved in the LSMS implementation and follow-up, and the poverty map
has become a major policy tool. A second LSMS was carried out in 2003 with exclusive Government
funding and some Bank-financed external technical assistance.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
FIS's performance during implementation was unsatisfactory, although "marginally unsatisfactory", if that
were an option, would be more appropriate).
Although FIS management cannot be blamed for the frequent change in staffing (with implications on their
understanding of Bank policies and practices), and the bureaucratic restraints imposed by Government, it
was responsible for a rather inefficient project implementation, worsened by the lack of coordination
between the different units in FIS and MIS system with limited operational use (see Section 5.3). The
positive results of the school feeding and vulnerable groups programs were overshadowed by the limited
results of the micro-credit and rural electrification programs and by the slow implementation of all
components. Starting with the project preparation consultancies, FIS received substantial technical advice
in the initial and final stages of project implementation, but its management follow-up was limited or
non-existent at the end. A positive aspect is that fiduciary requirements reviewed and analyzed by Bank
specialists were deemed satisfactory.

It should also be noted that were problems in planned monitoring and evaluation activities. The PIP
describes the necessary MIS, key performance indicators, and impact assessments of the school feeding



                                                   - 16 -

program at the end of 1998 and of the project in general, before completion. The MIS was problematic
throughout the project, and was not able to produce rapid and reliable key performance indicators (see
Section 5.3). The external evaluations were never finalized, although a participatory ex-post evaluation of
the indigenous groups program was conducted by FIS, the Bank and beneficiaries of all communities
supported by the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Pay close attention to country implementation capacity.                  Although Panama is a country with
considerable human resource capacity in both public and private sectors, but Government processes are
often bureaucratic, involve multiple layers of control, resulting in slow implementation. Thus, project
preparation provided for four and a half years of implementation, versus about three years in other social
fund projects in the region. Still, this time turned out to be insufficient because unanticipated changes in
the the country's procedures caused innumerable delays in the contracting and payment processes. A
smaller project or a longer implementation period may have been more appropriate.

Realize that Bank support can be affected by the relative share (and cost) of its financing. The
project's support to FIS covered only a limited part of its operations (between 5-10 percent of the total FIS
budget). In an environment of relatively ample funding, this meant that the Government was not likely to
"go out of its way" to use the funds of the Bank-financed project, e.g., providing adequate counterpart
funding and budget ceiling, and making the necessary key staff changes. Again, this might suggest the need
for smaller, more focused projects, or closer attention to the possible need for partial cancellation of Bank
funding.

Programatic versus project focus. The operation was very much designed as a project instead of a more
programmatic operation to strengthening the FIS overall. It seems that from the start, the Government saw
the project as one more source of funding aside from its own funding. The Bank financing had little effect
on FIS other financing sources (mostly from Government) and therefore was rather insignificant to the
institution over time. Perhaps more could have been achieved through a more programmatic approach and
stronger Government commitment from the start to reform the FIS and not only implement yet another
project. Overtime, FIS turned into an implementing agency of an array of projects, all with different
implementation arrangements and rules, rather than a coherent, strengthened institution with a common
mission and objective. Attempts of the Bank and the IDB to advise FIS management on transforming the
institution into a more strategic, coherent entity did not fall on fertile ground.

Keep a close focus on management improvement. From the outset, the Bank was aware of the relatively
weak management of FIS, and tried to support it through studies and other technical assistance, including a
major organization/management study by an experienced international consulting firm. For example, since
the Executive Director was almost always occupied with meetings with central and local government
representatives, the Bank suggested the appointment of a full-time general manager, to coordinate the
production process. Following the across-the-board change in managers and most staff in 1999, the Bank
suggested the contracting of a temporary management advisor. Neither proposal was accepted.

Emphasize use of an operational MIS as a monitoring and evaluation tool. Despite major investment in
improving the existing MIS, the system was not able to operate as expected. Thus, FIS did not have the
necessary up-to-date information for its policy and operational management decisions and the project's key



                                                      - 17 -

performance indicators were not readily available. Throughout project implementation, the Bank and IDB
paid considerable attention to MIS improvement, including MIS specialists on supervision missions. This
yielded little positive results, mainly because of lack of FIS management interest.

Keep project as simple as possible. Since FIS had ongoing and wide-ranging operations and considerable
experience in a great number of activities at the time of preparation, and the Government's social agenda
was ambitious, the Bank agreed to a relatively complex project, with components covering traditional
infrastructure, micro-credit, school feeding, vulnerable groups, and later also rural electrification.
Although the complexity was not a major issue at the outset, it did have implications for FIS management
(especially on micro-credit), as well as for the diversity of expertise required for Bank supervision.

Ensure that funding source agrees on the same rules and procedures for same social programs.
During the same period, the Bank was financing projects in education and health. Under the education
project, there was an explicit agreement with the Ministry of Education that FIS would implement the
infrastructure construction program, based on their targeting formula. Only if education project funds were
no longer available, FIS funding would be utilized for that purpose. Coordination and implementation
worked well. Due to the significant demand for rural water supply and sanitation works, both FIS and the
Ministry of Health (MOH) included financing for these works in their respective projects. Unfortunately,
not only did coordination between the two institutions not work as planned, but their implementation
procedures were different, i.e. the MOH expected communities to contribute their labor, while FIS did not.
Some of FIS contractors hired local unskilled labor. FIS water supply subprojects included a sanitation
subproject, while those built/rehabilitated by the MOH did not. There were difficulties beyond duplication
of efforts: some communities preferred to have FIS support so that they would not have to contribute free
labor, or would be paid for their labor. Some MOH local officials refused to accept completed projects
from FIS contractors. In hindsight, an arrangement similar to the one made with the Ministry of Education
could have worked better for water and sanitation subprojects.

Ensure availability of eligible intermediaries for micro-credit. Although Panama has a well-developed
commercial banking system, this does not automatically mean expertise in micro-credit. It took longer than
projected to design the operational manual and action plan to implement this important component. In
addition, apart from one quite experienced financial intermediary, the others, both large and small, required
considerable up-front training before being eligible for FIS funding. Since the effort to cover the first two,
most experienced, financial intermediaries had already taken too much time, the project was never able to
reach out to others (apart from some general training).

Take advantage of opportunity to introduce new concepts. At the time of project preparation, the time
was right for introducing new concepts, such as targeting of investments to the poor, and having
beneficiary communities participate in all subproject phases and receive training to maintain the
infrastructure. Equally, it was the appropriate environment to introduce programs for indigenous and other
vulnerable groups through community efforts and NGO support.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
FIS's contribution is attached in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:




                                                      - 18 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

FIS is the main institution used by the Presidency and legislators to channel funds for the provision of
social infrastructure and services to the Panamanian population. FIS obtains most of its funding from
Government, but also receives funds from several donors including EU, Taiwan, and IFAD.
In 2004, FIS's approved budget was as follows in Table 2(in million of US$):


                                    Table 2: FIS's Approved Budget, 2004
Externally Funded                    US$        Government Funded:                                US$
Projects/Programs:                   million                                                      million
IDB Project - Loan 1226                8.2      Social infrastructure (counterpart funds)            5.0
Ngobe Bugle Program (IFAD)             8.1      School Feeding Program                               4.5
IBRD Project ­ Loan 4191-PA             4.5    Other social infrastructure                            4.0
Taiwan Project                          3.5    Rural Electrification                                  3.8
                                               PROINLO                                                6.2
                                               Strengthening of Municipal Planning                    3.3
                                               Project Administration                                 2.4
                                                First Lady's Project (JAPAC)                         1.0
Subtotal                              24.3                                                          30.2
(% of total)                          (45)                                                          (55)
Total                                                             54.5

Externally-funded projects, with their respective counterpart funds, are largely targeted to the most
disadvantaged communities, while some Government-funded programs for which FIS acts as executing
agency (e.g., for other Government institutions, or for Legislative Assembly members who have access to a
                                                                           5
special fund for community infrastructure) are not necessarily targeted . Thus, of the US$54.5 million
approved budget for 2004, it is estimated that about 62 percent is targeted according to the agreed formula;
the remainder may or may not reach the poor. For instance, the PROINLO program distributes resources
(about US$10,000/year) equally to all districts and "corregimientos" of the country. Often, these small
amounts are used as matching funds for other FIS investments in a corregimiento, or subdistrict.




______________
5
 The Bank worked with FIS in early 1999 and obtained initial agreement that the revised, LSMS-based, targeting
formula would be applied to all newly-approved funding of social and economic infrastructure projects. However,
the new Administration that took over in September 1999 rejected this approach, and kept certain Government
funds separate from the targeting formula.




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Poverty Level                 Actual Allocations in Percent
                                      1998-992000-04
  Extreme poor                               5463
  Poor                                       2223
  Less poor                                  2314
  Total                                    100100


       Indicator/Matrix              Actual June 2000             Actual June 2002              Actual June 2004
 Output Indicators:
Total cost of finished                       12.2                         4.0                         24.4
subprojects in US$ million
 Number of completed
 subprojects
 - Social infrastructure                     97                          143                           225
- Rural electrification                       9                           27                            29
- Vulnerable groups                           3                           4                             7
 Total cost of completed
 subprojects (US$ million):
 - Social infrastructure                     4.4                          6.9                          7.3
- Rural electrification                      0.03                        0.03                         0.03
 - Vulnerable groups                         0.3                          0.4                          0.7


Sources: Indicators PIP, data FIS Planning Directorate
Note: Although the PAD included the general indicators to be monitored, and the PIP included more specific
targets for a number these, the indicators were largely focused on project output, and proved inadequate for
monitoring project performance. Compounding this situation, efforts to improve monitoring and evaluation under
the project were not very fruitful, and the impact evaluation expected to be financed under the project was not
finalized. Consequently, the data available to the ICR team was inadequate for a full assessment of the project
performance.




                                                        - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       Appraisal        Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                        Estimate           Estimate           Appraisal
                           Component                                   US$ million        US$ million
a) Infrastructure:
    Social and Economic Infrastructure                                    54.30                20.40                  38
    Rural Electrification                                                                       2.10
    Community Training                                                      1.20                1.00                  83
b) Pilot Programs:
    Supplemental School Feeding                                             8.30                6.00                  72
    Social Services for Disadvantaged Groups                                8.00                6.00                  75
    Productive Support (micro-credit)                                       5.30                2.00                  38
Project management                                                          2.60                4.40                 169
Contingencies
IDB Project                                                                                    17.30

Total Baseline Cost                                                       79.70                59.20
  Physical Contingencies                                                    0.30
  Price Contingencies                                                       0.00
                             Total Project Costs                          80.00                59.20
                      Total Financing Required                            80.00                59.20
Note: Supplemental School Feeding - excludes about US$2.0 million financed by Government after IBRD and
IDB funds were no longer available.
IDB Project - breakdown by component not available during ICR mission. IDB loan of US$48.85 million signed in
December 1999. US$14.0 million of the IDB loan appears to have been cancelled. It is not clear whether IDB
project is still implementing.
Source: FIS, Budgeting Department
Note: Inconsistencies in this data are due to the fact that full and consistent information was not provided by the
project unit to the ICR team.

Project Financing by Source (in US$ million)

                        Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate           Percentage of Appraisal
                      Bank     Govt.     IDB       Bank          Govt.      IDB       Bank        Govt.      IDB
Total Project         28.0      20.0     28.0      21.9          24.4       17.3        78         122         62

Note: During appraisal, it was estimated that beneficiaries' contribution would be US$4.0 million (or 5 percent) of
total investment. While data on beneficiary contributions are not routinely collected, or costed when these are in
kind, there have been significant beneficiary contributions, including: (i) in the successful School Feeding Program
where parents and communities are expected to pick up the food from selected central locations for transport to the
schools, and a group of mothers cooks a meal daily when schools are in session; (ii) in the Vulnerable Groups
Programs, particularly those for indigenous populations who have been involved in the development of their
program and subproject from the initial design process and have contributed their labor for infrastructure
subprojects; the beneficiary NGOs in other programs have to cover all recurrent costs generated by the investments
financed by FIS; (iii) in the water supply subprojects that are required to have a water user committee which
collects fees from the beneficiaries to maintain the systems. Finally, as reported in the IDB mid-term evaluation
report, beneficiaries of some projects have a social control function and report problems of design, or quality to FIS
offices.



                                                         - 21 -

Notes: NBF: Non-Bank Financed. Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
a) Including consultants, quarterly auditing, training, and related travel and materials.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                 1
                                                        Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                    2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                             Other
1. Works                                 0.00               0.00             20.40            0.00             20.40
                                       (0.00)              (0.00)            (12.95)          (0.00)           (12.95)
2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              0.00            0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
3. Services                              0.00               0.00              0.00            0.00              0.00
a)                                     (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
4. Credit                                0.00               0.00              2.00            0.00              2.00
                                       (0.00)              (0.00)            (1.40)           (0.00)           (1.40)
5. FES Management                        0.00               0.00              0.00            0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
    Total                                0.00               0.00             22.40            0.00             22.40
                                       (0.00)              (0.00)            (14.35)          (0.00)           (14.35)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                        - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Since FIS is fully demand-driven, no cost-benefit calculation was carried out at appraisal. However, rural
electrification, roads, and water supply subprojects are expected to have a cost-benefit analysis done before
approval by FIS Board. The IDB's mid-term evaluation report recommends that due to their relative
higher cost road projects should have a careful cost-benefit analysis.




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              July 1996               11     TM (1); SPECIAL PROGRAMS
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1); INFORMATION SYSTEMS
                                             (1); WATER ROADS (1);
                                             CREDIT/MICROFINANCIE (1);
                                             INDIGENOUS (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT (2);
                                             PLANNING/TARGETIN (1)
              August 1996             11     TM (1); SPECIAL PROGRAMS
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1); INFORMATION SYSTEMS
                                             (1); WATER ROADS (1);
                                             CREDIT/MICROFINANCIE (1);
                                             INDIGENOUS (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT (2);
                                             PLANNING/TARGETIN (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              January 1997            11     TM (1); SPECIAL
                                             PROGRAMS (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1);
                                             INFORMATION SYSTEMS
                                             (1); WATER ROADS (1);
                                             CREDIT/MICROFINANCIE
                                             (1); INDIGENOUS (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT (2);
                                             PLANNING/TARGETIN (1)

 Supervision
              September 1997           10    DISBURSEMENT (1);                S               S
                                             SPECIAL PROGRAMS (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1); TM
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1);
                                             INFORMATION SYSTEMS
                                             (1); WATER, ROADS (1);
                                             CREDIT (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT (2)
              November 1997             1    WATER ROADS (1)
              March 1998                8    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             SPECIAL PROGRAMS (1);
                                             WATER (1); ENVIRONMENT
                                             (1); INDIGENOUS (1);



                                              - 24 -

                    NUTRITION (1); PLANNING,
                    TARGETING (1); GENDER (1)
July 1998         2 WATER & SANITATION (2)
August 1998       8 TM/TEAM LEADER (1);         S    S
                    NUTRITION (1);
                    PLANNING/TARGETING (1);
                    INDIGENOUS (1); SPECIAL
                    PROGRAMS (1);
                    GENERAL/TRAINING (1);
                    ENVIRONMENT (1);
                    FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                    (1)
September 1998    1 WATER & SANITATION (1)
November 1998     4 TM/TEAM LEADER (1);         S    S
                    PLANNING/TARGETING (1);
                    PROCUREMENT (1);
                    FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                    (1)
February 1999     1 CREDIT (1)
March 1999        8 TEAM LEADER (1);            S    S
                    TARGETING/PLANNING (1);
                    NUTRITION/VULNERABLE
                    GROUPS (1); INDIGENOUS
                    GROUPS (1); PROCUREMENT
                    (1); INFRASTRUCTURE (1);
                    ENVIRONMENT (1);
                    WATER/SANITATION (1)
June 1999         1 TEAM LEADER (1)             S    S
September 1999    1 PLANNING/TARGETING (1)
October 1999      7 TEAM LEADER (1);            S    S
                    PLANNING/TARGETING (1);
                    SOCIAL PROGRAMS (1);
                    INFRASTRUCTURE (1);
                    INDIGENOUS (1);
                    PROCUREMENT (1)
                    FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                    (1)
December 1999     1 MICRO-FINANCE (1)           S    S
February 2000     6 TEAM LEADER (1); SIFS       S    U
                    SPECIALIST/PLANNING/TAR
                    GETING (1); SOCIAL
                    PROGRAMS/INDIGENOUS (1);
                    INFRASTRUCTURE (1);
                    FINANCIAL MGMT. (1);
                    CREDIT (1)
March 2000        1 MICRO-FINANCE (1)           S    S
August 2000       1 TEAM LEADER (1)             S    S
December 2000     2 RURAL ELECTRIFICATION
                    (1); PROCUREMENT (1)
May 2001          1 MICRO-FINANCE (1)
June 2001         2 PROCUREMENT (2) a/
November 2001     2 TEAM LEADER (1);            S    S



                    - 25 -

                                                  FINANCIAL MGMT (1)
               December 2001                 1    MICRO-FINANCE
               February 2002                 1    FINANCIAL MGMT (1)
               April 2002                    5    TEAM LEADER (1); SIF              S    S
                                                  SPECIALIST (2);
                                                  WATER/ENVIRONMENT (1);
                                                  SOCIAL
                                                  PROGRAMS/INDIGENOUS (1)
               May 2002                      2    OPERATIONS
                                                  OFFICER/WATER
                                                  ENVIRONMENT (1); SIF
                                                  SPECIALIST (1)
               October 2002                  1    PROCUREMENT
               October 2002                  5    TEAM LEADEER (1); JPA (1);        S    S
                                                  SIF SPECIALIST (1);
                                                  WATER/ENVIRONMENT (1);
                                                  M&E SPECIALIST (1)
               February 2003                 1    FIS SPECIALIST
               May 2003                      6    TEAM LEADER (1); SIF              S    S
                                                  SPECIALIST (2); JPA (1); M&E
                                                  SPECIALIST (1); MIS
                                                  SPECIALIST (1)
               January 2004                  4    TEAM LEADER (1); SIF              S    U
                                                  SPECIALIST (1); JPA (1);
                                                  SOCIAL
                                                  PROGRAMS/INDIGENOUS (1)
               July 2004                     4    TEAM LEADER (1); SIF              U    U
                                                  SPECIALIST (1); JPA (1);
                                                  SOCIAL
                                                  PROGRAMS/INDIGENOUS (1)

 ICR
                                            2     SIF SPECIALIST (1);               U    U
                                                  SOCIAL PROGRAMS (1)

a/ Procurement Seminar for FIS staff.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    n/a
  Appraisal/Negotiation                          3                         4,749
  Supervision                                  118                       560,500
  ICR                                            5                        11,614
  Total                                        126                       576,863




                                                  - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        School feeding of poorest
school children
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

A. Preparation and Appraisal Documents:

l Diagnóstico del Sector de la Microempresa en Panamá e Informes sobre la oferta y la demanda de
   servicios para la misma, Jorge Cabrera Gómez, February 1997
l Plan de Implementación (PIP), Proyecto de Inversión Social FES-BM, FES, May 19, 1997
l Project Appraisal Document, Social Investment Fund Project, IBRD, May 29, 1997


B. Panama-Poverty Assessment, Priorities and Strategies for Poverty Reduction, IBRD, June 28, 1999
C. Program for Poverty Alleviation and Community Development, IDB, 1999
D. Project Summary Reports (PSRs) and Aide Memoires, 1997-2004
E. Progress Reports, FIS
F. Evaluación concurrente, IDB, 2002
G. Mid-term Evaluation, IDB, 2003
H. Supervisión-Evaluación ex-post Rural Participativa del proyecto piloto de desarrollo integral de
comunidades indígenas de Panamá, FIS, enero-marzo 2004
I. ICR, Panama Rural Health Project, IBRD, May 18, 2004
J. Project closing and evaluation documents
K. Map: Panama's Poverty Map and IBRD financed projects, FIS, 2004




                                                - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution: Retrospective Report

                                         REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
                                   PRESIDENCY OF THE REPUBLIC
                                      SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND

                        WORLD BANK LOAN AGREEMENT ­ 4191 PAN
                                       RETROSPECTIVE REPORT
                               (Translation of "Memoria Retrospectiva")



BACKGROUND:

The Social Investment Fund (FIS), in compliance with its main objective to assist in the coordination and
standardization of the State's social policies to make the implementation and development of all programs
in benefit of vulnerable groups more effective, jointly with all sectors of society, has developed a
fundamental strategy within the Poverty Alleviation Plan, which translates into an investment in the social
sector, mainly in infrastructure, goods and services projects.

In the 1990s, the Social Emergency Fund (FES) was created by Executive Decree No. 146 with the
purpose of facing the country's serious socioeconomic situation. In November 1999, the Executive
changed the name FES to FIS by Decree No. 189, extending the original objective of its creation so as not
to limit the work to be carried out to provide material resources that contribute to raise the quality or
standard of living of the poorest, but also to ensure they can use these resources efficiently and
self-sufficiently, through social investment technical programs.

To that effect, FIS incorporated Local Investment Programs (PROINLO) to their administration, as they
aimed mainly to respond to vulnerable groups. It also incorporated the Rural Electrification Office, whose
objective is to bring electricity to rural areas where large distances between communities, as well as the low
incomes of these sector's inhabitants, make the development of extension of lines projects costly.

In the beginning, this institution, set-up as a financing mechanism for social development community
projects and as a new type of social administration, operated with a grant from the U.S. Agency for
International Development (USAID) and counterpart funds from the central Government. Later, to provide
continued response to the poor and extreme poor, other sources of financing were incorporated, such as
loans from international financing agencies, among them Loan 4191­PAN from the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (World Bank).

PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION:

The Government of Panama requested support from the World Bank in order to obtain funds for the
implementation of the "Social Development with Economic Efficiency" Program. On August 27, 1997,
Loan Agreement 4191­PAN was signed by the Republic of Panama and the IBRD, with an effectiveness
date of November 1, 1997 and 4-year duration. The original amount of the Loan Agreement was set at 28
million balboas in external funds and 12,612,857 balboas in local funds.

According to the original terms of the loan, FIS would implement social infrastructure projects in the areas



                                                       - 30 -

of sports, roads, sanitation, water, health and education, and later incorporate rural electrification projects.
Also, it would implement projects for vulnerable groups in the areas of infrastructure, community training
programs, and social assistance for women, children and youth, among others, as well as nutrition
programs and those that support productive activities through credits for the development of this area.

A list of resource allocation by category can be found below:

                                                                          Amount after Amount after
                                        Sub-category       Original        reallocation      reallocation
             Category                                     allocation         No. 1*            No. 2**
1. Subprojects
                                         Works and        10,800,000       13,300,000         13,950,000
                                           goods
                                         Vulnerable       3,800,000         3,800,000         4,200,000
                                           groups
2. Supplementary feeding and                              3,900,000         3,900,000         3,900,000
medical supplies (nutrition)
3.Sub-loans (micro-credits)                               3,200,000         3,200,000         1,400,000
4. Other goods (vehicles ­                                 700,000           400,000           400,000
computer equipment)
5. To be determined                                       2,800,000            0.00              0.00
6. Consultancies, training and                            2,800,000         3,400,000         4,150,000
services
                              Totals                      28,000,000       28,000,000         28,000,000
*Reallocation No. 1: From the original 2,800,000 balboas in category "To be determined", 2,500,000 balboas
were reallocated to "Works and goods" (including 1,000,000 balboas for rural electrification) and 300,000 balboas
to "Consultancies, training and services". From category "Other goods", 300,000 balboas were reallocated to
"Consultancies, training and services".
**Reallocation No. 2 (November 2002): From the original amounts, 1,800,000 balboas were reallocated as
follows: 650,000 balboas to "Works and goods" (rural electrification), 400,000 balboas to "Works and goods"
(vulnerable groups), and 750,000 balboas to "Consultancies, training and services".

Fund reallocation was necessary due to the need to allocate resources to components whose implementation
was being carried out more efficiently and expeditiously. These reallocations entailed a substantial
increase in local contributions, considering that categories where funds were 100% external were being
reallocated to categories that required local counterpart funds.

Effective implementation of the program started in 1998, however, the criteria for project selection did not
take into account targeting by poverty group. In 1997, the Ministry of Education and Finance carried out
the "National Living Standards Measurement Survey", with results in 1998.

From 2000, FIS started to use targeting with the poverty map as a critical element for project selection.

The original closing date for the Loan Agreement was scheduled for December 31, 2001; however, in
August 2001, the World Bank approved an extension of the closing date until December 31, 2002.

Due to low fiscal collection in 2001, assigning enough money for the project in the 2002 budget was not
possible. As a result, the budget commitment for the previous year's subprojects was postponed until



                                                     - 31 -

February 2002, when the process was completed. Budget commitments for 2002 subprojects started at the
beginning of March 2002.

In 2001, the Legislative Assembly did not approve the Budget Proposal Law for 2002, which included
budget allocations for the 2002 project implementation. As a result and according to constitutional laws
for the Republic of Panama, it remained as current General Budget of the State, the same as the allocated
budget for 2001, causing once again lags in the project's activities.

After the World Bank's supervision mission in April 2002 and considering the suggestions and
observations expressed in the aide memoire, respective steps were taken, which entailed securing the
necessary funds to implement the pending subprojects within the budget commitment and those required to
close the loan. However, any measure taken would involve more time than the extension approved by the
World Bank.

In this sense, in order to implement the loan 100 percent, the reallocation of funds and more time to close
the loan were necessary. This led to a formal request to extend the closing date until December 31, 2004;
however, the date approved by the World Bank was June 30, 2004.

The counterpart funds would be secured through the request of two "Additional Credits", which were not
approved by the Legislative Assembly citing lack of funds.

These situations made it difficult to complete loan implementation, which is why part of the IBRD funds
will not be executed.

LESSONS LEARNED, ACHIEVEMENTS, DIFFICULTIES, RECOMMENDATIONS:

1.       Lessons learned:

a.       Subprojects with external financing must be given priority over those financed only with local
contributions. Thus, resources are used for improvement of the beneficiaries' standard of living, at a lower
cost in terms of interest for the country.
b.       Carry out ex post evaluations of subprojects financed with these funds to verify and certify
achievement of the project's objectives, especially the social and operating aspects.
c.       Investment amount, quality of product and subprojects' maintenance must be taken into account
for development of subprojects, in order to ensure optimal performance.
d.       Reliable and expeditious information management is necessary, through the optimization of the
institution's manual and computerized systems.
e.       Good communication and institutional coordination among the entities involved in the program to
be implemented is necessary, especially with the Planning Office, as this unit is the link with the World
Bank.
f.       Only the categories or components that obtained good results based on past experience should be
included in a new operation.
g.       For a new operation, it is not advisable to assign resources to the micro-credit program until all
existing institutions in Panama are trained in order to reach a better level that will allow them to qualify for
credit.
h.       To achieve satisfactory implementation of the Rural Electrification Program, the existence of funds
to cover subsidy payments for non-profitability to electricity distribution companies must be guaranteed.
The projects may be finished in the field; however, they have not been connected to the distribution
network, which means that the community does not have access to the service. This is due to the fact that


                                                     - 32 -

if the subsidy amount is not paid the distribution company does not connect the new network with the
existing one.
i.       In indigenous communities, it is essential to understand the cultural context within each ethnic
group to implement a project.
j.       The use of indigenous NGOs from ethnic groups themselves was a key aspect for the project's
development, because they know their culture, which is how they were able to implement actions
considering their traditions.
k.       The strategy for a "comprehensive" subproject is correct, given that the improvement in a
community's standard of living is possible only when several problems are solved simultaneously:
community organization to self-administer communal activities; social infrastructure; agriculture, livestock
and crafts production; access to basic services; micro-credit window.

2.       Main achievements:

a.       The subprojects were formulated based on a vision of service, sustainability and construction
quality, and evaluated following parameters established in a technical, economic and financial evaluation.
The aim was to guarantee the achievement of the subproject's objectives with quality, at the lowest possible
cost, due to the coordination between the Social Investment Fund and other private and state offices.
b.       Implementation of infrastructure projects with good construction quality and a minimum "quality
guarantee".
c.       Application of targeting criteria with the poverty map (2000-2004) in compliance with the
project's objectives, implementing diverse types of subprojects (aqueducts, schools, health facilities, sport
facilities, sidewalks, roads, rural electrification, nutrition, social service, micro-credit, among others) in
different communities, including remote and difficult access areas throughout the country to benefit
populations with scarce resources.
d.       The program allowed the financing of a drinking water supply pilot project using solar energy
(energy supply to pump motors), in order to guarantee the sustainability of the aqueducts while
substantially lowering electrical energy costs.
e.       Regarding technical aspects in infrastructure designs, the following was achieved:
Ø        Implement the design of a new kitchen-dining room for schools. According to field experience, the
         initial dimensions were inappropriate because the tables did not fit in the space assigned to the
         dining room.
Ø        Redesign space for teacher dormitories that were too small.
Ø        Redesign the Lorena-style burner based on accounts by personnel from the Office of Monitoring
         and Control stating that the users themselves complained that it did not work inside the kitchens. A
         new one was designed, which was nicknamed "FIS-style," in the shape of a barbecue with bricks
         and it was placed outside the kitchen to avoid ventilation problems.
f.       The Social Investment Fund has extended the range of participation for contractors due to public
invitations made through printed communications media.
g.       Incorporation of rural electrification projects within the range of infrastructure works originally
considered.
h.       Initial efforts to incorporate "Gender Focus" in FIS subprojects were carried out through the
PROGENIAL program.
i.       The nutrition program positively affected school attendance among students from districts
considered based on targeting criteria ­ poverty map.
j.       Infrastructure subprojects showed good construction quality, their sustainability was guaranteed
and appropriate training was achieved.
k.       The program's quarterly concurrent audit reports always showed an adequate financial
management system without significant observations.


                                                        - 33 -

l.      The indigenous program carried out a participatory rural evaluation with the project's stakeholders
(FIS, World Bank, NGOs, and beneficiaries), where the implementation and administrative progress of the
project was verified, as well as the social and economic benefits of the project's components, in order to
draw lessons and experiences for future projects.
m.      Consolidation and strengthening of indigenous community organizations, which will continue the
actions initiated by the project in order to continue execution without the project support. In this sense,
capacity has been introduced in the communities due to a variety of seminars, workshops, and courses
selected by the communities themselves.
n.      The beneficiaries of the indigenous program have gone beyond infrastructure subprojects.
Communities have received training in the preparation of construction materials, construction and repair,
thereby ensuring sustainability.

3.      Main difficulties:

a.      Excessive time for countersignature of contracts and checks by the Office of the
Controller-General of the Republic.
b.      Fiscal restrictions and measures to limit spending contributed to the unavailability of funds to
complete the physical and financial implementation of the loan, neither by its original closing date, nor by
the two extensions approved by the Bank.
c.      Key personnel rotations within the World Bank and the Social Investment Fund, including Task
Managers and FIS Executive Directors.
d.      The ORACLE database never allowed for "reliable" reports to be generated, because the
departments did not properly register project information in the database. It has not been possible to
standardize the terms, and some departments continue to register information through other computer
programs such as Excel. This causes a lack of speed in information availability and a delay in
decision-making; however, the Systems Office is making an effort to improve this situation.
e.      Delay in payment of contractors.
f.      In the rural electrification projects, FIS did not guarantee the existence of funds to cover subsidy
costs for non-profitability, which was one of the conditions for the connection of the new network to the
existing one in order to allow the beneficiaries to have access to the service.
g.      Some subprojects aimed at indigenous populations were not carried out because contracts and
checks were not countersigned by the Office of the Controller-General of the Republic for long periods of
time. Once the countersignature was attained, the resources were no longer available, which is why the
subprojects were not carried out.

4.      Recommendations for a potential new operation:

a.      Establish a convenient mechanism for resource allocation by category or component, in order to
avoid the reversion of funds for such reason.
b.      Conduct coordination meetings among the entities involved (World Bank, FIS, Ministries of
Health, Education, Planning, etc.) before implementing the program, in order to guarantee that the
individual institutional objectives are the same as those established in the new operation.
c.      Establish mechanisms to ensure that disbursements are done on time, so as not to delay the
program's implementation.
d.      Establish adequate communication and technical coordination between FIS's line offices and
technical units from other public institutions linked to the different types of projects to be carried out.
e.      Conduct training and internships for technical staff from the governing institutions (MOP,
MINSA, MEDUC, etc.) as well as FIS, in order to evaluate implementation experiences in similar
programs financed by the World Bank in-country as well as in other countries of the region. This


                                                      - 34 -

recommendation seeks to strengthen the technical profile as well as update the subproject evaluators from a
specific area in economic, financial and technical evaluation techniques of investment subprojects.
f.       Within the loan's components, include an item to have funds to provide evaluators with computer
programs (in design and analysis of structures, costs and work programming, etc.), to allow them to
improve their efficiency. The funds would also allow for a small library equipped with adequate manuals
and books specialized in technical, economic, statistics, environmental and financial tasks, among others.
g.       The main recommendation of the indigenous program is to carry out a workshop to exchange
experiences, where trained technical staff from the country's different areas can present and share
techniques learned with the beneficiaries from other areas, FIS, and other development institutions.
h.       Implement a new indigenous program, taking into consideration lessons learned from this pilot
project, and extend it to other communities that did not participate in this initial stage.

FUTURE OPERATION:

The Executive Director's office is preparing the necessary support documentation to request--from the
World Bank--a new operation on behalf of FIS. To secure a new loan, it is necessary to start from some
of the country's experiences, as well as experiences accumulated by the World Bank regarding Social
Investment Funds in Central America, particularly regarding the evolution of these institutions in the last
few years, which led them to become third generation social funds.This new vision includes the Social
Funds that base their operating capacity on the promotion of local development, the strengthening of social
capital in poor communities and the financing of social protection programs for vulnerable groups.

For a new operation, FIS would start from the experience acquired in the implementation of the World
Bank Loan Agreement­4191 PAN, as well as experience acquired through other sources. It is important to
learn from the achievements/successes in order to obtain good results and the failures/difficulties in order to
correct them. For example, it is important to continue using the targeting principle (poverty map) to
channel resources and apply participatory planning principles (open council meetings) to get communities
involved in the process of prioritizing their own needs.

The general objective of the program would be to maximize the favorable impact of investments to improve
the conditions of poor communities in our country and promote their participation in their local
development process.

The specific objectives of the program would be as follows:

a)       Introduce a transparent resource allocation process, based on poverty criteria.
b)       Develop a community planning methodology so that resources are used according to the
community's priorities.
c)       Increase the menu of eligible activities so that they reflect the communities' concerns and interests.
d)       Decentralize FIS's project cycle to resemble local realities more closely.

The program will have to define two basic components:
Ø        Local Investment Component: Basic social infrastructure and social services that reflect the
         community's interests and concerns will be financed with resources from this component.
Ø        Community Development Component: The following activities will be financed with resources
from this component:
         a.      Participatory community planning will be strengthened so that investments reflect the
communities' interests and concerns.
         b.      FIS functions will be decentralized to regional levels so that it can provide technical


                                                      - 35 -

assistance quickly and effectively.

Currently, the institution is in the implementation process of the Participatory Planning Program under IDB
1226­O/C, which includes conducting open council meetings in order for community members to have an
open forum to prioritize their needs.

This method has been successful, the institution now has a database and new subprojects because of the
large amount of requests and technical studies carried out in communities with these characteristics, where
the community prioritizes its needs, but they will not receive financing because IDB 1226 is fully
disbursed.

Another aspect that FIS must tend to with special interest is related to FIS's decentralization of functions to
regional levels, so that it may promote technical assistance quickly and effectively.

Social Infrastructure:
Resources from this component will finance basic social infrastructure subprojects (including rural
electrification, sports, roads, health, water, sanitation, education), in terms of construction, replacement,
extension, rehabilitation, and equipment that will allow a reflection of the community's interests and
concerns, through participatory community planning. Community development actions will have to focus
on community planning processes (open council meetings) and seek a connection between local
representatives and the needs of the community. FIS believes this component should include the extra costs
due to additional expenses incurred as a result of changes in the original conditions of the contracts
(addenda), in addition to, operating and/or administrative expenses.

Social Service:
Resources from this component will finance social service subprojects (for example, programs for youth,
children, women, etc.) that will allow a reflection of the community's interests and concerns, through
participatory community planning. Community development actions will have to focus on community
planning processes (open council meetings) and seek a connection between local representatives and the
needs of the community. The benefits of these funds would be exclusively directed at vulnerable groups as
a way of integrating development and implementation of programs for this section of the population.

Participatory Planning and Decentralization:
This refers to costs incurred in the dissemination and realization of council meetings, aside from technical
assistance, for implementation of participatory planning. It also refers to FIS's decentralization of
functions to regional levels, to promote technical assistance quickly and effectively. Computer equipment,
connections through the national network, vehicles, etc.

Training, Auditing, Consultancies:
Resources from this component will cover costs of human resources training, monitoring (external audits)
and consultancies.

Monitoring of financial and accounting aspects will be done internally as well as by external auditors.

Training for Social Infrastructure Subprojects:
Resources from this component will finance training for communities benefited by the infrastructure
subprojects, as a way of guaranteeing the subprojects' sustainability.

For monitoring a future operation, a performance evaluation system must be designed that allows


                                                       - 36 -

comparing achievement of previously established goals and objectives with real data obtained during
project implementation. These performance measures must consider technical aspects (for example, those
considered in the project cycle) and operating/administrative aspects (procedures, regulations, etc.).
Historic data and operational experience with World Bank Loan­4191 PAN will be a good starting point of
reference for a future operation.


________________________________________
Prepared by: Planning Office (Dirección de Planificación)
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND, 2004




                                                         - 37 -

Additional Annex 9. MAP IBRD 33462




                                    - 38 -

                                                                                                                           PANAMA

                                                                      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                            MAIN ROADS

                                                                      PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                    RAILROADS

                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                                                      RIVERS                                                                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                     83°W                               82°W                                        81°W                                 80°W                                       79°W                                        78°W
             10°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       77°W    10°N


                                                                                                                Caribbean                          Sea

                              ElenaTo  Uatsi                                                                                                                                            El Porvenir
                                         Changuinola                                                                                            Portobelo                                                   Ustupo
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Yantupo
                                 Teribe                                                                                                                                                                                          KUNA DE
              COSTA                                Bocas del Toro                                                                        Colón
                              BOCAS                                                                                                                                            C o r d i l l e r a                               MADUNGANDI
                                              Almirante                                                                                                                                             d e
                                                                                                                                                                                        Cañita
                                                                                                                                                                                        Cañita             S a n K U N A
                RICA              DEL                                                                                             Salud        Lago
                                                                 Cusapin   Golfo de los                                                                                   Chepo                  Lago
                                                                                                                  Coclé                        Gatún
                                                                                                                                               Gatún    Panama                                                                                  KUNA DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Piriá
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Piriá
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Blas
                               TORO                                                                                                                           PA N A M A                       Bayano
                                                   Lago Chiriquí              Mosquitos                       del Norte    C O L O N                  Canal                                                                                     WARGANDI
                                                                                                                                                                      Tocumen                                                  YA L A
             9°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9°N
                                  Vulcán Barú
                                    ulcán Barú         Chiriquí                                           San                                                   PANAMÁ
                                    (3475 m)           Grande                                       Cristóbal                           La Chorrera
                                                   Cerro                                                                                                                                                          Cañazas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Cañazas
                                                 Chorcha  N G O B E         Calovébora                                   Cerro
                                                                                                                         Peña Blanca
                                                                                                                         Peña                                                                                     Cerro                                     Puerto
                       To                       (2238 m)
                                                                                                                         (1314 m)                                 Bahía de                                                     Santa Fé
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Fé                     Obaldía
                     Corredor C H I R I Q U Í              B U G L E                                          El Copé
                                                                                                                 Copé                                                                         Chiman              Chucanti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (1439 m)
                                      La Concepción
                                         Concepción                  Cerro Santiago                                                     El Valle                   Panamá
                                                         Soloy       (2826 m)                      Santa FFéé                                                                                                                               EM
                                                                                                                    Penonome                                                                                                                     Serran
                                              David
                                                             Chichica   C o r d i l l  e  ra   C e n t r a l                                                                                     Isla                La Palma

                                             Pedrega                                                                                   Rio Hato                                                  del Rey                                Chucunaque
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BERAía  del
                             Puerto                                               V EoR A G U A S
                             Armuelles                       Guabalá
                                                             Guabalá                                                                                                                                                                    Yaviza                      Cerro
                                                                                                                    Dívisa
                                                                                                                    Dívisa                                                                                                      D A R I E N                 Darién  Tacarcuna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (1875 m)
             8°N                                                                       SanPabl           Santa Maria     Aguadulce
                                                                                              Santiago
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Garachiné
                                                                                Sona                           Ocú
                                                                                                               Ocú                                          Golfo de                                                                             Yape                            8°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Boca de         Tucutí
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ucutí
                                                                                              Puerto                                                         Panamá                                                       Limón
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Limón
                                                                                              Mutis               ERRERAMacaracas
                                                                                                                            Chitre


                                                                                                                                   Las Tablas                                                      EMBERA                                       Cerro Pirre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (1445 m)

                                                                                  El Tigre                       H         LOS
                                                                       Isla de                                          SANTOS                                                                                   Puerto Piña

                                                                       Coiba                                                            Los Asientos
                                                                                                             Cerro
                                                                                                         Cambutal            Tonosí                              0       20      40      60       80       100 Kilometers
                                                                                                         (1400 m)                                                                                                                                      COLOMBIA
                   PANAMA
                                                                                                                                                                 0            20           40             60 Miles

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7°N



OCTOBER                                                                 PACIFIC                              OCEAN                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                         IBRD
                                                                                                                                                            shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                            endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                               33462
       2004
                     83°W                               82°W                                        81°W                                 80°W                                       79°W                                        78°W                                    77°W

