Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4191-PAN
Loan Agreement
(Social Investment Fund Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 7, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4191-PAN
LOAN  AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 7, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF PANAMA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Page  2
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If: (a) the right of 
the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous 
period of thirty 
days; or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after  consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during 
the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, 
and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which 
would otherwise have 
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan; 
or (d) at 
any time, the Bank determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the 
procedures 
set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and 
establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible 
for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; or (e) after the Closing Date, 
an amount of the 
Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account; or (f) the 
Bank 
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 
with 
respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower and the 
Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
cancelled.”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Credit Regulations” means the rules and procedures, satisfactory to the 
Bank, for the execution of Part B.3 of the Project, and to be approved by FES pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (d) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such rules and procedures may 
be amended from time to time in agreement between FES (as hereinafter defined) and the 
Bank;
(b)
“Economic Infrastructure Subproject” means a specific project which meets 
the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) and the 
Project Implementation Plan (as hereinafter defined) and to be financed with part of 
the proceeds of the Loan, including, inter alia, the construction and/or repair and/or 
maintenance of: (i) access roads; (ii) drainage and irrigation canals and ditches; 
(iii) bridges, gutters and culverts; and (iv) local markets and community facilities;
(c)
“Eligible Intermediary Organizations” means commercial banks, 
cooperatives, financial institutions or NGOs (as hereinafter defined) which meet the 
eligibility criteria set forth in the Credit Regulations, and “Eligible Intermediary 
Organization” means any of such entities;
(d)
“Executing Entity” means an NGO (as hereinafter defined), Junta Comunal 
(as hereinafter defined) or private entity which meets the eligibility criteria set 
forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) and which proposes to carry 
out or is carrying out a Subproject (as hereinafter defined), and “Executing Entities” 
means all of such entities;
(e)
“FES” means the Borrower’s Fondo de Emergencia Social, emergency social 
fund, established by the Legislation (as hereinafter defined);
(f)
“FES Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and FES pursuant to Sections 3.01 (b) and 7.01 (a) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
FES Subsidiary Agreement;
(g)
“Junta Comunal” means a community council as established in the 
Borrower’s Ley No. 105 of October 8, 1973 as amended from time to time;
Page  3
(h)
“Legislation” means the executive decree, decreto ejecutivo, of the 
Borrower dated January 8, 1996 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on 
January 10, 1996, and FES’ by-laws, reglamento, dated March 28, 1996 and published in 
the Borrower’s Official Gazette on April 8, 1996, as  amended from time to time;
 (i)
“Micro-enterprise” means an entity, duly constituted under the laws of 
the Borrower, and which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Credit 
Regulations;
(j) 
“Micro-enterprise Subproject” means a specific project which meets the 
criteria set forth in the Credit Regulations and consisting of agricultural and/or 
non-agricultural productive activities;
(k)
“NGO” means a non-governmental entity operating in the Borrower’s 
territory;
(l)
“Operational Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, to be 
approved by FES pursuant to Section 7.01 (b) of this Agreement, such manual to 
include, inter alia: (i) the criteria for promoting, identifying, preparing, 
appraising, approving and supervising Subprojects (as hereinafter defined); (ii) the 
eligibility criteria for Executing Entities; (iii) draft model of the Subproject 
Agreement; and (iv) specific procedures for the evaluation of the environmental impact 
of Subprojects;
(m)
“Participation Agreement” means each of the agreements to be entered into 
between FES and an Eligible Intermediary Organization, pursuant to Section 3.01 (e) of 
this Agreement, for purposes of making a Participation Loan (as hereinafter defined); 
(n)
“Participation Loan” means a loan made or to be made by FES to an 
Eligible Intermediary Organization, under a Participation Agreement, for purposes of 
financing, through Subloans (as hereinafter defined),  Micro-enterprise Subprojects;
(o)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators, as agreed between the Bank 
and FES, for measuring progress in Project implementation and in the achievement of 
Project objectives as such indicators are included in the Project Implementation Plan 
(as hereinafter defined);
(p)
“Project Implementation Plan” means FES’ plan, included in FES’ document 
entitled Plan de Implementación and dated May 19, 1997 providing for, inter alia, the 
implementation procedures, poverty targeting mechanisms and indicators for the Project 
and an indigenous peoples development plan, as such Project Implementation Plan may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
(q)
“Selected Districts” means each of the Borrower’s districts, distritos, 
selected to be eligible for Part B.1 of the Project, as such districts are listed in 
the Project Implementation Plan;
(r)
“Social Infrastructure Subproject” means a specific project which meets 
the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and the Project Implementation Plan 
and to be financed with part of the proceeds of the Loan, including, inter alia: (A) 
the rehabilitation and/or maintenance and/or expansion of: (i) public pre-primary, 
primary and secondary schools including the acquisition and utilization of furniture 
therefor; (ii) health centers and posts including the provision of furniture therefor; 
(B) the construction, repair and/or maintenance of water supply and sanitation 
facilities; and (C) the construction of footpaths and sports fields;
(s)
“Social Services Subproject” means a specific project which meets the 
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and the Project 
Implementation Plan and to be financed with part of the proceeds of the Loan 
consisting of selected social assistance activities in the categories described in the 
Operational Manual and for the benefit of disadvantaged groups such as indigenous 
peoples, Afro-Panamanian communities, poor women, unemployed young adults, minors and 
elderly people and which groups meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual;
(t)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
Page  4
this Agreement;
(u)
“Subloan” means a loan made or to be made by an Eligible Intermediary 
Organization to a Micro-enterprise, under a Subloan Agreement (as hereinafter 
defined), for purposes of financing a Micro-enterprise Subproject;
(v)
“Subloan Agreement” means each of the agreements to be entered into 
between an Eligible Intermediary Organization and a Micro-enterprise, pursuant to 
Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement, for purposes of making a Subloan;
(w)
“Subproject Agreement” means each of the agreements to be entered into 
between FES and an Executing Entity, pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, 
for purposes of financing a Subproject;
(x)
“Subprojects” means collectively the Social Infrastructure Subprojects, 
Economic Infrastructure Subprojects and Social Services Subprojects, and “Subproject” 
means any of such subprojects;
(y)
“Food Supplements” means food supplements designed to supply a percentage 
of the minimum calories, protein and micro-nutrient requirements of beneficiaries 
under Part B.1 of the Project, as such meal is further described in the Project 
Implementation Plan; and
(z)
“Medical Supplies” means antiparasitic medicines to complement the Food 
Supplements as such medicines are further described in the Project Implementation 
Plan.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty 
eight million  Dollars ($28,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts 
paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by FES on account of withdrawals 
made by an Eligible Intermediary Organization under a Participation Loan to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for a Micro-enterprise 
Subproject in respect of which an Eligible Intermediary Organization has made a 
payment to a Micro-enterprise under a Subloan; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for Parts A, B (other than B.3 (a)) and C of the Project described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain a 
special deposit account in the Banco Nacional de Panamá or other commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
Page  5
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, 
the 
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, 
and after the 
initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest 
Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
single 
currency for value the first day of such Interest 
Period (or, in the 
case of the initial Interest Period, 
for value the Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or 
plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered 
rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, 
in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single 
currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable March 15 and September 
15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The executive director of FES is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause 
FES, pursuant to the FES Subsidiary Agreement, to carry out  the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, economic, 
financial, administrative and environmental practices, and in accordance with the 
Project Implementation Plan and Operational Manual, and shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable FES to carry out the Project, and shall 
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the 
carrying out of the Project by FES;
Page  6
(b)
the Borrower shall make available to FES, on a grant basis, the proceeds 
of the Loan under a subsidiary agreement (the FES Subsidiary Agreement) to be entered 
into between the Borrower and FES, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Bank;
(c)
the Borrower shall: (i)  exercise its rights under the FES Subsidiary 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, not assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the FES 
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof;
(d)
for purposes of the implementation of Parts A.1 and B.2 of the Project, 
the Borrower shall cause FES to enter into agreements (Subproject Agreements), 
satisfactory to the Bank, with the respective Executing Entities for purposes of 
financing Subprojects;
(e)
for purposes of the implementation of Part B.3 (a) of the Project, the 
Borrower shall cause FES to: (i) enter into agreements (Participation Agreements), 
satisfactory to the Bank, with each Eligible Intermediary Organization for purposes of 
making a Loan (Participation Loan) to be utilized in the financing of Micro-enterprise 
Subprojects; and (ii) cause Eligible Intermediary Organizations to onlend the proceeds 
of the respective Participation Loans to Micro-enterprises under agreements (Subloan 
Agreements), satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of financing Micro-enterprise 
Subprojects, all in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Credit 
Regulations;
(f)
the Borrower shall cause FES to: (i) exercise its rights under each 
Subproject Agreement and Participation Agreement in such a manner as to protect the 
interest of the Bank and the Borrower and accomplish the purposes of the Project; (ii) 
cause each Eligible Intermediary Organization to exercise its rights under each 
respective Subloan Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interest of the Bank 
and the Borrower and accomplish the purposes of the Project; and (iii) unless 
otherwise agreed by the Bank, not take or concur in any action which would have the 
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning, waiving or failing to enforce any 
Subproject Agreement or Participation Agreement or any provision thereof; and
(g)
without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower 
shall, at all times until the completion of the Project, operate and maintain, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, in Banco Nacional de Panamá  or other 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, a revolving fund with a quarterly balance 
equivalent to the counterpart funding requirements for the next three months of  
Project implementation, as provided in the respective annual plan approved by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 3.08 of this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
cause FES to prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for 
the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower and FES on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by FES 
in respect to the Project and in accordance with the FES Subsidiary Agreement. 
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause FES to undertake that, unless the Bank 
Page  7
shall otherwise agree, Subprojects and Micro-enterprise Subprojects shall be promoted, 
identified, appraised, approved and monitored by FES in accordance with the rules and 
procedures set forth or referred to in the Operational Manual and the Credit 
Regulations, respectively.
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall cause FES to maintain policies and procedures 
adequate to enable FES to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, the carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof in accordance with the 
Performance Indicators. 
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause FES, at the request of the Bank, to 
exchange views with the Bank with respect to the progress in the carrying out the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under the FES Subsidiary Agreement, and 
other matters related to the purposes of the Loan for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause FES to promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan for the Project, or the performance by FES 
of its obligations under the FES Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 3.08. Without limitation to paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement and Section 9.06 of the General Conditions the Borrower shall cause FES to: 
(a) not later than August 31 of each year until the completion of the Project, 
starting on August 31, 1997, prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request with respect to the activities to 
be carried out under the Project during the calendar year following the date of 
presentation of each such plan; and (b) thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried 
out, the corresponding plan in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.09. Without limitation to Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall cause FES to, not later than February 28 and August 31 of each year 
during Project implementation, starting on August 31, 1997, prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request 
with respect to the progress made by FES in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.10. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions and Section 3.08 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause FES 
to, not later than September 30 of each year of Project implementation, starting on 
September 30, 1997, review jointly with the Bank the corresponding reports mentioned 
in Section 3.09 of this Agreement in order to determine the progress made by FES in 
carrying out the Project and in achieving the objectives of the Project.  As part of 
each such review the Bank may require FES to prepare an action plan, satisfactory to 
the Bank to make adjustments in Project implementation. If so, the Borrower shall 
cause FES to: (a) not later than forty five calendar days after the conclusion of the 
review in question prepare and furnish to the Bank such action plan; and (b) 
thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, such action plan in accordance with 
its terms.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall not later than June 30, 1998:  (a) carry out, 
through its Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy, a living standards measurement 
survey under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
exchange views with the Bank on the results of the above survey; and
(c)
on the basis of the results of such survey, cause FES to adopt 
amendments, satisfactory to the Bank, in the Project Implementation Plan with regard 
to the poverty profile of sub-districts, corregimientos, and the allocation of Project 
investments to each of the five poverty levels of sub-districts, corregimientos.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall cause FES to: (a) not later than June 30, 1997, 
carry out a study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, on improvements 
to its organizational structure and personnel policies and procedures;
(b)
promptly thereafter exchange views with the Bank on the results and 
recommendations of the above study;
(c)
not later than December 31, 1997, prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan 
Page  8
of action based on the recommendations of the above study and the Bank’s comments 
thereon; and
(d)
implement such plan of action in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall allocate in its respective annual budgets the 
necessary resources to cover, in an adequate manner, the recurrent expenditures in 
connection with completed Subprojects in the sectors of education, health and rural 
roads (caminos de acceso). 
Section 3.14
The Borrower shall cause FES to: (a) maintain an organizational 
structure, functions and staffing, satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation 
and supervision of the Project; (b) without limitation to paragraph (a) above, 
contract, not later than December 31, 1998, and maintain thereafter, an expert in 
community participation and training with qualifications and experience, and under 
terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) without limitations to paragraph 
(a) above, maintain each of the experts contracted pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) and 
paragraph 3 (d) (iii) of Schedule 1 of this Agreement.
Section 3.15.  The Borrower shall cause FES to: (a) establish, not later than 
March 31, 1998, and operate thereafter, an integrated information system, acceptable 
to the Bank, in connection with its financial and operational data;
(b)
(i)
carry out, not later than December 31, 1998, an 
evaluation, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank, 
of the impact of Part B.1 of the Project; 
(ii) 
promptly thereafter exchange views with the Bank on such 
impact evaluation; 
(iii)
prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than June 30, 
1999, a plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank, to 
implement adjustments in the implementation of Part B.1 
of the 
Project; and
(iv)
thereafter carry out such plan of actions in accordance 
with its terms; and
(c)
carry out, not later that the Closing Date, an evaluation, under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, of the impact of the Project.
Section 3.16. The Borrower shall ensure, through arrangements satisfactory to 
the Bank, that there is, at all times, adequate coordination between its line 
ministries and FES in the implementation of the Project including the provision of all 
the necessary and adequate resources for the operation and maintenance of Subprojects.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall cause FES to maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, and shall cause FES to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section including those for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
Page  9
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall, and 
shall cause FES to:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause:
(i)
FES’ operations in respect of Part A.1 and B.2 of the 
Project, to be audited by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank, such audits to include a 
financial 
review of Subprojects and a physical 
inspection of works in the 
field; and
(ii)
FES to furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than forty five days after the end of 
each 
such quarter, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause FES:  
(a) to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
engineering, economic, technical, financial, administrative and environmental 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers;
(b)
without limitation to paragraph (a) above, maintain an executive director 
with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank and obtain the approval of 
the Bank prior to the replacement of an executive director;
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with the sound practices mentioned in 
(a) herein; and
(d)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
Page  10
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
That FES shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under 
the FES Subsidiary Agreement.
(b)
The Legislation or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced so as to materially and 
adversely affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the operations or the financial 
condition of FES or its ability to perform any of its obligations under the FES 
Subsidiary Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FES or for the suspension of its 
operations.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any of the events specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section 6.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the FES Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower 
and FES;
(b)
FES has approved the Operational Manual;
(c)
FES has established, and made operational, information systems for its 
financial and operational data in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(d)
FES has contracted, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, an 
expert in community participation and training with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank;
(e)
the revolving fund referred to in Section 3.01 (g) of this Agreement has 
been established and a deposit of counterpart funds in the amount of, at least, 
$1,000,000 has been made; and
(f)
FES has established an environmental unit, within FES’ organizational 
structure, with a structure, functions and staffing satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the FES Subsidiary Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding for the Borrower and FES 
in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date November 5, 1997 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  11
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Planning and Economic Policy of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Planificación y Política Económica
Via España y Calle 52 Este
Apartado Postal 2694
Panamá 3, 
República de Panamá
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
By /s/ Eduardo Morgan
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Page  12
Loan Allocated
    % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
    Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Subprojects
(a)
Works and
  10,800,000
70%  
goods under
Part A.1 of the
Project
(b)
Works, goods
   3,800,000
70%
and services
under Part B.2
of the Project
(2)
Food Supplements
   3,900,000
 
70% of payments
and Medical Supplies
made until
(including local
December 31, 1998;
 transportation)
50% of payments
made until
December 31,
1999; and 30% 
thereafter
(3)
Subloans
          3,200,000
70% of funds disbursed
by FES under a
Participation Loan
(4)
Goods
                   700,000
100% of foreign 
(other than Food
expenditures and
Supplements and
90% of local
Medical Supplies)
expenditures
(5)
Consultants’
100%
services and
Training
(a) Part C of
    the Project
     700,000
(b) Parts A and
           B of the Project   2,100,000
(6)
Unallocated
          2,800,000
                _________
TOTAL
                28,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Training” means: (i) rental of training facilities; (ii) 
transportation expenses of trainees; (iii) subsistence expenses for trainees; (iv) 
training materials; and (v) study tours in the Borrower’s territory or abroad.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
Page  13
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for the financing of a Subproject unless: (i) the 
respective Subproject has been approved in accordance with the Operational Manual; and 
(ii) the corresponding  Subproject Agreement has been executed by the parties thereto;
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (3) and (5) (b) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for the financing of Part B.3 of the Project 
unless FES has retained, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, an entity 
to assist in the training activities under Part B. 3 (b) of the Project;
(d)
payments made for expenditures under Category (3) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for the financing of Part B. 3 (a) of the Project unless: 
(i) the Credit Regulations have been approved by FES; (ii) the respective 
Participation Agreement and Subloan Agreement have been signed by the parties thereto; 
and (iii) FES has contracted or assigned, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank, a legal expert, an administrator, a systems specialist and a financial analyst, 
all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, to assist in the 
implementation of Part B.3 (a) of the Project; and
(e)
unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, payments made for expenditures in 
connection with Social Infrastructure Subprojects in the area of education unless the 
entire amount of loan proceeds provided under the loan agreement between the Borrower 
and the Bank dated April 3, 1996 (Basic Education Project) has been withdrawn.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $150,000 equivalent each; (b) works costing less than $250,000 equivalent 
each; (c) consulting firms costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (d) individual 
consultants costing less than $25,000 equivalent each; and (e) training, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a) sustaining its 
poverty alleviation efforts; (b) promoting greater community involvement in poverty 
alleviation efforts; (c) facilitating micro-enterprise development; and (d) 
strengthening the institutional capabilities of FES.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Social and Economic Infrastructure
1.
Execution of Social Infrastructure Subprojects and Economic Infrastructure 
Subprojects. 
2.
Carrying out of a training program for: (a) selected staff of the Borrower’s 
sector ministries and agencies, local governments and NGOs on participative planning 
and Subproject maintenance and environmental impact assessments; and (b) selected 
beneficiaries on social management and the operation and maintenance of Subprojects, 
including environmental impact assessments related thereto (as the contents of such 
program and the criteria for such selection are set forth in the Operational Manual).
Part B:
Special Programs
1.
A supplemental school feeding program consisting of: (a) the purchase and 
distribution of Food Supplements and Medical Supplies to students in primary schools 
in the Selected Districts to provide such students medical supplements and daily food 
supplements for purposes of improving their educational performance; and (b) the 
provision of training for parents of the above students in connection with the 
implementation of the supplemental school feeding program.
2.
Execution of Social Service Subprojects.
Page  14
3. 
(a)
Provision of Participation Loans and Subloans for purposes of financing 
Microenterprise Subprojects; and (b) provision of training for selected officers in 
Eligible Intermediary Organizations in the promotion and processing of Subloan 
applications (as the contents of such program and the criteria for such selection are 
set forth in the Operational Manual).
Part C:
Project Management
1.
Provision of technical assistance and equipment to FES, and training for 
selected FES staff, in participatory planning, community maintenance, environmental 
assessments, micro-credit management and management information systems (as the 
contents of such program and the criteria for such selection are set forth in the 
Project Implementation Plan).
2.
Provision of technical assistance for Project audits (Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement) and Project impact evaluation.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)* 
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 2003
through March 15, 2014
1,165,000
On September 15, 2014
1,205,000
________________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be 
Page  15
repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods (excluding the computer software referred to in Part C.5) estimated 
to cost $30,000 equivalent or more per contract but less than $250,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $8,200,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Except as provided in Parts C.3 and C.4 hereof, works estimated to cost 
more than $250,000 equivalent per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Procurement of all goods and works under Part C.1 (a) and (b) above, 
shall be carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,900,000 equivalent,  may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of  national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $12,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
Page  16
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Direct Contracting (Works)
Works estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,700,000 may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. Such procurement procedures shall be on 
the basis of standard regionalized unit prices agreed from time to time between the 
Borrower and the Bank.  
5.
Direct Contracting (Goods)
Computer software related to the management information system under Part C.1 of 
the Project, and of a proprietary nature, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$150,000, may be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods to be awarded under the procedures 
referred to under Parts B.1 and C.5 of this Section; (b) each contract for works to be 
awarded under the procedures referred to under Part C.1 (b) of this Section; and (c) 
the first three contracts for goods and the first three contracts for works regardless 
of the amount, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply, provided, however, that in the event that any of such three 
contracts are procured under the procedures referred to in Part C.2, C.3 or C.4 of 
this Schedule, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a 
report 
on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
direct contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower 
shall 
provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications 
and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Page  17
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for Project audits and Project impact evaluation under Part C.2 of the 
Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for designing and implementing training activities under Part B.3 (b) 
of the Project may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the information 
relating to the selection of the consultants, as referred to in paragraph 5.2 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, the description of the assignment (terms of reference) and the 
corresponding terms of employment shall be reviewed and approved by the Bank.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section III.  Special Provisions 
A.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall expressly 
govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in Part C.1 of Section I of this 
Schedule:
1.
Bids may be:
Page  18
(a)
submitted at any reasonable time before bid opening, either by mail, 
courier or in person; and
(b)
accompanied by a bid security in the form and amount specified in the 
standard bidding documents.
2.
No provisional award shall be made at the time of bid opening.
3.
No minimum number of bids shall be required as a condition to award a contract.
4.
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been evaluated as the 
lowest and responsive, in accordance with criteria clearly set forth in the standard 
bidding documents.
5.
Contracts for civil works shall provide for mobilization advances, whenever 
appropriate.
6.
After contract award, performance securities shall be provided within the time 
period and in the form and amount specified in the standard bidding documents.
7.
Price adjustment provisions, acceptable to the Bank, may be included in 
contracts for works.
B.
In addition to and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of 
this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to:
(a)
be locally registered as a condition of participation in the selection 
process;
(b)
give any participation in or share of any consulting contracts to any 
local firm or person for the purposes of participating in the selection process or 
receiving an award, except in connection with a joint venture arrangement where: (i) a 
sufficient number of capable domestic firms or individual consultants exist to allow a 
foreign consultant reasonable freedom of choice; (ii) the contribution of either party 
to the joint venture arrangement will not be constrained by any prescribed manner or 
extent of participation; and (iii) the foreign consultant is not required to associate 
itself with any specific named domestic firms or individual consultants;
(c)
furnish any certificate issued by a local authority about their legal 
capacity or tax status for the purposes of submitting a proposal; and
(d)
personally submit their proposals. 
2.
Consultants shall be selected from a short list of firms invited to submit 
proposals on the basis of terms of reference, employment conditions and evaluation 
criteria clearly set forth in the respective letter of invitation.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect 
of the Project;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  19
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $2,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the  Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other 
evidence required pursuant to para\1fgraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Sections 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account for the Project, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
Page  20
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
