Page  1
December 17, 
1999
Mr. Victor Juliao 
Minister of Economy and Finance
Panama City, Panama
PANAMA:
Social Investment Fund Project
(Loan No. 4191-PAN) 
Amendment to Loan Agreement
Excellency:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated August 7, 1997 entered into between the 
Republic of Panama (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank), as amended.
In response to your request dated December 10, 1999 to, inter alia: (a) modify 
paragraph (b) of Section 3.15 of the Loan Agreement since, as agreed with the Bank, it 
is not possible to carry out an evaluation of the impact of the supplemental school 
feeding program under Part B.1 of the Project; and (b) finance with Loan proceeds the 
provision of technical assistance to carry out: (i) a cost-effectiveness evaluation of 
the referred supplemental school feeding program with respect to the distribution 
costs of Food Supplements; and (ii) a historical evaluation of the nutritional and 
education conditions and school attendance of students enrolled in selected 
participating schools under such program, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan 
Agreement as follows:
1.
Section 3.15 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Section 3.15. The Borrower shall cause FES to: (a) establish, not later than 
March 31, 1998, and operate thereafter, an integrated information system, acceptable 
to the Bank, in connection with its financial and operational data;
(b)
(i)
carry out, not later than December 31, 2000, the evaluations 
referred to in Part B.1 (c) of the Project, under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank; (ii) promptly thereafter exchange views with the Bank on such evaluations; 
(iii) prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than June 31, 2001, a plan of action, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to implement adjustments in the implementation of Part B.1 
of the Project; and (iv) thereafter carry out such plan of actions in accordance with 
its terms; and
(c)
carry out, not later that the Closing Date, an evaluation, under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, of the impact of the Project.”.
2.
Part B.1 of the Project is hereby amended to read as follows:
Part B: Special Programs
“1. A supplemental school feeding program consisting of: (a) the purchase 
and distribution of Food Supplements and Medical Supplies to students in primary 
schools in the Selected Districts to provide such students medical supplements and 
daily food supplements for purposes of improving their educational performance; (b) 
the provision of training for parents of the above students in connection with the 
implementation of the supplemental school feeding program; and (c) carrying out of: 
(i) a cost-effectiveness evaluation of the program with respect to the distribution 
costs of Food Supplements; and (ii) a historical evaluation of the nutritional and 
education conditions and school attendance of students enrolled in selected 
participating schools under such program.”.
This Amendment Letter shall be executed in two counterparts each of which shall 
be an original.  Upon receipt by the Bank of one fully executed original of this 
Amendment Letter, these amendments will be effective as of the date first above 
written. Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and 
Page  2
dating the two counterparts of this Amendment Letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Donna Dowsett Coirolo
Director
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
By /s/ Victor Juliao
Authorized Representative
Date:
January 5, 2000
