Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                   
Report No. P-2501-DO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
BANCO CENTRAL DE LA REPUBLICA DOMINICANA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
SECOND PUERTO PLATA TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 7, 1979
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of -
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =   Peso (RD$)
US$1.00            =   RD$1.00
US$1,000,000       =   RD$1,000,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)             =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)        =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)         =  2.2 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)          =  2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
DNTI       - Direccion Nacional de Turismo e Informacion
(National Tourism and Information Directorate)
FDD        -  Fundacion Dominicana de Desarrollo
(Dominican Development Foundation)
FIDE       -  Fondo de Inversiones para el Desarrollo Economico
(Investment Fund for Economic Development)
INAPA      -  Instituto Nacional de Aguas Potables e Alcantarillado
(National Potable Water and Sewerage Institute)
INDRHI     -  Instituto Dominicano de Recursos Hidraulicos
(Dominican Institute of Hydraulic Resources)
INFRATUR   - Departamento para el Desarrollo de la Infrastructura
Turistica
(Department for Tourism Infrastructurel Development)
LIBOR      - London Inter-Bank Rate
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND PUERTO PLATA TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                     The Central Bank of the Dominican Republic
Guarantor:                    The Dominican Republic
Amount:                       US$25.0 million
Terms:                        Repayment in 17 years, including 4 years of
grace, with interest at 7.9 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:              The proceeds of the loan allocated to finance
hotels (excluding apart-hotels)would be on-lent
by INFRATUR at 9 percent per annum to mortgage
and commercial banks for relending to investors
on terms of up to 17 years, including up to
4 years of grace, at an interest rate of 12
percent per annum. The proceeds of the proposed
loan allocated to finance other sub-projects
and apart-hotels would be on-lent by INFRATUR
to the financial intermediaries at 9.5 percent
per annum and investors at 12 percent per
annum. A one-time closing cost of 3-4 percent
would be charged to sub-borrowers. The foreign
exchange risk of the loan would be assumed by
the Central Bank.
Project Description:          The project includes four components:  (a) a
line of credit for the construction of tourism
facilities of about 1,600 rooms, of which about
1,200 would be in Playa Dorada, 300 in Playa
Grande and 100 in the City of Puerto Plata, and
for tourism services such as restaurants,
shops, tourism transport, and a 30-boat marina;
(b) urban works in Puerto Plata; (c) a handi-
crafts center where about 50 artisans would be
trained each year; (d) a total of about 132
man/months of technical assistance to DNTI for
sectoral planning and economic evaluation of
projects, and to INFRATUR for land development,
hotel construction and equipment. In addition,
the project provides for three- instructors for
two years for the handicraft center. A major
increase in operating costs, unmatched by
revenue increases, is the principal project
risk. This, however, would imply an unlikely
decline in hotel operating efficiency.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                      Item                  ------- US$ thousand -----
Local   Foreign    Total
Line of Credit 1/              36,400    31,600   68.000
Tourist Accommodations 2/  34,600    28,800   63,400
Tourist Services and
Common Facilities           1,800     2,800    4,600
Urban Works                       790        450    1,240
Handicraft Center                 320        280       600
Technical Assistance              180        400       580
Total Base Cost                37,690    32,730   70,420
Contingencies 3/                  320        270       590
Physical                        170        130      300
Price                           150        140      290
Total Project Cost             38,010    33,000   71,010
Financing Plan:                                  US$ million
World   Commercial   Central
Bank       Banks       Bank      Equity   Total
Line of Credit              23.6 2/   12.0 4/      8.4        24.0      68.0
Urban Works                  0.6          -        0.9           -       1.5
Handicrafts Center           0.3          -        0.5           -       0.8
Technical assistance         0.5          -        0.2           -       0.7
Total                  25.0       12.0        10.0         24.0      71.0
1/   Includes physical and price contingencies.
2/   Up to US$6 million of the proposed loan could be used by the
Central Bank to assist in financing its own hotel projects.
3/   For components other than the Line of Credit.
4/   Includes US$10 million cofinancing from foreign banks and
US$2.0 million from local banks.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:                   ----------US$ million-----------
IBRD FY      1980   1981   1982   1983 ~984
Annual        1.4    4.3    7.3    6.5    5.5
Cumulative   1.4    5.7   13.0   19.5   25.0
Rate of Return:               17.5 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:       Report No. 2419-DO dated April 30, 1979



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO BANCO CENTRAL OF
DE LA REPUBLICA DOMINICANA WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC FOR A
SECOND PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Banco Central de la Republica Dominicana with the guarantee of
the Dominican Republic for the equivalent of US$25 million to help finance a
Second Tourism Development Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.9 percent per annum. The
Borrower, through financial intermediaries, would relend to private investors:
(a) US$22.25 million for tourist accommodation projects, and (b) US$1.35
million for tourist services and common facilities. The terms to final
borrowers would be up to 17 years, including up to 4 years of grace, at an
annual interest rate of 12 percent and a one-time closing cost of 3-4 percent
of the amount of each sub-loan. The Borrower could, on terms equal to the
Bank loan, utilize up to US$6 million to assist in financing its own hotel
projects. In addition, the loan would include US$1.4 million to finance urban
works in Puerto Plata, a handicrafts center and technical assistance. The
Borrower has substantially completed cofinancing arrangements from foreign
commercial banks of US$10.0 million, to be repaid in 10 years, including a
grace period of 4 years, at an interest rate of 1-1/4 percent per annum above
LIBOR for the first four years, and of 1-3/8 percent per annum above LIBOR for
the remaining six years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on the Dominican Republic, Report No.
1705-DO entitled "Main Problems in the Economic Development of the Dominican
Republic," was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 23, 1977.
An economic mission visited the country in February/March 1979, and is
preparing its report. This section incorporates the preliminary findings of
that mission. Relevant social and economic data are presented in Annex I.
3.        During 1968-74, the Dominican economy experienced an unprecedented
average annual increase in GDP of 10.5 percent. In 1974-1977, however,
economic growth slowed to only 5.3 percent per year. In 1978, preliminary
estimates indicate a further decline to 3.6 percent.
4.        Economic growth during 1968-74 was led by exports of sugar and
minerals, by tourism and by a high level of both private and public investment.
During that period, the Dominican Republic was able to increase substantially
the volume of sugar exports, start the exploitation of ferronickel deposits,
undertake vigorous industrial expansion (mostly in import substitution indus-
tries), and establish itself in the Caribbean tourism market. The main reasons
for slower growth in recent years are poor agricultural performance, partly as
a result of droughts in 1975 and 1977, the drop in sugar prices after 1975,



- 2 -
which had a strong impact on domestic aggregate demand, and--more recently--
the depressed world market for ferronickel and bauxite. Manufacturing,
oriented mainly to the domestic market and heavily dependent on imported
intermediate and capital goods, has been particularly affected by the slow
growth of the economy and by shortages of electricity. Industrial expansion
during 1975-78 averaged 4.7 percent per year, compared with the 1968-74
average rate of 13.7 percent.
5.        The country's balance of payments, like that of most energy import-
ing, primary products exporting countries, has deteriorated in the latter
part of this decade. In 1974 the cost of petroleum imports increased
by over US$100 million and was largely responsible for the deficit in the
balance of payments in that year--the first in many years. Steep increases
in the price of sugar created a surplus in 1975; but since then, sugar prices
have fallen drastically, the demand for minerals, ferronickel and bauxite
has been weak, and the production of coffee and cocoa has stagnated, with
the result that the deficit on current account has widened. The balance of
payments has also become sensitive to the inflows of capital from private
sources which in turn reflect the perception abroad of factors affecting risk
and uncertainty in the Dominican economy. Because of a de facto dual exchange
rate system and the openness of the economy, these private funds have proven
hard to quantify.
6.        An overall balance-of-payments deficit of US$95 million is estimated
for 1978, compared with a surplus of US$71.5 million in 1977. The deteriora-
tion in the balance of payments is due partly to an estimated increase in the
current account deficit from US$264 million in 1977 to US$377 million in 1978
resulting from a continued decline in sugar prices, a drop in coffee and cocoa
prices, drop in coffee exports and a substantial reduction of the volume of
ferronickel exports; and partly to a decline in net capital inflows. The
current account deficit in 1979 is expected to reach US$400 million, which
could mean an overall deficit in the balance of payments, unless the Government
can obtain medium/long term funds in addition to the US$120 million undrawn
balance of a recent US$185 million loan from a consortium of foreign commercial
banks, and US$50 million expected from the Venezuelan Trust Fund in the
Inter-American Development Bank.
7.        Inflation, which was minimal during the 1960s, accelerated in
the 1970s. The average annual increase in the Santo Domingo consumer price
index during 1971-77 amounted to 11.8 percent. The consumer price index for
Santo Domingo indicates a reduction in the rate of inflation during 1978;
during the period September 1977-September 1978 the increase was 1.8 percent
compared to 15.1 percent during the same period of the previous year.  The
recovery of domestic food production from the effects of drought in preceding
years caused a fall of food prices in 1978. In addition, the cost of housing
remained unchanged. These categories account for almost two thirds of the
weight in the index, and had been the sources of upward pressure on prices
during most of the decade. Recent increases in gasoline prices and electri-
city rates, as well as others expected later this year, will likely generate
strong upward pressure on prices.



-3-
8.        Fiscal policy has been cautious.  In 1968-77, current budget
surpluses averaged 6.3 percent of GDP (varying between 2.9 percent in 1968
and 10.2 in 1975) and financed, on average, 98.5 percent of the Central
Government's capital expenditures. In 1975-77, Government savings exceeded
investment. After the sharp drop in sugar prices in 1976, this was only
feasible by catting investment drastically to adjust to the decline in
current revenues. Although the Government's long-term savings performance
was impressive, it was achieved at the expense of extremely low growth
of current expenditures, especially wages and salaries. During 1968-77,
average annual growth of recurrent expenditures was about 1.6 percent in
real terms, and average real salaries of Government employees dropped consider-
ably. This austerity limited the Government's ability to operate and maintain
the country's economic and social infrastructure as well as to attract and
retain capable personnel in government service.
9.        In 1978 there was a deterioration in the fiscal situation, with an
overall Central Government deficit estimated at RD$95.1 million; mainly as
a result of a lower current surplus of RD$117 million, compared with RD$247
million in 1977. The reduction in the current surplus is attributable
to wage increases granted to public employees, to a reduction of about
RD$40 million in revenues due to lower value of sugar exports, the temporary
suspension of export taxes on cocoa and coffee, and subsequent reduction by
50 percent of export taxes on coffee.
10.       The Government which took office in August 1978 has announced
its intention to adopt measures to strengthen the balance of payments and
public sector finances, stimulate export growth and eliminate price distor-
tions unfavorable to agriculture and employment creation. Although a compre-
hensive package of economic measures has not yet reached the stage of imple-
mentation, it is clear that the Government has recognized the need for
appropriate adjustments in policy. It has resisted pressure to launch an
ad hoc public works program to palliate the country's acute unemployment
problem. It has proposed legislation that would legalize the free or parallel
foreign exchange market which has long been supplied by receipts from tourism
and by emigrant remittances and has financed a growing number of imports.
The new legislation would allow certain export activities to sell their
foreign exchange earnings at the premium offered by the parallel market over
the official exchange rate set by the Central Bank. It is preparing other
legislation to provide incentives to exports and to the development of
agro-industry.  All these are expected to improve export performance in the
long term. In addition, the Government is seeking to strengthen the fiscal
situation by channelling the plethora of earmarked taxes and special funds,
which formerly put a large part of public sector resources beyond the alloca-
tion decisions of the annual budget, into a single consolidated fund; and by
improved administration of income taxes and customs duties. Also, measures
are being taken to strengthen the autonomous agencies such as the electricity
company, for which an increase in rates has been announced, and the sugar
corporation, which would be relieved of the burden of a subsidy to the
electricity company. Insofar as certain components of the economic policy
package require legislative action, the Government's ability to secure
approval by Congress of the proposed measures will be critical to the success
in expanding and diversifying exports and relaxing the balance-of-payments
constraint on economic growth.



-4-
11.       Prior Bank reports had traced the weakness in administration to the
extreme centralization of responsibility for investment program formulation
and implementation within the office of the Presidency, and to the low
salaries of government administrators compared to their counterparts in the
private sector. The new Government has now moved to decentralize by giving
to the Secretaries of State greater responsibility for the formulation and
implementation of development programs within their sectors, and has sought
to attract and retain capable staff by increasing salaries attached to senior
positions.
12.       The external public debt in relation to GDP was 13.8 percent at the
end of 1977 and debt service was 7 percent of exports of goods and non factor
services in that year. Indications are that these magnitudes increased in
1978 but that the public debt and debt service burden are still comparatively
low. There is scope for the authorities to borrow not only for refinancing
to improve the debt profile as they have done recently, but also to finance
projects of high e,conomic and social priority. The Dominican Authorities
have traditionally followed prudent fiscal, monetary and borrowing policies.
The new Government is expected to continue in this tradition and to pursue
the implementation of the economic reforms outlined above which are essential
to the resumption of GDP growth and to the amelioration of the country's
social problems. On this basis, we consider that the Dominican Republic is
creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
13.       The Bank Group began operations in the Dominican Republic in 1969.
Except for an enclave mining project, lending to the Dominican Republic was
on IDA terms prior to FY1975. Since then lending has been on Bank terms,
including two Third Window operations. Two loans, for a tourism infrastruc-
ture project and a second education project, were approved in FY1975 and two
loans, both on Third Window terms, for highway rehabilitation and maintenance
and population and family health, were approved in FY1977. There was no Bank
lending to the Dominican Republic in FY1978 because of delays on the part of
the Government in defining its priorities for external borrowing. A loan for
irrigation (Nizao Irrigation Project) was approved in FY1979. Total Bank
loans and IDA credits outstanding amount to US$101.1 million, of which
US$56.8 are undisbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of the Bank
Group loans and credits as of March 31, 1979, and notes on the progress of
ongoing projects.
14.       IFC has financed two operations in the Dominican Republic, an
investment in a cement plant approved in 1974 and a line of credit for
small and medium scale industry approved in 1978. Other projects are under
consideration by IFC.
15.       IDB became the major source of long-term assistance to the
Dominican Republic since U.S. budgetary support ended in the late 1960's.
Assistance from IDB has included agriculture (credit programs for farmers
and irrigation); power (two multipurpose hydroelectric projects and rural



- 5 -
electrification); water supply and sewerage; and higher education. U.S.
long-term assistance consisted mainly of food (PL480) and loans for agri-
culture and health. Long term assistance from IDB for the next three years
would include agriculture (with a major emphasis on agrarian settlement
programs and credit), potable water, irrigation and power. AID assistance
would concentrate on agricultural credit, an integrated rural d!velopment
program and rural road maintenance.
16.       The Dominican Republic has not had a development plan in the past.
However, the new Authorities have prepared a three-year public investment
program, in which sector and project priorities are defined. The Authorities
have requested the Bank to establish a consultative-type Sub-Group for the
Dominican Republic as part of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development, which was created in December 1977. The public investment
program and the list of projects for which the Government expects to obtain
external financing, would be reviewed by the Sub-Group at a first meeting
scheduled for June 1979. The Authorities expect that this mechanism will
assist them in their effort to mobilize external financing on terms compatible
with the country's balance-of-payments constraints.
17.       Bank Group lending to the Dominican Republic has aimed at strength-
ening the balance of payments; improving social services available to the
lower income groups, particularly in rural areas; improving agricultural
production and land distribution; and strengthening institutions responsible
for major economic sectors. The principal thrust of the project now under
consideration is strengthening the balance of payments and the creation of new
employment opportunities.
18.       Projects currently under consideration for Bank financing address
the country's main economic and social development issues. A Sugar Moderni-
zation Project would initiate the rehabilitation of the State Sugar Corpora-
tion which is a major earner of foreign exchange and source of employment.
A Second Highway project would continue the road rehabilitation and mainten-
ance program initiated under the First Highway Project, and would include
a pilot component for the use of labor intensive techniques in the construc-
tion of rural roads. Further Bank lending is envisaged for education,
health and population, and agriculture. New areas for Bank lending are
being discussed with the Authorities; they could comprise power, rural
development and industrial finance.
19.       The Bank Group's share in the Dominican Republic's external public
debt outstanding and disbursed was estimated at 5.1 percent at the end of
1977. The Bank Group's share of external public debt service in 1977 was
2.8 percent.  Its share of outstanding public external debt would rise to
about 8.5 by 1985, while its share of external public debt service would
increase to about 5.8 percent.



-6-
PART III - THE TOURISM SECTOR
Background
20.       The Dominican Republic was a late starter in the Caribbean tourism
trade despite its varied attractions. Only in the 1970s, with a return to
political stability and the introduction of a generous incentives system,
did private investors undertake large-scale hotel construction which has more
than tripled the country's capacity--bringing it to about 3,600 rooms, two
thirds of which is in the capital city of Santo Domingo (located on the
southern coast). The abrupt increase in hotel accommodation in the capital
city led to excess capacity, price reductions and poor hotel financial
results. Occupancy rates are now increasing and it is expected that most
hotel establishments will become profitable. The Dominican Republic has only
recently started to develop its beaches (the most attractive of which are
located on the northern coast). In 1977, Dominican beach hotels had a total
of only 780 rooms (beach hotels in the Bahamas and Jamaica had capacities of
4,400 and 7,500 rooms, respectively). These hotels are faring reasonably
well, with occupancy rates of about 60 percent.
21.       Foreign visitor traffic by air to the Dominican Republic grew by
some 18 percent annually over the 1968-77 period to 262,000, as the country's
share in total Caribbean traffic tripled, to 3.6 percent. Over the same
period, the number of cruise visitors increased at the remarkable annual rate
of 52 percent, to reach 133,000 in 1977. As accommodations have expanded and
diversified, the share of holiday visitors has increased to account for an
estimated 50 percent of foreign arrivals. The US market generates more than
80 percent of all arrivals, one third of whom are Puerto Ricans. The number
of visitors from Europe and Canada has doubled since 1975, and together
account for 8 percent of all arrivals.
22.       Tourism's major economic impact is on the balance of payments and
on employment. In 1977, airborne visitors spent on average an estimated
US$44 per day and cruise visitors an estimated US$16 per visit. Gross
foreign exchange receipts from tourism were about US$77 million in 1977 (or
8% of total exports of goods and non-factor services) and net receipts were
about US$58 million. Direct employment in tourism consists primarily of
jobs in hotels and other tourism facilities (estimated at 4,000 persons) and
self-employment opportunities in transport and the production and sale of
handicrafts (another 3,000). Indirect employment is generated in other
activities which supply part of their output to the tourism sector.
23.       The rapid expansion of tourism accommodation in the country has
been encouraged by generous fiscal and credit incentives to hotel investors.
The Tourism Incentives Law of 1971 (Law 153) grants exemption from income
taxes for up to 10 years (and, under special circumstances, to 15 years). In
addition, it provides complete exoneration from construction, registration
and capital subscription taxes, as well as duty exemptions for materials and
equipment needed by hotel projects in both construction and operation stages.
In the past, tourism incentives were granted routinely by the Tourism Develop-
ment Board following only a scant review of the proposals submitted. Also.
the President's Office granted incentives beyond those provided for in the
incentives law, a situation which led to abuses.



- 7-
The Organization of the Sector
24.       The Direccion Nacional de Turismo e Informacion (DNTI) and the
Central Bank have responsibilities in the tourism sector. DNTI is in charge
of promoting foreign tourism, formulating tourism policies and regulating
tourism devel ?ment. Its resources have been limited--a budget of about RD$
1 million in 1978 and a staff of 50, including fewer than ten with profes-
sional training--and it has been unable to fulfill its mandate. Most of the
country's promotion as a tourism destination has resulted from the marketing
effort of hotel firms.
25.       The Central Bank, originally through its Development Lending Fund
(FIDE), has been active in the financing of hotel projects. In September 1971,
the Monetary Board decided that the Central Bank should become more deeply
involved in the tourism sector and created the Department for the Development
of Tourism Infrastructure (INFRATUR). INFRATUR's major project has been the
development of infrastructure works in the Puerto Plata area in the Northern
Coast of the Dominican Republic. It also became the channel for Central
Bank financing of both hotel and handicrafts projects.
26.       As in most developing countries, private domestic financing insti-
tutions are not able or willing to provide the long-term funds required for
hotel construction. The amount of private long-term loan capital obtainable
from abroad for hotel investment is severely limited. The Central Bank
initially financed small hotels, mainly in Santo Domingo, at terms of up to
12 years and interest rate of 5 percent to the financial intermediaries, and
9 percent to the hotel investors. Subsequently, it concentrated its financing
on large hotels in Santo Domingo and provided funds for up to 30 years,
including up to 10 years' grace at interest rates of up to 9 percent to the
financial intermediaries and up to 11 percent to the hotel investors. In
order to provide these generous terms INFRATUR resorted to borrowing on the
Eurodollar market at much less favorable terms. In several instances,
INFRATUR lending was decided without proper appraisal of the hotel projects.
These luxury hotels financed by INFRATUR are still encountering financial
difficulties after several years of operation, despite generous financing
terms and incentives.
27.       The Government has decided to improve the organization and strate-
gies of the sector. It is considering legislation to upgrade the status of
DNTI to that of a ministry and has substantially increased its budget for
1979. The Dominican authorities will adopt regulations for the granting
of incentives based on the recommendations of a study carried out under the
First Puerto Plata Tourism Project. These regulations contemplate a reduction
in the level of incentives, careful definition of eligible projects on the
basis of economic analysis and elimination of import duty exemptions for
furniture, fixtures and all items needed for operation. Import duty exemp-
tions for construction materials and equipment would not be granted to goods
on a list established by the Authorities. The list of goods would include
those produced in the Dominican Republic in a sufficient quantity. The
regulations would also limit the availability of foreign exchange, at the
official rate, to imports which qualify for the duty exemption. Approval of
the incentive regulations by the Government would be a condition of Loan



- 8 -
Effectiveness (Section 7.01(a) of the Loan Agreement).  The regulations would
not be materially amended without the Bank's agreement (Section 6.01(b) of
the Loan Agreement).
28.       The Government has decided to concentrate its tourism development
efforts on the Puerto Plata region. The Central Bank, through INFRATUR, would
remain in charge of the next stage in the development of Puerto Plata. After
the project is completed, it is envisaged that the Central Bank's role in the
tourism sector would be largely limited to hotel financing.
Past Bank Assistance to the Tourism Sector
29.       In November 1974, the Bank approved a $21 million loan (First Puerto
Plata Tourism Project, Loan 1051-DO) to the Central Bank to finance infrastruc-
ture works (site preparation, roads, water, sewerage, power and telecommunica-
tions systems) and common facilities needed to develop the sites of Playa
Dorada and Playa Grande, located at 5 and 80 km, respectively, from the city
of Puerto Plata. The Bank loan also included funds for the terminal building
of the Puerto Plata International Airport.
30.       Despite initial delays of about one year, project implementation
is progressing satisfactorily. The water supply system has been completed,
and sewerage treatment works, storm-water drainage and electricity systems
have progressed steadily. The terminal building of the Puerto Plata
International Airport is almost completed. Completion of some project compo-
nents is likely to be delayed by about one year due to a recent Monetary Board
decision to delay construction of works in Playa Grande, until a firm commit-
ment from an investor to begin construction of the first hotel in Playa
Grande, has been obtained.
31.       Although some Dominican investors have already entered into firm
commitments for the construction of apartment hotels, the hotel construction
program has suffered a delay of approximately 18 months. This has resulted
from INFRATUR's decision to delay intensive efforts on investor promotion
until the political uncertainties of 1978 were resolved, as well as from the
lack of long-term loan finance.
32.       INFRATUR's infrastructure investment in Playa Dorada and Playa Grande
amounts to RD$26.7 million in 1978 prices. Its revenues will be derived from
land sales, leases of the facilities, operation of recreational facilities and
service charges levied on accommodation facilities. Its operating costs will
include expenses for administration, maintenance, promotion and payment of
interest on the Bank loan. INFRATUR is expected to earn a 10.6 percent
internal rate of return in real terms on its infrastructure investment that
would exceed the 9 percent estimated during appraisal of the First Puerto
Plata Tourism Project.



- 9 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
33.       With the completion of the infrastructure works, scheduled for
mid-1979, the Puerto Plata region, already a popular stop for Caribbean
cruise ships, will possess the assets required to become a major tourism
pole. As indicated in paragraph 26, private domestic financing institutions
are not able at this time to provide the long-term funds required for hotel
construction. Therefore, in early 1977, the Central Bank sought Bank assist-
ance to establish a credit facility for hotel investors in the Puerto Plata
area. An identification mission visited the Dominican Republic in May 1977
and recommended Bank financing of the accommmodation development planned
through 1983. In subsequent discussions with Dominican authorities, it was
agreed to broaden the scope of the project to include works in the city of
Puerto Plata to consolidate its position as a major port of call for cruise
ships out of Miami, to provide for training in handicrafts, and for technical
assistance to DNTI and INFRATUR. The proposed project was appraised in
September 1978; a report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Dominican
Republic-Second Puerto Plata Tourism Project" (Report No. 2419-DO, dated
April 30, 1979) is being distributed separately. Negotiations were held in
Washington from April 18 to 24, 1979. The Dominican delegation was headed by
Mr. Carlos Sanchez, Director of INFRATUR.
Project Description
34.       The project includes four components:
(a) a line of credit to finance tourist accommodations and
tourist services in Playa Dorada, Playa Grande and Puerto Plata;
(b) urban works in the low-lying area of the city near the tourism
pier;
(c) an artisan center; and
(d) technical assistance to strengthen DNTI and INFRATUR.
Line of Credit
35.       The line of credit would be used primarily to provide loan funds
for the construction of tourist accommodation facilities with a capacity
equivalent to 1,200 rooms in Playa Dorada, 300 in Playa Grande and 100 in the
city of Puerto Plata to be built between 1979 and 1983. The accommodation
capacity in Playa Dorada and Playa Grande would consist of 1,150 rooms in
hotels and 350 rooms in apartments, which would be promoted mainly by private
investors. The First Puerto Plata Tourism Project includes funds to finance
a campaign aimed at attracting Dominican and foreign investors to the project.
This campaign, delayed because of political changes which occurred in the
Dominican Republic in 1978, began in early 1979 and has received a positive
response by potential investors, including an option for the construction of a
250-room hotel in Playa Dorada.



- 10 -
36.       The Central Bank has started the development of the first hotels.
It is financing a 225-room bungalow hotel due to open in October 1979 and is
completing the final design of a 250-room hotel in Playa Dorada. In the event
ongoing negotiations with private inivestors do not succeed, the Central Bank
plans to go ahead with construction of this hotel. Up to US$6 million of the
proposed loan funds allocated to the line of credit, could, if required, be
used by the Central Bank to help finance in its hotel projects (about 500
rooms).  INFRATUR has received proposals from developers for the apartment
complexes. Assurances were obtained from the Central Bank that it would enter
into a contract with each developer of the apartment complexes, which would
determine the terms and conditions tinder which the developer would be entitled
to sell the apartments. This would include a long-term lease-back agreement
which would ensure that the apartments will be available for rental to tourists
during the major part of the year, and contractual arrangements with a quali-
fied operating firm. The lease-back agreement would determine the maximum
period during which the owner would be entitled to the use of his apartment,
and the minimum return he would be guaranteed (Section 3.02 and Schedule 5,
Part B-4 of the Loan Agreement).
37.       At present, hotel capacity in the city of Puerto Plata amounts to
150 rooms, catering primarily to Dominicans visiting the beach on weekends
and during summer vacations. Local investors have expressed interest in
increasing Puerto Plata's accommodation capacity by building new establish-
ments, extending existing ones or converting old houses into pensions.
These establishments are expected to be used chiefly by those segments of
the international market more attracted by the colonial charm of Puerto Plata
than by the sport and entertainment facilities of Playa Dorada. Of the 100
rooms in Puerto Plata to be financed under the line of credit, about 60
percent would be in renovated houses. In order to encourage small local
investors, the maximum size of the establishments to be financed would not
exceed 25 rooms.
38.       About 7 percent of the line of credit is earmarked for financing
tourism services such as restaurants, cafeterias, shops and tourism transport
in the city of Puerto Plata and the two resort areas of Playa Dorada and Playa
Grande, and for financing a 30-boat marina in Puerto Plata. Tourism services
to be located in buildings of architectural and historical value would be
financed with funds from the line of credit only if the exteriors of the
buildings were restored, as recommended in the Restoration Plan which was
prepared under the First Puerto Plata Tourism Project and is registered with
the Office of Cultural Heritage.
Urban Works
39.       Urban works would be aimed at improving the area between the tourism
pier and the city. The waterfront area would be converted into a landscaped
park; separate areas would be provided for taxis, buses, motorbikes, and
horses offered for rental to the tourists. An old unused railway station at
the entrance to the pier would be restored and converted into a tourist
information office. Puerto Plata's central square would be restored to its
original style and landscaped. The sewerage collection network would be
extended to the low-lying area of the city. A separate system for storm-water
drainage would be constructed.



- 11 -
Handicrafts Center
40.       The Puerto Plata region is endowed with some of the world's richest
amber mines. Amber is processed mostly in Santo Domingo and Santiago and then
shipped back to Puerto Plata to be sold to cruise visitors. The objective of
this componenL of the project is to build a center where about 50 artisans, 20
of whom would already have had some experience in the trade, would be trained
each year. In addition to acquiring improved workmanship, the trainees would
be assisted in developing new designs to appeal to a wider market. Trained
artisans would be encouraged to set up cooperatives in Puerto Plata as well as
in Santo Domingo and Santiago. The center would also assist the cooperatives
in the purchase of materials, as well as the marketing and distribution of
their production. The project provides funds for transforming or constructing
a house in Puerto Plata's historic center for a training center and for the
purchase and installation of the required equipment.
Technical Assistance
41.       The project includes a total of 132 man/months of technical assist-
ance. DNTI would employ an economist and a financial analyst for a period of
two years in sectoral planning, carrying out the economic evaluation of proj-
ects, and administering the incentives. Technical assistance to the Central
Bank would provide INFRATUR with the services of experts in specialized
fields, such as land development, hotel construction and equipment. These
assignments would amount to 12 man/months spread over a period of three years.
In addition, the project provides for three instructors for about two years to
assist in the creation of the handicrafts center and in training.
Project Costs and Financing
42.       Project costs are estimated at US$71 million equivalent including
US$4 million equivalent in taxes and duties. The project has an estimated
foreign exchange component of US$33 million. The average construction
cost per room amounts to US$40,000 including contingencies, and is comparable
to costs per room in other destinations. These costs are based on prevailing
construction costs for hotel rooms in the Dominican Republic. Civil works
costs for the urban works and handicrafts center have been estimated on the
basis of prevailing construction unit costs, and on a preliminary analysis of
space requirements for buildings and quantities for other works. The cost of
furniture and equipment is based on average prices either in the Dominican
Republic or abroad. Technical assistance costs will average about US$5,000
per man/month, including subsistence and travel, which is considered acceptable.
43.       The proposed loan of US$25 million equivalent would cover 35 percent
of total project costs. Retroactive financing of US$0.3 million is recommended
under the proposed loan for expenditures incurred on two sub-projects in Playa
Dorada. The Central Bank will contribute about US$10 million, or 14 percent
of total project costs, and will assume the foreign exchange risk on the Bank
loan. Financial intermediaries are expected to participate in the project
with US$2 million of their own funds, or 3 percent of the line of credit.
Equity investment in the facilities to be financed by the line of credit in
the tourism facilities will amount to US$24 million, or 34 percent of the
total investment in these facilities. The Central Bank will secure loans
amounting to US$10 million or 14 percent of the investment, from foreign
commercial banks under the co-financing operation described below.



- 12 -
Co-financing with Foreign Commercia'L Banks
44.       In connection with the proposed loan, the Central Bank has sub-
stantially concluded co-financing arrangements with a foreign commercial bank
for a loan of aboiut US$10 million. The loan will have a final maturity of 10
years with repayments starting 48 months after loan signing at an interest
rate of 1-1/4 percent above LIBOR (for deposits at 3-6 months) for the first
four years, and of 1-3/8 percent above LIBOR for the remaining 6 years.
The commercial bank loan would be disbursed over a one year period as part
of the INFRATUR line of credit, to finance tourist accommodation facilities.
The Central Bank, which would be the borrower, would assume the foreign
exchange risk. The execution of the contract with the private foreign bank
would be a condition of Loan Effectiveness (Section 7.01(b) of the Loan
Agreement).
45.       These terms would represeTit an improvement over those obtained
recently by the Dominican Republic in the Eurodollar market. In order that
the amortization requirements on the Central Bank external borrowings may
conform as closely as possible to the payments that it would receive on sub-
loans, it is proposed that as soon a final agreement is reached on the con-
tract with private banks, the amortization schedule of the proposed Bank loan
be adjusted, so as to ensure that repayments on the external borrowings for
the project would approximate those which would have obtained if the Central
Bank had borrowed the entire amount on Bank terms. Schedule 3 of the draft
loan agreement shows the normal amortization schedule; Annex 4 of this report
shows how this schedule would be adjusted when the co-financing loan is
obtained in the amount and on the terms summarized above.
Terms and Conditions of the Proposed Subloans
46.       The subloans would be made to financial intermediaries which would
onlend the proceeds of such sub-loans (plus loans for working capital) to
investors. Accommodation subloans would include grace periods of up to four
years with final maturity up to 17 years. Terms for non-accommodation sub-
loans are the following: (i) I and 5 years respectively for restaurants and
shops; (ii) 0 and 4 years respectively for transport and recreational services;
(iii) 2 and 15 years respectively for the marina; (iv) 1 and 10 years respec-
tively for restauration of historic buildings. The Central Bank would charge
financial intermediaries an interest rate of 9 percent for hotel subloans
(excluding apart-hotels) and 9.5 percent for other subloans and apart-hotels.
Final borrowers would receive the subloans at an interest rate of 12 percent,
plus closing costs expected to be between 3 and 4 percent flat. The proposed
interest rate wouLd be positive in real terms, if domestic inflation does
not increase beyond projected levels of 8 percent for 1979, and of 9-10
percent for 1980 and beyond. The Bank would review the situation with the
Government and the Central Bank by June 1981. At that time, the Central
Bank would not submit further sub-loan commitment applications to the Bank,
unless the Government, the Central Bank and the Bank have agreed, if needed,
on a new suitable interest rate structure taking into account prevailing and
prospective rates of inflation (Section 3.04(c) of the Loan Agreement and
Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreemient). At any rate, in the event that



- 13 -
the present legal interest rate ceiling of 12 percent were to be removed,
the interest rate to final borrowers on the proceeds of the line of credit
would be linked to the rate charged by mortgage banks on loans exceeding
7 years (Section 3.02(b) of the Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
47.       The project would be implemented over a period of five years, with
a terminal date for submission of subprojects under the loan of December
31, 1982, and a proposed closing date of December 31, 1984. Funds for the
line of credit are expected to be fully committed within three years from
loan signing, with all construction completed in five years. The urban works
and handicrafts center will be completed by the end of the project's second
year.
48.       INFRATUR would bear the primary responsibility for project imple-
mentation. It has modified its organization to carry out effectively its
additional responsibilities under the project. Its governing body is a board
which is chaired by the Governor, and includes the Manager, and the Legal
Counsel of the Central Bank, the Director of INFRATUR, and the Director of
DNTI. INFRATUR has two operating divisions. The Infrastructure Division
is in charge of completing the work of the First Puerto Plata Tourism Project,
supervising the implementation of the urban works and the handicrafts center,
enforcing development controls on the north coast, and maintaining the
infrastructure works at Playa Dorada and Playa Grande. The Projects Division
would be in charge of the line of credit. Its Director has long-standing
experience in tourism, and will be assisted by an architect-advisor, and an
advisor on land development. The Projects Division includes an investment
promotion unit responsible for attracting investors to the project sites, a
project analysis unit in charge of appraising the various subprojects, and a
technical unit which would supervise their implementation.  The head of the
project analysis unit is an economist with long experience in the Central
Bank.  Assurances have been obtained that INFRATUR would consult with the
Bank prior to replacing the Directors of either division or the head of the
project analysis unit (Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement). It would also
not amend its internal regulations nor its lending policy statement without
the prior agreement of the Bank (Section 6.01(a) of the the Loan Agreement).
49.       Line of Credit.  The line of credit would be managed by INFRATUR.
In keeping with the Central Bank policy for lending only to financial institu-
tions, the subloans would be channeled through financial intermediaries who
would assume full credit risk on subloans and would service their debt to the
Central Bank in accordance with fixed amortization schedules. The Central
Bank may finance from the proposed loan tourist accommodations promoted by it
in the project area up to a maximum of $6 million (see para. 36).  Before the
Central Bank would sell any of their hotels, it would consult with the Bank
on terms and conditions of the sale (Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement). A
typical financing structure would be 35 percent from investors' equity and
the remaining 65 percent from loan funds, of which 62 percent would be
obtained from INFRATUR (including the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan
and of the co-financing with commercial banks), and 3 percent (the working
capital) would be obtained from intermediaries from other resources.



- 14 -
50.       All of the Central Bank projects and all accommodation subprojects of
more than US$300,000 and non-accommodation subprojects in excess of US$100,000
would require prior Bank approval. This would permit the Bank to review all
accommodation subprojects in Playa Dorada and Playa Grande, about 50 percent of
the accommodation projects in Puerto Plata and about 50 percent of the non-
accommodation projects.
Other Components
51.       INFRATUR would be responsible for implementing the urban works and
constructing the handicrafts center. Upon completion, the sewerage system
would be owned, operated and maintained by the Water and Sewerage Agency
(INAPA) and the other urban works by the Puerto Plata Municipality. The
Municipality and :[NAPA would reimburse INFRATUR for the cost of the works.
The handicrafts center would be leased by the Central Bank to the Fundacion
Dominicana de Desarrollo (FDD), a private organization with long-standing
experience in handicrafts training. A condition for disbursing the relevant
funds from the loan account would be that INFRATUR enter into agreements
satisfactory to the Bank with the Municipality, INAPA and FDD (Section 3.05
and paragraphs (c) through (f) of Part 4 of Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement).
Procurement
52.       Line of Credit.  Before subloans are made, prospective borrowers would
normally be required to submit at least three bids for civil works accompanied
by an evaluation report to INFRATUR. Similar procedures would apply to Central
Bank hotel investments. INFRATUR's review would take into account the bidder's
financial position, previous experience and work capability with respect to
personnel and equipment. For contracts for the supply and installation of equip-
ment, furniture an,d fixtures amounting to more than US$2,500 equivalent, the
borrower would be required to submit at least three quotations from qualified
suppliers registered with INFRATUR. Prudent shopping would be allowed for
purchases of less than US$2,500 equivalent provided their total amount would
not exceed US$10,000 for each project.
53.       Other Components.  It is unlikely that foreign construction companies
would be interested in bidding for such small-scale works as those called for by
the remaining components. Contracts for civil works, furniture, materials,
fixtures and equipment would be let on the basis of competitive bidding after
local advertising.  The Bank's prior review and approval of invitations to
bid, proposed awards and final contract would be limited to those contracts
in excess of US$100,000 equivalent for civil works and US$50,000 equivalent
for furniture, materials, fixtures and equipment for each component.
Disbursements
54.       The following disbursement percentages would be applied:
(a) with respect to the line of credit, 54 percent of the amounts
disbursed by INFRATUR under each subloan and 35 percent of
INFRATUR expenditures on hotel investment sponsored by the
Central Bank, which together with co-financing funds, would cover
the estimated foreign exchange component; and



- 15 -
(b) with respect to all other components:
(i) 30 percent of total expenditures for civil works;
(ii) 70 percent of total costs of goods procured and of
all technical assistance expenses including travel and
subsistence costs.
The disbursement percentages under (b) are equivalent to the estimated
foreign exchange component.
Market Prospects
55.       After sustained growth (8.4 percent per annum) in the years 1968-73,
tourism traffic to the Caribbean stagnated in 1974 and 1975 as a result of
the severe recession in Europe and North America. In 1976, traffic growth
increased by less than 1 percent; it increased by 7 percent in 1977, to reach
4.9 million arrivals. Partial figures for 1978 indicate an even higher
growth rate. The bulk of the traffic consists of North American and European
vacationers. The US accounts for 48 percent of total tourist arrivals in the
Caribbean, Canada for about 9 percent, and European countries for 6 percent.
56.       Travel sources estimate the likely growth in overall tourism to
the Caribbean region over the long term at somewhat below the 8.4 percent
growth rate observed in the seven years prior to the 1974/75 recession.
Growth prospects are, however, particularly favorable for middle-income
visitors travelling in groups, whose numbers have increased by a remarkable
80 percent per annum since the US Civil Aviation Board decided to de-regulate
charter flights in 1975. This is precisely the market segment for which
accommodations at Playa Grande and Playa Dorada are planned.
57.       Projected occupancies would require 155,000 international arrivals
in 1986 and 260,000 in 1993. These targets are achievable. Even if the
country's total capacity outside the Puerto Plata area increases by 1,000
additional rooms and by another 2,000 in 1993, and assuming that all estab-
lishments achieve the same occupancy rates as those projected in Puerto
Plata, the total number of foreign visitors to the Dominican Republic would
have to reach 475,000 in 1986 and 725,000 in 1993, an average annual growth
rate of 7 percent. This growth rate is considerably lower than that achieved
by the Dominican Republic in the past decade and only slightly higher than
that projected by the Caribbean Tourist Association for the Caribbean region
as a whole.
Financial Results
58.       The various types of hotels to be built under the project should
attain satisfactory levels of gross operating profits, ranging from 25 to 40
percent of hotel revenues in the fourth year of operation. The finan-
cial rate of return after taxes would range accordingly from 9.2 percent to
16.5 percent on total investment and from 15.4 percent to 30.3 percent on
equity for hotel types B, C and the apart-hotel. The variations in operating



- 16 -
results stem primarily from differences in investment costs, occupancies and
tariffs. Financial returns for the type A hotel are less attractive because
the higher investment costs are not fully compensated by the higher tariffs.
However, the only type A hotel/sub-project envisaged under the credit line
would be implement:ed jointly with an apart-hotel, which would allow higher
rates of return for the overall sub-project.
59.       FDD has forecast annual sales for the handicrafts center at about
RD$200,000 and operating expenses at RD$150,000, leaving a surplus sufficient
to yield a return of some 8 percent on the investment and to cover the lease
of the facility. The investment in the urban works would be recovered from
fees paid by cruise ship visitors. At present cruise passengers do not pay
fees in Puerto Plata as they do in other Caribbean ports. Once the urban
works have been carried out and made the city more attractive to cruise
ship passengers, P'uerto Plata could charge US$1.25 per cruise visitor (lower
than most competing ports) without running the risk of losing traffic. On
the basis of the number of cruise passengers expected for the 1978/79 season
(165,000), the fee would generate over US$200,000, enough to recover the
investment in the urban works and provide a rate of return of 12 percent.
60.       INFRATUR's infrastructure and lending operations show that, for
the period 1979-84, its interest income would exceed interest expenses by an
average 3 percent margin; this would more than cover its operating expenses.
Until 1982, however, INFRATUR would accumulate cash deficits requiring
Central Bank contributions of RD$5.4 million. From 1985 on, INFRATUR's
annual net cash generation is expected to average around RD$9 million. These
funds would be adequate for INFRATUR to continue providing credit for future
accommodation deveilopment in Playa Dorada and Playa Grande once the line of
credit has been exhausted.
Economic Justification
61.       The project is part of a regional tourism development program in
the Puerto Plata area. The internal economic rate of return for the entire
investment programt, including the infrastructure works financed under the
First Puerto Plata Tourism Project, is 17.5 percent. The rate of return on
the incremental investment in accommodation development financed by the
proposed loan is 31.3 percent, while investments in non-hotel tourist acti-
vities have an internal rate of return of 40.7 percent.
62.       The present value of net benefits of the program would be reduced
to zero at the opportunity cost of capital in the Dominican Republic (esti-
mated at 11 percent) if there were a 30 percent increase in operating costs;
if occupancy rates fell to under 40 percent; if investment costs increased
by 50 percent; or if project implementation were delayed by 7 years. The
probability of these events is low. Moreover, a major increase in operating
costs without a corresponding increase in revenues would imply a large decline
in operating efficiency; although management performance may fall short of
the level assumed in the hotel financial projections, the likelihood of such
a large and persistent shortfall is small.



- 17 -
63.       In addition to the nearly four years of continuous employment
for a large number of construction workers in infrastructure works, the
construction of the various superstructure facilities is expected to generate
over 10,000 man/years of employment. Total permanent employment attributable
to the program is expected to exceed 8,000 jobs. Of these, 3,800 will be
created in hotels once all the accommodation facilities built uader the
program are in full operation. Employment for 3,000 persons will be generated
in other tourist activities such as restaurants, shops, tour agencies,
entertainment and recreational facilities and the production and distribu-
tion of handicrafts. Another 1,200 jobs will be created indirectly in
activities which supply goods and services to the tourism sector.
64.       Total Government budgetary receipts, once the project is in full
operation, are estimated to amount to about US$7 million annually. Of these,
US$2.2 million will derive from landing and departure fees and bednight taxes.
Another US$4.3 million per year will be collected in income taxes once all
tourism facilities are paying their full profit taxes. Incremental foreign
exchange receipts from the proposed program are projected at about US$65
million in 1985, rising to US$74 million by 1988. About US$20 million of
foreign exchange payments, however, will have to be made annually in order
to maintain and operate the tourism facilities built under the program. Thus,
once these facilities are in full operation, the net foreign exchange inflow
(in 1978 prices) is expected to be about US$54 million.
65.       The social impact of the tourism investment program on the Puerto
Plata region is expected to be largely favorable. Living standards will rise
as employment opportunities in tourism enterprises are created, and as self-
employment in small tourism-related enterprises becomes widespread. The
inclusion in the line of credit of funds especially earmarked for handi-
crafts and other tourist services is expected to encourage the participation
of local entrepreneurs in the tourism development of the area.
Project Risks
66.       As indicated in para. 62, the major risk would be a substantial
increase in operating costs without a corresponding increase in revenues.
This would imply a large and persistent decline in operating efficiency,
which does not seem likely.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The Guarantee Agreement between the Government of the Dominican
Republic and the Bank, the Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Central
Bank of the Dominican Republic, and the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the
project are listed in Section III of Annex III. Conditions of loan effective-
ness would be:  (a) enactment of a regulating Decree of the Tourism Incentives
Law (Law 153); and (b) the execution of a contract by the Borrower for the
private bank loan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.



- 18 -
68.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 7 , 1979



1.9                                     ANNEX  I
Page 1 of 6
DOKINICAN REPUBLIC - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                                    /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. FM.)                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             48.7                                                  SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTIRAL      24.5                                MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 240.0       390.0    840.0           1066.7      867.2      1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     157.0       321.0    458.0            911.1      578.3      1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION . MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         3.0         4.1       5.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 30.3        39.8      45.9            57.9       46.2        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       63.0        83.0     103.0            25.6       50.8        27.6
PER SQ. 104. AGRICULTURAL LAND    166.0      174.0    204.0             77.6       93.3       116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         47.3        47.5      48.0            42.0       42.9        34.8
15-64 YRS.                        49.7         49.4      49.4            52.2       53.5        56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0         3.1       2.6             3.7        3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROWTE RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.6 /f      2.9 /     2.9 Ls          2.7        2.5         1.6
URBAN                              6.1         5.6       6.6             4.3        4.7         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     49.9        47.3      45.8            35.8       37.8        27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TEOUSAND)     18.7        13.4      11.0             9.1       10.8         9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.5       3.4             2.6        2.5         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TliOUSANDS)      ..        17.2      70.9
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)    ..          ..       5.0            15.1       20.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            120.1       100.0      97.0           102.1      107.3       103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   92.0        88.0      98.0           103.9      105.3       110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          46.0        50.0      45.4            60.3       63.0        77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         ..        29.0      23.3            26.7       21.7        22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     11.7         6.0        ..             8.7        8.0         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    49.3        52.2      57.8            62.6       57.2        63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          101.0       103.0     104.0            56.9       53.9        38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        37.0      55.0            60.7       56.8        67.7
URBAN                               ..        72.0      88.0            78.0       79.0        83.5
RURAL                               ..        14.0      27.0            34.9       31.8        41.5
ACCESS .O EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        58.0      42.0            61.1       30.9        70.3
URBAN                               ..        63.0      74.0            80.3       45.4        90.7
RURAL                               ..        54.0      16.0            25.4       16.1        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          1520.0      1710.0   1950.0           1899.3    2706.8       1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    15240.0     11720.0   11950.0          1220.1     1462.0       849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            440.0       350.0     350.0           422.3      493.9       275.4
URBAN                               ..       150.0    220.0            258.2      229.6       129.9
RURAL                               ..      2680.0   3580.0           2281.6     2947.9       965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..      30.0            25.6       22.1        18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.0         5.3        ..             5.2        5.2         3.9
URBAN                              4.8         5.2        ..              ..        5.0
RULRAL                             5.1         5.4        ..              ..        5.4
AVERAGE NUX3ER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.0,         ..        ..             2.0        2.0         0.9
URBAN                              1.6          ..        ..             2.1        1.5         0.8
RURAL                              2.2          ..        ..             2.7        2.7         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             20.0          ..        ..            51.2       64.1        59.2
URBAN                             57.7          ..        ..            77.3       67.8        78.0
RURAL                              3.0          ..        ..            12.8       34.1        12.5



_20 -
ANNEX I
Page Z of 6
DOMINICAN REPU1LIC - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
D0FINICAN REPlU8LIC                                    /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 b      1970 Lb ESTSMATE lb       REGION  C   GROUP  d    GROUP /a
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIlARY:     TOTAL                 98.0        103.0     104.0 lh         103.5       99.8         97.6
FENALZ               98.0        102.0     105.0 /h         102.9        93.3        87.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                   7.0         19.0      22.0             37.2       33.8        47.8
PEIALE                 7.0        19.0      22.0             37.9        29.8        42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)   ..          8.0        9.0             14.7       12.8        22.7
PUPIL-TEACRER RATIO
PRIMARY                            58.0        54.0         ..            32.8        34.9        25.4
SECONDARY                          16.0        24.0         *-             17.8       22.2        24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        64.5         67.2        ..             74.9       71.8         96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          4.0         10.0      15.0             26.9       12.4        32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER. TROUSAND
POPUiATION                         34.0        38.0       41.0            173.5      104.5       201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          6.0        23.0       34.0             69.4       28.1        97.7
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  27.0         36.0      43.0             72.8       45.2         70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0           1.2        ..              4.3        4.6          4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       820.0       1100.0    1200.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   10.5         11.2      11.9             21.4       25.7         17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              61.0         55.5      53.8             37.8       46.2         38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 12.2        10.6         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                28.6         26.8      26.5             30.8       33.8         33.7
MALE                                 50.4         47.1      46.3             47.2       48.1         50.8
FEMALE                                6.1          6.1       6.3             13.2       17.3         12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.9          1.7       2.0              1.7        1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         26.3 /i     ..             28.9       23.6         20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         54.3 /i      ..             57.7       52.3        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      *-         4.3 L       ..              3.2        4.3          3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         1.4 li    ..               10.7       13.1         13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..            251.9      191.9
RURAL                                ..           ..     239.0            200.6      193.1        157.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPI':A)
UTRBAN                               ..           ..     208.0           403.1       319.8       448.8
RURAL                                ..           ..     149.0            258.0      197.7       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATIONI BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCEUT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      17.0             24.8       19.8        23.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      60.0            65.2        35.1        54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are populacion-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the ost populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c Latin America & Caribbean; /d Intermediate Middle Income (S551-1135 per capita, 1976); /I Upper
Middle Income (51136-2500 per capita. 1976);  /f  Santo Domingo only;   /g  Due to emigration, population
growth rate in lower than rate of natural increase;   /h  1972;   /i  Santo Domingo (urban).
September, 1978



-21 -                                                           ANNEX I
Page 3 of b
REY TO COUNTRIES BY REGION AND INCONI C-ROUP/a
oCcval-vurpLua
Region/Ireome Group               Low Gno-e/b                       Lower Middle                Inter-ediete Middle                   Upper Middle            High Ioco=e/f               couocc$oa
Inct/c                       Iocnr/d                             Inc-me/c                                        Oil 
BMaia                   eslewi            Angola                   Chan                                   DGjibhouti                G(bso
B-rundi                 Mali              BaoesFt                   Every Coaat                            Rounion
Central Afrioa-  R=p.  Mooesnique         Caneraan                 Mauritiac
Cbad                    Niger             Cape Verde               Nowlibl
Chro Rd ..nd                              Conga, P.R.              Seyohellee
Ethiopia                sierra Leone      Eqta.rila  Gaines
AFgICA 50UTH          G-abii, The             SIo-lia           Liberia
OF SAHARA             Gaiwee                  Tan.enia         MHaritaaia
Gainee-Ri...u           Toga              Nigeria
Kanys                   ugoeda            Rhadea.i
L.eoiho                 Upper Volta       Gsa Tome & Principe
MedgsEar                Zaire             SEnega
SRaailand
ZLabi.
Egypt                                     Mor.-e                   Algeria                                GBhrain Barsal                                         Vuaac
NORTH aFRICA          Y-en  AR.                                                           Jordaa                                 Iran                       orIU I We
AND MIDDLE            Yen-   P.D.R.                                                       Ryrio  o..                             Iraq                                                  O Tca
EAST                                                                                      ToriBir                                Lebanon ..-di 0A-rSII
U'riled A-sb PrO,--
Afgho-ietan             Ma die-
SOUTH ASIA            Bangl deat Nepal
Bu an                   Sri L-nka
India
Coebadie                                  N-e Hebhidna             China  R-p  of                         Fiji                       kt-ricaw So.o.
IodaweaiP Papue NRa  Goinoa                                        Tilhori ('abode                        Hong Xans                  Gruor
lAST ASIA             La. P.D.R.                                Philippiea                ioroa, Rep, of                                                    -re-ch Poir1eait
SalomIo  Islands                          Thailand                 Maoao                                                             CuaC
Viet  n                                   Tonga                    Mal-palI                                                          NMo  Coledonia
We-t-rw S-Gan            Truat Territory of the Pacific                                    Stegopore
Haiti                                     Malivia                  Antigua           Guateonla             Arge-tin-                 Gah,as
lI Salvador              Malice            J-Vnica              Rarhadue                   Heanuds
Grenada                  CtIa              Healer              BRr-til                     Ca1nal  -cr
LATIN AHMRICA                                                   IuyaaCCoonhi                                 HcocaFrenh TaaVriiu
AND CARIIBBEAN                                                  Hnduraa                   Coata Rica        ParaI aoy            C.adrcuprG Var.u.a I
St. Viwcewt              Doninictn         Per                  Nectherl-adt sneills     Virgin Itlanda (U.S.)
GDlicac HRP.   Ge. Ki-c N-neia         Paen
Ecuador           St. Lucia            PurtAico
Tricidad  T. V gagr
T anky                                 Cypru. Chawei Is.(soda
EUROPE                                                                                                                          MHat. eibraLta1
Portuosl                  ('oce-
Goetrngit                Treanlard
/usoolaoio                Spair
Auatrlis        Filnhd                        Italy               Nornay                  Hieted St-ac
INDUSTRIALIZED        4  tai            FrPrnce                      Jap-a                South Africa
COUNTRIES             Belgian           Geran-y Fad. Rep. of          Lur-=hourg          Sw-deo
Ca-ade            Iooland                      Netherlawda        SGita-rlard
Deor.rk           Ireland                      Noe  Zaalaed       UVited Knigdnn
Albhni.          cern-a DBan Rwp.           USSR
BRlgiarl         RNunRry
CENTRALLY PLANNED    Chi.. P.R. of    Ka-ra DIC  Rep. of
ECONLOMIES            Cuhb              Mangalia
Ceoohaelov.kia   Poland
Is  fo..d an 1976 GNP per capita in 1976 GS dllar.-
Tb  S280 or lae.  par nopile
/c  S281-550 per cepit.
/d  1551-1135 per capita
/-  _113i-2O pCr capIt                                                                                                                                                                              FP
If  roer $2500 per capit.



- 22 -
ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                    Page    4    of   6
Notes   Although the dots ore dr.on fror sources generally judged the moat authoritative rnd reliable  it should also be voted thot thev may not be inter-
eation-lly Imepeahle because of the lack of *artderdied definitione aed  -oncepta used by different countries in e"Ileoting the d.ar.  The da are*r   nonethelesa
useful to describe ordera of nognltudn, indiuete trends, osd oherarturise certain major diffr.nuon  betones countries.
The adiosred nroue overagep   for sash iodiuatot are poFolatior-oeighted georetrin meams, excluding the eetrine      - v-lues of the indicator and the nSt
populated co-ntry in  .och  roup.  Conorege of countries a-ong the indicators depends or eveilahblity of data and is not oniform.  Due to iack of date,
groyp average. fSr CaPital Surpl.t Oi      p Elprters ond ihdihetort of attest to w-ter snd sonnets disposal, heusg,r  inep=e distribhtion end poverty ar
si=pl  populatioe-weightsd genS trio nears without the exclusion of extreme viues.
ILAM AREA (thcouond aq. ho)                                                           Population PoT houpital hed - total, urban. ard tonal - Populatiom  (total,
Total - Tutal ourfaoS  area conprising lnd ores and inland  ta.ro.                     urbon, and rural) divided by their re.peutive nurber of hospital beds
Agricultuoal - Mlost recent  -otinote ci agniculturul area uned temporarily            ovailable in public and private general and speotalited honpital and na-
or permanortly for crops, pantureo, carket and kitchen gardens or to                 habilitation centsro.  Hoepitals are stablisbhnts permanently staffed by
lie fllow.                                                                           ot lear one physisio.  Establishments providing principally uustodial
care ar  sot isoladd.  Rural bopitale, howevr, include health and nedi-
INP PER CAPITA (iS$) - GNP pen c.ypit. atinaton ot carrent market pric.s,               oare  nrs not piniuddn; ly staffed by   physician (bat by a madicl1 as-
colouloted by name conversonurethod es World lank Atlas (1975-77 basin);             niatant, toP e, nidneife. etc.)  bhioh offer in-patieot  ceomedotfon and
1960, 197F, Ind 1977 dra.                                                            provide a limited range of nedirol facilities
Ad4iasioos per hospital hod - Total npuber of admissions to or dis-harges
fSIRGY CONSUHPTIOS FER CAPITA - Annual consPeption of cmanrnclil eneogy                 fron hospitals divided by the number of bsds.
(cool ond lignite, petroleun, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electrciity) in kiloga-=s of co-l eqcivolest per c-pita.                HOUSING
Average sie of house-hld (penrono per household) - total, urban, and raral-
POPULATION ANR  VITAL STATISTICS                                                        A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, oid-vyan (nillinoM) - An of July 1; if not avtilable.                and their main  east.    A boarder or lodger nay or may not be included in
average of too end-ye-r outinotun; Li60, 1970, snd 1977 data                         the house.hld for otatistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of hoses-
Urban population (peruent of total) - Eati  of urban to total ppopla-                  hold  ary.
lion; different definilloen of ochao sf00t nay affect uo=y-rability               Average number of per-oa- per noon - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
uf data a=ong countries                                                              ber of porsons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied .o..evti.nal
Ppoplati-n density                                                                     dwellings, repoctively.  Dwellings exclude coo-ps neot seructuten and
Fer   q. k. - Mid-yeor populatio- per squaro kilo=eter (100 heceresh                  unoccup'ed parts.
of cca atrea .                                                                    Access toeLoctricity (Percent of dwellinR) - totl, urba, ad ruraL -
Pero o. ho. aunInt-un  lcd - C-np-tod an ah-n  fur ugti-tutu1a land                   lovninldostling  wIth flotr2iutty In living quarters an por-etage
onlFy                                                                                of totul, urbse, and total dwellIngs renpectisely.
Population aeo tructare (percent) - Children (0-14 years), -orking-age
(1- 64 yecr.), and retitrd (65 year; and over) as percentager of =id-           IICArTISN
Fea t poPulatIo.                                                                 Adjoseod enrollmen.t ratioa
PopulatIon growth rune (perce.t) - total, and urban - Co=pound annual                Pri=ary school - total, and female - Total and female enroll=srt of all agea
grouth ruteo   ot total eoo  urbn mid-ypar populatio..  for 1950-60,                 at the primtoy level as percentages of respectively primary aohool-age
*960-70, und 1970-75.                                                                yopulation; normally in-lodes childnen aged 6-11 years but odjosted for
Crudo bhrth ruts (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                   different lengths of prirery educatioi; fur ccuntriea with universal edo-
mid-yesr pcpulatico; ten-year rithnotico -.r.gee ending in 1960 and                  cationeoroll=ent ney enceed 100 perce=t siooe some pupils are below or
1970 end five-ypor  .vr.age ending to 1975 for mast recnnt Intimate.                  bove the official schol age-
Crudo doath rate (per thounand) - Acou.I deaths per thousand of mid-                 Secoodary school - total. and fenale - Computed an above; s.e.odary educa-
year yopulation; ten-your *rithretli  averages ending in 1960 and 1970               tion requiros at least foor yearn of approved primary i=structio=; pro-
und fine-year overage onding in 1975 for most recnt  Istimate.                       video  general - cc1 tioe -l, or teacher traoinig i=rtructio=s for pspils
Irossre.r. d-ctio rte - Average nubar of daughters I woman will besr                   usually of 12 ta 17 years of age; correspoode.c.  courses are geostally
in her n          -oral cepuoduc-tin  p-riod if sct enpyrioctot prenent . t. ..uladed.
ypecific fertility totes; usually five-year av-r-gos endinc  in 190f,              Vocaticonl enrollment (Perce=t of socoodarv) - Vocetional i=atitutio=a in-
1907, oud 1975.                                                                      lude technical, lindstrial, or other progr-mo which operate iodepeodeotly
Fapily plann:g -a cc.ptor.. unual (thoujnods) - Annual  anubec of                      or  as departoecta of serondary institutio-s
acceptors of biril-concrol deviues -uder  a-pices of n-tion-l f-=ily             Pupil-teacher ratio - primry. sod  .scondary - Total students enrolled in
plaenieg program,                                                                    primry and secondary lev-ls divided by esobees of teachers in tho corre-
Farily planning - users (percent  f =arried wo=eo) - Fercentago of                     sponding levels
married wo=en ci child-beariog age (11-14 poses) whc 000 birth-control            Adulr literady rats (psecest) - Literate adults (sble to read and wite) as
devices eo all =arried won   in tome age group.                                         porosorage of total adolt population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUIITIIIN                                                                  CONSUMPTION
Indeo otf Pood prudacito  pee -pcita (197i=lii( 1)- Iodoa nunhor of per             Pos-neogr ctsr (Pee tho...aod population) - P.ssenger Para  ospise rotor cars
capit    n annool produ tion of oll food9o70 diri                                  searing less than eight persons  elcludes sabu1oen. hcars.s   and moilitoary
Fcc copito supply of nutorirn (pcrnenI of g teuteots) - CopoteId det..h.tn
PcaPig eqiot  of gyeyfo de  oppliet available in c.ountnyPer copita               Radip receivers (Per thounsad poeslorion) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  A-ailable scpplpso cunprise done-tic productioc, itpurts lens           broadcasts to goneral public per thousand of populatioo; excludes cnlicensed
etporto, snd changes in stock   let supplies eaclude animal feed, seeds.           receiver- in countries and in years vben regiatratio= of radio sets wan in
_antit,e uted in fund peoconaing, ond lesson in ditrihution   Re-                  effecit; dato for recent years may not be conparoble since most  ousntries
quiremevts wero ontiouted by PAl hased ce phFsiolcgical need} for nor-             uboluhed licensing.
ral activity and health co.nideriog e-tiro-aeotsl temperstore., bdy               TV feceivers (per rhousand p 1oulatin2) - TV receivers fur bruad.ast to genera
onighto, sag  and ton distributtocs cf population, and ottowing 10 per-             public pot thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV neceivers in coma-
cent for cosce at household  leve                                                    tries end in yeare wheo rogitration of TV nets was in effect.
Per capita oupplv of protein (grams pee 4a.) - Protein content of pet               Newspapercirculation (peerthoutand  population) -          Shows the sverage circ-la-
uaPitu net -upplo of fond per d.y  NSet supply of food is defined 00                 tion of "daily genersl interestnawspapor , defined an a periodical publi-
uhove   Roquirenoets for oil countries established bF ISID  provide for              notion devoted pri=arily to recording general nes.  It is considered to
I oihieuo  allowance of hi grant of tura  protein  per day -nd 20 gross              bh  "dolly" if it appeucsr leasst four t=ees aeek.
of unil ood pulso protein, of thiuh 10 groan should he onisli  protein.           Cinosm  annal attendaooe oar ctpita per year - Psed on the eunber of tickets
These utandards ore lower  than those nf 15 grano  of tuotl prtoein ahI              sold du-ing the year, including udmit.ioos to drive-in cineao and =obile
21 Front ci animal yrten-1   on on - vorage for the woyld, yvop-pod by               uits.
FAi in cho Third World Fond Survey.
yen_ outic   _ peoei  nuo.ply fron ucin-  one puloo - Protein supplF of food       EMPELOYMENT
derived f om ocieslo and Fulse  in gan Pur day                p   ootal labor force (thous.ods) - Ecoeooic-lly active persons. including armed
Child (sass 1-4) eortolunp rote (pen chous.ad) - Annual deotho Fer thous-              forces sod une=ployed hot excluding housewivos, students, etc   Defini-
cud in age group 1-4 yeers, ti  children in this age group.                          tiol. it various countries ore not conparablo
Female (percent) - Froalo labor force as percentage of total labor force.
iEALTi                                                                               Articulture (per-ent) - Labke  forcr in forming, f-rastry, hunting  nod fishing
ifde expectuncy at birth (10c A) -  Average  unnber of yeers o- life                   as perocetage of total labor force.
remamiing or birth; sa.aily five-year averages ending In           1970,          Industry (per.eel) - lb            it ing, nonstruction, =aoufacturdig and
end 1975.                                                                            eletrticity, water and gean percentagn of total labor ftooc
Infant ntrulity  -tu   (per thousand) - Aanal deaths of infants nuder              Porticipsticn rote (percent) - total, male, aed female - Total, male, and
one y..' of age per thousand livo birhs.                                             female labor force os percentagen of their respective populations.
Access no noPe - acer CPornott of population)    totul, urban, ond r.r..  -            The.s are ILO's adjosted participation rates reflecting age-sen
Number of people (totul, orcan, aed ruzal) with r..onahle access to                  structure of the popslstion, and long tins trend.
safe woter supply (includes tteated su-face wotoro or untroated bet               Etoco=ic dependency ratio - Rstio of population ucder 15 and 65 end over to
u-cc _otttd water such os that fron protected b                srehol, springs,      the labor force in age group of 15-64 years
and sanitary rolt) an perc-ntageo of their rospectivo poptlotions
I anuran areaapuhlic fouctain at cu-ndp-st 1oc-ted nOt core                      INCO'dE DITRlIBUTION
than 2lI  fetero iron a house may bh  considered as being within .eo-             Percentage of private insco=  (both io cath and kind) received by rlichest 
conable access of that hone.  In rural aceos reanon-ble accent would                 per-nt, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percect, and poorest 40 percent
inply that the houtucife or =e=bers of the household do cot hSave to                 of households.
spend s disproportionate part of the day in fotohing the f-isly's
water needso                                                                      FVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access   ot ecieta disposal (percent of pcpolation) - total, urban.  and            toti-ated absolute poverty income level (USS par capita) -urban and rural -
rural -  vnhber of people (ttotl, urban, ond rtral) sensed by enceet,                  Absolute povoert  io=e level in that inuces le,sI below which a =ini=al
disoFal us peruentages of their respectivn  population.   Exnreta                    nutritionally adequate diet plus ossential non-food reqoineeelts is not
disposal maY include the colleccion sod disposal, cith cc without                    affordable.
treaI.ent, of hu.a. esreta and waste-cuter by water-borne  psytems                Esti=stod relative poverty inco=e level (UES per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit priv Is and tioilar installations.                                 Reltive poverty inco=e level is that income level less that ons-third
Population Per Pby"ician - Populotion divided by number of pr-cticiog                  per capirt  personal incc=e of the country
physici.ns qualified from . en dicsl ochol at  ni-versity level.                  Esti=ated population belcw poverty inc.o.  level (psercet) - urban and rural -
Popolttion per nursing porter  - Pnpulutiou divided by nm=beh  of                      Peecent of population (hrbn and runal) uhe ore either "absolute puos" or
practicing ..lo end fea.lo groduatr  cocsoo, practical  .rases, end                  "relative poor" whichevet in greater.
Ottittanttnurses
Etcon=in and icciat Ieta Division
Economic Aoslysis and Projections Dspsrtm.et



- 23 -
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                           Page 5 of 6
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
us$ Mln.   %                1960-68      1968-74     1974-77
GNP at Market Prices                    4,343.2   100.0                3.6          10.5         5.3
Gross Domestic Investment               1,008.5    23.2                8.7          21.6         5.4
Gross National Saving                      744.2    17.1              -9.1          30.7        16.5
Current Account Balance                 - 264.3    -6.1
Exports of Goods, NFS                      917.9    21.1              -1.2          14.3         7.5
Imports of Goods, NFS                  -1,202.6   -27.7                9.9          12.5         2.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added           Labor Force         V.A. Per Worker
us$ Mln.   %          Mln.       %        US$          %
Agriculture                                931.2  20.9
Industry                                1,305.0  29.2
Services                                 2,230.4  49.9
Unallocated                              .__
Total/Average                          4,466.6 100.0.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government              Central Government
(RD$ Mln.)      % of GDP        (RD$Mln.)       % of GDP
1977      1977   1976-77        1977       1977   1976-77
Current Receipts                           677.6     15.2      15.7        629.3      14.1      14.4
Current Expenditure                        441.7       9.9      9.9        382.6       8.6       8.6
Current Surplus                            235.9       5.3      5.8        246.7       5.5       5.8
Capital Expenditures                       241.0       5.4      5.7        236.1       5.3       5.5
External Assistance (net)                   17.2       0.4      0.4         19.1       0.4       0.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                 1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977
(Million RD$ outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                   295.7   343.3   418.8   518.3   739.2   867.0   887.3   1,020.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector           233.2   273.4   298.3   330.5   421.9   424.9   401.4          475.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector          180.1   216.8   282.1   385.6   577.8   685.0   788.9          851.4
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        19.9    20.6    21.1    22.1    25.3    24.1    22.5          22.8
General Price Index (1970 = 100) 1/  100.0   101.4   107.7   114.2   134.3   157.3   161.5            175.6
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index 1/                    .       1.4      6.2      6.o    17.6    17.1      2.7        8.7
Bank Credit to Public sector              7.7    17.2      9.1    10.8    27.7       0.7    -5.5       18.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector            18.7    20.4    30.1    36.7    49.8    18.6    15.2           7.9
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the official exchange rate of RD$1.00=US$1.00.
1/ GDP deflator.
not available
not applicable



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                              MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
1975      1976       1977                                        Average 1975-77
(Millions US $)                                             US$ Million    %
Exports of Goods, NFS           1,009.1      840.4      917.9   Sugar and by-products                  376.o       47.2
Imports of Goods, NFS          -1,083.2  -1,o89.4  -1,202.6   Ferronickel                              101.4       12.7
Resource Gap (deficit = -)       - 74.1    -249.0    -284.7   Coffee                                   109.5       13.7
Tobacco                                34.3        4.3
Interest payments, net           - 28.3    - 43.5       -51.1   Cocoa                                   54.2        6.8
Other factor payments, netl!/   - 84.5    - 80.3        -72.3   Bauxite                                 18.1        2.3
Net transfers                     112.4      130.9      143.8   All other commodities                  103.3       13.0
Balance on Current Account         74.5    -241.9    -264.3          Total                             796.9      100.0
Direct Foreign Investment          63.9       60.0       45.9   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMCER 31, 19772%
Net Public MLT Borrowing           40.3       59.4      104.7
Disbursements                   (79.4)   (103.4)   (146.1)                                             US $ Mln
Amortization                    (39.1)      44.0    ( 4L.4)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed           6o6.5
Other items n.e.i.2/               13.1       79.4      185.7      Non-Guarar.teed Private Debt            n.a.
Increase in Reserves (+)           42-8      -43.1       71.5      Total outstanding   Disbursed           606.5
Gross Reserves (end year)         135.8      165.2      224.6   DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977  3/
Net Reserves                       33.1      -10.0       61.5                                                 %
Fuel and Related Materials                                         Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             7.0
Imports                         179.0      166.2      176.8      Non-Guaranteed Private Debt               n.a.
Exports                            -          -          -       Total outstanding   Disbursed             7.0
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                      IBRD/IDA LENDING,(Mar. 31. 1979) (Million US$):
Through - 1971            Since - 1971                                                                IBRD       IDA
US $ 1.00 = RD $ 1.00   US $ 1.00 = RD $ 1.00                    Outstanding   Disbursed             2f.4       17.1
RD $ 1.00 = US $ 1.00   RD $ 1.00 = US $ 1.00                    Undisbursed                         51.6         5.0
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed    79.0          22.1
1/ Workers remittances included under net transfers.
2/ Includes private long-term capital, other capital, and errors and omissions.
C Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
not available
Country Programs I
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (As of March 31, 1979)
US$ million
Loan or                                                         Amount (Less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year    Borrower                  Purpose             Bank    IDA      Undisb.
One loan and two credits fully disbursed                             25.0    9.1 1/        -
352 DO        1973   Dominican Republic        Irrigation             -   13.0          5.0
1051 DO        1974   Central Bank              Tourism             21.0       -        13.0
1142 DO        1975   Dominican Republic        Education            8.0                 7.5
1316 DO        1976   Dominican Republic        Highways             5.0                 1.1
1325 DO        1976   Dominican Republic        Population           5.0                 3.0
1655 DO        1979   Dominican Republic        Nizao               27.0   _            27.0
Total                                                91.0   22.1
of which has been repaid                           12.0       -
Total now outstanding                                 79.0   22.1
Amount sold
of which has been repaid                              -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                     79.0   22.1
Total Undisbursed                                    51.6    5.0         56.6
1/   With exchange adjustment



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                      Type of            Amount in US$ Million
Year          Borrower                     Business           Loan   Equity   Total
1974       Cementos Nacionales S.A.         Construction       6.0       1.4     7.4
Material                     -
1978       Financiera Empresarial           Industrial
S.A.                            Credit           3.0         -     3.0
Total Gross Commitments                            9.0       1.4    10.4
Less Repayments                                  0.3         -     0.3
Total Commitments now held
by IFC                                           8.7       1.4    10.1
Total Undisbursed                                  3.0         -      3.0



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Credit 352 DO    Yaque del Norte Irrigation Project; $13.0 million
Credit of January 17, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The project is designed to increase agricultural production by
providing a modern irrigation and drainage system for 23,000 ha and improved
water supply for 4,500 ha already under irrigation. Also included are
implementation of an agrarian reform program and technical assistance.
The project is two years behind schedule, partly because of delays
in recruiting consultants, and partly because Contract I financed by IDB
could not be signed until rights of way were obtained, a condition in IDB's
loan agreement. Project costs are estimated at 88 percent above appraisal
estimates. A more recent problem has involved delays in the Government's
decision to carry out the land acquisition and redistribution program.
Satisfactory assurances have been obtained that a maximum land size would be
established to permit the execution of the program by the second semester of
1979, which is in line with the present schedule of execution of civil works
and of the agricultural development program. Additional funds are needed to
extend the contract of the supervision firm beyond 1980, as INDRHI's capa-
bilities to execute the supervision of construction is not adequate. IDB
has, in principle, indicated it would provide financing.
Loan 1051 DO      Tourism I Project; $21.0 million loan of November 6, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project is designed to provide infrastructure and other faci-
lities for tourism development in Playa Dorada and Playa Grande near Puerto
Plata. Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily, although
completion of some project components is likely to be delayed by about one
year due to late loan effectiveness and two changes in the top management of
the Central Bank. Construction of the first tourist accommodations (golf
villas) at Playa Dorada has started. Negotiations with other private
investors for a hotel in Playa Grande and an apartment complex in Playa
Dorada are under way. Revised project costs, including provision for price
escalation and land acquisition, amount to $39 million compared to $36
million estimated at appraisal.
/I   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the actions being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses of projects in execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1142 DO      Second Education Project; $8.0 million loan of July 17, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project finances the construction, furnishing and equipping
of 204 rural community learning centers; 4 agricultural training centers,
3 vocational training centers; equipping of 14 secondary schools, and of
4 vocational training centers; a text book feasibility study, and training.
The project is over two years behind schedule. Construction of vocational
schools is delayed, pending legislation which is expected to be approved by
Congress in the second semester of 1979 . The contract for construction
of primary rural schools has been signed. Acquisition of equipment for
secondary schools was delayed by procurement problems which have now been
resolved. Construction of agricultural training centers has begun.
Loan 1316-DO      Highway Maintenance and Reconstruction; $5.0 million
Loan of August 10, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The project provides a highway maintenance program; reconstruction
of a 19 Km. road and technical assistance. Technical assistance is being
provided satisfactorily for the nationwide maintenance program. Purchase
of 95 percent of the maintenance equipment has been made. Works on the
reconstruction of the Puente Rio Camu--San Francisco de Macoris road are now
proceeding satisfacitorily, after an initial 3 month delay.
Loan 1325 DO      Poipulation and Family Health; $5.0 million loan of
September 16, 1976; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980.
The project provides for the construction of rural health clinics
and one health sub-center in Regions I and II, communications and teaching
equipment, vehicles and operating costs for community based contraception
programs, and technical assistance. Construction has been completed in the
health sub-center and in ten rural clinics. The Bank has approved the
contract for construction of the remaining 16 clinics. Fellowships for
nursing students are being provided. The first group of medical students has
been sent to rural areas for two-month periods of practice. However, the
community-based health family program is progressing slowly. The program
was to include the definition of the levels of medical attention in rural
areas, training of the Secretariat of Health personnel, and preparation of a
health manual, plus. improvements it the data system.
Loan 1655-DO      Second Irrigation Project:  $27.0 million loan of
February 16, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan not yet effective.



-29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC_
SECOND PUERTO PLATA TOURISM PROJECT
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) First presentation to Bank: April 15, 1977
(b)  First Bank mission to identify and prepare project:  May 18, 1977
(c) Project prepared by: INFRATUR with assistance of Bank staff, from
September 1977 to September 1978
(d) Preappraisal Mission: August 28, 1978
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  September 18, 1978
(f) Completion of Negotiations: April 24, 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:  August 22, 1979
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions of the Loan and Guarantee Agreements
(a) the Borrower would consult with the Bank before replacing the
directors of INFRATUR's two Divisions or the head of the Project
Analysis Unit (para. 48);
(b) INFRATUR's internal regulation and its statement of lending
policies would not be amended without the Bank's agreeCent
(paras. 48 and 49);
(c) on-lending interest rates for the line of credit would be reviewed
by June 30, 1981. The Borrower would not submit sub-loan commitment
applications pending agreement among the Government, Borrower and
the Bank on such interest rates (para. 46);
(d)  if the existing interest rate ceiling in the Dominican Republic were
to be removed, the interest rate charged to final borrowers under the
line of credit would be equal to the one charged by mortgage banks on
loans exceeding 7 years (para. 46);
(e) the Borrower would consult with the Bank before amending its regula-
tions on tourism incentives (para. 27); and
(f) conditions of loan effectiveness would be:



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(i) Enactment of a Regulating Decree of the Tourism Incentives Law
(Law 153) (para. 27); and
(ii)  The execution of a contract by the Borrower for the Private Bank
Loan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 44).
(g) a condition of disbursement for the urban and handicrafts components
would be that the Central Bank has entered into Agreements satisfactory
to the Bank with the Municipality, INAPA and FDD (para. 51).



- 31 -
ANNEX IV
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND PUERTO PLATA TOURISM LOAN
SKEWED AMORTIZATION SCHEDULE
Date Payment Due                                     Payment of Principal
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning January 15, 1984
through July 15, 1989                                  530,000
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning January 15, 1991
through January 15, 1996                             1,330,000
On July 15, 1996                                          1,350,000



I BR D 10759R
so~~~~~ 20'                                            '        75        75' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 72  19     tA,ARCH  1979
~~~m   n  4 ~~~~~~~~~DOMINICAV\  REPUBLIC                                                                                                        24OC5A N2
SECOND PUJERTO PLATA ~TOURISM ~ PROJECT
THE PURT  PLATARGO
TH.   U~~~~~~~~  R  10~~p                                                                    
M,~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7At
%                                                                                         P-. R
fp'~~~~~~~~~~~~ RkptO'                                                             200~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~b() ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 5l
9tOMTES Co,rbtobovo    Soo
PLA                                                                               'o        7,,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7~~~~~~~  V. 6Tt  to   e   be   reoe  5   h
ZOQO    World   b -a' tf p,.p.loOl byoh
tneIno,oeoe f th r-Nders of
h.'o  t ~*,0   t,to,e
-  4  Cotours0                                         4                                                                                        RMetersJuc
tO Hotel Training School                          Rivers
~- Port Facilities                                                                      0                     IO                    20
K ILOM ET ERS
If30', 71P 00'                                                                                                          70'j 30                                                                                                            70600



