스


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1699 DO
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    1          1979, between
DOMINICAN-2XPUBLIC (hereinahret called the Guarantor) and INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank)*
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Banco Central de la Repfiblica Dominicana (herein-
after called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five
million dollars ($25,000,000), on the terms and . conditions set
f orth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1.974, with
the same f orce and ef f ect as if they were fully set f orth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in-Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as


﻿pr                                                      2
-2-
surety carely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inade-
quate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying
out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be
provided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority f',r the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost to the
Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating
or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express
provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made
with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political
or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such


﻿property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall, subject to- the terms and
conditions set forth in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement and until
construction of all facilities included in Tourism Projects or in
Part B of the Project has been completed, provide incentives to
investors investing in (i) Tourism Enterprises or Tourism Projects
in the Project Area, or (ii) for the purposes of Part B of the
Project, which shall be not less favorable than those granted
for similar investments in any other part of the Guarantor's
territories or in companies operating therein.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall, for purposes of the
proviso to paragraph (c) of Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement:
(a) exchange views with the Bank and the Borrower on the adequacy
of the rates of interest in effect in the Guarantor's territories;
and (b) if, as a consequence of any such exchange of views, it has
been agreed between the Guarantor and the Bank and the Borrower
that the change of any of the rates of interest set forth in
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement is needed, take all such measures
as shall be necessary or advisable to put the changed rates in
effect.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall take all such action
within its powers (including the provision of funds required
for the purpose) as shall be necessary or convenient to enable
Municipality and INAPA to comply with their respective under-
takings under the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.03 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall, by means of DNTI, use the
consultants' services to be assigned to DNTI by the Borrower under
the provisions of Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement, exclusively


﻿4
for purposes of Part F.2 of the Project, and furnish to the
Borrover every report prepared by such consultante or as a conse-
quence of the use of the services thereof.
ARTItLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Governor of the Borrover is designated as
representative of the Guarantgr for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The follkwing addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Banco Central de la Repfblica Dominicana
CalLe Pedro Henrfquez Urefla
Santo Domingo,
Dominican Republic
Cable address:                      Telex,
BANCENTRAL                              3460052 (ITT)
Santo Domingo                           3464186 (RCA)
For the Bank:
Liternational Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Uiited States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
IFTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin    rica and the Caribbean
1 1


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
1 hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi
cåte and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this .        day of  I. , 1971.
FOR SECRETARY


