Document of            FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rq.w&Nw. P-3187-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ZAMBIA INDUSTRIAL AND MINING CORPORATION LIMITED
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR THE
-INDENI REFINERY MODIFICATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
April 23, 1982
This doeusent has a restdie distrrJbutin and, may be used by rdcipien* only- iw  w ped_sp wf
their oflll dutIes. Its. contems may n  oterwise be disclose"idithst War   ak uthbod6alo.E



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency unit = Kwacha
K.1.OO    =   US$1.20
US$1.0    =   K. 0.83
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31
ZIMCO: April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AGIP  -    Agencia Generale Italiana Petroli
bpsd  -    Barrels per stream day
CIF   -    Cost, Insurance and Freight
EFF   -    Extended Fund Facility
FOB   -    Free on Board
GDP   -    Gross Domestic Product
IFC   -    International Finance Corporation
IMF   -    International Monetary Fund
MOA   -    Ministry of Agriculture
MOM   -    Ministry of Mines
MPTC  -    Ministry of Power, Transport and Communications
MW    -    Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
NCCM  -    Nchanga Consolidated Copper Mines Limited
NCDP  -    National Commission for Development Planning
NEC   -    National Energy Commission
tpy   -    Tons per Year
toe   -    Tons of Oil Equivalent
UDI   -    Unilateral Declaration of Independence
UNDP  -    United Nations Development Program
ZESCO -    Zambia Electricity Service Corporation
ZIMCO -    Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation Limited
ZNEL  -    Zambia National Energy Limited



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
INDENI REFINERY MODIFICATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
t
Borrower:               Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation Limited (ZIMCO)
Amount:                 US$5.1 million, including a capitalized front-end fee
Terms:                  Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
standard IBRD interest rate
Guarantor:              Republic of Zambia
Project Description: The objective of the Project is to carry out a
detailed techno-economic study and prepare a possible
investment project for the optimum modifications
required for the INDENI Petroleum Refinery, within the
context of Zambia's national energy conservation and
inter-fuel substitution program and the potential for
petroleum fuels export from Zambia to similarly land-
locked neighboring countries with no operating ref iner-
ies. The study would include:
(a) projections of petroleum fuels requirements
to year 2000;
(b) determination of an appropriate pricing
structure for refined petroleum fuels in the
context of the country s overall energy pricing
polic.y;
(c) determination of the extent and optimum process
modification.required by the refinery to meet
the petroleum fuels projections; and
(d) preparation of a detailed feasibility report
and basic engineering on the refinery modifica-
tion option selected for implementation.
The Project would be carried out in two phases,
with Phase I covering items (a) to (c) above, an
Phase II, to be initiated after review and approval
of Phase I work, covering item (d) above.
Special Risks:           No special risks are foreseen.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project Cost                                   Foreign   Local   Total
(in US 000s)
Phase 1
A.  Demand/Supply of Petroleum Products                    196        10       206
B.  Marketing and Distribution of Petroleum Products    54             5        59
C.  Refined Product Pricing Systems                         27         2        29
D.  Evaluation of Existing Refinery                         78         5        83
E.  Evaluation of Modification Options                     370         1       371
Sub-Total - Phase 1                             725        23       748
Phase 2
A.  Development of Project and Basic Engineering         1,590        30      1,620
Design Package
B.  Project Implementation Arrangements and Schedule   940            25        965
C.  Capital and Operating Cost Estimates                   384         -        384
D.  Financing Plan Proposals                               136         -        136
E.  Financial and Economic Analysis                        242                  242
Sub-Total - Phase 2                           3,292         55    3,347
Project Unit Cost                                       60        483       543
Base Cost Estimate                            4,077        561    4,638
Physical Contingencies (15 percent of         612         84       696
BCE)
Price Contingencies                           335         55       390
TOTAL PROJECT COST*                           5,024        700    5,724
IBRD Front-End Fee                               76         -         76
Total Financing Required                      5,100        700    5,800
Financing Plan                                                (in US$ millions)
IBRD                                        5.1         -      5.1
ZIMCO                                        -         0.7    0.7
5.1       0.7    5.8
Estimated Disbursement of Bank Loan(IBRD FY)                 FY83    FY84    FY85
Annual                                         0.6      2.5       2.0
Cummulative                                    0.6      3.1       5.1
Rate of Return: Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: None
Map: IBRD 16275
*Net of taxes from which the project is exempt.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE ZAMBIA INDUSTRIAL AND MINING CORPORATION LIMITED
*                     FOR THE INDENI REFINERY-MODIFICATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation Limited (ZIMCO), with
guarantee of the Republic of Zambia, for the equivalent of US$5.1 million,
including a capitalized front-end fee of 1.5 percent, to help finance the
INDENI Refinery Modification Engineering Project. The loan would have a term
of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate of 11.6
percent. ZIMCO would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum on Zambia (Report No. 3007-ZA) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on March 17, 1981. This part is based
on the report's findings and on those of more recent economic missions to
Zambia. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        With its mineral resources and plentiful land area suitable for
crops and livestock, Zambia, though landlocked, has the potential for rapid
and sustained development. Economic and social goals since independence in
1964 have been security of transport routes to the sea, reduction of
dependency on copper through agricultural and industrial development, more
equitable distribution of income, and expanded educational and training
opportunities. Progress toward achieving these goals has been below
potential due to structural imbalances in the econouv , prolonged turmoil
within the region and since 1975, a severe economic depression. Increased
educational opportunities and construction of the TAZARA Railway through
Tanzania to Dar-es-Salaam are the main areas in which substantial progress
*        has been made.
4.        The economy is heavily dependent on external trade and on
government activity.  Imports and exports range between 40 and 45 percent of
GDP. Government expenditures have amounted to about 35 percent of GDP in
recent years and the Government owns a majority share of mining and most
manufacturing enterprises. Much economic activity is dependent on expatriate
technical, managerial and administrative skills. Despite high rates of
savings and investment, real growth has been disappointing, averaging only
about 2.8 percent a year before the onset of the economic depression in 1975.



-2-
5.        Diversification efforts have lagged;  mining still provides over 90
percent of foreign exchange earnings and 30 percent of gross value added.1
Agriculture accounts for about 10 to 12 percent of GDP, compared with 14
percent at independence. Manufacturing grew quickly through 1975, but has
since stagnated, due to foreign exchange scarcity and a heavy dependence on
imported inputs. Services also grew quickly, to about 35 percent of GDP, due
to Zambia's success in expanding education and to increased government acti-
vity.  However, income is concentrated in urban areas as a result of high                   S
wages throughout the modern sector and a progressive deterioration in the
rural-urban terms of trade. These factors have caused major rural-to-urban
migration (about 40 percent of the population is urban) and unemployment in
urban areas.
The Current Economic Crisis
6.        Zambia continues to experience an economic and financial crisis
initiated by a 40 percent decline in copper prices in 1975. Unremunerative
producer policies, difficulties in transporting goods to and from the sea and
a recent decline in copper production have exacerbated the situation. Real
GDP stagnated between 1974 and 1978, and declined by 8 percent in 1979, with
mining down 19 percent and agriculture down 10 percent. There was little, if
any, growth during the past two years, although agriculture has recovered
following two years of poor weather. Real GNP per capita (US$556 in 1980)
is 25 percent below that in 1974.
7.        The balance of payments has been in chronic disequilibrium since
1975, with current account deficits averaging 8 to 10 percent of GDP. In
spite of heavy external borrowing, a build-up in arrears on import payments
and a draw down on reserves, foreign exchange has been insufficient to main-
tain the real value of imports, currently about one-half its level in 1975.
As a result, there persists an economy-wide problem of underutilization of
capacity. This has seriously affected production and investment especially
in the crucial mining sector which has accumulated a large backlog of mainte-
nance and rehabilitation requirements contributing directly to recent
declines in copper production and exports.
8.        The decline in copper prices severely affected Zambia's fiscal and
monetary positions. Historically mineral taxes provided a large share of
government revenue, but they have been negligible since 1976.  This contri-
buted to large fiscal deficits, which required domestic bank borrowing
averaging 13 percent of GDP in 1975-77 and 5 percent in 1978-80. At first,
the shortfall in mineral revenue was preceived to be temporary and expendi-
ture grew rapidly, in part carried by the momentum of large capital projects
already underway. Subsequently, a successful effort was made to raise
1 In constant prices. In current prices, however, the contribution
of mining has fallen to about 18 percent of GDP in recent years,
due to low copper prices.



non-mineral revenues, but these efforts were offset by large increases in
expenditure on defense and subsidies, mostly for maize imports resultingfrom
poor harvests in 1979 and 1980. Deficit financing has absorbed 88 percent of
net domestic credit creation between 1975 and 1980, and contributed to a
sharp rise in domestic prices, averging 18 percent per annum during 1976-78
and 11 percent per annum in 1979-80.
9.        In April, 1978 the Government signed a two-year Standby Agreement
of SDR 250 million with the International Monetary Fund (IMF). In the event,
the Government's recurrent account was balanced in 1978, and the balance of
payments recorded a small surplus on current account in 1979. However, once
the Standby Agreement expired, the accounts returned to their previous imbal-
ances with increased severity, partly as a result of pent-up demand for
imports and postponed expenditures. A three-year Extended Fund Facility
(EFF) of SDR 800 million was approved in May 1981. It aims at a more gradual
but longer-lasting adjustment process and at balancing the government and
external accounts by 1983. Under the EFF, the Government is committed to
eliminate the maize subsidy and reduce the fertilizer subsidy by the end of
1983; to increase sorely needed recurrent expenditure for operations and
maintenance in the productive sectors; to implement economic pricing for
products subject to price control; to raise agricultural producer prices
towards world price equivalents; to provide a larger share of domestic credit
to the private sector; and to allocate sufficient foreign exchange to repay
most of the external arrears. Implementation of the EFF has been difficult;
drawings were delayed in 1981 and a program for 1982 has yet to be agreed.
10.       Although Zambia's financial circumstances will remain tight for the
immediate future due to the continued low price of copper, its long-term
development prospects have recently improved a significant and long-overdue
change in government policy towards agriculture appears to have occurred.
Producer prices have steadily increased over the past few years and special
tax incentives have been approved, including a radical reduction in the tax
rate on agricultural income. Recent capital budgets have allocated a higher
percentage of expenditure to the agriculture sector and included a number of
projects aimed at increasing smallholder productivity. These measures
represent a necessary beginning towards exploitation of Zambia's considerable
agricultural potential; constant attention to maintaining and improving these
incentives will be required, however, to bring about sustained agricultural
growth.   In particular, a long-term strategy for the development of
agricultural and agro-based industrial exports needs to be drawn up.
Creditworthiness
11.       Zambia's creditworthiness is inextricably linked to the production
and price of copper. Estimates of economically recoverable ore reserves
indicate that copper production can be maintained at present levels through
the mid-1990s, but that depletion of reserves is expected to cause production
to fall off sharply thereafter. Thus, Zambia's long-term creditworthiness



-4-
requires strong measures to develop a viable source of non-mineral exports.
The recent policy measures in agriculture represent an important initial step
towards increasing production and investment in this sector and should
improve Zambia's creditworthiness to the extent that the export potential is
developed.
12.       Prior to 1975, Zambia's external public debt was relatively small,
and the debt service ratio was less than 10 percent of exports. Since then,
outstanding debt has risen sharply, to an estimated US$1,970 million by end
of 1981, and the debt service ratio to about 22 percent of exports. In addi-
tion, external payment arrears on non-public debt stood at about US$490
million at the end of 1981, and net drawings from the IMF at about US$720
million. The IBRD and the People's Republic of China are Zambia's largest
official creditors, each with about 17 percent of contractual debt outstand-
ing and disbursed.
13.       Increased debt service payments and low copper prices during 1981
acted to push Zambia's debt service ratio higher than expected. Service on
external public debt will remain high for the next few years as Zambia pays
off earlier commercial borrowings, which it has been replacing with more
concessional funds. In the medium-term, copper prices are projected to rise,
and debt service could be kept under 20 percent of exports through 1990 with
careful debt management. The Government is aware of the magnitude of the
problem and is taking steps to improve its debt management systems. It has
also made some progress in reducing external payment arrears by about $60
million during 1981, the first year of the EFF management. Given the Govern-
ment's commitment to implement an EFF program and its actions to improve the
incentives for agricultural productions, Zambia continues to be creditworthy
for IBRD lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
14.       Since 1956, the Bank Group has made 27 loans and 5 credits to
Zambia, totalling about US$609.1 million (net of cancellations). Twelve
loans and two credits have financed power, transportation and communication
projects. Four loans for education have helped expand Zambia's secondary and
higher education systems, teacher training, and commercial, agricultural and
technical education systems.   Two program loans have helped Zambia maintain
its development program in periods of severe economic dislocation. In
agriculture and forestry, six loans and two credits have been for industrial
forest plantations, livestock, commercial crops, integrated family farming,
coffee production and smallholder dairy development. An agricultural project
in the Eastern Province is assisting smallholder farmers. Other loans have
assisted Zambia's urban development program and, through the Development Bank
of Zambia, its manufacturing, agricultural and industrial sectors. A techni-
cal assistance credit is helping the Government improve its planning and
project preparation.
15.       The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has invested about
US$70 million in eight projects in Zambia since 1972. Two investments were
in shoe manufacturing, two in a packaging materials plant, and one each in



- 5 -
the Development Bank of Zambia, cobalt production and textiles. The latest
IFC investment was approved by the Executive Directors on December 3, 1981
this investment (US$30 million equivalent) is helping to finance a copper
leaching project of the Nchanga Consolidated Copper Mines Limited (NCCM), a
major company in the Zambian copper sector. The IFC has also appraised a
project for the production of ethanol from biomass (for blending into
gasoline). Summary statements of Bank Group loans, credits and investments
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects are in Annex II.
16.       Until recently, except in the agricultural sector, implementation
of Bank-assisted projects in Zambia has proceeded reasonably well.
Currently, however, serious delays are being experienced in the execution of
a number of projects -- particularly in agriculture -- due to ineffective
coordination among government agencies, but more importantly because of the
tight budgetary situation and the Government's limited ability to mobilize
local resources for its contribution to project financing and for
prefinancing local expenditures which are subsequently reimbursed by the
Bank/IDA.
17.       The deterioration in project implementation has, expectedly,
substantially reduced the rate of disbursements on Bank Group loans and
credits. During the first four of the last five years (FY77-81), the
disbursement rate averaged slightly over 25 percent per annum, higher than
the Bankwide average of 21.2 percent, 21.5 percent for the Eastern Africa
Region, 22.2 percent for Tanzania, 23.4 percent for Senegal and 20.2 percent
for Bolivia. In FY81, however, the rate dropped to just over 16 percent,
compared with 20 percent Bankwide, 16.5 percent for Eastern Africa, 22.2
percent for Tanzania, 20.8 percent for Senegal and 21.2 percent for Bolivia.
This problem is being addressed through provision of technical assistance in
projects to strengthen implementing agencies; more frequent supervision
missions; and increased use of the Resident Mission in monitoring project
execution. In addition, consideration is being given to the establishment of
special project accounts under ongoing projects which should substantially
accelerate disbursements while easing the Government's financial burden.
18.       The Bank Group expects to continue supporting government programs
to reduce dependence on copper, improve the efficiency of the copper sector,
reduce the energy import bill, narrow the urban-rural income gap and develop
local managerial and technical skills. Anticipated lending reflects the
Government's emphasis on directly productive sectors, particularly
agriculture-related activities, and on reducing the burden of imported energy
on the country's foreign exchange earnings. Continued assistance to
education, transportation and industry is also contemplated. The proposed
project is a significant step in assisting Zambia reduce the burden of
imported petroleum fuels on the country's foreign exchange earnings, and is
the Bank's first operation, outside of electric power, in the energy sector.



-6-
PART III - ENERGY AND PETROLEUM SECTORS
A.   Energy Sector
Energy Base
19.       Zambia is fortunate to be well-endowed with diverse energy
resources; however, detailed assessment of the full potential and a strategy
for its exploitation to meet the country's development goals are yet to be
carried out. The country-s energy resource base consists of
hydroelectricity, coal, renewable energy resources (such as fuelwood, bagasse
and molasses for ethanol), and uranium. Favorable geophysical indications of
hydrocarbons also exist. Fuelwood is considered to be the largest of the
domestic energy resources, supplying the cooking, heating and lighting needs
of about 85 percent of the country's population. The potential for
hydroelectric energy, of which Zambia is already a net exporter, is also
substantial. Existing installed capacity of 1,652 megawatts (MW) generates
annually about 2.185 million tons of oil equivalent (toe) of electric power
to meet national requirements and for export to Zimbabwe and Zaire; known
potential for further development is available on the Zambezi, Kafue, Luanga,
Lurisenfua, Chambesi and Luapula river systems . Known coal reserves,
located in the southeastern section of the country, are estimated at about 70
million tons, or the equivalent of 30 years supply at the current rate of
consumption. Additional deposits in other parts of the country have been
identified but further exploration is required to determine their quantities
and qualities, aad whether they can be mined commercially. The Zambi a Sugar
Corporation (ZSC) uses the residue bagasse it produces as an energy source
for the firm-s sugar milling operations. ZSC also produces molasses as
residue from its sugar milling. The Bank, under the ongoing Technical
Assistance Credit (873-ZA), financed a feasibility study for a project
designed to use ZSC's residual molasses to produce ethanol for blending into
gasoline. The IFC has already appraised the project (para 15).
20.      In addition to these active domestic energy sources, the Bank is
planning to assist a project prepared by the Government designed to carry out
detailed aeromagnetic and gravity surveys to provide data to attract
exploration of hydrocarbons by foreign oil companies; this project is
expected to be presented to the Executive Directors later in the year.
Existing geophysical data suggest that certain parts of the country, in
particular the Barotseland basin in the west, have geophysical structures
favoring petroleum and/or natural gas. Reasonably large uranium deposits
have also been found in several parts of country, particularly around the
Copper Belt region and in the rift zone in the south of the country.
Estimates of the deposits range between 10,000 to 100,000 metric tons.
Agencia Generale Italiana Petroli (AGIP) of Italy and other foreign firms
have been carrying out detailed exploration of these deposits. Zambia also
has over 130 hot springs, some already identified under a UNDP project as
having over 70 degrees centigrade water temperatures, but detailed



geochemical investigations would need to be carried out to establish their
energy potential.
Development and Organization of the Energy Sector
21.       Organization of Zambia's energy sector has evolved rapidly over the
last decade and a half largely in response to the effects of the Unilateral
Declaration of Independence (UDI) in 1965 in neighboring Zimbabwe, then
Rhodesia.  Prior to that period nearly all of Zambia's commercial energy
supplies originated from or were imported through Zimbabwe. Petroleum
products were shipped by rail from the Feruka Refinery near Umtali in
Zimbabwe; coal for both industrial use and power generation came from the
Wankie coalfields, also in Zimbabwe; and hydroelectricity was supplied by the
Kariba South Power Station, which although jointly owned by both countries
had its generating facilities and the control centers of the interconnected
systems located within Rhodesia. In early 1966, as a result of events
subsequent to the UDI by Rhodesia, Zambia found itself unable to rely on
these arrangements to meet its commercial energy requirements; it therefore
became necessary to set up institutions to develop domestic energy to reduce
dependence on external energy supply sources.
22.       One of the first institutions established was the Zambia Electri-
city Supply Corporation (ZESCO) with responsibility for the development of
hydroelectric energy. The Bank provided assistance in setting up ZESCO, and
has since made two loans (Loans 701-ZA and 919-ZA) for the development of
Kariba North and Kafue hydroelectric projects, the two main sources of hydro-
electric energy supply in Zambia. Other institutions established for the
development of other parts of the energy sector were Maamba Colliery for
mining of domestic coal, the TAZAMA Pipelines for transfer of crude petroleum
from Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania to Ndola, Zambia, and the INDENI Petroleum
Refinery for the refining of the imported crude. All these operating compan-
ies are subsidiaries of the state-owned nolding company, the Zambia
Industrial and Mining Corporation Limited (ZIMCO).
23.       Authority for the development of the country s energy resources is
fragmented among the above institutions on the one hand, and, the Ministry of
Power, Transport and Communications (NPTC), which is charged with coordina-
ting government policy on energy, the Ministry of Mines (MOM), which has
responsibility for geothermal and hydrocarbons development, and the Ministry
of Agriculture (MOA), which oversees biomass energy resources. While the
development of the individual domestic energy sources has been reasonable,
there has been a lack of an integrated strategy for the development of the
energy resources resulting in less than optimum use of the resources in some
areas. Coupled with this is a paucity of reliable and systematic data on the
sector s resource potential and lack of managerial and technical skills to
initiate the required assessment for policy considerations and optimization
of the energy supplies.



-8-
24.       The need for an integrated energy development strategy and stream-
lining of the authority for the future development of the sector was
discussed with Government officials during the appraisal of this Project.
The Government has since requested the Bank to assist it in carrying out an
assessment of the country's energy resources and in preparing a strategy for
their development within the framework of the country's long-term development
goals. In response to this request an energy assessment was carried out and
its report is under preparation. The report is expected to provide important
inputs on macro aspects of the energy sector (e.g. overall energy demand/
supply perspectives, and desired pricing policies) for the detailed
techno-economic studies to be carried out under this Project. The final
report of this mission will be available before the consultants to be engaged
under the Project initiate the detailed studies.
25.       As a first step in initiating coordinated planning for the sector,
the Government, in April, 1981, established the National Energy Council (NEC)
with responsibility for integrating the plans of the various sectoral insti-
tutions. To strengthen this new agency s capacity to carry out its
responsibility, the Government proposed that it act as the counterpart agency
for the Bank energy assessment work.
Energy Consumption
26.       There is no overall tabulation of the various forms of commercial
energy being used in the country. However records of commercial energy
consumption are maintained separately by the commercial institutions operat-
ing within the sector and by companies in the mining sector which have some
captive energy sources. Reliable data on renewable energy consumption in
Zambia are almost non-existent. One of the priorities of the sector, which
the Bank energy assessment mission will assist in meeting, is improvement of
the data base on energy supplies and consumption.
27.       The estimates of commercial energy consumption shown below are
based on information collected from various sources, and are considered a
rough but reasonably reliable breakdown on the various forms of commercial
energy currently being consumed in Zambia. Commercial energy consumption in
Zambia consists of coal, coke, hydroelectricity and petroleum fuels; some
consumption based on waste heat recovery in mineral processing also takes
place, but this reportedly is insignificant at the moment. Commercial energy
consumption in 1981 is estimated at about 2.58 million toe as follows:



- 9 -
Estimated Commercial Energy Consumption in 1981
Quantity
(in metric tons
Energy Source          of oil equivalent)          X Share
Coal                     274,000                    10.6
Coke                      68,000                     2.6
Hydroelectricity       1,485,000a/                  57.7
Petroleum Fuel           748,000                    29.1
TOTAL                2,575,000                   100.0
a/ Including transmission losses
Sources:  INDENI Refinery, ZNEL and NCDP.
About 67 percent of the commercial energy requirements in 1981 was met from
indigenous production of hydroelectricity and coal. The balance, including
mainly coke, small quantities of high-grade coal and all petroleum fuels, was
imported. Accurate data on the sectoral breakdown of energy consumption are
not available. Most commercial energy usage is, however, limited to the
mining, industrial and transportation sectors. In 1981, it is estimated that
the mining sector used over 85 percent of the domestic electricity
consumption, 100 percent of the coke imported, more than one-half of all the
coal consumed and about 40 percent of the petroleum imports; the industrial
sector consumed about 20% of the petroleum products; while transportation
and residential sectors consumed 33 percent and 7 percent, respectively.
B. The Petroleum and Refining Sector
The Petroleum Situation
28.       On a per capita basis, Zambia is not a petroleum intensive economy
by international standards. Per capita petroleum consumption of around 133
kilograms (kg) is lower than most middle-income countries with about the same
per capita income levels (e.g., Honduras - 181 kg and Bolivia - 199 kg).
However, because Zambia is landlocked2 and its economy is heavily dependent
on copper mining which, since 1975, has been experiencing severe declines in
*              production and exports with corresponding increases in unit production costs,
the country, which imports all its petroleum requirements,has become much
more vulnerable to increases in petroleum prices, to disruption in supplies
and, in recent years, to the technical constraints of the country's petroleum
refinery. These constaints limit the refinery's ability to adjust to the
changing patterns of energy demand and to the types of crude oils easily
2 Its nearest access to a seaport, Dar-es-Salaam, is about 2,000 kms by
rail.



- 10 -
available to Zambia. One measure of this vulnerability is the increasing
claim that the petroleum bill has been making on (declining) export earnings
even as the country is reducing petroleum fuels consumption. Importing about
762,700 metric tons of petroleum in 1977, the import bill amounted to 11
percent of merchandise export earnings; in 1980 with a petroleum import level
of about 683,000 metric tons, about 11.7 percent less than in 1977, the
import bill amounted to US$191 million, the equivalent of 14 percent of the
export earnings. The import bill for the 748,000 metric tons of requirements
in 1981 is estimated by the IMF at US$240 million, equivalent to 23 percent
of the estimated export earnings for the year.
The Petroleum Consumption Profile
29.       Zambia-s petroleum consumption profile, like those of most other
developing countries, is dominated by the middle distillates (kerosene and
diesel oil). Currently, the proportion of middle distillates to total petro-
leum fuels consumption is about 54 percent, while that of the light
ends -- liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and premium and regular gasoline --
which are used for cooking and transportation by the higher income urban
population, is about 17.6 percent. The heavy ends (fuel oil and bitumen)
make up about 28.2 percent of consumption.
30.       As the claims of imported fuel on the declining export earnings
increased, the Government, starting in 1976, began using administrative
(rationing) and pricing measures to reduce consumption levels. As shown
below these measures, along with the decline in economic activity, resulted
in an average annual fall of 4.4 percent in the overall consumption level
from 1976 to 1980:
Historical Demand for Petroleum Products
(in metric tons)
Annual
Growth
Rate (%)
1976     1977       1978    1979      1980  1976-80
LPG                       8,140    9,553    5,979    2,309    2,362  -26.6
Gasoline-premium        145,333   92,029   75,046   61,382   73,646  -30.0
Gasoline-regular         40,930   68,233   72,639   45,084   44,418   42.1
Kerosene-aviation        52,527   58,686   54,745   67,249   64,981   45.5
Kerosene-Illum.          24,087   24,111   26,929   29,064   29,608   45.3
Diesel Oil              360,701  310,099  284,640  220,873  239,942   -9.7
Low Sulphur Diesel Oil   1,951    6,953   18,488   36,353   35,280 4106.2
Low. Vis. Fuel Oil          857    3,732    5,657   11,376   11,909  493.1
High Vis. Fuel Oil      174,238  181,616  162,086  177,515  172,298   -0.2
Bitumen                   9,200    7,695    5,561    8,495    8,528   -1.8
TOTAL               817,964  762,707  711,770  659,700  682,972   -4.4
Source: Zambia National Energy Limited.



- 11 -
However, as evidenced in the trends during 1979-80, which continued into
1981, most of the products had reached their lowest demand levels by 1979,
and the potential for further reductions through rationing and pricing
measures without seriously affecting vital services appear to be very
limited. Recognition of the limitations of this method of reducing consump-
tion has led to the initiation of programs designed to reduce petroleum
demand by substitution with domestically-produced energy supplies. These
programs include ethanol produced from biomass (para 17) for use as a blend
with gasoline to reduce the gasoline demand, and increased supplies of
indigenously-produced hydroelectricity and coal to replace fuel oil used in
the mining sector. In addition, a study financed under the ongoing Third
Railway Project (Loan 1790-ZA) is examining the feasibility of electrifying
the railway system to reduce consumption of diesel.
31.       The molasses-based ethanol production appears to be economically
sound and would reduce the gasoline component of energy conservation by about
10 percent by 1983-84. The fuel oil used in the mining sector is primarily
for steam and as direct heat in mineral processing operations. The use of
fuel oil by the mining sector for these applications started in 1973 (when
the INDENI Petroleum Refinery came into operation) as a means of establishing
a market for the refinery's fuel oil output which, because of Zambia's land-
locked location, could not be disposed of economically in any other manner.
Prior to commissioning of the refinery, the mining sector used coal for its
steam generation and direct heat requirements; the existing facilities, which
were converted from coal use to fuel oil use, can be modified to re-use coal
with relatively minor investments. It is the consensus of the mining and
petroleum refining companies that the use of fuel oil in these applications
can be sharply reduced or even eliminated throughsubstitution with indigenous
hydroelectricity and/or coal both of which appear competititve. The electri-
fication of the railway system, while important, if determined to be
feasible, is however unlikely to significantly affect the diesel consumption
in the medium term.
32.       The overall effect of these energy sector initiatives would be to
further reinforce the dominance of the middle distillate products in the
total petroleum demand. Projections based on assumptions consistent with the
Government's energy goals; (i) 10 percent replacement of gasoline by ethanol
by 1983-84; (ii) otto-engine fuel (gasoline blended with ethanol) growth of
1 percent p.a.; (iii) reduction of fuel oil uses through substitution with
indigenous hydroelectricity and coal at an annual rate of 10 percent to a
minimum level of 50,000 metric tons (which represents annual reductions
ranging from 18,000 metric tons in 1982 to 5,000 metric tons in 1991); and
(iv) 3 percent p.a. growth in middle distillates use (a growth rate of less
than the 4.6 percent experienced in 1979-80 and which is expected to be
maintained despite improvements in economic activity) show the middle
distillate component of petroleum fuels demand increasing from the current 54
percent to 62 percent by 1985 and 69 percent by 1990. This demand can be met
by the refinery sub-sector only through major modifications at INDENI
Refinery (para 42-43).



- 12 -
Refined Products Pricing
33.       Refined product prices, both ex-refinery and at the consumer level,
are set by the Government. The ex-refinery price is determined by the pro-
curement, pumping, processing and storage costs, plus expected tax revenues
based on existing excise and sales tax provisions. While the general policy
ensures that the full economic cost to the country is recovered, in practice,
the prices of premium and regular gasoline and aviation kerosene have tended
to be disproportionately higher in order to subsidize fuel oil. Ex-refinery
prices prevailing in January 1982, excluding taxes and duties, are shown
below in comparison with international prices of the same period:
Prices for Selected Petroleum Products January 1982
Product                   Zambia Ex-Refinery        Rotterdam      Zambia as
US$/metric ton          US$/ton       of Rotterdam
Premium gasoline                 989                  346-352          283
Regular gasoline                 915                  329-339          274
Kerosene (illuminating)          428                   349-351         122
Kerosene (aviation)              612                   350-352         175
Diesel                           428                  319-325          133
1Ieavy Fuel Oil                  145                       166          87
Sources: ZNEL, Platts Oilgram.
The above comparison shows that ex-refinery prices for petroleum products in
Zambia were higher than spot prices quoted at Rotterdam in January 1982, with
the notable exception of heavy fuel oil. Landlocked and without domestic
petroleum resources, Zambia's petroleum prices may be expected to be high by
international comparison, since sea freight, handling and pipeline
transportation bring the c.i.f. cost per barrel of crude to about US$40. The
ex-refinery prices for illuminating kerosene and diesel are considered close
to their incurred economic cost; gasoline and aviation kerosene, on the other
hand, appear to be priced well above their economic cost, while heavy fuel
oil is clearly subsidized. The subsidy on heavy fuel oil is necessary to
make it competitive with hydroelectricity and coal due to the design of the
refinery which results in a high percentage of heavy fuel oil for which a
local market has to be found since export possibilities are uneconomic.
Consumer prices of the products sold through the pump (regular and premium
gasoline, kerosene and diesel oil) are determined on the basis of the
ex-refinery prices plus excise and sales taxes, distribution charges and
dealer's margins; these have generally been among the highest in the world,
even after considering the high transport cost of importing crude into
Zambia. Recent retail prices for these products compared with those of
selected countries are shown below:



- 13 -
Retail Prices for Selected Petroleum Products
(US$ equivalent per liter at the Pump)
(January, 1982)
Premium       Regular
Gasoline      Gasoline    Kerosene        Diesel
Zambia: Financial       1.18          1.10         0.47          0.70
Economica/      0.91          0.85         0.36          0.54
Italy                   0.78          0.75          N/A          0.34
France                  0.73          0.69          N/A          0.54
U.S.A                   0.38          0.35          N/A          0.35
India                    N/A          0.73         0.21          0.36
a/ Shadow-priced at 30 percent less than the official exchange rate.
Source: ZNEL, Platts Oilgram and IBRD
34.       While the existing pricing policy is considered reasonable to
ensure recovery of the full economic cost of petroleum fuels, earn tax reve-
nues for the Government and promote energy conservation, there is a need to
rationalize the petroleum pricing and tax structure to ensure optimum
consumption patterns consistent with the country's energy conservation goals
and energy supply potential and to ensure a more equitable distribution of
the tax burden on all products. These aspects of the pricing structure have
been discussed with ZIMCO and the Government, and it was agreed that under
the Project, the existing pricing and taxation structure on petroleum
products would be reviewed with the objective of developing recommendations
for changes that would induce optimum demand patterns while yielding appro-
ximately the same amount of tax revenue to the Government as at present. The
Government has agreed to consult with the Bank and ZIMCO on these recommenda-
tions and on a mechanism and timetable for implementing any agreed changes
reached in these consultations (Section 3.02 of draft Guarantee Agreement).
Petroleum Sector Organization
35.       Zambia has no known indigenous hydrocarbons.  As stated in para-
graph 20, the Bank expects to support a project designed to carry out
detailed aeromagnetic and gravity surveys to provide the required data to
attract exploration by oil companies. This activity is being handled by the
Geological Surveys Department of the Ministry of Mines.
36.       Activities related to imported petroleum are divided into five
areas of operations: (i) procurement of crude and refined products; (ii)
pipeline transfer of petroleum; (iii) petroleum refining; (iv) storage
and distribution and (v) retail marketing. Procurement of crude and refined



- 14 -
products is handled by the Zambia National Energy Limited (ZNEL), a wholly-
owned subsidiary of ZIMCO. Crude petroleum is procured from Middle East
sources while the refined products are obtained from international markets on
spot basis. The refined products - naphtha, kerosene and diesel oil, known
as spikes - are mixed with the crude petroleum before shipment to
Dar-es-Salaam in order to minimize handling and shipping costs.  Currently,
about 44 percent of all the petroleum fuels purchased by Zambia to meet its
requirements are refined products. The large proportion of refined products
required is due to the fact that the petroleum product consumption profile is
not in balance with the refinery's production capability. Consequently, if
whole crude of the same quantity as the spiked crude were imported for
processing, the refinery, given its existing process configuration, would
produce large surpluses of products not required by the country and not
economically exportable (fuel oils), while there would be correspondingly
large deficits in the predominant forms of petroleum fuels required by Zambia
(kerosene and diesel). ZNEL-s operations, which are limited to procurement
and shipment of the spiked crude to Dar-es-Salaam and sale of the refined
products ex-refinery, have been carried out reasonably efficiently with a
small staff which includes expatriate professional personnel with experience
in petroleum procurement.
37.       The transfer of the crude feed, once delivered at the port of
Dar-es-Salaam, is the responsibility of Tazama Pipelines Limited, a joint
venture company owned 67 percent by the Government of Zambia and 33 percent
by the Government of Tanzania. Tazama's facilities consist of a 243,000 cubic
(cu.) meter crude storage tank farm at the Dar-es-Salaam port, 1705 km of
8-inch pipeline linking the crude storage farm with the INDENI Petroleum
Refinery at Ndola in Zambia, 770 km of 12-inch loops to the 8-inch pipeline
to boost pumping operations, and seven diesel-powered pump stations along the
route. The pipeline was originally constructed to transport "white" refined
products (gasoline, kerosene and diesel); and was converted to carry crude
when the refinery came on stream in April 1973. The design capacity of the
pipeline is 160 cu. meters/hour, equivalent to 1.1 million metric tons per
annum at 90 percent operating factor. Tazama has operated successfully since
commissioning of its facilities in 1968; its throughput charges are
determined taking into account debt amortization, maintenance, insurance,
operating expenses and profit requirements. The throughput charge per ton of
crude feed in 1981 was US$23.00 equivalent.
38.       Refining of the imported petroleum is carried out by the INDENI
Petroleum Refinery Company Limited; the facilities, operations and
performance of this entity are discussed in paragraphs 40 to 46.
39.       Except for fuel oil and bitumen which are lifted directly from the
refinery by the main users, storage of refined products (gasoline, diesel,
kerosene and aviation fuel) is handled by the Ndola Oil Storage Company
(NOSCO), a joint-venture operation of the retail distributors (50 percent)
and ZIMCO (50 percent). Distribution and retail operations are handled by
Shell, BP, AGIP, Mobil, Caltex and Total. For management purposes, Shell and



- 15 -
BP are a joint company in Zambia known as Shell-BP (Zambia) Limited; 50
percent of its equity is owned by ZIMCO, which also owns 50 percent of AGIP's
retail operations. The remaining distributors are locally-incorporated
wholly-owned subsidiaries of their multinational parents. Distribution of
petroleum products is working well and the government pricing policies permit
the distributors and retailers to make reasonable profits.
Petroleum Refining Sub-Sector
40.       The INDENI Petroleum Refinery Company Limited is a subsidiary of
ZIMCO; its shares are owned 50 percent by ZIMCO and 50 percent by AGIP.
Operating management of the refinery is the responsibility of AGIP under a
separate management contract. The refinery employs about 380 persons, about
24 of whom are expatriates assigned by AGIP under its management contract.
Its operations are well managed. A review of the operating records by the
mission showed that the refinery has been operating without unscheduled stop-
pages between turn-arounds, indicating good housekeeping, operating and
safety practices. Management information appears to be adequate and well
documented; and operating costs are within acceptable limits for the
facilities as existing and the type of crude feed processed.
41.       The refinery is located at Ndola in the center-west section of the
country, about 600 kms from the border with Tanzania. It came on stream in
April 1973 and has a capacity of 25,000 barrels per stream day (bpsd) or
about 1.1 million metric tons per annum. The main process units are: (i) a
crude unit; (ii) a distillate hydro-treater; (iii) a product fraction-
ator; (iv) a catalytic naphtha reformer; and (v) an asphalt unit.
42.       The refinery is designed to process Arabian Light crude oil with
the flexibility of spiking the crude feed with naphtha, kerosene and diesel
oil up to 25 percent of the feed to match changes in market requirements.
Its processing capabilities, which are limited to fractionation of the crude
oil by boiling range into LPG, gasoline, kerosene, diesel oil and fuel oil
are relatively inflexible compared to current refinery technology standards;
i.e., there are no secondary conversion process units which would permit the
product yield pattern to be changed to meet variations in the market demand
profile or to process crudes other than the design basis crude if deemed
economically advantageous. The only means the refinery has of changing the
yield pattern is by increasing the quantity of refined products that are
mixed (spiked) with the crude oil feed up to the quantities that would be
deficit if only whole crude of the design basis were processed. As shown in
the following comparative table, had the refinery processed only the design
basis whole Arabian Light crude during 1980 instead of the spiked crude feed,
Zambia would have had to separately import about 44 percent of its petroleum
fuels requirements in refined form at a substantial overland freight and
handling cost:



- 16 -
Refinery Yields vs. Market Demand for 1980
(Yields Based on Whole Arabian Light Crude Feed)
Refinery Yields
Market          from
Requirements   Arabian Light  Deficits
(in metic tons)
Gasoline                        118,064         49,883        (68,181)
Kerosene, Diesel Oil            369,811        140,105       (229,706)
Fuel Oil                        184,207        184,207           -
Bitumen                           8,528          8,528           -
Ref. Fuel Gas                      -            21,180           -
Ref. Fuel Oil                                   19,194           -
Slops                              -             4,924           -
682,972        430,383       (297,887)
Source: INDENI Refinery.
43.       An alternative solution to the "spiking" of crude would have been
to import whole crude in sufficient quantities that would have allowed the
refinery yields to meet the deficit products; this would, however, have
resulted in large surpluses on the other products which could not have been
economically disposed of. Thus, the decision was made to process a limited
quantity of whole crude spiked with refined products up to the levels
required to meet the deficits. Spiking is generally resorted to in the
refinery industry as a stop-gap measure to avoid investment which is required
to correct a processing inadequacy and has maximum economic benefits at
levels of 8-12 percent. When the level of spiking exceeds this range, as in
the case of INDENI Refinery, the benefits deteriorate rapidly and the effects
of double processing costs become more pronounced making a process
modification an economic necessity. Besides the higher cost of having to mix
refined products with crude oil to permit the refinery yield to meet market
requirements, there are operational penalties associated with spike levels in
the crude feed exceeding the design limits. At the INDENI refinery at spike
levels beyond the 25 percent design limits, the throughput of the refinery
has to be reduced in order to operate the crude unit satisfactorily;this,
however, affects the efficiency of the auxiliary equipment such as pumps and
heat exchangers making operations extremely difficult with the risk of a
major damage to the crude unit and associated equipment. Further, the
existing process configuration of the INDENI refinery has an upper limit of
55 percent spiking. As the spiking levels have exceeded the 25 percent
design basis and creep closer to the upper limit, the product fractionator
operations have become unstable, resulting in poor product separation; the
overhead fractionator condenser and crude unit have also begun showing signs
of poor condensation and fractionation, respectively, because of vapor



- 17-
overloading as a result of the higher levels of spiking. In any event, even
if the operating capability for the reduced capacity utilization of the
critical pieces of the equipment would permit it, which is not the case, an
analysis carried out during appraisal indicated that the 55 percent upper
limit for spiking is likely to be reached by 1985-86 with no more than 1.2
percent p.a. increase in the overall petroleum consumption. Beyond this
period, further investments in refinery capacity would be necessary.
Effects of Changing Types of Crude Oils
44.       In addition to the technological limitation and the increasing
imbalance between the refinery yields and the consumption profile discussed
above, an additional factor which Zambia needs to take into account is the
changing profiles of the crude oil types now being produced. In recent
years, the relative availability of lighter crude oils which yield higher
percentages of desired distillates (gasoline, kerosene and diesel oil) has
been declining in favor of heavier crude types which yield less of the
desired products. Major oil producers, particularly in the Middle East, have
recently been mandating that purchasers lift their heavier crudes in the same
proportion as their overall crude oil production. The implication of this is
that in the future there is likely to be less Light Arabian crude available
to Zambia than at present, tending to exacerbate the imbalance in the
refinery yield. A recent study of world refinery industry and crude oil
types commissioned by the Bank concluded that due to the shift towards
heavier crude types, over the next 10-15 years the average crude oil can be
expected to yield about 3-5 percent less kerosene and diesel oil with a
corresponding increase in the heavy ends, which generally have less economic
value. The increasing demand for middle distillates and the constraints
placed on existing refinery processes by heavier crudes has led the refinery
industry world-wide to begin modifying their facilities to include secondary
conversion units that can process the heavier ends into more valuable distil-
lates.
Capacity Utilization
45.       On completion in 1973, the refinery was expected to provide the
petroleum fuels requirements of Zambia as well as to meet substantial
portions of the requirements of neighboring Botswana, Malawi and eastern
Zaire, at least during the initial years of its operation when the design
capacity would have exceeded the Zambia market. Up to 1976 the refinery was
able to meet Zambia-s own needs and the requirements of the neighboring
countries, reaching a capacity utilization of 80 percent of design. Since
1977, however, with sharp increases in petroleum prices leading to conserva-
tion policies in Zambia as well as in the neighboring countries, which have
resulted in the consumption profiles being out of balance with the refinery's
yield patterns, exports to the neighboring countries have been sharply
reduced, resulting in reduced capacity utilization. Operation levels between
1977-80 have ranged between 66-70 percent. The potential for petroleum fuels
export from Zambia to the neighboring countries still exists but can only be



- 18 -
exploited if the refinery's process technology is modified to enable substan-
tially higher percentages of whole crude to be processed.
INDENI's Financial Performance
46.       The INDENI Petroleum Refinery's financial performance is satisfac-
tory. Its debt:equity ratio which stood at 47:53 in 1979 had been improved
to 13:87 by the end of its 1981 fiscal year (March 31), and its return after
taxes on shareholders' funds (equity plus reserves) during the last three
years has averaged about 18.3 percent. Dividend payout to ZIMCO and AGIP
over the 1979-81 period has amounted to the equivalent of US$2.6 million at
current exchange rates. Under the existing non-integrated structure of the
sector, the refinery's only source of revenue is the fee charged for proces-
sing of the crude feed delivered at refinery gate. The fee is determined on
the basis of fixed charges, including the cost of AGIP's management opera-
tions contract, depreciation, maintenance and insurance, and the volume of
crude feed processed, plus other variable expenses. Audited financial state-
ments and annual reports of the Company for the past three years are avail-
able in Project Files.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
47.       The Project was identified in June, 1981 during a Bank sector
reconnaissance mission to Zambia. Subsequently, the Government formally
requested Bank assistance to carry it out and indicated that it attaches very
high priority to it. The Project was appraised in September, 1981 and
negotiated in Washington, D.C. in April, 1982. The Zambian delegation was
led by Mr. M.V. Muhsin, Financial Director, Zambia Industrial and Mining
Corporation Limited.
Project Objectives and Justification:
48.       As discussed in Part III, the INDENI refinery's existing process
configuration is inconsistent with the demand profile of petroleum fuels in
Zambia, creating a product imbalance, which is being corrected as a short-
term solution, by mixing (spiking) expensive refined products (naphtha,
kerosene and diesel) in the crude feed. The spiking is now beyond the refin-
ery design basis and approaching technically unacceptable levels, raising the
economic cost of petroleum products to the country. The objective of this
Project is to determine the most appropriate modification to the refinery to
ensure a yield pattern consistent with the changing demand profile. The
Project will also take into account Zambia's potential for using excess capa-
city in the refinery to meet the requirements of neighboring landlocked
countries which have no operating refineries (Zimbabwe, Malawi, and
Botswana). There are several options for modifying the refinery process. An
analysis of two of the possible options -- (i) a hydrocracker only, and (ii)
a hydrocracker with a residuum desulfurizer and a residuum deasphalter --
carried out by Bank staff has indicated that modification of the refinery



- 19 -
based on either of the two options will result in substantial economic
savings. A detailed study is however required to identify all the possible
options and determine the optimum configuration offering the most flexibility
to meet the changing market requirements in the light of the energy
conservation and inter-fuel substitution efforts of the country, the export
potential and the changing crude oil types likely to be easily available to
Zambia. The objective of this Project is to examine all the alternative
options for modification and prepare a detailed feasibility study and basic
engineering on the option selected as optimum.
Project Description
49.       The Project would consist of a detailed techno-economic study to be
carried out with the assistance of specialized consultants. The scope of the
study would cover:
(a)    establishing Zambia's petroleum fuel requirements to the
year 2000 taking into account the availability of indigenous
hydroelectricity, coal and ethanol from molasses which can
replace current petroleum fuel uses. The projections would
be made under two scenarios: (i) using existing policies
of taxation and pricing of petroleum products and (ii)
using assumptions which eliminate price distortions among
products caused by the tax and cross-subsidy policies;
(b)    determining the export potential of refined petroleum fuels
to neighboring countries (Zimbabwe, Malawi, Botswana, and
eastern Zaire);
(c)    determining an appropriate pricing structure for refined
petroleum products that will ensure recovery of their true
economic cost to the country and a more rational taxation
structure for these products;
(d)    identifying all the options for modifying the refinery and
determining the extent to which the existing refinery
facility could be modified to meet the petroleum fuel
projections in (a) and (b) above. The determination will
include comparative economic analysis of various options;
(e)    recommending improvements in plant operations by streamlin-
ing the maintenance system, expanding the training program,
debottlenecking existing units, adopting better operating
practices and modernization of instrumentation to detect and
help reduce energy and material losses and improve process
control and product quality;



- 20 -
(f)    providing a comprehensive and documented compilation of all
the facts regarding the recommended option and any modifica-
tions required, including the capital and operating costs,
and identifying sources of financing and terms;
(g)    identifying the optimum refinery modification based on the
foregoing analysis and reaching agreement among all parties
before proceeding;
(h)    preparing basic engineering, and presenting an expeditious
and economical plan for implementation including project
management, procurement, construction and supervision, cost
control, project scheduling, plant start-up, etc; and
(i)    preparing invitation-to-bid documents.
50.       Detailed Terms of Reference (TOR) along the above lines have been
agreed on with the Government and are presented as Annex IV. The work to be
carried out is divided into two phases. Phase I covers (a) establishing
Zambia's refined petroleum product market to year 2000; (b) determining the
export potential; (c) recommending an appropriate pricing and taxation
structure for petroleum products; and (d) identifying and analyzing all the
options for modification of the refinery and recommending the optimal confi-
guration for execution. Phase 2 covers detailed feasibility and basic
engineering of the modification option selected as optimal, and would
commence only after review of the Phase I work and approval of the recommend-
ed option by the Government, ZIMCO and the Bank (Schedule 1, para 3 and,
Section 3.05(b)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
51.       The Project would require an estimated 310 man-months to execute,
including 160 man-months of specialized consultant services to be contracted
from abroad. The average man-month rate of the foreign consultant services,
including fees and reimbursable expenses such as travel, living expenses and
computer programming, is estimated at about US$15,200 which is considered
reasonable by industry standards; the local man-month rate is estimated at
about US$3,740.
Project Cost and Financing
52.       Details of the Project cost and financing are presented in the Loan
and Project Summary on page ii. The total cost of the Project, net of taxes
(from which the Project would be exempt) and including the IBRD front-end
fee, is estimated at about US$5.8 million, including US$5.1 million in
foreign exchange. The foreign exchange cost includes an estimated lump sum
amount of US$1.6 million to cover development of the project specification
package, including piping and instrument diagrams, which are likely to
involve proprietary technology. This lump sum estimate is based on the



- 21 -
option likely to require the most extensive process modification considered
in the Phase 1 work and could be reduced substantially should only minimal
modification prove necessary. The cost estimates are based on first quarter
1982 prices and include physical contingencies of 15 percent. Price
contingencies are based on escalation rates, in US$ terms, of 8.5 percent in
1982 and 7.5 percent in 1983 and 1984. The Bank loan of US$5.1 million is
proposed to cover the total foreign exchange cost, or about 88 percent of
total financing required for the project. Local cost financing of US$0.7
million equivalent will be provided by ZIMCO from its internal cash
generation.
53.       The Bank loan would be made to ZIMCO, with Government guarantee, on
standard country terms (20 years maturity, including 5 years of grace).
ZIMCO will bear the foreign exchange risk. ZIMCO is considered a
satisfactory borrower for the proposed loan. With net assets of about US$592
million as of March 31, 1981, ZIMCO is a state-owned holding company with
subsidiaries operating in the mining, industrial, agricultural, trading,
hotels, transport, energy and financial services areas. Many of its
subsidiaries, like INDENI Petroleum Refinery, are owned in joint-venture
partnership with foreign operating companies. Net income after taxes on
operations during the last three fiscal years were US$24 million equivalent
in fiscal 1981, US$ 135 million equivalent in fiscal 1980 and US$33 million
equivalent in fiscal 1979. Audited financial statements of the company for
the past three fiscal years are available in Project Files. ZIMCO and AGIP,
as co-shareholders in the INDENI Refinery Company, have agreed to exchange
views on the recommendations and conclusions of Phase I of the study and,
before proceeding with Phase II, jointly determine a program of action
necessary to give effect to the selected option in consultation with the
Government of the Republic of Zambia and the Bank.
Project Execution
54.       The Project would be executed over a period of 15 months beginning
from the effective date of award of contract to the consultants, which is
expected by July 31, 1982. The Project will be executed by a specially
created Project Unit set up within ZIMCO, with necessary technical assistance
from specialized foreign experts. The Project Unit will be headed by a
senior ZIMCO staff member, who is the Executive Director, Transport and
Energy (ZIMCO) as well as the Board Chairman of INDENI. Other staff in the
unit will include two economists, a financial analyst, a coal expert and an
energy specialist. Staff of the Project Unit will be drawn from INDENI,
ZIMCO, the joint technical directorate of the two major mining companies,
ZNEL, and the National Commission for Development Planning (NCDP) to ensure
that it has within it expertise from the various energy subsectors and the
mining sector. This composition is considered appropriate in view of the
implications of the national energy program affecting the refinery. The
Government and ZIMCO have agreed to this arrangement (Section 3.02(a), draft
Loan Agreement) and have confirmed to the Bank the creation of the Project
Unit and the appointment of competent staff to fill the positions mentioned
above. ZIMCO has further agreed to maintain and keep the Project Unit
adequately staffed with competent, experienced professionals throughout the
implementation of the Project (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 22 -
Selection of Consultants
55.       The qualifications, experience, selection and terms and conditions
of employment of the specialized consultants will be satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 3.02(b) of draft Loan Agreement). A short list of five consultants
from whom ZIMCO invited proposals in February 1982 was reviewed by the Bank;
their qualifications and experience are satisfactory. The Bank and ZIMCO
have agreed on criteria for the selection of the consultants and a draft
contract for the assignment. The selection criteria, which take into account
experience of the firm, the qualifications and experience of professional
personnel proposed for assignment to the study and the quality of the
proposal to be offered, are satisfactory. Proposals from the consultants
were received in late April and are under evaluation. The successful
consulting firm is expected to be selected in June 1982, with a proposed
contract effective date of end-July, 1982.
Disbursements
56.       Disbursements will be fully documented.  The Bank loan will finance
100 percent of foreign expenditures for the specialized consultancy services,
for the engineering package including proprietary technology associated with
the technology selected as optimum, and for the professional staff on the
Project Unit with respect to visits to the consultant services firm's home
office for supervision of the study. To ensure that the objectives of the
Project are being met, ZIMCO has agreed that disbursement for Phase 2 of the
Project will be subject to review of the Phase 1 work and agreement between
the Government, ZIMCO and the Bank on the option selected as optimum
(Schedule 1, para. 3, draft Loan Agreement). The loan is expected to
disburse over a 3-year period (see page (ii)); the disbursement profile is
based on Industry Department's experience with engineering loans, the
specific characteristics of this Project and assessment of the Project Unit's
capability to oversee the Project's implementation.
Benefits and Risks
57.       The detailed feasibility study to be carried out under the Pzoject
is expected to result in a full-scale modification project which would sub-
stantially reduce Zambia's petroleum import bill and is expected to yield a
very high economic rate of return. Preliminary analysis of two of the likely
modification options indicate an economic rate of return in the range of
25-35 percent. The modification project is expected to include secondary
processing units that would permit the refinery to process residual fuel oil
into premium value distillates. Specific expected benefits from the full-
scale modification would include (i) elimination of the much more expensive
spikes in the crude feed; (ii) flexibility to reduce/eliminate the refinery's
production of fuel oil corresponding to the rate of substitution of fuel oil
with coal and/or indigenous hydroelectric energy; and (iii) flexibility to
process a wider range of whole crudes. The Project would also provide data



- 23 -
and analysis for restructuring the petroleum product pricing and taxation
systems to induce and maintain optimum demand patterns consistent with the
energ' conservation goals of the country. The Project would be carried out
by a specially-created Project Unit of competent professional staff drawn
from the energy sector's major operating companies and users with assistance
from specialized consultants. No undue risks in implementation are foreseen.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Zambia Industrial and Mining
Corporation Limited and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Bank and the Republic of Zambia and the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank will
be distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Special conditions of
the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
b1= Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
April 23, 1982



- 24 -                                           ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                    Page  1  of  5
ZAMBIA - SUCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAMbIA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVES$ACES
LAtL AREA jTIiIUSAli SU). hM.)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIATU)t
IUlAL             752.6                                   MUST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
ALICGULruRAL      3iO.6                196U  lb    1970 /b ESIIMATE  b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
LNP PER CAPLIA (U16)                    2UU.0        34U.0      500.0 *                794.2                    1616.2
LNLERY CONSUMPTION PEK LAPIIA
(RIMORA1LS Ut CUAL EQUIVALENT)           ..        723.7     856.2                  707.5                     1324.1
YOPLLAIIUN AliU VIIAL SIATISTILS
PUPULAITON, t1D-YLAR (IHUUSANDS)  3207.U          4242.0    55B0.0 *
UDtRAIM iUPULAIIUN (PERCENT UP TOTAL) 23.1          3U.O       37.2                   27.7                      64.2
PUtLLATI1N PROJ ECT IONS
PUPULAILUN IN ISLAR 2000 (MILLIUNS)                          11.0
SIATIUNAKY PUPJLATIDU  (UIILLIUNS)                           31.0
YLAR LTATIUNARI PUPULATION 1S REACHED                     2125
PU1ULAIlUN DiUSliY
PER Sq. N11.                          4.3          5.6        7.4                  55.0                       34.3
PLK Sq. Ktl. AGKICULTURAL LAND        9.2         [2.1       15.4                 130.7                       94.5
PuPOULATINu AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YKS.                           45.U          46.1       47.1                  46.0                      40.7
15-64 YKS.                           52.5          51.4       50.3                  51.2                      55.3
b) YIS. AND AbOVE                      2.5          2.5        2.6                    2.8                       4.0
eUYPULAIlON GtRUWTI KAIL (PERLENT)
IOTAL                                 2.4          2.8       3.0                    2.8                        2.4
URBAN                                 5.3          5.4        5.5                   5.1                        3.7
LRUDE SUlIKH KATL (PEK THOUSAND)       5U.5         49.6       49.1                  46.9                       31.4
CRUDL DEAIH KAI. (PRK THUUSAND)        24.2         19.9       [6.6                   15.8                       8.4
GRUSbS REPRUDUCIION KATE                3.4          3.4        3.4                    3.2                       2.3
tA111LY PLANNING
ALCEPIOKS, ANNUAL (THIUSANDS)          ..
UbSiE  (PEKELNI UF HARRIED WUMEN)    ..             ..
lUU AND NUTIKTlUN
lDULX UF PUD PRJODUCTION
ELI GAP1IA (1959-71-1OD)            99.0         95.0       92.0                   89.9                     108.3
PEK CAP1IA SUPPLY UF
CALORIES (PERKENI OF
KEUq01ELENIS)                     79.1!        84.0       87.0                   92.3                     107.6
LPRVElINS (CRGAS PER DAY)           54.u         56.0       56.0                   52.8                      65.8
uF WHICH ANDILAL AND PULSE        13.0          16.0      14.0                   16.1                      34.0
LHILU (AGES 1-4) M4ORTALITY RATE       36.1         28.4      21.9                   20.2                        7.6
UBALTSi
LLEL EXPELIANCY AT AIRKTl  (YEARS)    40.0         44.9       49.3                   50.8                      64.1
1,iPANI MUhRALITY RATE (PER
TUOISANU)                                ..        144.0        ..                                             70.9
ALLESS TO SAFE WAILT (PERCENT UF
UUPULAIlUN)
TOTAL                                 ..          37.U       42.0                  27.4                      65.7
URbAN                                 ..         7U.0        86.0                  74.3                      79.7
RUKAL                                  ,.         22.0       16.0                  12.6                      43.9
ACCESS TO EXLRETA DISPUSAL (PERCENT
oF POtULAIILN)
TOTAL                                 ..         16.0       42.0                     ..                      59.9
UKRAN                                  ..         12.0       87.0                    ..                      75.7
RURAL                                             18.0      16.0                     ..                      30.4
POPULATION PEh PAYSICIAN            9544.6        b288.4   10191.0                13844.1                    1728.2
PUPULATILN PER NURSIRi. PLESUN      9915.0/c    2479.0    1931.0                   2898.6                    1288.2
PoUULAIIUNi PRK HRSPlIAL AED
TUIAL                              343.ULc      311.3      269.6                 1028.4                     471.2
UIBAN                               181.0/c        ,.      332.8                  423.0                     558.0
RUKAL                              468.0/c          ..     258.3                 3543.2
ADUIIbIOUNS PER HOSPITAL BEU             ..           ..       31.0
HoUUSING
AVERALE SIZE UF HOUSEHOLD
IOTAL                                 ..          4.4
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..       4.6
AVERAGE NSMBER UF PERSUNS PER ROROP
TUOAL                                  ..          2.6
URBAN                                 ..           2.6
RUKAL                                              2.6
ACCEbS TO LLtCIKTGLIY  (PERCENT
uF DWELLINGS)
IUIAL                                 ..            ..
URBAN                               27.5                                         ..
RUEAL                                  ..           ..



- 25 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
ZAMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAMBIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE5AGES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE>-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 42.0         91.0      95.0                   73.7                    101.7
MALE                  51.0       101.0      106.0                  96.8                    103.0
FEMALE                34.0        80.0       89.0                  79.0                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0         13.0      16.0                   16.2                     35.3
MALE                   3.0        18.0       21.0                  25.3                     34.9
FEMALE                 1.0         8.0       11.0                  14.8                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  28.0           3.0        3.0                   5.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            50.0         47.0      48.0                  36.2                      29.6
SECONDARY                          14.0         21.0      22.0                   23.6                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        28.5/c       47.3       39.0                    ..                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER ThOUSAND
POPULATION                         11.0         14.3      18.5                   32.3                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          5.0         17.7      22.0                   69.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           *-          4.0       4.9                   8.0                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   7.0         13.4       19.9                  20.2                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                   0.7                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1322.1       1653.4    2043.6                      .
F>EMALE (PERCENT)                  33.2         32.6      32.0                  36.7                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              79.0         73.0      67.7                   56.6                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  7.0          9.0      10.8                  17.5                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                41.2         39.0      36.6                   37.2                     31.8
MALE                                 55.3         52.9      50.1                   47.1                     49.0
FEMALE                               27.3         25.2       23.3                  27.5                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2         1.2        1.4                   1.3                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   33.7            ..      23.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  58.2            ..      63.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.4            ..       3.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.0            ..      10.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     247.0                 381.2
RURAL                                ..           ..     168.0                 156.2                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     126.0                 334.3                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..      85.0                 137.6                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      25.0
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1963.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates which is shown in the 1982 World
Bank Atlas are $560 (at 1978-80 prices) and 5766 thousand.
April 1982



- 26 -
ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                         Pagye        3 onf       5
Notes:  Aithoogh the data aF  dr,.- frce soa-o   generlly judged the nos  authoritati- and Fellable, it should also be nosd that ehey soy no  baitte-
oanioaellyampstshle hetause ad oha look of  ts-ds-dtaed deinition   an...d r....ept  used hy different  nore   ia coil-telg the date.  The dues see  tone-
thebe..... usful to d-ccibe adera of magotiode, indiutenronda, sod ch.aeateiaeas-sin  major diffenece  be t.e... otre
The rofe ..o g...p. ar. .1) the coma coatiy groop of the s.bject contc  sd (2)  -cyt group aith saebthge  aeaetcm    hac then coty group
ofthe sbject anaryjtp   in"aIta  Surplus Oil E.Pr--re  gRou here"tiddl  boom  North dfria sod PiddleEs"i   h.s.t becus  oF strogr
caoity   fthe itst sin a group bus data foeta   eictr,i th                   the ta iroge  f      dau trisamong th   ndcatn d.ep....   s          hv n    aelaiay ch  at
aseInicn    ae  tme~ag  hecontryan  rfrete groophs.1a 
TLlnD    ditEd  ( thouan   -qb.)    It.                                                           Popultiatt   pee Hc-Pital ted  - atto, uthan, andt.rl-oyoit(oa,
Tote   - Ttal  uefce aea tmpetingland anca and inten  saoc                               ra,sdrrl   iiedbytiersctoeolrofp hoytI                                 IO
Agri-alt.r1 - Es1timt  of ugiuerlae   sdtmaalyo   emnnl                                             v Ial   npbi   o   rct   eeo nd -yaiaiad   osItlindre
foe nears, pastures, earlee sad hltchen guadeec or to lie fullaw; 1978 dtata.   hbailitttia   en eta.  Hapinals are astablih..meu P. peeantysufe
l-l.t.d by   P-  -P't-   -t  --1 -1kat ptby a  lese ae phsicin.  Etshiahmrnns Providing principalycota
letPECyio)1      --i-Ptrc -hF tim  eatialc  at. Alrr..    muktpete  c                          il -afe  -f  not Included.  Rore1 hoepitls,tase,beld  hat
nolated bysums otaven too methd as OarldNook atlas(1977-79 bests); li,and meIcal   lantee  no  prtanentoY atoffed by epyeie (bcEh
1970, sand 1979 dot..sdtlassot   oe,mdie   n.  ouh"of"etopt lent1 accohl                                                                                                         -
ENERGY CONSUITTIO  PER CAPITA - A  .. 1 c--pti.n ~fd.'tio  and Proide a  imited rage of medical facilitite.Fostt-
end lignite.  eroem,utsrlgasa.nd hydrt-., ntenn    etemlslv                                        n   ua   optllae   rrr  bsies50   eia   nttr't
trloltyl it kiogeams of coa  equivalent pe  ta pita;196b, 1970, and 1979            teo--s  Sipeialised hospitam  at  included only coder tonal.
dana.                                                                   bdsiasioes pee gaseitul Ned - Steal somber of adeisaican near diucheeges-Pt.1  ad   Intl -b.l      d...J- di--ge
POPULIbTION ANDfITAL10  STATISTICSdiddbyh.-blIbe.
Tanel Papalanios, aid-Te(tosn)   A. bof July 1; 1960, 1970, sod 1909                         iHOUSING
data-i--    b.  .tt1  ...i.                                                                    boceage licen ofH haueld (Persons ear houeod      oa,ubn   e   od
diffeemne, deinitions ofabnaoemyafotaprbln    fdn                                                n   hi   anmasMare   rldenhmapdo  may bot h  t-ldd  in_
asagautie;  91,191,ad  90   at.                                                        heiooebY   far statstial  ueph.
Pagulatiam Prajscnicns                                                               Auseafenombee of pertoes petf roam- ea-bilitrhaf,dand rurali-
Paaa inaI  yea  2000 - Cartoon population proetin  aebae  o   98,ero, proey                                 eetesi  all .nbe., o'.alb, nd naalocupe  cAuvena
total PoPulattan by age end saod their  cta y an   etlt   ees                                  wl      _ns   sye  isy        wlinealdneprannsenu                           n
plevel,an  fealelft       epcsopaailca a.01per.Th.aa fontinetoal  nelils wthandeniln  in . liin --antroa
the birthrats is eue  no th   dealtes  sa -elsa tb -gsiutur..ee-                        en l-eet of al  age  an.. abs-peier  level 'us  petete  ofd re.peani-
sals cnseut   Ths i  ahieed  sl  siar  enilly ece  daltn  a                      prmar  saaa-sg   paalniae;  orall  leloeeyhil tn sed  -1
of-omtre plts.       tel.a.ny   Theigyatiaery populaias dc.as..o...nie  mit  as"                                      esa  edtattayn      i otliest  ayense  11  percent
estimate  as thebasis ofthe prae ansiP chrateit pire of nb   oulto                     slet  coman  --rI areI belli nBsav n-eoficil  cholyge
inh n -eyea  210,an then  .   nutsd  of delieoffrtltyne          to rp.lete-                  Stuaosba-anl   aeedfeae-Cmue   s  bv;scsdn
se:nt ftlevel                                                                                    eduaatiarfquin.aejleasefour.y.es.of appoved prmaryEtesrCttiOn
ele  as been reache.                                                                          usPasli1ydj   of EP12 ato R17ier   fae;trepnanetusssa   eee
PuoutenioJ.letsitt                                                                           enal_oded,
Path.h.agiuta     lu     CmuedP sabv  fa                          -hnio Run t ind                essly e   sdprmaso   eadr                                ........u.i_ant.
only;1960t190  and1979dana                                                                   PYrl-nsebc  ra,tio-enmry   r feoaedayh            - Toed_  stu set  senodled11
Paplo-tiasbe  iseuthuesb.~ (rpit)-Cf irs(1.ess,makn-ae. pnesn  sa                                                  edr  lvl   iiedb.abn  of tachrsis eke
_4yss.adrtrd  0   er     dae)uspnangsoli-fd   aa                                                  arsadn   leel.              d.  !
letn,h b,190   e  1909dat,                                                                   adlt itesly  ave  rersec -P  litrat  adolts )l  to  ea  aed arise
PesaiemuhPt   ftet  totaa- a20a00eowo  naechf ttalsd-aaprcoae  fCedldlt pouatio  egfed  15 years  andaer.
yea  popla;tio pnsfar i 1950-hit1900-0,.end.910-09
latins fr 190-08  190-00.  .h.  h.ad90-9   Y-ah..spen Cars. fret thousand raelain _- Pssae  den  cmpis ty
poplaton  19ty  1900,  ndl190  dat2 rod                                                           tst   no 7g ...e plicf pger  huado --    Papud tie-     gstladeso-
famly Fauig-a1      aan.enua  thuan          ds)-1h978      nuberof  toetor                    Fleoivr  fs thuadrnltand)..dl - T                      -1naon   fotbodoat e .to1di
of hinn-eu    t.. device .unde   Cheildatf. natia1a yasly) p.lknig-g prgns                 gna   ubi  penthosad ppuation;   ...de  cml.  tacosed. in rthisn
Fa4l  als ndog-tied  6ancent of manne  eaen p-.Fnteog g  of  mant-le pIt coutries aad ivyersela    sicaino   F  esn                                                    fet
1911 dt,.                                                    ,~~~~~~~~~pbitnttdevtdpiaiyc   eodn ggnlns.I  scnIee
is anti calenda  Rnan hpauls. C ediiAnncaret primar  good  (e t.g.           id-ro               aud. eail  uni. lts.   Pt..        Lt..        ~t   .l  t   ed.    i.
tee are e6uc96ded).,oggregana7 prodoani-s-of each countryItinPbused.an.L.d E5FY)tCF
teiul  vng  tpradunar   ) prc   sig _ts;  91-h,1 9-1, otd 190  data.                   Toapao  Fee(husnsp                   onaiai   ctt   eens   nld
per day. f   b1o9a50    supplies c1pt9sd70      eicp7d9tln    Cmut  esOaSMTIOmpNe                                  90   95ed17   ae
quactiheR  ace  in- foo-ad prosceng,al l-ebslto. O-thn-ikndo.  eqins,-                   baiulos(pret)-lbo   ocei   anig  foretry    otn   n
mtes.. ace196t0           yP0bae   opysoaia  ,.sEr  am    ti                                 fishIng us pecerg.        f  oa thaha  farce; 1900, 1970.  ad10dens.
vCyD         hath Rt onaideth nlag -oviAt scsdethl tePertre   oy   egts                       Indut-y (rercat)-lbrfreinsvn,cntutin    em toa
and  ea dscniutia  of  opuatio, ae  allalog10 prcet fa  oass ataed  lsntiaiy. aoer  nd ga asph-ao...                              oftatf  labr Fote;  910
household. level;.71 196-d5 190,  sdR177dtai17  sad199  am
neC    upl   fbodpela.   e.spl.odod  sd.i..a bon    s                                           atvty   s         e   optda  natal,sale, ten  Easel  esltfocea
alonte o   5_ rs  o   atlpotu   andy  n   0  rm   of av:Ime  ead                          Oh I, 19 i,an  1909 dna- t. T reset  buedan wh '  p ticip-if  rtes
yalse  rotei, of sich i1 grm   hudh   amlpoen               hs  sad                     elc  n   g-s   tacn   ofIhe  apustightnd  ag  Im  ted:.f
hidaeloe   ht hs                f 0  gas  o  tta  prtiIadd            rasoPfeetmae.eafa   aiaen_ots
atna   roenaso   neasfa   h                 rd  papae  by  -0toth  Tirdl                     Easai  eedoclai :atoo   oueia   ne   5so   1adae
dal   od  uvy -A 9111y!'  -65   90ad10  dana                                            to6the1totallahdn fn79
Child (ages 1-4  Panraliry Note(par thaussad)- iAnnual death  perltlucad-i          Peecenaeof Pivat  Incod(ahi   atadbnd      seodb   lbe
age  etu  1-4yess,  o chdr(P  i  thsag   rap  forl noedvlpnPoc a                            peIre'r, rihest 20yaacn,poaea2   ecn,no   orstlec
tries  ata deived fov lif  tables; 19f 1900 and-T1909 data,                              of bausebo-ld.
PtAlf                                                                                         otut.  P.CI  al
life lapeteentr  n 9   --m    f (years   -  veag   umero  perlflfenmtigTh   alwa   esi-ce  arever. aprov lan                                .rdoeso.     ovrylaeo
at bIieirt;19d   90   nd10  data.                                                               aedd in laud hen iosrIr  wih-cosde fb a  otlt
d               ionaeityPt  ae huad   Annual death  ofiof ants  ndrav1     Te             Estimatd bhiNote PoeorIcm  level...          i                          ff ato       rbnad oa
of age  ep thouend liv  little    Ph'ue  aet  income lP"e   v tha Eeticano loa-                                                                 tlo   hchomiia
foudcato. orsadof       lctdntnt   hn10mtr                     e   housefmay he                 personC._Al..Inoefte Atantry... Pas lfnei Bedeid -             nh s thrrl
ctidene111d, as   . keog aittin  resoa le  l acIdeof ab house.  faroaltratEsimte Pocatv  ilth bealr   ope  aoeLvlfeca)-r
dovt.hv.     ccad      ipaonint   ato    _thedyi  tendin  the.~dfld                                                                                        lv.J i_
fasi-y' soanen  aced        ilead-...                      .9    f..n
Nubrofpoleg fiord,                                 -ta,        nn     seve  by  ban -t disposalORas
the collectIon                         iI- and dipoal  nube-Hh- or 96ick 5u tretmnt  ofd lames9adets.   Tcaomt   ad Scia  Dta  tvt
cud waae-waan byeater-arns  ystem  an te use  f pitprivis andatmi-                                               caaaec loaysne  nd dnfantidv  Dapttmae
P prlaca   e NniaPesndoplto -Pvdn  bygnambe  otpeacfinin
tylaefc-Psnduteurss   dractias  n                   o-unsee,,0,.    .f.li



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ZAMBIA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL.PRODUCT IN 1978/79                                  ANNUAL AVERAGE RATE OF GROWTH
'S, constant 1970 prices)
US$ Min.    %                         1965-1974         1974-1980
GNP at Market Prices              3,569    100.0                           2.4             -1.6
Gross Domestic Investment           811      23                            6.1            -18.5
Gross National Saving       -       416      12                            5.7            -20.2
Current Account Balance            -395    -11
Exports of Goods, NFS             1,406      39                            2.1             -3.4
Imports of Goods, NFS             1,512      42                           3.9             -11.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980 (preliminary)
Value Added               Labor Force  1/           V.A. Per Worker
USS Min.        S             Mln.      %                USS    % of Ave.
Agriculture                         510        14.3           0.873    52.0               584       25.5
Industry                         1,428         40.1           0.252    15.0             5,667      247.0
Services                          1,624        45.6           0.428    25.5             3,794      165.4
Unallocated                           -           -           0.126      7.5                -          -
Total/Average                      .
3,562       100.0           1,679   100.0             2,294      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                 General Government2/                  Central Government
(K Mln.         % of GOP         ( K Min.)                % of GDP
1980        1971 - 79
Current Receipts                                                     764               25            26
Current Expenditures                                               1,028               34            27
Current Surplus                                                     -264              -9            -2
Capital Expenditures                                                  87                3             6
External Assistance (net)                                             94                3             3
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES               1965   1970   1972    1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
(Million K Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                 107.6  355.6  341.0   440.7  493.0  623.0  699.0  640.0  832.0  907.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector 2/    -88.7 -163.8  147.2    78.1  373.0  571.0  791.0 1062.0 1122.0 1354.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector          42.3  136.9  165.0   335.8  393.0  399.0  470.0  462.0  483.0  505.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP    15.1   27.8   25.5   23.1   31.1   33.3   35.8   29.1   31.7   29.9
General Price Index (1963=100)          76.2  102.6  114.6  132.1  145.4  172.8  207.0  240.9  264.3  295.2
Annual percentage changes In:
General Price Index                      8.2   2.6       5.4    8.1   10.1   18.8   19.8   16.4    9.7   11.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector                           691.4  -61.9  378.2   53.1   38.5   34.3    5.6   20.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector 3/               21.9    -9.7   92.1   17.0    0.2   17.8  -10.2   14.5    4.6
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
/ Total laber force as of June 1978, distributed by sector according to 1974 pattern; unemployment are
allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed workers
seeking their first Job.
2/ Figures do not differ significantly from "Central Government".
__ Includes parastatal organizations
not available
not applicable
April 1982



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
ZAMB I A
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                       MERCHANM  ! SE EXPORTS 1980
1977     1978      1979     1980 (preliminary)                   USS Mln.    %
(Millions US S)
Exports of Goods, NFS               963       988    1,378    1,406       Copper                      1,260     91
Imports of Goods, NFS             1,007    1,025    1,046    1,512        Cobalt                        60       4
Resource Gap (deficit = -)          -44       -37      332      -106      Lead and Zinc                  40      3
All other dommodities         24       2
Total                    1,384    100
Non-factor Services (net)          -100      -140     -124      -229
Net Transfers                      - 84      -100      -75       -60
Balance on Current Account         -228      -277      133      -395      EXTERNAL DEBT, DEC. 31,,1980
USS Mln.
Direct ForeTgn Investment             ..
Net MLT Borrowing                                                         Public Debt, Incl. guaranteed    1,969
Disbursements                     244       364      306       305      Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Amortization                      120       161      350 1/   17Q       Total Outstanding & Disbursed    1,969
Subtotal                          124       203      -44       135
Capital Grants                                  .         .        .      DEBT SERVICE.RATIO FOR 1981 4/
Other Capital (net                  200        75       19       160                                            %
Other Items n.e.i.  )              -169       -90      -73       -31
Increase in Reserves (+)            -74      -89        35     -131       Public Debt, Incl. guaranteed
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Gross Reserves (end year)            74        60       88        60      Total Outstanding & Disbursed       22.0
Net Reserves 2/ (end year)         -227      -396     -354      -485                                         (est.)
Imports of petroleum                 84       85       121      188
IBRD/IDA LENDING, Mm-ch 31, 1982
(Mllion USS)
RATES QF EXCHANQE (SDR's or USS per Kwacha) 3/                                                         IBRD    IDA
US5      SDR's
Before February 1973                1.40        .                         Outstanding & Disbursed   325.65   5.17
February 1973 - July 1976           1.55        .                         UndTsbursed                  88.38  39.58
July 1976 - March 1978                 .      1.0848                      Outstanding Incl.
April 1978 - December 1981             .      0.9763                         Undisbursed             414.03  44.75
ANNUAL AVERAGE
1977                             1.27      1.08
1978                             1.23     0.98
1979                             1.26     0.98
1980                             1.27     0.98
1981                             1.15     0.98
i/ Including US$186 million of reduction In arrears.
7/ Excluding external payment arrears.
T/ The Kwacha has been pegged to the SDR since July 1976.
_/ Ratio of estimated debt service, excluding arrears and IMF repayments, to exports of goods and non-factor
services.
not available
not applicable                                                                                   April 1982



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
as of March 31, 1982
Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Credit                                                         (Less Cancellation)
No.    No.       Year   Borrower          Purpose                  Bank    IDA b Undisbursed
17 Loans fully
disbursed                                 277.00
900-1            1973   Zambia            Education                 33.00            8.60
919              1973   Zambia Elec-      Hydroelectric
tricity           Power                   115.00            4.37
Supply Corp.
1131             1975   Posts & Tele.    Telecommunications         32.00            6.68
1210             1976   Development       Development Finance
Bank of Zambia   Company                   15.00            0.65
1356             1977   Zambia            Education                 13.30            6.15
1424            1977   Zambia             Industrial Forestry       16.80            5.55
1566   798       1978   Zambia            Third Highway             11.25  11.25   22.29
863      1979   Zambia             Coffee Production                 6.00    3.10
873      1979   Zambia             Technical Assistance              5.00    4.42
1790   973       1980   Zambia            Third Railway             25.00  15.00   38.52
1923             1981   Development       Second Development
Bank of Zambia   Finance Company           15.00            9.13
2001 a           1981   Zambia            Eastern Province
Agric. Development       11.00           11.00
1196 a   1982   Zambia             Smallholder Dairy Dev.            7.50    7.50
Total                                             564.35  44.75  127.96
of which has been repaid                         130.92    -        -
Total now outstanding                             415.53  44.75      -
Amounts sold                        49.57
of which has been repaid           48.07           1.50    -
Total now held by Bank/IDA b                      414.03  44.75      -
of which is undisbursed                           88.38  39.58  132.01
a Not yet effective
b Prior to exchange adjustment
Note: The US$18.0 million Southern Province Agricultural Development Loan approved on
December 15, 1981 has not yet been signed.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
as of March 31, 1982
Investment                                                       US$ Million Equivalent
No.      Year                        Type of Business        Loan Equity   Total
216 ZA       1972   Zambia Bata Shoe
Company Limited    Shoe Manufacturing       0.85   0.23    1.08
250 ZA       1973   Zambia Bata Shoe   Shoe Manufacturing
Company Limited    and Tannery              1.20    -       1.20
307 ZA       1975   Century Packages
Limited             Packaging Materials    0.78   0.21    0.99
324 ZA       1976   Development Bank   Development Finance
of Zambia           Company                  -      0.54    0.54
394 ZA       1978   Century Packages
Limited             Packaging Materials    0.10    -        0.10
483 ZA       1979   Nchanga Consoli-   Copper and Cobalt
dated Copper Mines Production              28.00    -      28.00
527 ZA       1980   Kafue Textiles of
Zambia Limited      Textiles & Fibers       7.60    -       7.60
600 ZA       1981   Nchanga Consoli-   Copper Production
dated Copper Mines                         31.04    -      31.04
Total gross commitments                    69.57   0.98   70.55
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                    10.44    -      10.44
Total now held by IFC                      59.13   0.98   60.11
Total undisbursed                          40.75    -      40.75



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
as of March 31, 1982
Loan No. 900-ZA       Third Education Project:  US$33.0 million Loan of June
6, 1973; Effectiveness Date: August 9, 1973; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
The project, as originally approved (excluding certain university
components and technical assistance that were deleted at Government-s re-
quest), was completed in March 1980, about six months after the original
completion date. The Closing Date, originally September 30, 1979, was
postponed to March 31, 1983 to enable the Borrower to utilize savings to
finance construction of twelve primary schools originally included under
the Lusaka Squatter Upgrading and Sites and Services Project (Loan 1057-ZA)
and a maintenance program for secondary schools. Five of the primary
schools are under construction; tender documents for the remaining seven
are almost complete. Commencement of construction of the seven schools may
be delayed due to lack of counterpart funds and the need to secure new
sites for three schools. The maintenance program is progressing well with
most of the five experts in post.
Loan No. 919-ZA       Kafue Hydroelectric Project (Stage II):  US$115.0 mil-
lion Loan of July 16, 1973; Effectiveness Date: Jan-
uary 15, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The two 150-MW units at the Kafue Gorge power station were com-
missioned in mid-1977. Construction of the main dam has been completed and
the reservoir filled. The project is expected to be completed within the
appraisal cost estimates. The Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation-s
(ZESCO) financial performance has not been satisfactory; tariffs were how-
ever increased 20 percent for domestic users and 30 percent for industrial
users during 1979. Largely because of the economic recession affecting
Zambia, ZESCO has been experiencing a shortage of spare parts and the de-
parture of some expatriate staff. The Closing Date was extended to Decem-
ber 31, 1982 to enable additional civil works on the control of artesianal
pressures to be carried out.
Loan No. 1131-ZA      Telecommunications Project:  US$32.0 million Loan of
June 24, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
About US$5.4 million of the loan still remains to be committed.
Project completion is now expected by June 30, 1983, three years behind
schedule, due to delays in installing and commissioning telephone exchange



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
equipment.  Increases in tariffs (averaging 75 percent), approved in August
1979, have reduced dependence of the Posts and Telecommunications Corpora-
tion (PTC) on government financing of local costs of the project. The
problem of large accounts receivable by PTC from Government and its agen-
cies continues. Operational difficulties with the semi-electronic main
telephone exchange in Lusaka also have severely affected PTC-s revenues.
The Closing Date was postponed from December 31, 1981 to December 31, 1982.
Loan No. 1210-ZA      Development Bank of Zambia:  US$15.0 million Loan of
February 18, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 23,
1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The loan has been fully committed for a number of projects in
various manufacturing industries such as chemicals, textiles, packaging,
food processing and in agriculture. The Closing Date was postponed from
September 31, 1981 to March 31, 1982 to permit disbursements for equipment
already ordered by DBZ' subborrowers. The Bank is preparing to close the
loan account as soon as outstanding disbursements have been completed.
Loan No. 1356-ZA      Fourth Education Project:  US$13.3 million Loan of
January 17, 1977; Effectiveness Date: March 8, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Civil works are complete except for minor works to the kitchen
and dining room at the Evelyn Hone College and the printshop at the Nation-
al Education Services Center (NESC). Seventy percent of all furniture and
equipment has been delivered. The NESC and the Farmer Institutes and
Training Centeres are underutilized because of recurrent budget shortages.
About US$3 million of the loan allocated for technical assistance is uncom-
mitted due to the Government's reluctance to hire foreign consultants on
high salaries and a lack of suitable candidates for the fellowship pro-
gram.  The project unit is well staffed and manages implementation well.
Loan No. 1424-ZA      Second Industrial Forestry Project:  US$16.8 million
Loan of May 12, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November
15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation continues to be satisfactory despite staf-
fing and management problems. Industrial Plantations Division's incorpora-
tion has not yet been effected, due to protracted consultations between
government agencies. Planting targets are being met. The audit report
between January 1980 and March 1981 shows a loss of US$423,500 caused by
frequent plantation fires and ineffeciencies in sawmilling and logging
operations.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Loan No. 1566         Third Highway Project:  US$22.5 million (US$11.25 mil-
and                   lion Loan and US$11.25 million Credit) of June 27,
Credit 798-ZA         1978; Effectiveness Date:  November 26, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Due to delays in loan and credit effectiveness and employment of
technical assistance personnel, project implementation is behind schedule
and completion is expected by the end of 1985, 18 months behind reappraisal
(July 1979) estimates. Progress in recruiting technical assistance person-
nel has improved. The Government is reviewing a report on a consultant's
study of the MSD reorganization and will submit its assessment to the Bank
shortly. Consultants have started carrying out feasibility studies of the
Mansa-Mwense-Nchelenge road and estimate that the draft feasibility report
will be completed by May 1982. The Bank is currently reassessing the proj-
ect scope in light of the Government's difficulties in providing the local
recurrent funds for road maintenance.
Credit No. 863-ZA    Coffee Production Project:  US$6.0 million Credit of
December 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Expatriate and counterpart staffing are satisfactory and the
planting and rehabilitation program for coffee and maize, as well as dis-
bursements, are ahead of schedule. Implementation under the smallholder
component has been slow and haphazard and lacked adequate guidance and
supervision. The coffee research component is underway. The estate compo-
nent is in financial difficulties, with a shortfall of about US$5.0 mil-
lion, because costs have been much higher than expected. The Government
has obtained agreement in principle from KfW for additional financing to
cover the cost of the coffee processing plant.
Credit No. 873-ZA    Technical Assistance Project:  US$5.0 million Credit
of December 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  July 12,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
A planning expert and a project evaluation expert have been hired
to work in the Project Preparation Unit of the National Commission for De-
velopment Planning and a second project evaluation expert is being recruit-
ed. Phase I of feasibility studies for a fuel alcohol project has been
completed; preparation of a possible fisheries project is in progress; a
request to finance Zambia's contribution to the joint operational and staf-
fing study of Zambia Railways and TAZARA has been approved; and a request
for financing feasibility studies for a rural electrification project is
being considered.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Loan No. 1790-ZA      Third Railway Project:  US$25.0 million Loan and US$15
Credit No. 973-ZA    million Credit of June 16, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
March 31, 1981; Closing Date: September 30, 1984
The project is cofinanced by the EEC (through a Special Action
credit), AfDB, Japan, OPEC Special Fund, KfW, SIDA and ODA (UK). Procure-
ment is proceeding well and disbursement, which lagged due to delays in is-
suing letters of credit, is expected to regain momentum. Technical assist-
ance for project implementation is proceeding well and, likewise, train-
ing. Due to TAZARA's limited capacity, much copper has been sent to Dar-
es-Salaam by road rather than by rail, thus reducing Zambia Railways- (ZR)
share. This, combined with an increase in working expenses and the lack of
tariff revision, has caused financial difficulties for ZR. The Government
is considering a tariff increase and the Bank is discussing its possible
assistance for improving TAZARA with the Governments of Tanzania and
Zambia.
Loan No. 1923-ZA      Second Development Bank of Zambia Project:  US$15.0
million Loan of January 8, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
May 1, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The loan is almost fully committed for 17 sub-projects in manu-
facturing, agriculture and transport.
Loan No. 2001-ZA      Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project:
US$11.0 million Loan of November 23, 1981; Effective-
ness Date: Scheduled for June 23, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Implementation has been slow due to ineffective coordination
among concerned ministries and agencies and the bulk of the PPF advance is
unutilized. Progress in fulfilling conditions of effectiveness is slow as
are construction of houses and procurement of transport equipment. Govern-
ment now intends to retain a consulting firm to provide key project staff.
Credit No. 1196-ZA   Smallholder Dairy Development Project:  US$7.5 million
loan of March 24, 1982; Effectiveness Date: Scheduled
for June 23, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
The project is designed to increase milk production and raise in-
comes of smallholder dairy farmers in Mazabuka, Monze and Kabwe Districts
by increasing use of modern farm techniques and improving marketing ser-
vices. Credit will be extended to smallholders for on-farm development and
animal husbandry and veterinary extension services will be provided. Con-
ditions of effectiveness are expected to be met on schedule.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
D. IFC PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Zambia Bata Shoe Company Ltd. (216-ZA and 250-ZA) - Shoes and Tannery
IFC's investment in 1972 helped finance an expansion project to
triple shoe production to 2.9 million pairs. The project also opened up
the ownership of the company to local investors. In 1973 IFC's investment
helped finance a tannery to process 300 hides per day to meet the company s
requirement for leather. The foreign exchange situation of Zambia con-
tinued to limit raw material imports by the company. However, more local
materials are now used by the company, and this resulted in a 14 percent
increase in production during 1980. The company has been operating profit-
ably.
Century Packages Ltd. (307-ZA) - Packaging Materials
The plant was completed in 1977, about a year later than origin-
ally anticipated, with an increase in project cost equivalent to 26 percent
of total costs. Increased project cost has been met largely through provi-
sion of additional financing acquired under the Project Funds Agreement.
Sales during the fiscal year ended March 31, 1981 were stagnant at the pre-
vious year's level. Increases in administrative expenses, especially pro-
vision for doubtful debts, and interest cost contributed to the loss re-
corded for the year.
Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ) (324-ZA) - Development Banking
DBZ- principal objective is to provide medium- and long-term
loans and equity financing for productive enterprises in manufacturing, ag-
riculture and tourism. Since 1979, the volume of DBZ business has been in-
creasing. Loan approvals, which had stagnated around US$9.5 million per
year in 1976-78, increased to about US$28 million in FY80 and US$49 million
in FY81. Profitability has also improved: between FY80 and FY81, net
profit rose from US$1.7 million to US$2.7 million, a roughly 60 percent in-
crease. At the end of FY81, the total portfolio of DBZ was US$41 million
as compared with US$28 million at the end of FY80.
Nchanga Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd. (NCCM) (483-ZA) - Cobalt Production
The IFC loan of US$28 million (of which US$20 milion is for IFC's
account) to NCCM for a cobalt production production project was approved on
September 4, 1979. The project will more than triple NCCM-s finished co-
balt production to about 43,000 tpa by 1983. The project is currently
under implementation, and physical completion of the project is expected by
mid-1982, on time and approximately within budget.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Nchanga Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd. (NCCM) (600-ZA) - Copper Production
IFC's second investment in NCCM was a loan of DM 70 million
(equivalent to about US$30 million). IFC's loan which was approved on De-
cember 3, 1981, will help finance a major expansion of the company's tail-
ings treatment capacity. The project will produce an average of about
35,000 tpa of finished copper starting in 1984, equivalent to about nine
percent of projected total company output, at a cost far below the com-
pany's existing operations.
Kafue Textile of Zambia Ltd. (KTZ) (527-ZA) - Textiles
A loan investment of US$7.3 million and a contingent commitment
of US$0.3 million were approved in 1980 to assist KTZ' US$28 million expan-
sion. In the expansion, the company's production capacity will be increas-
ed from 10.6 million meters of finished fabrics per year to 18.9 million
meters and diversification into the production of cotton blended fabrics
will be carried out. The project is still under implementation and is
scheduled for completion in June 1983.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project         Approximately 8 months (From
June 1981 to September 1982)
(b)  Project Prepared by                   Zambia Industrial and Mining
Corporation Limited (ZIMCO)
and INDENI Refinery Company
Limited
(c)  First Presentation to the Bank  :  June 1981
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission  :   September 1981
(e)  Negotiations                          April 1982
(f) Planned deadline of
effectiveness                         August 1982
II. Special Bank Implementation Action
Energy Assessment Mission will supply the project consultants with
necessary data by end June 1982.
III. Special Conditions
(a) Disbursement for Phase II work of the project will be subject to
review of Phase I work and agreement between the Government,
ZIMCO and the Bank on the option selected as optimum (para. 56);
and
(b) Borrower and Guarantor to review recommendations on petroleum
fuels pricing and taxation structures and consult with the Bank
on these recommendations and on a mechanism and timetable for
their implementation (para. 34).



-38 -                  ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 11
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
INDENI REFINERY MODIFICATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
1.        The Republic of Zambia has a 25,000 barrels per day refinery located
in Ndola. The refinery (INDENI Petroleum Refinery Company) is jointly owned by
the Zambia Industrial & Mining Corporation (ZIMCO), a state-owned company and
AGIP of Italy. The refinery has been designed to process Light Arabian crude
spiked with naphtha, kerosene and gas oil in a 3:1 ratio by weight. The main
process units at the refinery are: (i) a crude unit, (ii) distillate hydro-
treater, (iii) a product fractionator, (iv) a catalytic naphtha reformer, and
(v) an asphalt unit. There are no secondary processing units. Currently, the
refinery has to process 43% weight-spiked Arabian Light crude to meet market
demand. Consumption in recent years has been shifting to the middle distillates;
the shift is believed to be influenced by widely varying tax rates among dif-
ferent products and by pricing policies which tend to favour the middle distil-
lates. Concerned about the increasing proportion of spikes that have to be
processed, the Government of Zambia (GRZ) has proposed a detailed engineering
study to determine whether changes in taxation and pricing policies, together
with possible process modifications to the refinery could improve the operat-
ing efficiency of the refinery and result in net economic gains to the country.
The study is to be carried out within the framework of the Government's overall
energy program which seeks to replace petroleum fuel uses, where feasible, with
indigenous hydroelectricity, coal and ethanol produced from surplus molasses,
and conserve petroleum fuel consumption through restructuring of consumer prices
of refined petroleum products to reflect their true economic cost to the coun-
try. A Project Unit has been established under ZIMCO which will make available
basic engineering and market data. Parallel to this study, the World Bank is
assisting GRZ in carrying out an assessment of its energy resources, require-
ments and policies, which will also be made available to the selected consul-
tants. It is essential that the proposed engineering study be closely coor-
dinated with the above energy assessment study.
Objectives of the Study
2.        The main objectives of the study shall include:
(i) Projection of petroleum fuel requirements to the year 2000,
taking into account the availability of indigenous coal and
hydro-electricity which could economically replace fuel oil;
electrification of the railway system to eliminate/reduce
diesel oil; the petroleum fuel conservation plans of GRZ and
plans for production of ethanol from surplus molasses as a
blend with gasoline. Projections should be made under two
scenarios: (i) using existing pricing and taxation policies;
and (ii)   using assumptions which eliminate price distortions
among petroleum products caused by existing tax and cross-
subsidy pricing policies;



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 11
(ii)  Determination of an appropriate pricing structure for refined
petroleum products that would reflect their true economic
cost to the country and a more rational structure of taxation
for these products;
(iii) Determination of the extent to which modifications of the
existing refinery facility are required to meet projected fuel
demand under each of the two scenarios in (i) above. Such
a determination should include comparative economic analysis
of various technological options (e.g., fluid catalytic
cracker, hydrocracker or hydrocracker with a residuum desul-
phurizer and residuum deasphalter) and recommendation of
the most economic option under each scenario.
(iv) Improvement of plant operation by streamlining the maintenance
system, expanding the training program, debottlenecking
existing units, adopting better operating practices, modern-
ization of instrumentation to detect and help reduce energy
and material losses and improving process control and product
quality should be considered along with any modification
option considered;
(v) Preparation of a comprehensive and documented compilation of
all data regarding the recommended option and any modifications
required, including technical descriptions of the option,
implications on offsites and utilities, the capital and
operating costs to a degree of reliability of + 15%; the basis
on which they have been estimated and identification of
sources and terms of financing, including suppliers' credits;
and
(vi) Preparation of basic engineering, design and detailed plans
for implementation, including project management, procurement,
construction and supervision, cost control, project scheduling,
plant start-up, etc.; preparation of bid documents for the
selection of the engineering contractors.
3.        The proposed study will be carried out in two phases.  Phase 1
will cover objectives (i) to (iv). Within six months of commencement of work,
the consultants will be required to submit a preliminary report on the Phase 1
work. Phase 2 (objective (v) and (vi)) will be carried out only after review by
GRZ and the World Bank of the Phase 1 work, and the recommended modifications
have been approved. To fully meet the objectives of the study, the selected
consultant firm will be required to provide highly qualified experts with an
in-depth knowledge of the structure and economics of the petroleum industry
and its technologies. If the selected consultant firm is deficient in any
area of the proposed study, it would be required to associate itself with a
qualified specialist partner to overcome the deficiency.



- 40 -                  ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 11
Scope of Work
4.          The scope of work is divided into two phases; Phases 1
and 2 are complementary and should be considered an integral part of the
study; initiation of work on Phase 2 will, however, be contingent on the
emergence of a technically and economically viable refinery modification
option consequent to completion of Phase 1 and acceptable to GRZ.
Phase 1
Phase 1 study shall include, but not be limited to the
following:
A. Demand/Supply of Petroleum Products
(i)  Review all available information on energy consump-
tion in Zambia with particular emphasis on the
extent of the demand served by petroleum fuels;
establish past trends and discuss the extent to
which these trends have been modified or constrained
by crude oil prices, interfuel substitution programs,
the level and structure of taxation (customs duties,
sales and excise taxes) with particular reference to
individual petroleum products and cross-subsidization
in the pricing of products, and economic conditions
in the country;
(ii) Review in detail the mining industry-s proposed plans
for fuel oil substitution as well as the investment
implications of such substitution for the development
of indigenous sources of energy such as hydroelectric
power and coal. Assess the extent to which such sub-
stitution would affect future demand for petroleum
fuels, in particular in the mining and railway sectors;
prepare specific economic analysis of each substitution
alternative available to the mines, taking into account
investment requirements for the production and delivery
to the mines of each particular energy source and the
cost to the copper mines of switching from fuel oil to
the particular energy source; by comparison with fuel
oil, rank the alternative energy sources available for
substitution at the economic delivered cost at mine-head."
(iii) Review the impact of the proposed ethanol from molasses
project at Nakambala on the future demand for gasoline;
(iv) Prepare two sets of demand projections for indivi-
dual petroleum fuels in Zambia to the year 2000,
taking into account economic indicators, such as
projected GDP growth rate, income elasticity of
demand and the results of the review in (i),



- 41 -                  ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 11
(ii) and (iii) above. The two scenarios which
should be used are: (a) assuming existing poli-
cies of taxation and pricing (i.e., cross-subsi-
dization among products) and (ii) assuming a
uniform rate of taxation for all products set a
rate which would yield approximately the same
amount of revenue as at present and assuming
economic pricing for all products (i.e., eli-
mination of cross-subsidization among products);
prepare demand forecasts for individual products
for Zimbabwe, Malawi, Botswana and eastern
Zaire;
(v) Review crude oil types and sources, examine
availability of such crudes to Zambia and assess
the extent to which heavier crudes like Arabian
Heavy may have to be processed;
(vi) Prepare a price forecast for the major types of crude
oils and refined products up to the year 2000 in real
terms. All assumptions should be clearly spelled out;
(vii) Review the price relationship between refined pro-
ducts and crude oil;
(viii) Review Zambia's existing crude oil procurement practi-
ces and recommend any changes likely to reduce overall
procurement cost; changes recommended in this regard
should be supported by clear documentation of the
potential benefits;
(ix) Review the operating reliability of the existing
Dar-es-Salaam-Ndola crude oil pipeline and recommend
any modifications that might be required; and
(x) Prepare a breakdown of the cost of each type of feed
per metric ton into: (a) f.o.b. cost, (b) insurance,
(c) freight to Dar-es-Salaam, (d) port handling
charges, (e) pipeline throughput charges, and
(f) landed cost at refinery.
B.  Marketing and Distribution of Petroleum Products
(i) Review the organizational institutional framework
for marketing and distribution of petroleum products
in Zambia (companies involved, ownership, size,
geophysical/product coverage, etc.);
(ii) Review the physical facilities used for transporta-
tion, storage and distribution of petroleum products
in Zambia; indicate the volumes transported by each



- 42 -                   ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 11
transport mode, the size and locations of storage
facilities, and recommend any changes necessary to
improve the system;
(iii) Prepare a breakdown of the retail price for each
refinery product into: (a) landed crude cost,
(b) refinery processing cost, (c) dealer/retail mar-
gin, and (d) taxes; compare retail prices with those
prevailing in neighbouring countries (Zimbabwe,
Malawi, Tanzania, Zaire and South Africa); and
(iv) Based on forecast of petroleum fuels for Zimbabwe,
Malawi, Botswana and eastern Zaire, review the com-
petitiveness of petroleum products supply from
Zambia to these countries and recommend marketing
strategy for Zambia, if appropriate.
C. Refined Product Pricing System
(i) Review the pricing structure and policy for retail
prices within Zambia and identify any subsidies; and
(ii) Compare ex-refinery and retail prices with interna-
tional prices (f.o.b. and c.i.f.), and in the
light of this comparison and conclusions in
Section B(iii), recommend a mechanism for
ensuring that ex-refinery prices of refined
products in Zambia reflect the full economic cost
to the country.
D. Existing Refinery
(i) Describe the INDENI Petroleum Refinery Company
ownership distribution, financial statements for
the last three years, auditing system, organization
chart, number and type of departments, number of
Zambian and expatriates in key positions, Board of
Directors, frequency of Board meetings,, company
by-laws, etc.;
(ii) Review existing process units, utilities, storage,
offsites, infrastructure, etc., including their
age, and any bottlenecks to operations;
(iii) Discuss past production performance (volume of
operations, capacity utilization, etc.);
(iv) Provide a process flow diagram showing material
balances; and
(v) Describe measures in place to meet environmental
standards.



- 43 -                   ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 11
E. Least Cost Analysis
(i)  Review the existing product specifications with
respect to distillation range, flash and smoke
points, cetane and reseach octane numbers and
sulphur content and examine the extent to which
these specifications can be changed without harm-
ful effects on user equipment life, cost of
operation and the environment;
(ii)  Based on the projected demand scenarios in Section A,
the analysis in Section D, and recommended product
specification changes in Section E(i) above, evaluate
the options available to Zambia under each taxa-
tion/pricing scenario for meeting its petroleum
fuel requirements to the year 2000. Assumptions
and any new facilities/units associated with each
option should be clearly identified with the
particular option. The options considered shall
include, but not be limited to:
(a) continuing to operate the existing refinery
based on the existing configuration to meet
the projected petroleum product demand as
much as is feasible. Evaluation of this
option shall include detailed review of
the existing configuration and an evalua-
tion of the extent to which it could meet
future demand by:
(1) processing other types of crude oils;
(2) blending refined products to meet market
demand profile; and
(3) blending different crude oils to meet
market demand profile;
(b) Confining refinery operations and existing
pipeline to process 100 per cent crude oil
within the constraints set by market demand
for fuel oil and supplementing market require-
ments through procurement of refined products;
evaluation of this option should consider all
altenatives for transportation of the supple-
mental refined products to Zambia, including by
rail and construction of a second pipeline dedi-
cated to import of necessary refined products
to supplement market requirements; possible
economies through completion of loops on the
existing pipeline should be taken into account;



- 44 -                  ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 11
(c)  Mothballing the existing refinery and converting
the existing Dar-es-Salaam-Ndola crude oil
pipeline into refined product pipeline and modi-
fication/expansion of tank farm and reception
facilities for importing requirements in refined
form. Arrangements and facilities for importing
products not compatible with transporting via
the pipeline should be clearly identified and
detailed;
(d)  Evaluation of alternative processing configura-
tions for integration into existing refinery
based on Fluid Catalytic Cracker (FCC) designed
to maximize products dominant in the projected
demand profile;
(e)  Evaluation of various alternative processing
configurations for integration into the
existing refinery based on hydrocracker con-
figurations;
(iii) Each configuration considered should be described in
sufficient detail (new facilities/units requied, size,
process/technology/licenses to be used, etc.), and
the technical flexibility of each unit in the con-
figuration clearly established; efficiency, product
quality and yields of such units should be indicated
by means of comparison with more recent units else-
where;
(iv) Prepare capital and operating cost estimate (in ade-
quate detail and broken down into local and foreign
exchange cost) based on preliminary engineering design
for each option; the estimate should include any addi-
tional utilities, ancillary facilities infrastructure
required to ensure operating viability of each
option considered;
(v) Provide a schedule of implementation and estimated
annual disbursement for each option; and
(vi) By means of comparative economic analysis using a
range of opportunity cost of capital from 12% to
20%, rank the options considered starting with the
option most likely to result in maximum net benefits
to Zambia. Assumptions and details of the analysis
should be clearly shown.



- 45 -                   ANNEX IV
Page 8 of ll
Phase 2
Phase 2 will be executed only if Phase 1 leads to the
conclusion that modification of the refinery would result
in substantial economic benefit, and shall include, but not
be limited to, the following:
A. Development of Project and Engineering Design Package
(i) Provide detailed description of the scope and
configuration of the option approved by GRZ
including size of facilities, process/techno-
logy/licenses to be used, rationale for its
selection, and how new facilities are to be
integrated into existing facilities;
(ii) Provide detailed process design of the option
selected, optimize the process configuration,
determine optimum capacities adequate to provide
capacity to meet projected market demand for a
period of at least 15 years from plant start-up;
(iii) Describe the source and type of feedstock to be
utilized by the project's facilities;
(iv) Describe the utility facilities (water, power,
coal, steam, etc.) to be provided or expanded
under the project--their size, the inputs to
be used, the source of energy, reliability of
external supply of utilities;
(v)  Describe the offsites and infrastructure facili-
ties required by the project;
(vi) Analyze the environmental impact of the project
such as hydrogen sulphide, sulphur oxides and
nitrogen oxide emissions and the devices and
controls that will ensure that the project will
be constructed and operated in accordance with
international and local environmental standards;
(vii)  Determine infrastructure needs of the project
such as access roads, ability of bridges to
carry maximum loads, port facilities at
Dar-es-Salaam, etc.; and
(viii) Develop all required engineering design data
adequate for the general contractor to proceed
with the detailed engineering and execution of
the project. Data on the process design engineer-
ing package should include material and energy



- 46 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 11
balances, estimate of utilities, process flow
diagrams showing major process lines, equipment
and material balances, piping and instrument
diagrams showing process piping, line sizes,
vessel sizes, skirt heights and instrumentation,
reference drawings for each process unit with
applicable standard drawings for individual pro-
cess units, design specification for each piece
of equipment (supported with dimensioned drawings
where applicable) giving operating and design
conditions, materials of construction and process
conditions, plot plan layout, detailed specifica-
tion of all offsites facilities including storage
tanks and utility system, and process start-up
and operating instructions in sufficient detail
for the general contractor to prepare operating
manuals.
B. Project Implementation Arrangements and Schedule
(i) Propose arrangements for procurement, construction,
commissioning and operations, including guarantees
and bonuses/penalties for process performance,
schedules, feed and utilities consumption, etc.;
(ii) Design suitable organizational and administrative
arrangements for the efficient management and
supervision of project construction and operations,
including a detailed assessment of needs of foreign
staff and consultants by categories and by duration;
(iii) Indicate total additional staffing requirements for
the new facilities as appropriate, identify sources
and provide a training program which will lead to
effective eventual Zambianization of the operation;
(iv) Review existing refinery operations management
agreement with AGIP of Italy, and in the light
of the operating management requirements of the
proposed modifications, recommend any changes that
may be required;
(v) Prepare a model operations management agreement
that could be used as a basis to negotiate a new
agreement; and
(vi) Develop a practical economic and expedient plan
for the implementation of the project, and draw
up a realistic and detailed time schedule for
project implementation.



- 47 -                 ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 11
C. Capital and Operating Cost Estimate
(i) Prepare detailed revised estimates of the
capital cost of the project broken down into
foreign exchange and local costs, with equipment,
utilities, infrastructure, offsites, freight,
engineering, erection, construction, pre-operating
costs, customs duties, physical and price contin-
gencies, interest during construction and permanent
working capital shown separately;
(ii) Provide an expenditure/disbursement schedule; and
(iii) Prepare detailed operating cost estimates with
detailed breakdown into local and foreign exchange
costs, and showing specific consumption of all in-
puts and utilities; assumptions used for the
estimates should be clearly stated.
D. Financing
(i) Review possible sources of financing for the
project, including internal cash generation,
additional equity, loans and suppliers- credits
and the terms and conditions under which each
source of financing could be secured; and
(ii)  Prepare a financing plan for the project based on
the source and contributions established in (i)
above.
E. Financial and Economic Analysis
(i) Evaluate the financial viability of the overall
project on the basis of discounted cash flow
projections and internal financial rate of return
calculations. The assumptions used in the finan-
cial evaluation should be fully explained. The
computation should include a risk analysis to
evaluate the sensitivity of the project to critical
factors;
(ii) Evaluate the economic viability of the overall
project on the basis of internal economic rate of
return. For this purpose, all inputs and outputs
should be evaluated at their economic opportunity
cost, rather than at domestic market prices which
may reflect market imperfections. For internationally
tradable goods and services, CIF international prices
can be used as representative of opportunity costs.
Appropriate risk analyses should also be made; the
assumptions used in the evaluation should be fully
explained;



- 48 -                  ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 11
(iii) Prepare projected financial statements (Balance Sheet,
Income Statements and Cash Flows) for 15 years, in
current prices;
(iv) Evaluate the impact of the project on the region of
the country in which the project is located and iden-
tify direct and indirect social and economic benefits.
Consider possible changes in some of the parameters of
the project and its infrastructure that could have
favorable impact on the region. Analyze the social
and economic benefits and cost of these changes in
order to permit a decision on the desirability of
executing them; and
(v) Prepare Invitation to Bid (ITB) documents.



IBRD 16275
-8   k                    _ 1         Z A  M    B I A                             28       ,                        ri fa*   e    k   320             MARCH 1982
PETROLEUM  EXPLORATION                                                                                          TNAIAj
PROMOTION PROJECT                                                                                   Mb+As
GEOLOGY:_                   Hydro Power Plants
LI]Cretaceous             .. Refinery                                    V/ 
Area of Proposed Airmag Survey              U      _-*
~~j K arr~~aroo-    Main Roads                                                                                                               -
Katonga                     Secondary Roads
LII]  NBasement             -' -Railways                               *                                     mv
Rivers              ~~~National Capitol(
-*eInternational Boundaries
so5            6oO   150 20     il-t
b    50 100     1500       18 M, I.,eer         7f5 
i;(. %IUBUMBASHI
12'                                                             0  "S               n         M
K _   7        ;    >                                   iS                         .-MOZAAMBIQUE
Z A I z     R E    URUND \I
tO     osANGOLA7    * ~                    AA
-._-- ..... *              I   B4         -      $ t        U                        28            ;d,e,t, thse eotss nstats Ef            - SO)UTH fi   JI
ofeu,~~hbsusds,isa  ZA AW



