LOAN NUMBER 2151 ZA
Guarantee Agreem(nt
(INDENI Refinery Modification Engineering Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                            , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2151 ZA
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   LAAAA-                    , 1982, between
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation Limited
(hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to
the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to five
million one hundred thousand dollars ($5,100,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that the Guarantor agrees to guarantee the obligations
of the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Ag,.eement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan Agreement of the Bank
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreemunts of
the Bank have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its  other   obligations  under  the  Guarantee  Agreement, the


﻿-2-
Guarantor hereby unconditionally gdarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, tie due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the
punctual performance of all the other obligations of the
Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.          Section
2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically
undertakes, whenever there is reasonable caue to believe that
the funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to meet
the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the
Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly
to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with
such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerred
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shell make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason, such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The fcregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created or property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security f,--r payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿-3-
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantrr undertakes to consult with the
Borrower and the Bank on the recommendations arising out of the
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka, Zambia
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINFIN                             42221
Lusaka
For the Bank
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-4-
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WIJI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have cause. this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By)t                          &[Yc            Jc
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /          s,I     v  Q'c/-jAe-
A cLAt4  Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this /14      day of 14AV,., 198.o±.
FOR SECRETARY


