Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,K  J,I IV .-/ LI - /<I
Report No. 6794-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
August 21, 1987
Africa Region
Country Department II
Agriculture Operations
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EXCHANGE RATES
Currency Unit              Kenya Shilling (KSh)
and Pound (KL)
KSh 20                     K; 1
KSh 1.00          =        US$ 0.06 a/
US$ 1.00          =        KSh 16
US$ 1.00          =        1.267 SDR (as of July 31, 1987)
a/    Since August 1985, the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at a
rate of SDR 1 = KSh 17.4. The rate vis-a-vis the US dollar
fluctuates. A rate of US$1 = 16.0 KSh has been used in evaluating
this Project for any figures relating to 1987.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 square kilometer (km2)    =         .39 square mile
1 hectare (ha)               =       2.47 acres
1 mlietric ton (t)           =       2,204.62 pounds
1 liter                      -       1.06 quarts
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
EAC        East African Community
EEC        European Economic Community
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
GOK        Government of Kenya
IARC       International Agricultural Research Center
IDA        International Development Association
ISNAR      International Service for National Agricultural Research
KARI       Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
M          Million
M & E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA        Ministry of Agriculture
MOLD       Ministry of Livestock Development
MRST       Ministry of Research, Science and Technology
NARP       National Agricultural Research Project
NRC        National Research Cente.
ODA        Overseas Development Administration of the United Kingdom
POA        Plan of Action
PPF        Project Preparation Facility
RMIS       Research and Management Information System
RRC        Regional Research Center
SRD        Scientific Research Division
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
VRD        Veterinary Research Division



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURE RESEARCH PROJECT
Credit std Project Summary
Borrower:                 Government of Kenya
Beneficiary:              Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
Amount:                   S1R 15.5 million (US$19.6 million equivalnt)
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms; proceeds would be passed on as
a grant to KARI
Project Objectives:       The proposed project is designed to: (i) focus
agricultural research on priority research
activities .ich have a significant likelihood of
early returns; (ii) improve the quality and cost
effectiveness of research to generate technology
pdrticulary for smallholdings; (iii) intensify
producer participation in research program
formulation; (iv) strengthen linkages with other
agricultural services, especially extension; and
(v) improve cooperation with other agricultural
research institutions. The strategy to achieve
these objectives would be to assist the Government
of Kenya (GOK) in reorganizing the various
agricultural research establishments into a single
Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI) and
to support KARI in the implementation of the
National Agricultural Research Project (NARP).
The project is a five-year time slice of a long-
term agricultural research development plan and a
key element of GOK's investment program in
agriculture.
Project Description:      The project would be supported by several donors
and would comprise assistance for: (i)
restructuring of KARI organization and management,
including establishment costs, construction of a
headquarters building, training and external
expert assistance for research planning and
management, budgeting and information systems;
(ii) rehabilitation and provision of equipment and
operating funds to Regional Research Centers which
undertake adaptive research; and (iii) support to
key national crop, livestock, factor and
disciplinary research programs. IDA would provide
funding for incremental non-salary operating costs
(on a declining basis), vehicles, equipment, civil
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
works, the research information and reporting
system, and some training and consultancy
services. Effective donor coordination is an
essential element of the project.
Benefits and Risks:       The project is expected to bring about much
greater efficiency of resource utilization in
agricultural research. Benefits arising from
improyed focus of reseach priorities, higher
quality research and greater effectiveness of
research/extension linkages would show up in
KARI's impact on agricultural production. The
project would directly contribute to technology
development, thereby sustaining and accelerating
agricultural productivity and growth. The
critical role of future productivity increases
derives from the necessity to cope with the
challenges of Kenya's growing population and the
need to ensure competitiveness and diversification
in agricultural exports. The project's four main
risks relate to: (i) effectiveness of the
reorganized KARI organization and management; (ii)
adequacy of budgetary funding levels and
mechanisms; (iii) adherence to agreed priorities
in research programs and capacity to make sound
judgements as necessary; and (iv) relevance and/or
adoption of research findings. The project
includes specific measures to minimize the
potentially adverse impact of such risks. It also
includes detailed annual programming mechanisms
and periodic research reviews involving scientists
outside KARI. In addition, supervision,
monitoring and evaluation would be conducted on a
joint donor/GOK basis, and an in-depth review is
scheduled after the first 3 years of the project.
Estimated Proiect Costs:
Local        Foreign      Total
-(US$ million)-
Co2monent
1. KARI Organization and
Management                         16.5           19.6        36.1
2. Regional Research Centers              16.8            5.1        21.9
3. National Research Centers              93.5           30.4       123.9
Total Baseline Costs                     126.8           55.1       181.9
Physical contingencies                     6.3            2.8         9.1
Price contingencies                        8.9            3.9        12.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS (including
US$ 5 million in taxes)           142.0           61.8       203.8



(ili)
Financing Plan:
Expenditure Category      GOK   USAID   EEC  ODA NETH Others IDA   Total IDA Share
-------(US$ million)-----------------   (2)
1. Salaries & Allowances 87.6   0.0    0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0  87.6          0.0
2. Other Operating Costs 14.9   1.7    3.5  3.1  2.7   2.0   4.5  32.4    13.8
3. Vehicles                0.1   0.6    1.3  0.3  1.2   0.3   1.6   5.4    28.8
4. Equipment               0.3   1.3    1.4  1.4  1.8   0.8   2.7   9.7    28.0
5. Civil Works             2.8   0.3    6.7  2.4  1.9   0.0  10.0  24.1    41.5
6. Research Fund           0.0   2.7    0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   2.7         0.0
7. Training/Expert
Assistance             0.0  20.9    5.6  3.0  2.5   7.5   0.4  39.9         1.0
8. Information Systems    0.0   1.0    0.6  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.4   2.0    20.0
TOTAL COSTS          105.7  28.5   19.1 10.2 10.1  10.6  19.6 203.8         9.6
Estimated IDA Disbursements: (US$ million)
IDA fiscal year      1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93
Annual                 1.j       3.2      4.5       5.0       4.0      1.9
Cumulative             1.0       4.2      8.7      13.7      17.7     19.6
Rate of Return:           Not applicable
Ma+'zps:                  IBRD 20114
IBRD 20116
IBRD 20117



KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary
Table of Contents
1.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR; IMPLICATIONS FOR RESEARCH                    1
A.  Agriculture in Kenya9s Economy                                    1
B.  .gricultural Performance and Near Term Prospects                  1
C.  Major Constraints and Policy Issues                               2
D.  The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program                        3
E.  Bank Strategy and Experience in the Sector                        4
II.  AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH: PART AND FUTURE                                6
A.  Background to the Proposed Research Program                       6
History                                                        6
Current Research Organization                                  6
Major Constraints                                               7
B. Preparation of the Proposed Project                                8
C.  The National Agricultural Research Strategy                       8
Approach                                                        8
Actions                                                       10
III. THE NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT                           11
A.  Project Objectives and Strategy                                  11
B.  General Description of the Project                               12
C.  Detailed Features                                                13
Establishment of KARI headquarters                           13
Training and External Expert Assistance                      14
Research Program Development                                 15
Other Project Features                                       18
This Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) is based on Government of Kenya (GOK)
preparation documents, several joint-donor reports and the findings of an
IDA appraisal mission in February/March 1987. Mission members included
Messrs. E. Los (mission leader), R. Anson, K.Cleaver, J. Kampen,
Z. Matmor, V. Venkatesan, C. Ward and B.C. Warnaars (IDA),
K. Meyn and F.W. Pieters (Consultants). Based on the contributions of the
members of the appraisal mission, this report was drafted by J. Kampen.



IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING                                         19
A.     Project Costs                                                19
B.     Financing                                                    21
C.     Procurement                                                  22
D.     Dtsbursements                                                24
E.     Accounts and Audits                                          24
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                              26
A.     Overall Organization and Management                          26
KARI Tasks                                                 26
Status of Preparation                                     26
Supervision Responsibilities                               27
Information and Reporting Systems                          28
Research Priority Setting and Phasing                      29
Research Planning, Programming and Budgeting               30
Monitoring, Evaluation and Review                          32
B.     Training, Terms of Employment and Expert Assistance          33
Training                                                   33
The Scheme of Service and XARI Staffing                    34
External Expert Assistance                                 35
C.     Regional and National Research Programs; Linkages            36
Organization, Long-term Strategies and Annual Programs   36
Research/Extension Interaction                             38
Other Linkages                                             40
D.     Donor Coordination                                           40
VI.  BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS                                   41
A.     Project Benefits                                             41
Nature of Project Benefits                                 41
Returns to Investment in Agricultural Research             41
B.     Employment and Poverty Impact                                43
C.     Budgetary Implications                                       43
D.     Environmental Imp&ct                                         44
E.     Project Risks                                                45
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS                  46
SUPPORTING ANNEXES
I.     AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND RELATED AREAS; PAST AND FUTURE
Table It Location, Programs and Size of Research Centers
Table 2: Distribution and Requirements of Research Staff;
Implications for Training
Table 3: Priorities for Research



Chart 1: Farmer/Extension/Research Linkages
Appendix 1: Long-term Research Proposal Outline
II.    ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT, MONITORING AND
EVALUATION; JOB DESCRIPTIONS OF KEY KARI STAFF
Table 1: Regional Research Centers
Table 2: National Research Programs and Centers
T&ole 3: Research Programming Calendar
Chart 1: Kenya Agricultural Research Institute; Organizational
Structure
Chart 2: Organization of a Research Center
Appendix 1: Suggested Job Descriptions for Key KARI Staff
III.   THE PLAN OF ACTION
IV.    PROJECT CCSTS, FINANCING AND IDA DISBURSEMENTS
Table 1: Estimated Summary Costs by Expenditure Category and Yeaz
Table 2: Summary Total Costs of Project
Table 3: Summary Costs of KARI Headquarters
Table 4: Summary Costs of Regional Research Centers
Table 5: Summary Costs and Financing Plan of National
and Regional Research Centers
Table 6: Summary Costs According to Research Center and
Commodity/Factor
Table 7: Total Project Cost by Center and Commodity/Factor
Table 8: Proposed Donor Financing Commitments According to
Research Areas and Expenditure Categories
Table 9: Financing Percentages for Different Expenditure
Categories
Table 10:Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table l1:.ndicative Estimates of NARP's Budgetary Impact
V.     PRIORITY INDICATORS AND INDICATIVE PROJECT BENEFITS
Table 1: Selected Indicators for Setting NARP's
Agricultural Research Priorities
Table 2: Main Considerations in Setting Research Priorities
Table 3: Indicative Economic Analysis for Research
at the Katumani RRC
VI.    SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
MAPS
1.  IBRD No. 20114 Elevation and Rainfall
2. IBRD No. 20116 Agroclimatic Zones
3. IBRD No. 20117 Mandate Areas of RRCs and Location of Main Research
Centers and Institutes



I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR; IMPLICATIONS FOR RESEARCH
A. Agriculture in Kenya's Economy
1.01     The Kenya Agricultural Sector Report of 1986 provides a detailed
account and analysis of Kenya's agricultural sector characteristics,
objectives, performance and constraints.l/ Despite progress in
industrialization, the agricultural sector remains vitally important for
the continued growth and development of the domestic economy.
Agriculture's share of the gross domestic product (31% in 1985) remains
high. The population is predominantly rural (85Z) and agriculture provides
employment (directly or indirectly) for nearly 70% of the nation's people.
The sector produces almost all the nation's food and serves as the main
source of export earnings (682 in 1986) and raw materials for the
predominantly resource-based industrial sector. Ranches and large farms
account for about 401 of total farmed area and smallholders co-er the
remaining 60%; the proportion of land owned and operated by smallholders
will increase with the continuing subdivision of large and group-owned
farms. The average size of Kenya's 2 million (M) smallholdings is about
2.3 ha (1985). Smallholder agriculture accounts for approximately 752 of
production and for 85% of agricultural employment; smallholder-oriented
agricultural research is therefore crucial to increased production.
B. Agricultural Performance and Near Term Prospects
1.02     The first decade after Independence showed vigorous agricultural
growth (4.7% per annum). However, this slowed to an average 3.2% between
1972 and 1983, while population growth accelerated to 3.9%, signalling a
trend towards decline in per capita production. Most agricultural growth
in the past 20 years has come about as a result of:
(i)     expansion in land area cultivated;
(ii)    improved producer prices;
(iii)   increased availability of farm inputs; and
(iv)    farm inv3stment in livestock, tree crops, equipment, land
improvement, irrigation and other infrastructure.
During much of the past decade, Government of Kenya (GOK) investment in
agricultural extension, research and animal health services declined, there
were problems in fertilizer distribution and agricultural labor use
stagnated. However, GOK has recently made a serious effort to bring about
improvements in particular in extension and animal health services (for
details see Annex I) and also through the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Program (para. 1.08, 1.09).
1.03     In order for the agricultural sector to help meet Kenya's
development targets, the sources of agricultural growth must change
because: (i) continued expansion in cultivated land area is severely
1/ Kenya Agricultural Sector Report No. 4629-KE; January 1986.



-2-
constrained (para. 1.04); and (ii) greater production incentives are
difficult to provide now that prices for main commodities have reached
approximate world price parity levels (para. 1.06). Analysis undertaken by
IDA for an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program indicated that without
significant agricultural policy changes and the widespread introduction of
improved technology, agricultural growth is unlikely to keep up with
population growth.2/    It is therefore essential for Kenya to shift to a
strategy of improving agricultural productivity through better agricultural
research, improved extension and more effective and efficient animal health
services. However, farm investment (private and public) should be
encouraged simultaneously and the supply of farm inputs and fertilizer is
also to be expanded. The policy changes required for this are embodied in
the Kenya Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program, wnich became effective
March 30, 1987 and which forms a framework and policy umbrella for
individual projects such as the proposed National Agricultural Research
Project (NARP).
C. Major Constraints and Policy Issues
1.04     A major constraint for agricultural development in Kenya is the
shortage of arable land, exacerbated by rapid population growth.  Only
about 20Z of Kenya's 575,000 km2 surface area is good quality land; another
92 can produce crops but is subject to periodic drought and the remaining
land area is suitable mainly for extensive livestock production. Other
major land-related problems are soil erosion and degradation, forest
depletion and the slow subdivision of large farms. kenya is only gradually
developing a coherent land policy and an institutional framework for
addressing land resource issues. Because of these various constraints,
future agricultural growth will have to come mainly from yield improvements
per unit area of land.
1.05     Although input use in high potential areas and for crops such as
coffee, tea and sugar is relatively high, use of fertilizer and also of
improved seeds for major food crops has virtually stagnated in the last
decade. Consumption of fertilizer has been constrained by: (i) low
financial returns to farmers using fertilizer on cereal food crops; (ii)
insufficient farmers know-how due in part to lack of site-specific
recommendations; and (iii) chronic fertilizer shortages caused by
restrictive import quotas, late price and allocation announcements and poor
coordination of donor-provided fertilizers (late delivery, inappropriate
fertilizer types and distribution problems). There is a lack of new
varieties suitable for the mixed and intercropping systems practiced by
small farmers. Recently, seed supply has been negatively affected by
deteriorating margins for producers, difficulties in funding the National
Seed Quality Control Service and incipient management and financial
problems of the Kenya Seed Company.
1.06     Prior to 1982, official prices for major domestic commodities
(maize, wheat, milk, meat, sugarcane and cotton) lagged behind world prices
and the agricultural sector terms of trade deteriorated relative to the
rest of the economy. Producer prices for export crops however, were
determined by world markets and have been high by African standards.
2/ President's Report No. P4278-KE; June, 1986.



-3-
Beginning in 1982, GOK significantly increased official prices for major
food crops to provide greater incentives for farmers. With adequate
prices, the major problem in this area now is marketing. Government has
restricted participation in marketing and processing for commodities such
as maize, wheat and milk, to parastatal marketing enterprises. Of
particular importance is the National Cereals and Produce Board which plays
the central role in assuring food security, but is troubled by mounting
financial losses. Poor performance of these institutions has emerged as a
significant constraint to the provision of marketing and processing
services, food security, farmer incentives, credit supply, and public
finance. Nearly 502 of the Ministry of Agriculture's (MOA) budget is taken
tiy agricultural parastatals, pre-empting funds which could otherwise be
used to provide essential extension and research services. For other crops
such as fruits, flowers and vegetables which can be freely marketed, the
private sector and cooperatives have been hampered in developing marketing
channels by lack of credit, administrative regulation of imports (seeds,
chemicals) and difficulties in product exports.
1.07     Capital formation in the agricultural sector has declined from
2.52 of GDP in 1978 to 1.452 in 1983. Returns to public sector investment
have mostly been low because of poorly conceived projects and weak project
management. Public sector agricultural credit schemes reach few
smallholder families; out of some 2 million farm households, only 20,000
(mainly medium and large scale farmers), receive credit from the
Agricultural Finance Corporacion. This Corporation has severe
institutional problems: a poor quality portfolio, unclear objectives and
low recovery rates. Private banks concentrate on short-term lending to the
large farm sector. Term lending in agriculture dropped to 252 of total
term lending to the economy in 1983 (against an average of 35? in the
19708). Private investment has been discouraged by low returns and legal
barriers to entry in processing and marketing.
D. The Agricultural Sector Adlustment Program
1.08     In 1985, GOK decided to deal comprehensively with the above
constraints to agricultural development and preparation of an agricultural
adjustment program was initiated with International Development Association
(IDA) assistance.3/      The measures being taken in the context of the
Credit and Special African Facility for the adjustment program (Cr. 1717-
KE), are at the core of GOK's development strategy; their implementation
would create an environment in which investments to improve agricultural
services would be more rewarding and where well-designed and conducted
agricultural research could have a much greater effect on productivity.
Specifically, they include:
(i)     increased fertilizer imports;
(ii)    improved fertilizer policy (pricing, marketing,
distribution);
3/ For details see President's Report No. P4278-KE; June, 1986.



-4-
(iii)   adjustment in policies for (and  .creased supply of) other
inputs (seeds, chemicals and machinery);
(iv)    expansion in credit availability through policy reform;
(v)     higher producer prices and improved agric.ltural marketing
systems including a greater role for the private sector;
(vi)    greater Government budget allocations to agriculture with
expenditures on research and extension to be significantly
increased in real terms; and
(vii)   more efficient investment in agriculture through the
budget rationalization program, improved sector management
and aid coordination.
1.09     Some progress has already been made in implementation of the
adjustment program with policy improvements being generally introduced on
schedule. includings
*i)     beginning reform of the maize marketing system and the
National Cereals and Produce Board with an expanded role
for the private sector;
(ii)    improvements in fertilizer marketing, import licensing and
planning, resulting in increased and more timely supplies;
(iii)   plans to improve fertilizer pricing policy;
(iv)    maintenance of producer prices at appropriate incentive
levels (appropriately adjusted world prices);
(v)     the launching of important reforms in the Agriculture
Finance Corporation;
(vi)    preparation of a strategy and action plan for
restructuring selected State Corporations in the
agriculture sector; and
(vii)   solid progress in budget rationalization.
E. Bank StrateRy and Experience in the Sector
1.10     The Bank Group's strategy for assisting Kenya's agricultural
development coincides with Government objectives. It is growth-oriented
with a primary emphasis on the intensification of production, particularly
of smallholders, which offers much untapped potential and meets
complementary goals of income distribution as well as employment and
foreign exchange generation.   The Bank's lending program consists of two
complementary components: (i) policy-oriented lending (e.g. the adjustment
program; and (ii) project lending. The impact of the latter is being
enhanced by the former and includes projects to: improve essential farmer
services (especially research, extension, animal health, input supply,



-5-
marketing and credit); address key physical resource management issues
(forestry and soil conservation); support better policy planning and
implementation; assist in restructuring public investment; improve training
for agricultural staff; and promote aid coordination.
1.11     To date, the Bank Group has financed over 30 projects in Kenya
(agriculture, forestry and fisheries). The present portfolio of ten on-
going projects reflects substantial pruning and a redirection of effort
toward strategic priorities. Future project lending will directly
complement the Government's sector adjustment program, providing integrated
support for longer-term institution building and development of improved
agricultural and farmer services. The pipeline includes in addition to
agricultural research, proposals in the areas of forestry, semi-arid land
development, agricultural extension phase II, agricultural sector
adjustment phase II, credit, export crops, and small-scale irrigation.  The
practical experience gained through project implementation has been
complemented by considerable sector work. In addition to the 1986
Agricultural Sector Report, studies have been done on agricult'lral inputs,
credit, maize marketing and pricing, farmer incentives, irrigation, land
issues, cooperatives, the public investment program, resource allocation,
private sector investment, and non-government organizations. Studies are
underway on coffee and forestry. These studies provide the basis for a
continuation of Bank Group lending including further elaboration of policy
reforms.
1.12     Recent Project Completion Reports and Project Performance Audit
Reports for agricultural projects in Kenya have provided many
recommendations. Two lessons are particularly relevant for the proposed
National Agricultural Research Project. Firstly, project design must
account for Government's limited institutional and management capacity.
This has been done in the case of NARP where much of the preparation effort
(2 years) was devoted to developing a workable and efficient organization
and management system (paras. 5.01-5.17). Secondly, project design must
account for the impact of frequently conflicting donor demands. In the
case of NARP, donor coordination has been rigorously pursued (para. 5.33,
5.34).
1.13     In addition to these general lessons, the World Bank Group has
learned from its involvement in agricultural research components of several
projects: (coffee research in the Smallholder Coffee Project (CR 914-RE);
the Tea Factory Project (Ln 993-KE), now closed; sugar research in the
Sugar Rehabilitation Project (Ln 1636-KE), now closed; cotton research in
the Cotton Processing and Marketing Project (Cr 1237-KE); and arid lands
agricultural research in the Baringo Semi-Arid Areas Pilot Project (Cr 962-
KE).
1.14     Evaluation reports for several completed projects and supervision
reports for the ongoing projects show that most research components
performed poorly due to: (i) weaknesses in project design; (ii) shortages
of management expertise; and (iii) inadequate Government budget
allocations. Most important however, was the lack cf an overall
agricultural research strategy backed by a well-managed agricultural
research organization. The NARP was developed specifically to address
these problems and all agricultural research presently financed by the Bank
Group and other donors, would be consolidated into the NARP.



II. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH; PAST AND FUTURE
A. Background to the Proposed Research Program
His tory
2.01     Agricultural research in Kenya started early this century in
response to needs as viewed by the colonial administration and the
settlers' farming community. The greatest expansion of the research
network took place between 1940 and 1955 when a large number of national
and regional research stations were established under the Department of
Agriculture (see Annex I for details). Research establishments were also
set up under what was later to become the East African Community (EAC).
Soon after Independence, it became clear that the sharing of responsibility
for research by a large number of independent research institutes and the
Department of Agriculture's Scientific Research Division (SRD) led to
fragmented and ineffective programs. GOK approved the Science and
Technology Act in 1977 (amended in 1979), to facilitate the creation of
statutory research institutes and a Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
(KARI) was established in 1979. This Institute inherited from the EAC the
facilities at Muguga with research programs on animal health, animal
produrtion, forestry, crops, factors (e.g. soil and water management) and
disciplines (e.g. plant protection); KARI was also intended to coordinate
all agricultural research carried out by Government Departments. KARI was
however, never developed as envisaged due to interdepartmental disagreement
and there was no improvement in the management of research.
Current Research Organization
2.02     At the Project preparation stage, the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock Development managed most agricultural research. In November
1986, this Ministry was divided into the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and
the Ministry of Livestock Development (MOLD), with responsibility for
research assigned to the Scientific Research Division of MOA and the
Veterinary Research Division (VRD) of MOLD. Although a large part of
agricultural research was under SRD and VRD, institutional responsibility
was also assigned to KARI, Research Foundations (e.g. for coffee and tea),
the Agricultural Faculties of the Universities (Nairobi and Egerton) and
several private sector enterprises such as East African Industries
(oilseeds), the Delmonte Company (fruits), flower and vegetable export
organizations, the Kenya Seed Company as well as sisal, tobacco and sugar
companies. Related research was carried out by the Ministry of Environment
and Natural Resources in forestry (including agro-forestry), wildlife,
range management and fisheries and by the Ministry of Water Development in
hydrology and irrigation.   Thus, the fragmentation of research
responsibility persisted while provisions for linkage and coordination were
entirely inadequate.



-7-
Maior Constraints
2.03     GOK has made significant investments in agricultural research and
several donors, including IDA, have assisted the research program.
External support to research mostly consisted of funding adaptive research
components as part of larger projects (e.g. for rural development).
Despite these efforts, the performance of Kenya's agricultural research
institutions deteriorated during the past decade. This was due to several
serious problems in Kenya's agricultural research system (for details see
Annex I). The constraints have been both institutional (lack of effective
management systems) and structural (inappropriate research orientation and
inadequate long-term program formulation); the major ones were:
-       A proliferation of small donor-financed projects, each
with different management systems, research priorities and
objectives, resulting in duplication between centers and
programs and inefficient use of technical assistance.
This was permitted by the lack of coordinated priority
setting in research and the fractured nature of
agricultural research institutions.
The absence of comprehensive management systems to ensure
the appropriate allocation and effective utilization of
all available research resources and facilities,
exacerbated by insufficient delegation of responsibility
for the design and the implementation of research programs
for key commodities, factors and disciplines. Procedures
for internal research management to supervise, monitor and
evaluate research programs and research staff need
improvement. Information dissemination is inadequate.
Due to the lack of a rational policy for the establishment
of agricultural research facilities, recruitment and
deployment o' staff has not been related to research
needs. Although the total number of research staff is
high, only a limited number have the required skills. In
addition, inadequate career development opportunities and
training has caused scientists to loose motivation
resulting in too frequent turnover of staff. The
proportion of the operating budget for agricultural
research needed to pay staff (76? in 1985) is too high,
with an insufficient budget for the execution of programs
and for the maintenance of research infrastructure.
Linkages are weak and improved contacts are required
within the parent institutions (MOA and MOLD) in
particular with extension but also with input cupply,
credit and animal health; and with outside institutions
such as the Universities, International Agricultural
Research Centers (IARCs) and the private sector.



- 8 -
Finally, the present approach to research program
formulation has failed to adequately recognize the site-
specific demands for new technologies by extension,
farmers and private enterprise.
B. Preparation of the Proposed Project
2.04     To deal with these problems, GOK decided in 1984 to develop a new
research strategy, to prepare a proposal to consolidate the several
agricultural research institutions and numerous projects into one single
manageable institute and to set long-term priorities for research (paras.
5.08- 5.10). The International Service for National Agricultural Research
(ISNAR) was invited to prepare an agricultural research subsector report.
GOK, in 1986 restated its policies on agricultural research in the
Sessional Paper No. 1, "Economic Management for renewed Growth"; in 1987,
GOK reformulated its agricultural research strategy (see below). The ISNAR
report (December, 1985) identified major issues facing agricultural
research and recommended numerous solutions. Following these
recommendations, Government organized a task force supported by ISNAR and
Bank staff, to prepare a detailed outline of actions that would need to be
taken to revitalize the Kenya agricultural research system. In May 1986,
this work culminated in a draft report entitled 'Kenya National Agricultural
Research Project which describes: (i) the long-term Kenya Agricultural
Research Program; and (ii) the immediate requirements for implementing the
first phase (five years) of this program (i.e. the proposed Project). A
joint-donor pre-appraisal mission including Australia, Canada, the European
Economic Community (EEC), the Food and Agriculture Organization, the United
Nations Development Program, the Federal Republic of Germany, ISNAR,
Sweden, the Netherlands, the Overseas Development Administration of the
United Kingdom (ODA), and the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID), led by IDA, reviewed this draft and provided
recommendations for improvement. These recommendations were incorporated
and the NARP report was formally issued in September, 1986. Another joint-
donor mission was organized by IDA in October 1986, to evaluate this
proposal. This mission supported NARP as a blueprint for change, prepared
an evaluation report and expressed long-term donor support for the
implementation of the Program. An earlier appraised project for support to
NARP components by USAID became effective in December, 1986. During early
1987, several other donors organized their own missions to appraise NARP
components for assistance; an IDA mission visited Kenya in February/March,
1987 to appraise the entire NARP and to determine the IA-supported
project.
C. The National Agricultural Research Strategy
Approach
2.05     Kenya requires significant increases in agricultural production to
keep pace with population growth, provide additional employment, generate a
better standard of living and increase exports. There is great pressure on
the resource base of land and water. Increased agricultural productivity
which at the same time maintains or improves the resource base is therefore
essential. The great diversity in topography and rainfall (Map IBRD 20114)



- 9 -
as well as agroclimates (Map IBRD 20116) necessitates a strengthened
regional adaptive research capacity. In order to meet these unprecedented
challenges, a more efficient and productive agricultural research system is
urgently needed in addition to improvements in other agricultural services
(para. 1.08). To achieve these goals, three broad strategies operating
within a constraint of limited available land of high production potential,
will be pursued. First, farmers would be encouraged to use more productive
practices: improved marketing policies and extension will be the main
instruments to obtain higher yields with known technologies. Second,
research would be reorganized and reoriented to fariers' needs to generate
appropriate new technologies. Third, where possible, production patterns
would be diversified to crops that generate higher returns and increased
employment.
2.06     Agricultural research is critical to the realization of important
national goals, i.n particular the objective of ensuring sufficient food for
a rapidly growing population. Agricultural research can only meet the
demands of farmers and the agricultural industry by sharply fccused
research programs addressing priority problems. This calls for a more
effective research structure and efficient use of available research
resources as well as rehabilitation and improvement of infrastructure and
strengthening of research management. All of these are prerequisites for
the projected needed growth of agriculture of 4.5 percent per annum during
the next two decades. The major goals for agricultural research will be
to: focus research on the national goals of economic growth and respond to
the challenges of future socio-economic development; improve the quality
and efficiency of research output; increase productivity in particular of
small holdings; and strengthen critical linkages especially with extension
and related research institutes.
2.07     The strategy to achieve these goals will include: clear definition
of national research priorities and long-term planning of key research
programs; appropriate training and manpower employment; rationalization of
research center activities and mandates; effective coordination of research
programs; improved research support services; achievement of stability and
continuity in research funding; strengthened research-extension linkages;
increased participation by producers in research activities; and
establishment of effective links with other national and international
research centers. The institutional restructuring of the research system
by integrating the various research activities into one national
organization for agricultural research would precede the implementation of
these strategies. The restructuring of the system would be carried out in
conformity with the (amended) Science and Technology Act. This act defines
the main elements for semi-autonomous research institutes; they are:
(i)     a management body with the independence and assured
Government financial support required for the execution of
short-and long-range research programs in response to
present and future needs ensuring continuous improvement
of research management systems;
(ii)    establishment of a research environment in which creative
research can be undertaken through ar& effective management
structure; and



- 10 -
(iii)   ability to attract and retain research personnel of
outstanding calibre, capable of finding solutions to
national development problems.
The Act provides for the transfer of research resources and programs from
relevant ministries to the research institutes. The restructuring of
agricultural research aims to decentralize responsibility for
implementation and increase flexibility to respond to consumer demands.
Several studies have been carried out to prepare the new structure and
these constitute the guidelines for the implementation of the research
strategy. Major components of the action plan to achieve the stated
objectives along the lines of the agreed strategy are outlined below.
Actions
2.08     Organization and management.  All research functions and
activities scattered between the former EAC establishment, SRD and VRD will
be integrated into a single management organization, the new KARI at
Nairobi, which will be governed by a Board of Management with statutory
functions as defined in the amended Science and Technology Act. The
Ministry of Agriculture has been assigned administrative responsibility for
KARI. The Board's Research and Technical Committee and that on Finance and
Administration will oversee the management of the Institute. The day to
day management of KARI will be the responsibility of the Director. The
KARI budget and accounting system would be rationalized so as to provide
up-to-date management information on budgets, expenses and funding per
research center and program.
2.09     Rationalization of Research Centers.  The existing research
centers will be reorganized in national (NRC) and regional (RRC) research
centers. The RRCs will be assigned zonal responsibility on a district and
agroclimatic basis to identify production constraints and devise, test and
apply technological packages suited to these zones. The NRCs will be
concerned with commodity, factor and disciplinary research, covering the
national territory; they will also maintain links with other National and
International research institutes. Senior scientists will have the
responsibility to ensure that activities at the various centers are closely
knit and incorporate external research results. They will be nLtionally
answerable with regard to technical issues pertaining to these programs.
2.10     Research priorities.  A systematic procedure of arriving at
priorities in research activities is being developed. It takes into
account: relative farmgate value of commodities; area cultivated; present
and potential contribution to economic development, food security,
nutrition and employment; market potential; probability of success
including the state of knowledge and the scope for transfer of results in
Kenya and internationally; and research scale, costs and time horizon.
KART will oversee the preparation of long-term strategy proposals for each
RIC and NRC. 'Specialist Committees' will review periodically the long-
term program strategies in close cooperation with the program coordinators
and KARI management (para. 5.12). Responsibility for implementation of
agreed research programs will however, be assigned to the Research Centers.



- 11 -
2.11     Human resources.  KARI will maintain appropriate training programs
to ensure present and future staffing of qualified scientists and introduce
an improved Scheme of Service capable of maintaining a career environment
conducive to ensuring the quality and stability of staff. GOK will see'
resources for the strengthening of the Agricultural University system to
meet the long-term training needs for research. In those scientific and
technical areas where Kenyan expertise is deficient, temporary inputs of
qualified external expert assistance will be sought.
2.12     External financial support.  GOK aims to shape the agricultural
research system in Kenya to meet its future role in a rapidly changing
technological environment. External support to achieve this aim will be
sought. KARI will develop procedures to coordinate external assistance
with a view to support priority programs and avoid research of marginal
utility. It will also coordinate donor supervision and review activities.
III. THE NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
A. Project Obiectives and Strate v
3.01     Major objectives of the proposed Project are to: (i) focus on
priority research programs with a significant likelihood of high and early
returns to investments; (ii) develop technologies that contribute to
increased productivity particularly of small holdings; (iii) intensify
producer participation in research program formulation; and (iv) strengthen
linkages between research and other agricultural services such as extension
as well as between the new agricultural research establishment and other
institutions involved in agricultural research, in particular the
universities, private enterprise and international organizations. In order
to effectively pursue these objectives, GOK, KARI and donors agreed that
NARP would be implemented as an integrated program rather than as isolated
single commodity projects.   Ensuring such implementation of the separately
appraised donor-supported projects which are all part of NARP, would
require strengthened mechanisms for donor coordination (paras. 5.33, 5.34).
3.02     The strategy to achieve these objectives would be for GOK to
reorganize the various agricultural research establishments into a single,
new KARI. This would enable GOK to: (i) establish clear research
priorities and to adhere to these while coordinating external aid; (ii)
develop a long-term strategy, consisting of a KARI corporate plan and
appropriate crop, livestock, factor and disciplinary research programs; and
(iii) develop and introduce improved management systems from headquarters
to field research activities. These improved systems would lead to better
supervision of individual research programs, stations and staff; more
stringent budgeting and financial management; and more meaningful
reporting, monitoring and evaluation (paras. 5.05-5.17).   Research
development requires long-term support in order to be successful and to be
able to respond effectively to consumer demands. Several research
activities, such as breeding programs, often need a timeframe of 10 years



- 12 -
or more to produce results. The strategic planning of research programs is
therefore viewed with a 10-15 year time horizon (pares. 3.10-3.15).
However, planning of research activities over a long period involveq many
uncertainties. The proposed Project is therefore designed as the first 5-
year time slice of a much longer commitment to support the National
Program. The long-term implications with regard to supporting the National
Research Program are understood and accepted by all donors intending to
assist the NARP. An evaluation of progress made during the first phase
would be carried out in year 3 of the Project in order to allow Government,
IDA and other donors to plan the second phase in time to ensure research
continuity (para. 5.17).
B. General Description of the Project
3.03     The proposed NARP 'iould be financed by GOK with external financing
by IDA, and (in parallel) by several other donors (para. 4.04).
Implementation would be phased as a function of available GOK and external
funding, the existing and anticipated implementation capacity of KARI, the
results of the researcher trairting program and access to external expert
assistance. Taking these limiting factors and donor commitments into
account, the overall Project would comprise the following four main
components:
Assistance for the restructuring of KARI as a semi-
autonomous government agency which would undertake research
planning, management, budgeting, supervision, reporting, and
training. USAID and EEC would be major bilateral donors;
the IDA component would support the establishment of
identified elements of the management information systems,
facilitate donor coordination and provide required equipment
and civil works.
The development of KARI's management and research capacity
through staff training and external expert assistance in
selected areas (funded by bilateral donors).
Support for the execution of adaptive research programs
covering all of Kenya's agro-climatic zones and for
equipment and rehabilitation of the Regional Research
Centers. The IDA component would ensure full establishment
of all RRCs, some of which would be aided also by other
donors.
Assistance to implement critical nationally coordinated
commodity, factor and disciplinary research programs for
applied research and to the rehabilitation of the NRCs from
which such programs will be managed. All major donors would
be involved with USAID particularly supporting major cereal
programs, ODA animal health, the Netherlands animal
production and the EEC soil fertility management. The IDA
component would assist approved key programs in terms of
non-salary operating costs, equipment and civil works.



^ 13 -
Important features involved in these components are:
-      Introduction of a new Scheme of Service for KARI staff.
-      A rationalization of the present station network
simultaneausly with the establishment of the RRCs and NRCs
by using all other stations exclusively as testing sites.
-      Improvement of research/extension linkages through joint
activities and better technical training of extension staff.
-      Development of strong linkages of KARI with related research
institutions in Kenya, in other countries and with the
IARCs.
-      Strengthening of KARI's capacity for coordination of donor
assistance to agricultural research.
C. Detailed Features
Establishment of KARI Headquarters
3.04     Institutional development.  Existing legislation (the 1977 Science
and Technology Act, amended in 1979), created several Research Institutes
(such as the Kenya Medical Research Institute which is a model of an
effective public sector research entity conducting valuable medical
research), as well as the restructured KARI; no additional legislation is
required. The restructured KARI was set up in November, 1986 as a semi-
autonomous government agency which consolidated the existing KARI (at
Muguga), the SRD of MOA and the VRD of MOLD, into the reorganized Institute
at Nairobi. The proposed organization and management systems for KARI are
illustrated in Annex II, Chart 1. The proposed IDA-assisted project would
support the establishment of effective management functions, particularly
research planning, programming, budgeting, supervision, monitoring and
evaluation, and donor coordination, which are critical to the success of the
NARP, through providing financing for supplies, equipment, vehicles, and
incremental operating costs on a declining basis. The IDA-supported project
would also finance construction of a headquarters building for KARI. A
proposed Plan of Action (PO') for Project implementation is provided in
Annex III.
3.05     Information systems.  Improved computer technology and computer
repair and maintenance services are now available in Kenya and the
Ministries of Finance, Agriculture and Livestock Development are introducing
computers. The Project therefore makes provisions for the establishment in
KARI of a comprehensive research and management information system (RMIS),
based on a clearly defined organizational structure and revolving around the
use of computers. The system would provide capacity to handle financial,
technical (including library services) and general information (such as word
processing) at the central and research center level and be designed to
enable link-ups with computerized information available in other
institutions such as international research institutes and universities.



- 14 -
An outline plan has been developed to provide appropriate standardized
equipment to KARI headquarters and all National and Regional Research
Centers, simultaneously with the required staff training (Annex VI). The
training programs would include short-term training for senior officers at
recognized institutions in Kenya or abroad and in-service training for other
staff. Adequate trainizIg would specifically be provided for senior computer
officers who would be responsible for introduction, management and
maintenance of the RMIS. The establishment of this system is crucial to:
(i) improve the KARI programming, budgetting and accounting system; and (ii)
generate information on the use of funds per program, research center and
source of funding. The latter will be a prerequisite for channeling donor
funds through the KARI budget as intended by GOK. KARI has already started
the design of an accounting system providing such information and Government
assurances were obtained at negotiations that this would be completed by
March 31, 1988 and that the system would be made operational by July 1,
1988. The proposed Project would support this component through financing
the purchase of equipment, vehicles, software, documentation, staff
training, short-term external expert assistance and recurrent non-salary
operational costs.
Training and External Expert Assistance
3.06     In-service short-term training:  The Project would support short-
term in-service training comprising: (1) short-term courses within Kenya for
both senior and middle level KARI research staff; (ii) short-term courses
at leading institutions abroad including IARCs; (iii) workshops and seminars
in-country and abroad; (iv) training in budgeting, accounting and station
management systems for KARI non-scientific staff- and (v) training programs
for research support staff. The Project would provide assistance to KARI to
meet recurrent and special costs, such as boarding and lodging of
participants, fees to guest faculty, study tours, and costs incurred by
training institutions in conducting the training courses. Short-term
training abroad for senior KARI staff would be primarily supported through
provisions in projects assisted by bilateral donors.
3.07     Degree-related training.  The Project would also provide for post-
graduate degree-related training. It is estimated that KARI would require a
total of about 600 research officers by the fifth year of the Project (Annex
I, Table 2). Most of these would be B.Sc. holders requiring further
training. The Project would train about 60 B.Sc. holders annually for M.Sc
degrees (covering most of the present B.Sc. level research officers of KARI
and about half of newly hired staff); an initial indication of degree
training needs by subject matter area is given in Annex I, Table 2.
Assuming an attrition rate of about 5Z p.a., this training would, over a 5
year period, increase the proportion of M.Sc. holders to about 502 of the
total number of KARI scientists. The Project would also aid KARI in sending
about 12 M.Sc. holders for Ph.D. training annually.  Thus, during the first
few years of the program, close to 1/3 of KARI staff would be on leave
undergoing degree-type training.
3.08     Considering the limited capacity of Nairobi University (Annex I),
only 40Z of M.Sc. degree training (and about 25X of Ph.D. training) would
take place locally; even this would require annual intakes of 24 and 3 for
MSc. and Doctoral programs, respectively. The Faculty of Agriculture of the



- 15 -
University of Nairobi is now managing an intake of about 30 M.Sc. students
annually with difficulty. It would therefore not be possible for the
University to meet the additional demands of KARI, unless support is
provided to the University to: (i) augment its equipment, facilities and
staff; (ii) improve library and information services; (iii) facilitate
fellowships and faculty exchange; (iv) meet recurrent costs; and (v) provide
adequate stipends to post-graduate students. While several donors plan to
provide scholarships to KARI researchers to pursue M.Sc. studies at Nairobi
University, there is no provision for funding and strengthening the
University. However, ISNAR jointly with the University of Nairobi in 1985,
assessed and quantified the requirements for strengthening postgraduate
research training in Agriculture and Veterinary Medicine. The University,
in 1987 developed a draft proposal for strengthening postgraduate and
vocational training programs. These proposals would be further refined for
possible funding under a separate project.
3.09     External expert assistance.  The Project would also provide for
assistance by external experts in key areas. The exact fields of expertise
and durations for each area of research can only be determined after long-
term strategic research proposals have been formulated in all the priority
research programs. However, on the basis of detailed work on four key
programs (paras. 3.10-3.15) and reviews of the approximate needs in other
areas, the second joint-donor mission estimated that in the first 3 to 5
years of the Project, on average more than 30 manyears p.a. would be
required. Provision for such assistance has been made in the areas of
management and organization, monitoring and evaluation, research on maize,
sorghum, soil fertility and soil and water management as well as in several
areas of animal production research. Many other areas such as research in
grain legumes, horticulture, oilseeds, and animal nutrition might remain
without adequate technical support because it would not be realistic to
assume that a sufficient number of trained Kenyan scientists would be
available in these areas in the first few years of the Project. It would be
undesirable to delay the acceleration of research in such critically
important areas until the required Kenyan scientists have been trained. It
would therefore be necessary to identify such commodities and disciplines,
and if possible, arrange for external expert assistance. Such assistance
could be part of "twinning" arrangements to be concluded by KARI with
selected institutions and supported by donors.   All long-term external
expert assistance under the Project would be financed by bilateral donors
under grant terms (mainly USAID, ODA, EEC, the Netherlands and Germany).
Research Program Development
3.10     Adaptive research at RRCs.  One of the major weaknesses of the
current research system has been the lack of adaptive research to ensure
that new recommendations can indeed be translated into messages that are
technically and economically viable for farmers in specific agroclimatic
environments and socio-economic circumstances. To overcome these problems,
the Project would include the strengthening of a network of eight RRCs each
serving an identified agro-ecological zone; in addition there would be two
Centers focussing especially on adaptive livestock research in dry
environments (Map IBRD 20117 and Annex II, Table 1). A long-term strategic
proposal has already been drafted for Katumani's regional program (Annex I),



- 16 -
this would be used as a model by other RRCs. The Katumani RRC's regional
mandate covers the semi-arid zone where moisture is the most limiting
production factor. Human population and animal pressure in this zone are
rapidly increasing and the productive capacity of the resource base is
deteriorating. Priority objectives for research are based on intensive
field studies to diagnose farmers' most critical problems. Some of the main
activities of the proposed program at Katumani would be: (i) the testing of
improved varieties for maize, sorghum and grain legumes as well as the
development of more productive agronomic practices and (inter)cropping
systems; (ii) the identification of high yielding pasture and legume forages
and improved management techniques; (iii) the economic analysis of improved
and existing farming practices; (iv) the development of more productive,
less risky systems of mixed farming; and (v) the dissemination of research
results and in particular the practical training of extension staff (Annex
I). The RRCs would, through on-station and on-farm experiments, develop
packages of agronomic practices and improved management methods for crops
and animals in production systems that would maximize returns to farmers
while attempting to minimize risk. They would also play the key role in
identifying research priorities at the NRCa through feedback (Annex I). In
order to make this possible, research and extension would work much closer
together (paras. 3.18, 5.28). The proposed Project would provide for
rehabilitation of civil works, equipment and research farms, construction of
laboratories and housing, the purchase of new equipment and finance a
(declining) part of the non-salary operating costs of research; it would
also include provisions for training equipment, transport and travel
allowances to facilitate closer research/extension linkages. Effective RRCs
are essential to the viability of the national research system and to
increased agricultural productivity, ensuring adequate support to all RRCs
would therefore be a priority objective of the IDA-assisted project.
3.11     National commodity, factor anddisciplinary research.  The sixteen
NRCs with their tentatively assigned research programs are given in Annex
II, Table 2 (see also map IBRD 20117). Initially, the nationally
coordinated research programs would emphasize adaptive research on critical
aspects of important food grains, livestock products and production factors
(for the relative priorities and phasing of these programs see paras. 5.08 -
5.10 and Annex III). The NRCs would have principal responsibility for
generating and testing improved technologies for commodities, factors of
production or disciplines. Each would build up a multidisciplinary team of
scientists in relation to the production problems to be addressed. KARI
would also use donor assistance for the establishment of a Research Fund in
order to contract special projects to other Kenyan institutions and/or
individual scientists best qualified in a particular area of research need.
For basic research information, the NRCs would draw on other institutions in
Kenya (e.g. Nairobi University) and outside (for example the IARCs). All
the NRCs given in Annex II, Table 2, except the Ahero National Irrigation
Research Center, presently exist. They would be rehabilitated, involving
civil works, research farm development, purchase of farm and laboratory
equipment as well as transport and would be provided with increased non-
salary operating funds and essential facilities to carry out priority
research.



- 17 -
3.12     The formulation of long-term proposals for applied research is in
an advanced stage for maize, tickborne diseases and soil and water
management; these are of high priority and would be initiated during the
first two Project years. These programs were appraised during the two
joint-donor missions; they are discussed in summary below and in more detail
in Annex I. Estimated training requirements for each program have been
summarized in Annex I, Table 2. Important aspects of proposed programs for
wheat, grain legumes and some animal production and health programs are also
given in Annex I because these research subjects are to be initiated at an
early date (Annex III). Long-term strategic proposals and detailed annual
programs for all nationally coordinated research areas would be prepared by
KARI during Project implementation according to the time schedule given in
the POA (Annex III).
3.13     GOK's Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1986 assigns highest priority to the
maize research program. Maize is the major staple of Kenya and among food
crops, occupies by far the largest area (Annex I, Table 3). Past research
on maize resulted in the development of several superior hybrids and
varieties as well as the generation of important information on improved
agronomic practices in particular for the high potential areas and for sole
crop systems. Much less is known for the more marginal areas where maize is
often grown in mixed cropping systems. The revitalized maize research
program would be based on a careful assessment of the needs of the different
agroclimatic zones (Annex I). It would be coordinated from the Kitale NRC
with cooperative programs at the Kakamega, Katumani, Embu and Mtwapa
Research Centers. Close cooperative ties with the relevant IARCs would be
developed and some external expert assistance (in particular in plant
breeding and agronomy) would be needed in the initial years. The national
maize research program would involve breeding, agronomy, plant protection
and production systems; it would give special attention to higher
productivity, pest and disease resistance and more efficient use of high
cost inputs and of labor. Maize is grown by nearly every Kenyan farmer and
strong linkages with the network of RRCs would therefore be essential.
3.14     Animal health research on tickborne diseases is also of high
priority. Of the four tickborne diseases, East Coast Fever has the greatest
economic impact. About 24Z of agricultural production Et farmgate and about
60% of Kenya's farm families are affected through dipping costs and/or death
losses caused by tickborne diseases. Dipping programs to eradicate the
vector are threatened by tolerance to acaricide. The proposed research
program at the National Veterinary Research Center, Muguga would generate
technology for a new diagnostic test against Heartwater, and better sero-
diagnostic tests for Anaplasmosis, Babesiosis and East Coast Fever; it would
also aim at the development of a quadrivalent vaccine against tickborne
diseases which would reduce the need for dipping and result in significant
savings in terms of animal values. Close ties would be developed with
relevant programs at the International Laboratory for Research on Animal
Diseases and the International Center for Insect Physiology and Ecology
(both these IARCs are based in Kenya). The research results would be of
special importance to small-scale dairy farmers. Existing research
facilities and research staff at Muguga are of good quality; some
specialized external assistance would be required. The research program



- 18 -
would comprise subprojects on all four tickborne diseases with each sub-
project having determined a specific set of time-bound activities to achieve
its objectives (for details see Annex I).
3.15     Factor research on soil and water management has been neglected in
the past and most available solutions are difficult to implemernt and
maintain on smallholdings. Although soil and water management has now been
given high priority by Government, the available manpower and facilities
limit the initial size of the proposed research effort. The envisaged
program on soil and water management would consist of two main components,
one located at the Muguga NRC and the other at the Katumani NRC (possibly
followed later by another sub-program in a more arid environment). Research
would be coordinated from Katumani; at the national level this would involve
a survey of soil degradation and erosion hazard in Kenya, establishment of a
vegetasive cover data bank and assistance in technical writing and training.
The sub-project for semi-arid areas would continue studies on the
relationships of runoff and erosion to soil and rainfall characteristics
while that for high-potential areas would focus on development of more
appropriate soil conservation structures. Both sub-projects would aim at
quantifying the impact of erosion on productivity. However, the basic goal
of the new program would be the generation of more productive farming
systems that conserve the resource base; this would be achieved through
close cooperation with several RRCs (Annex I).
Other Project Features
3.16     Scheme of Service.  The Project would support the introduction of a
revised Scheme of Service which would result in better scales of pay,
service conditions and incentives for research staff (para. 5.20). While
the details of the Scheme are yet to be finalized, an outline was reviewed
during appraisal. Under the Project, staff salaries would be entirely
financed by GOK.
3.17     Station rationalization.  The reorganization of agricultural
research would also involve a streamlining of the network of research
stations on the basis of their specific mandates (Annex II, Tables 1 and 2).
The lead responsibilities of all Research Centers would be reviewed but
especially in case of Kakamega (sorghum), Mwea Tebere (cotton), Kitale
(pastures and fodder), Muguga (dairy, plant protection and animal health),
and Naivasha (cattle production). Required reallocations would be made
before July 1, 1988 and followed by phasing out some current activities at
affected stations (para. 5.23). Those research stations not assigned a
National or Regional function would be maintained as testing sites to
provide adequate coverage for Kenya's widely diverse agroclimatic
conditions.
3.18     Research/extension linkages.  Research would start with the
farmers' problems and opportunities and conclude with solutions and
technologies that enable farmers to increase their incomes. In order for
research to achieve this end-objective, it is essential that 4t forges
effective linkages with extension as well as with other related specialised
research institutions and services (para. 5.28, 5.29). For the National and



- 19 -
Regional Centers, these linkages have been schematically illustrated in
Annex I, Chart 1. KARI would design and implement specific mechanisms that
would ensure a two way flou of information between farmers, extension and
research, and provide for a joint diagnosis of existing production
constraints, both biological and socio-economic.
3.19     Linkages with other research centers.  No national research system
can stand by itself. KARI would therefore establish linkages with other
Kenyan Centers (Nairobi University, Research Foundations etc.) and IARCs as
well as with national research centers in other countries engaged in similar
types o! research (para. 5.31). The costs of such cooperation would be
supported by the Project.
3.20     Donor coordination.  Several donors are currently providing
assistance to ongoing research projects; they would in the future be
involved in support to compc ants and aspects of the NARP that have been
rated as being of high prior. y for Kenya's future agricultural development
laras. 5.08 - 5.10 and Annex III). Donor coordination would therefore be
essential with regard to: (i) reaching agreements to phase out existing
projects which are not consistent with the NARP; (ii) the selection of new
activities and the redirection of donor assistance to higher NARP priority
areas; (iii) disbursement procedures; and (iv) monitoring, evaluation and
supervision. KARI would, by March 31, 1988 set-up a special unit in the
Planning and Manpower Development Division to facilitate donor coordination
and the collection, analysis and distribution of information required by
donors (paras. 5.33, 5.34). The cost of donor coordination-related
activities would be included in the KARI Headquarters operational costs and
supported by the Project.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Proiect Costs
4.01     The total costs for the five-year time slice (1987/88-91/92) of the
NARP are estimated at about KL 183.7 M (nearly US$ 204 M), including KL38.2
M (US$22.0 M) for physi^al and price contingencies and KL4.5 M (US$ 5 M) for
taxes and duties. Foreign exchange costs are estimated at about US$ 61.8 M,
or 30Z of total Project costs. Table 4.1 summarizes the Project costs
according to the three main components (for details see Annex IV, Tables 1
through 5). The ertimated costs are based on the GOK's Project Preparation
Report for the NARP with further refinements made during the IDA appraisal
particularly with regard to the detailed "model" research programs (paras.
3.10-3.15). Additional updating will be required from time to time given
the program nature of the Project and the need to firm-up during Project
implementation, the detailed costs according to agreed long-term proposals
for research programs as well as the financing plan (para. 4.04). While
Table 4.1 indicates that a high proportion of the funds would be allocated
to the sixteen NRCs and related commodity, factor and disciplinary programs,
the structure and content of the research system would ensure that a
substantial proportion of these costs would be used to directly support the
RRCs and their network of adaptive research activities.



- 20 -
Table 4.1: SUMHARY OF PROJECT COSTS
COMPONENT              LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL  LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL  Foreign
----(K POUNDS H)---- ------(US$ M)------  as a of
Total
KARI organization 1/
& management system    13.2   15.7   28.9   16.5   19.6   36.1    55
Regional Research
Centers                 13.5    4.0   17.5   16.8    5.1   21.9    23
National Research
Centers 2/              74.8   24.3   99.1   93.5   30.4  123.9    21
Total Baseline 31    101.5   44.0  145.5  126.8   55.1  181.9    30
Physical contingencies   5.1    2.2    7.3    6.3    2.8    9.1    30
Price contingencies 4/  21.5    9.4   30.9    8.9    3.9   12.8    30
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    128.1   55.6  183.7  142.0   61.8  203.8    30
1/ Including training and part of external expert assistance costs.
2/ Includes the costs of three research centers which have a dual national
and regional function.
3! Base costs are in mid-1987 constant prices
4/ Assumed inflation rates are: 86/87  87188  88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92
Local Inflation (Z)           9.0   11.0    9.5    8.5      8.5   8.0
Foreign Inflation (X)         8.0    2.1    1.2    1.3      2.4   3.5
4.02     An indicative allocation of funds according to the Project's five
main categories of research is: crops (54Z); soil and water management (62);
animal production (13X); animal health (192); and range and arid lands (82)
(see Annex IV, Tables 6 and 7). The precise amount of funds that eventually
would be allocated to the Research Centers, including the RRC network and to
the specific research programs would be worked out in detail and adjusted as
appropriate during Project implementation at the time of preparation of the
Annual Work Programs and Budgets (para. 5.33). It is expected that KARI's
new management and budgeting systems will ensure that the funds allocated,
reflect sound priorities and balance in terms of Research Centers and
programs.
4.03     Project costs for various expenditure items including construction,
vehicles and equipment, are estimated on the basis of prices prevailing in
mid-1986, but adjusted to mid-1987 constant prices. The taxes and duties are
relatively small since it is expected that GOK would waive these costs on
imported vehicles and equipment procured under the Project, including a
waiver already provided for items funded by bilateral donors. Physical
contingencies vary from 0-152, with an overall average of 52. This small
percentage reflects Government's intention to contain the number of
personnel added to the research establishment (para. 5.20). Price
contingencies are in accordance with Bank estimates of expected inflation
rates for local and foreign costs. The rates of price escalation in Kenya
pounds/shillings and in US dollars are expected to be offset by a
countervailing gradual depreciation of the Kenya shilling. Salaries and
related allowances reflect the proposed improved Scheme of Service currently



- 21 -
being worked out by GOK. The actual Project costs and funding during
implementation would be adjusted according to the final approved salary
structure for KARI staff, the level and mix of financing provided by donors
and GOK's budgetary support (para. 4.07).
B. Financing
4.04     The financing plan including contingencies, according to
expenditure category, is summarized in Table 4.2. This financing plan is
tentative, since the GOK forward budget (1987/88 - 1989/90) recently
approved by Treasury, includes only the donor funds formally agreed with GOK
as of end-1986 (i.e. USAID) and excludes funds from other donors which are
in the process of being formally committed. Also, the fitting and phasing
of Project requirements with donor interests still has to be worked out in
detail and formally agreed. It is expected that the final 1987/88 budget
estimates currently under preparation and GOK's rolling forward budget to be
updated by end-1987, will reflect the other donor funds which are intended
to be committed by end 1987.
Table 4.2: FINANCING PLAN 1/
Expenditure Category 2/  GOK 3/ USAID   EEC  ODA NETH Others IDA  Total IDA Share
------------------ (US$ H)-)-----   (Z)
1. Salaries & Allowances 87.6   0.0    0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0  87.6        0.0
2. Other Operating Costs 14.9   1.7    3.5  3.1  2.7   2.0   4.5  32.4    13.8
3. Vehicles                0.1   0.6    1.3  0.3  1.2   0.3   1.6   5.4    28.8
4. Equipment               0.3   1.3    1.4  1.4  1.8   0.8   2.7   9.7    28.0
5. Civil Works             2.8   0.3    6.7  2.4  1.9   0.0  10.0  24.1    41.5
6. Research Fund           0.0   2.7    0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   2.7       0.0
7. Training/Expert
Assistance             0.0  20.9    5.6  3.0  2.5   7.5   0.4  39.9       1.0
8. Information Systems    0.0   1.0    0.6  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.4   2.0    20.0
TOTAL NARP FINANCING:   105.7  28.5   19.1 10.2 10.1  10.6  19.6 203.8        9.6
1/ Including contingencies.
2/ Compiled for all research centers (and KARI headquarters) receiving
donor support (see Annex IV, Table 1). Table 4.2 is based on a
detailed financing plan worked out for each center, in consultation with
KARI and donors concerned (Annex IV, Table 8).
3/ GOK funding is split between its budget for recurrent costs and that for
development costs (See Annex IV Table 2).
4.05     The five main donors that plan to support NARP during the five
year period are IDA, USAID, EEC, ODA and the Netherlands. These donors
together would provide about US$ 87.5 million equivalent, or about 43X of
total Project costs (Annex IV, Table 3, 4 and 8). Most of these donors are
at various stages of report preparation and approval by their respective
managements or Governments; USAID funds are already agreed and being used
by KARI. Formal agreements between other donors and GOK are scheduled to
be finalized prior to IDA Credit effectiveness. In addition, there are six
other donors (Annex IV, Table 8) who intend to support the Project for a



- 22 -
total of about US$ 10 million equivalent. These other donors include
Australia, Canada, West Germany, Japan, Sweden and UNDP/FAO. To the extent
these other donor funds exceed those assumed in Table 4.2, this would
reduce GOK's financial contribution. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained from GOK that any modifications to the proposed financing plan
would be discussed and agreed between IDA, GOK and other donors as part of
the periodic discussions on the Project's POA (para. 5.33 and Anmex III).
In order to facilitate the use of donor funds, virtually all funding would
be provided on a parallel financing basis. Some expenses (e.g. incremental
non-salary operating expenses), would be funded on a joint basis in order
to facilitate the disbursement and accounting of donor funds for such
items.
4.06     Expenditure items to be financed with the IDA Credit would
include: (i) incremental non-salary operating costs on a declining basis;
(ii) vehicles; (iii) equipment; (iv) civil works; (v) in-service training
and degree-related courses (seminars, study tours, post-graduate training);
and (vi) consultancy services as part of the use of the PPF funds.
Contracts for use of consultants are estimated to cost less than US$100,000
equivalent for each collective assignment. IDA funding includes a
Government-requested Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$700,000 which
IDA formally approved. The PPF would help finance detailed preparation and
Project start-up activities. Although use of IDA funds has been
identified, there would be flexibility to cover priority financing gaps as
they arise as long as IDA approval would have been obtained for the
program(s) concerned.
4.07     All funds for the Project (including IDA financing) would be
reflected in GOK budgets and would be channelled from Treasury through MOA
as grants to KARI in accordance with existing GOK procedures. Table 4.2
indicates that the counterpart funds to be provided by GOK (US$105.7
million or 522 of the total) would cover primarily salaries and allowances
and some non-operating expenses not funded by donors. GOK intends to: (i)
reflect agreed donor funding in its budgetary allocations; (ii) provide
adequate budget allocations to fund the NARP; (iii) decrease gradually the
current ratio of salary costs to total recurrent costs; and (iv) adjust
research programs on the basis of the agreed priorities and phasing (paras.
5.08- 5.10 and Annex III), in the event of shortfalls in financing.
C. Procurement
4.08     Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3; figures in
parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA. All figures
include both physical and price contingencies. Since most of the donor
funds would be provided on a parallel financing basis, the procurement
methods used by KARI would be in accordance with the respective procedures
agreed with each donor concerned. For similar expenditure items (e.g.
computers and office, laboratory and farm equipment), financed by more than
one donor, KARI would closely coordinate procurement activities to ensure
adequate standardization and effective use of donor funds.
4.09     About 211 of IDA's Credit would be procured through International
Competitive Bidding, about 53? through Local Competitive Bidding, 192



- 23 -
through other procurement methods and 7Z without prescribable procurement
methods (including various non-salary operating expenses). Procurement for
66Z of the total Project costs falls under N/A, or where no prescribable
procurement method will be applicable. These are expenditures for salaries
and staff costs, training and operating costs which would be incurred in
accordance with KARI's financial and other operational regulations which
are acceptable to IDA. Project funds would be disaggregated and channelled
to KARI Headquarters and to various Research Centers. Bidding packages
would be prepared on an annual basis consistent with annual budgetary
provisions, stipulating packages for items that would be procured by KARI
Headquarters and by individual Research Centers. ICB thresholds would be
US$1,000,000 for civil works and US$50,000 for plant and equipment;
preference for local manufacturers would be allowed. Contracts involving
expenditures in excess of US$250,000 and 50,000 equivalent for civil works
and plant/equipment respectively, would be submitted to IDA for prior
review. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOK that KARI would
be authorized to procure civil works, materials and services in accordance
with approved procedures for state corporations. An outline of KARI's
procurement procedures was reviewed during IDA appraisal and found to be in
conformity with existing GOK procedures. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from GOK that KARI's final procurement procedures would be
acceptable to IDA.
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT
I Category of                               Procurement Method
I-Expenditures                                                             |
I                        IICB      ILCB      |Other    IN/A        ITotal   |
I                        II                 I         I           ICost    I
|                        -       (In US$ M including contingencies) ----l
1. Staff and other       0.0        0.0      0.0     1 87.6      1 87.6   |
I  non-eligible  costs  J(0.0)    I (0.0)   ]      (0.0)           10(L)
12. Non-Salary Operating | 1.7     1 8.1    1 3.2     j 19.4      I 32.4   |
1  Expenses              I(0.4)    I (2.7)   1(1.4)    l (0.0)    I (4.5)
13. Vehicles             1 3.6    1 1.0    1 0.8      I 0.0       I 5.4   i
I                         12__    L.    I (0.2)   I(0.2)    l (00   ! (1.6)
14. Plant & Equipment    1 4.6    1 3.6    1 3.5      1 0.0       I 11.7   I
_(incl. inform, system) j(1.3)    1 (1.3)   1(0.5) _| (j0..       I (3.1)  I
15. Civil Works         I 1.6     I 12.9    1 7.2     1 2.4       1 24.1
I _    _     _ .(1.3) _   (6.2)   1(1.5)    I                (1.0)  1(10.0)
16. Research Fund        I 0.0     I 0.0    I 0.0     I 2.7       I 2.7   I
I0 .I()    I (00)1                        (0.0)         !. (-(0.0)
17. Training             I 0.0    I 0.0    1 1.7      j 15.6      I 17.3   |
I _________________0___  .1.L.)    I (0.0)   1(0.0)        3)     I (0.3) J
18. External Experts     I 0.0     I 0.0    115.7     1 6.9       I 22.6   |
I  .__ ___ __   .I(.. .  I   (0.0)  1(0.1)                  I (0.1)  I
|  TOTAL                 111.5    1 25.6    132.1     1134.6      1203.8   1
I  (IDA)                 1 j(4.2)    1(10.4)   1(3.7)    .319.6)  1



- 24 -
D. Disbursements
4.10     Disbursement of IDA credit funds would be made for non-salary
expenditure categories which are connected with KARI Headquarters
activities or long-term research proposals reviewed and approved by IDA.
Such approval would be a condition of disbursement for such research
rroposals. This procedure would include the involvement of RMESA staff in
processing and submission of disbursement applications; these staff would
also assist in procurement and closely supervise adherence to the agreed
POA (Annex III). Disbursements would be against full documentation for
capital expenditures exceeding US$50,000 and against statements of
expenditure for all other items. The percentages to be financed by IDA for
the different categories of expenditure are shown in Annex IV, Table 9. A
Project Special Account is not included at this time because GOK and the
Bank Group are still in the process of working out the final arrangements
for such accounts.
4.11     The NARP is a five year timeslice of an ongoing long-term program
in agricultural research. Given the nature of NARP, the available standard
disbursement profiles are not applicable. All past projects in Kenya which
provide the basis of the standard profile involved essentially new
activities, and in most cases the creation of new institutions. KARI's
activities have already begun with support of USAID and start-up will be
further accelerated by the PPF which has been approved by IDA. KARI's
independent procurement authority would facilitate improved procurement and
disbursement. A significant part of IDA financing relates to the recurrent
non-salary operational costs of KARI and the Research Centers; purchase of
equipment and construction of civil works is mostly scheduled during the
first four Project years and would therefore be easily completed by the end
of the first phase. The disbursement period for the Project would, for
these reasons, be estimated at six years (for Disbursement Schedule, see
Annex V, Table 10). It is anticipated that the final disbursements of the
IDA Credit would be made by June 30, 1993, about 12 months after completion
of the Project's implementation and closing date of June 30, 1992.
E. Accounts and Audits
4.12     As a new institution, KARI would develop its own specific
accounting system. At appriasal, it was agreed that during its initial
year (i.e. 1987/88), KARI would operate on the GOK accounting system which
is already in use irn KARI's constituent parts. This system provides for
budgeting and accounting by spending research station, item (type of
expenses) and head (major program classification); KARI's future financial
staff are familiar with this system. Although cumbersome, this system is
an adequate means to record expenditures and is acceptable to IDA during
KARI's initial period of operation. A specific accounting system, however,
will be required to account for donor contributions as this does not form
part of the regular GOK accounting system. This system would:
(i)    identify expenditures for reimbursement by donors and
generate the disbursement claims;
(ii)   account for direct donor payments and contributions in
kind; and



- 25 -
(iii) produce statements of amounts due (or received) from
donors and the application of these amounts(by station,
item and head).
A specific system would also account for assets and liabilities, as the
Government accounting system does not account for these systematically. An
inventory and evaluation of assets would be carried out and an opening
balance sheet established with assets valued as of July 1, 1988. It was
agreed at negotiations that this opening balance sheet would be submitted
to IDA by July 1, 1988.
4.13     During 1987/88, KARI intends to develop a more responsive
accounting system. This would provide improved and integrated accounting
and management information that would meet concurrently the requirements of
GOK, KARI managers and donors. The main features would be: (i)
computerized accounting, providing rapid data treatment and up-to-date
reports (para. 3.05); and (ii) provision of analysis of costs by research
program enabling KARI and donors to account for expenditures according to
type, Research Center and program. This accounting and analysis would also
permit a comparative analysis of costs of each program, and hence assist
program evaluation.
4.14     It was agreed that consultants would be engaged by KARI before
September 30, 1987 to help in the development and introduction of the new
system, including its application on the proposed microcomputers. The
consultants would also help with training of staff in operating the new
systems. Terms of reference for this assistance have been agreed (Annex
VI). It is expected that this consultancy would begin once the Finance
Manager and his staff are in place, early in fiscal year 1987/88.
4.15     KARI would produce a balance sheet and income and expenditure
statement annually, beginning with the fiscal year 1987/88. In addition,
the accounts would show in detail the source and applications of all funds
managed by KARI and would present a statement of IDA funds showing source
by credit category and application by project component. KARI accounts
will be audited by the Auditor General (Corporations) or a professional
firm nominated by him which is acceptable to IDA (Annex II). The work of
the Auditor General (Corporations) will be supplemented by an Internal
Audit Division within KARI reporting through the Director to the Board of
Management. KARI inherits all the accounting staff of its constituent
units; these are adequate to operate the initial accounting system. At
KARI headquarters, a central accounting unit will be established during the
first year, under a Finance Manager. It was agreed at negotiations that
the audited eccounts including -he audit certificate for the statements of
expenditure, would be submitted to IDA within nine months after the end of
the fiscal year, beginning in 1987/88.



- 26 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Overall Organization and Management
KARI Tasks
5.01     A schematic overview of the new agricultural research structure is
given in Annex II, Chart 1. The Kenya Agricultural Research Institute has
responsibility for all crop, livestock, factor and disciplinary research
funded under the GOK budget or by external funding obtained by KARI.
Agricultural research is also carried out by Nairobi University, Research
Foundations and private companies; KARI would closely cooperate with these
agencies through reciprocal participation in Research Center Committees and
cooperation at the level of the RRCs (para. 5.26). KARI would, within the
national strategy, further evolve its research policy based on national
development goals and priorities through liaison with the Ministries of:
Agriculture; Livestock Development; Finance; and Planning, all of which
have representatives on KARI's Board. An effective working relationship
would be developed with the newly established (June, 1987) Ministry of
Research, Science and Technology (MRST). KARI would implement the NARP and
carry out research activities through Nationally Coordinated Research
Programs and through RRCs responsible for adaptive research. It would
monitor the progress and quality of research output through effective
management information and control systems.
5.02     The KARI organigram (Annex II, Chart 1), provides for a Board of
Management, a Managing Director, and three Departments, each headed by a
Deputy Director (Crops, Soils and Water; Livestock; and Finance Planning
and Administration). The Board of Management was nominated by the Minister
of Agriculture in December, 1986 and approved by Kenya's President; the
Board has since met periodically, approved NARP and appointed KARI's
Director and two of the Deputy Directors. The members of the Board include
representatives of Nairobi University and private enterprise. The Board
deliberates on policy issues and approves the KARI budgets and Annual
Reports; it has approved the first year's (87/88) research program and
budget proposed in NARP. This work plan includes further rationalization
of the National Research Program and the detailed preparation of additional
commodity, factor and disciplinary research programs (POA, Annex III). A
large measure of authority is left to KARI management and day to day
management would be fully delegated to the Director. This organization is
consistent with KARI's status and with the requirements of the (amended)
Science and Technology Act.
Status of Prtparation
5.03     Project preparation was briefly discussed in para. 2.04.
Preparatory activities accelerated after NARP had been accepted as a
framework for reorganization in October, 1986. Further detailed work was
done on proposals for several nationally coordinated and regional research
programs (para. 3.10-3.15 and Annex I). The establishment of KARI began in
November, 1986 with the secondment of several senior research staff, the
setting up of temporary physical premises, provision of a special budget
for the remainder of fiscal year 1986/87 and of a forward budget through



- 27 -
1989/90. A USAID-supported project to improve KARI's organization and
management structure and to strengthen research in maize, sorghum and
millets became effective December 20, 1986. As part of the IDA appraisal,
consultants prepared working papers on the restructuring of research on
animal production and health, the establishment of KARI's information
system and the Project's civil works (Annex VI). With funding from the
approved PPF, KARI would:
(1)     edit and publish the NARP proposal;
(ii)    finalize earlier prepared long-term research proposals;
(iii)   start detailed preparation in those other areas where
strengthening is scheduled to be initiated during the
first two Project years;
(iv)    complete the preparation of administrative, financial and
budgetary procedures to be followed by the new KARI;
(v)     update plans for training and external expert assistance
and organize training in research management, information
systems, research farm operation, etc.
5.04     With senior KARI staff in position (para. 5.02), it was agreed at
negotiations that the appointment of other key staff, especially the Deputy
Director Finance, Planning and Administration, the Assistant Directors of
the different KARI research divisions (Annex II, Chart 1), the Center
Directors and Research Program Coordinators, including the head of the
Manpower Development and Training section, would be given first priority;
appointment of these staff is a condition of Project effectiveness. It was
in addition agreed during negotiations that the Assistant Directors,
Planning and Manpower Development, Finance and Administration and also the
Section Head Planning, Programming and Budgeting would be appointed by July
1, 1988.   During negotiations, Government also agreed that the
implementation schedule of the POA (Annex III) would be followed and
eventual later amendments made following review with IDA and other donors
every year no later than January 31, beginning in 1988. Draft job
descriptions for key KARI staff are provided in Annex II, Appendix 1; these
would be approved by the Board before December 31, 1987. Most KARI staff
would be provided by transfer of part of the staff from the existing
agricultural research organizations before July 1, 1988. This would be
done by decision of the Minister of Agriculture after the approval of
KARI's Board of Management.
Supervision Responsibilities
5.05     Supervisory roles are explicit in the organization proposed for
KARI (Annex II, Chart 1). The Director would supervise the Deputy
Directors. The Deputy Directors would supervise the Assistant Directors.
The Assistant Directors would supervise the Directors of Research Centers.
This would require frequent visits to the Centers by all management staff
to evaluate work and to give technical and administrative guidance. The
Planning, Programming and Budgeting Section of the Department of Finance,
Planning and Administration would carry responsibility for donor



- 28 -
coordination (paras. 5.33, 5.34). This Department's Monitoring and
Evaluation Section would provide KARI management with information and
analysis needed to carry out their supervisory activities. The Annual
Reports and other written work produced by the Research Centers, would be a
major source of information used by KARI management in supervising the
stations. Each Center Director would be fully responsible for all aspects
of the Center's program including the sanctioning of expenditures and
decisions on staff promotions; he would therefore need to supervise the
relevance and quality of research at the Center, the performance of staff
undertaking the research, as well as the preparation of annual work
programs and reports. The national commodity, factor and disciplinary
program coordinators would have a technical supervision function for the
research programs assigned to them. Supervisory techniques and procedures,
as well as reporting formats are now being developed by KARI's acting
managers and would be ready for use immediately after KARI becomes fully
staffed.
Information and Reporting Systems
5.06     KARI's section on Manpower Development and Planning would be
responsible for the establishment of th 'MIS (para. 3.05) including
detailed planning, training and proper muintenance and updating of computer
hard and software. Under the new KARI, the completion of seasonal or
annual reports on progress of the research program by each researcher and
team leader would be a condition for approval of the next year's program.
A common criticism of the research system has been the failure of
scientists to make the importance and implications of scientific,
technological, or other advances known to non-scientists in simple non-
technical language. KARI would therefore devise appropriate reporting
styles for use in relations with Government leaders, planners and decision
makers on the one hand, and for extension personnel and farmers on the
other. This would help create the desired public awareness of the results
of agricuitural research. A Publications Unit to be established at KARI
headquarters would provide special assistance in the preparation of such
publications.
5.07     It was agreed at negotiations that KARI would design reporting
formats and guidelines by March 31, 1988 and introduce these by July 1,
1988. The timely preparation and submission of annual reports by Research
Centers and researchers on each of their assigned programs and projects
would be monitored by their immediate supervisors: program leaders,
coordinators and Center Directors (Annex II). Compilation of the Research
Center reports would be the responsibility of the Center Directors; these
reports would be approved by the respective Assistant Directors and Deputy
Directors. KARI would each year in May, organize an Annual Research
Conference to deliberate on research themes and/or issues of national
importance. KARI's Annual Report would be based on the station reports and
approved by the Board (para. 5.02). Essential to an efficient research
system is also the production of high ruality publications to share new
information with coworkers in other national (and international)
institutions. KARI would therefore by July 1, 1988 set up a screening,
review and editing committee to ensure reliability and quality of material
offered for publication by KARI scientists to scientific journals or
published on a more informal basis.



- 29 -
Research Priority Setting and Phasing
5.08     The Government has recently (Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1986),
assigned high priority to agricultural research on seven commodities that
are of critical importance to Kenya's future: maize, wheat, milk, meat,
coffee, tea and horticulture. Research on coffee and tea is financed by
Commodity Boards encompassing all producers. Research in these areas is
well-established (Annex I) and it is therefore not funded under NARP. A
first attempt to arrive at a more precise statement of priorities including
research on factors of production (e.g. soils and water) and disciplines
(e.g. plant protection) and to clearly assign responsibility for major
areas of research was made in the 1985 ISNAR report (para. 2.04). After
minor adjustments, these were accepted by GOK in the preparation report of
NARP; potential donors, in October 1986, also expressed broad support for
the basic thrust of these proposals. The three identified priority groups
are (Annex I, Table 3):
(i)     maize, wheat, sorghum and millet, grain legumes, fruits
and vegetables, root and tuber crops, seed technology,
dairy production, beef production, coffee, tea, and soil
and water management;
(ii)    rice, oilseeds, cotton, sugarcane, treecrops, pyrethrum,
range and pasture, sheep and goats, food technology and
agricultural engineering;
(iii)   other small grains, other fiber crops, agroforestry,1
flower culture, poultry, pigs, camels, and germplasm
collection and conservation.
5.09     The actual timing of the full implementation of the rehabilitation
of a research program would be phased on the basis of: (i) its priority
status; (ii) the lead time necessary to prepare comprehensive and
satisfactory strategies and a proposed long-term research program; (iii)
KARI's capacity to guide preparation, review proposals and approve these;
and (iv) the limitations of available budgetary and manpower resources.
The existing centers would however, as of July 1, 1987 receive adequate
non-salary operating funds that will permit the effective use of staff
assigned on the basis of the rationalisation of the research station
network and mandates (para. 3.17, 5.23).
5.10     An indicative sequence of the full-scale strengthening of key
research programs which incorporates GOK-stated priorities, is given in the
POA (Annex III).  The proposed sequence and timing is also based on the
experience gained in Kenya during the preparation period and on national
concerns in terms of research priorities (para. 2.10).  The phasing plan
would be approved by the KARI Board's Scientific and Technical Committee
before July 1, 1988, The phasing plan would be regularly reviewed and
further refined in consultations between GOK and donors (para. 5.33). If
1/ Agroforestry (and forestry) research is a primary responsibility of the
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. Its linkages with other
crops as well as livestock and factor research at the RRCs are currently
being strengthened under the Agroforestry Research Network for Africa
'urlh 4 1 ;"  r-a  lv., Q1-,A   TN*on  4 ^,1 I   4.... Vn--k -



- 30 -
overall Project implementation would be faster than expected, funds would1
be made available to support its acceleration by more rapid disbursement of
IDA funds than now envisaged (Annex IV, Table 10). If, on the other hand
resources would fall short of a minimum level required to ensure adequacy
of non-salary operating funds for ongoing programs (para. 4.07), the
strengthening of additional research programs would be delayed beyond what
is now envisaged in the POA.
Research Planning, Programming and Budgeting
5.11     The Research Committee Structure.  Commodity, factor and
disciplinary research programs would be coordinated nationally. Typically,
a coordinated research program would consist of a coordinating center
located at an NRC and a number of cooperating centers located at other NRCs
or in the different RRCs, depending on the importance of the commodity or
the product in the different regions. These programs with the
corresponding Research Centers from which they are organized, are given in
Annex II, Table 2. Each nationally coordinated program will be headed by a
coordinator, who would be a senior scientist capable of providing
scientific leadership (job description, Annex II, Appendix 1). The
coordinator would be in charge of a multi-disciplinary team of KARI
researchers, located at the coordinating NRC and cooperating centers. KARI
would establish for each of the nationally coordinated research programs, a
Program or Factor Committee. This Committee would be headed by the program
coordinator; it would be responsible for the regular annual evaluation of
the past year's research results and the design of the next year's
experimental program; it would meet at least once a year. It would also
ensure linkages with related research programs and the continued relevance
of the research program to farmers' problems. The different Program and
Factor Committees would therefore be composed of all participating
researchers, (including those involved in adaptive research at RRCs),
representatives of closely related programs (e.g. at Universities or at
privately funded centers) and of MOA and MOLD, in particular of senior
subject mastter specialists of the extension services. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that KARI would establish the Program and Factor
Committees by December 31, 1987.
5.12     A system of Specialist Committees for each major commodity, factor
and disciplinary program similar to that which functioned successfully
under the EAC would be re-established to guide KARI research and to link
research with related institutions. Each broad-based Specialist Committee
would be led by the respective KARI Deputy Director. Members would be
drawn from institutions with relevant ongoing work and those that make use
of research results (including the University, the private sector, the
IARCs, KARI as well as MOA, MOLD and especially the extension service).
The respective Deputy Director would be responsible for periodically (say
every 3 years) convening Specialist Committee meetings, and (in conjunction
with the coordinator) prepare reports and act as secretary to the
Committee. These Specialist Committees would be called initially to review
and approve long-term research programs and strategies for the particular
commodity, factor or discipline; these would provide the basis for detailed
annual research programming. At the time of initial research program
formulation and later when periodic in-depth reviews would be conducted to
consider results and review the need for reorientation, experts



- 31 -
representing donors supporting the particular program, would be invited to
participate. Government agreement was obtained at negotiations that
Specialist Committees for the major research programs be established and
called for advice before final KARI approval of such programs.
5.13     In addition, Committees would be established at each Research
Center for the purpose of designing long-term strategies, reviewing ongoing
Center programs and to develop new annual research programs at the
beginning of each year (Annex II). These Research Center Committees would
maintain close contact with the KARI Commodity and Factor Committees, such
that Center programs would reflect the aggregate of relevant national
commodity and/or disciplinary/factor research programs as well as the
specific needs of the region in which each Center is located. Center
Committees would therefore include district development and extension staff
from MOA and MOLD, farmers and representatives of local parastatal and
private enterprises working in agriculture or agro-industry in order to
facilitate a diverse input into research programming. At negotiations
Government agreement was obtained that all Research Center Committees would
be established not later than December 31, 1987.
5.14     The Programming and Budgeting Cycle.  The annual research
budgeting exercise would follow the schedule outlined below:
June 30:         The Directors of RRCs and NRCs, as well as commodity,
factor and disciplinary program coordinators would submit
their annual reports for the past year and work plans for
the coming year iacluding drafts for two more years, to
KARI's Planning, Programming and Budgeting Section.
Research Center Committees would meet well before this date
(para. 5.25). Meetings of KARI's national Commodity and
Factor Committees (and in some cases the Specialist
Committees) as well as KARI's Annual Agricultural Research
Conference (para. 5.07) would also take place during the
preceding months.
July 15:         (i) Treasury budget guidelines would be communicated to MOA
and MOLD which in turn would provide budget guidelines for
KARI, as part of the forward budget exercise; (ii) KARI
would receive the previous year's financial report, KARI
also would receive reports from any Specialist Committees
which would have met by this time (para. 5.12); (iii)
KARI's Planning, Programming and Budgeting Section, after
discussion with the Development Planning Divisions of MOA
and MOLD, would prepare a first draft annual national
research program (funding for which would begin July 1 of
the next year) by commodity, factor, discipline and
station; and (iv) the program would be costed.
July 31:         The Planning, Programming and Budgeting Section of KARI
would submit its program and budget to KARI management
which would approve or modify the plan.



- 32 -
August 1S       The approved program would be submitted to the NRCs and
RRCs for refinement and the preparation of detailed
research programs. Whenever tniere would be new programs,
old programs dropped or modifications to existing programs,
these would be elaborated into work plans for each
researcher.
September 15:   The detailed research programs and budgets by commodity and
station would be resubmitted to KARI management for
approval and subsequently to KARI's Board.
January 1:       The annual budget exercise would make final budget
allocations by research station and program, based on the
work programs developed in the above process, for the
fiscal year beginning July 1 of the same year. However, it
would permit modification of the forward budget and the
research plan. The results would be approved by KARI's
Board.
In effect there would be two planning exercises for each year: the 3 year
moving forward research plan and budget, and the annual plan and budget.
The KARI Managing Director with the Deputy Director in charge of Finance,
Planning and Administration would be responsible for the timely execution
of these activities.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Review
5.15     Under the NARP, a monitoring and evaluation (M & E) system would
be established to ensure that research is continuously steered in the
proper direction, that the scarce resources available are allocated
according to pre-determined priorities and that they are effectively
utilized. The M & E Section of KARI's Planning and Manpower Development
Division would undertake this function (Annex II, Chart 1). The monitoring
system would review both financial and physical progress. Evaluation would
look at questions of efficiency, effectiveness and impact of research
programs; it would also help in future planning. The data used for M & E
would be provided in standard formats (designed by the M & E Section) by
the officers directly responsible for a given task. M & E systems would be
established for:
(i)     KARI's entire program (hence to be established at KARI
headquarters);
(ii)    each nationally coordinated research program;
(iii)   each Research Center; and
(iv)    the individual research projects.
Feedback would be provided to the responsible officers, immediate
supervisors and KARI management. The M & E Section at KARI headquarters
would also develop and implement a comprehensive evaluation system of the
long-term effect of research projects. In order to do this, it would be
necessary to compile relevant data on agricultural commodities in different



- 33 -
production zones including estimated real and potential yvlIds, benefits
from research, and actual production costs. KARI's M & E Section would
make use of the results of the Annual Research Conference (para. 5.07). A
more detailed description of the proposed M & E systems is given in Annex
II. Agreement was obtained at negotiations that KARI would prepare for IDA
review and comment, a detailed work plan for M & E and that these H & E
systems would be implemented by July 1, 1988.
5.16     The Research Center is the place at which it is most important to
establish an effective monitoring system. Each Center Director with the
assistance of research program coordinators, would be responsible for the
quality and the timely implementation of the Center's programs; he must be
constantly aware of the indicators of effectiveness including expenditure
control, timing of experimental work, staff requirements, maintenance of
the Center, preparation of reports, liaison with headquarters and linkages
with the local community. Additionally, there would be quarterly meetings
of program leaders and coordinators at each Center to ensure regular
progress review, adequate consultation among senior staff and the removal
of bottlenecks. Annual reports for research projects would ensure a steady
flow of information for use in planning and programming and provide a basis
for evaluating the performance and productivity of the scientists (para.
5.20).
5.17     IARCs are periodically reviewed by independent panels to determine
whether there is need for major change in policy and direction of their
activities. A similar review system would be designed for KARI. An
outside Review Panel periodically called by the YARI Board, would be given
clearly specified terms of reference reflecting areas of concern on which
KARI management may wish to seek counsel. Such panels would include senior
research staff of IARCs, technical experts nominated by donors and
representatives of "client" Ministries (MOA and MOLD) but not exceed 10
members; KARI would provide a secretariat. Government agreement was
obtained at negotiations that an independent review of KARI's research
program would be carried out every five years and that donors would be
consulted with regard to terms of reference and composition of Review
Panels. It would however, be necessary to have more frequent reviews
(every three years) during the first ten years of KARI. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that a mid-term review of the NARP would be
undertaken by a joint GOK/KARI/donor team no later than September 30, 1990.
This would be preceeded by an independent Review Panel evaluation of KARI's
research strategy and programs. Government assurances were also obtained
that KARI would prepare a Project Completion Report no later than 9 monW'ts
following completion of the first five year phase of the Project.
B. Training, Terms of Employment and Expert Assistance
Training
5.18     Because of the extreme urgency of training in several areas
relating to KARI's management and research support services, KARI would
specify the training needs for in-service training, based on an analysis of
the existing staff and training gaps; KARI would discuss this plan with the
donors and identify funding support for each category of training. KARI
would in particular ensure that an initial briefing of research staff on



- 34 -
NARP and the reorganization of agricultural research would take place
before December 31, 1987. Egerton University College would be primarily
responsible for providing within country in-service training on research
management and related areas; arrangements would be made with appropriate
institutions for other types of in-service training. It is expected that
Egerton University College would be strengthened under a separate USAID-
assisted project which includes twinning arrangements with the University
of Illinois. The USAID, EEC, ODA, Germany, the Netherlands and other
donors would be making significant provisions for in-service training.
KARI would therefore be expected to have sufficient funds to meet the
recurrent costs of the in-service training courses.
5.19     A draft plan for degree-type training has been prepared (Annex I,
Table 2). Each long-term strategic research proposal (paras. 5.23, 5.24)
would include a detailed plan for degree-related and other training of
scientists in specified disciplines. It is estimated that overseas
training at M.Sc. level would require to be arranged for about 180 B.Sc.
holders and at Ph.D. level for about 45 M.Sc. holders (para. 3.07). The
cost of overseas degree-related training of KARI research staff as
envisaged under the Project, would be fully covered by bilateral donor
assistance. A special attempt would be made to accommodate a smooth
reentry of the newly trained scientists and to ensure that they would make
an early and effective contribution to KARI research by arranging for
degree-related research in Kenya and by providing for continuing linkages
with overseas training institutions and trainers after graduation.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that KARI would at an early
date, further review staff resources and requirements and prepare a revised
degree training plan with special reference to training to be initiated in
1988/89. Submission to IDA of a plan for degree and in-service training of
KARI staff would be a condition of project effectiveness. This plan would
be updated annually by January 1 and discussed with donors during the
regular joint supervisions beginning in 1988 (para. 5.33).
The Scheme of Service and KARI Staffing
5.20     The Scheme of Service for KARI staff (para. 3.16) would, in
addition to salary improvements, include features to ensure effective
personnel management and improved staff motivation. It was agreed during
negotiations that KARI's Board would approve by not later than March 31,
1988 a revised Scheme of Service and terms and conditions of service for
its staff: these would include:
(i)     detailed job descriptions of all posts;
(ii)    minimum entry qualifications for each level with a higher
starting salary for exceptionally qualified scientists
having a good record of research and publications;
(iii)   incentives for outstanding scientists, such as accelerated
promotion, overseas training and sabbaticals for research
at foreign institutions linked with KARI;
(iv)    in addition to annual performance evaluation by line
supervisors, periodic evaluation of the output of
researchers by an independent body of outstanding
on   r,v' -       o' 



- 35 -
(v)     a research career stream to provide for upward mobility of
scientists in research without having to move into
management positions;
(vi)    a method of recruiting scientists directly by KARI and
measures to facilitate staff transfers between KARI,
Kenyan Universities and the extension service; and
(vii)   adequate transitory provisions for the absorption of
present staff under the new Scheme of Service.
Except for senior management positions, staff growth would be deferred
until the staff establishment is determined and approved and staff
reassignment according to the revised center mandates essentially
completed. Approval of KARI's revised staff structure and establishment
would be a condition of project effectiveness. Containing staff numbers
would facilitate KARI to arrive at a more realistic budget allocation for
non-salary research operating costs in relation to total recurrent costs
(salaries are currently estimated to amount to an average of about 73Z
during the Project period).
External Expert Assistance
5.21     External expert assistance in research fields for which adequately
trained manpower is not presently available in Kenya would be provided by
several bilateral donors. Foreign experts would function within the
framework of the KARI management system and would assist Kenyan scientists
in formulating and implementing research programs. Important features of
such assistance under the Project would be:
(i)     emphasis on external expert assistance in an institutional
framework with well-known research institutions from donor
countries or from other African countries providing
expertise to support KARI;
(ii)    close linkages with IARCs;
(iii)   reliance on short-term assistance by means of brief visits
by experts to study bottlenecks or to train staff in
specific areas; and
(iv)    greater emphasis on training by sending Kenyan counterpart
scientists for short-duration work assignments to the
foreign institutions concerned.
Delinking external expert assistance from donor support to a specific
research program could result in a more effective use of available funds
and external expertise. KARI would explore this approach with the donors,
and in any case, ensure availability of scientific staff with the required
training and experience before a program would be submitted for IDA funding
and approval. KARI would at an early date prepare an updated proposal for
external expert assistance and cooperation in training in those research
areas planned to be initiated during the first three Project years. This
plan would be updated and if necessary revised annually by December 31
beginning in 1988; significant changes would be discussed with donors
during the annual joint supervisions.



- 36 -
C. Regional and National Research Programs: Linkages
Organization, Long-term Research Strategies and Annual Programs
5.22     The organization of Research Centers (illustrated in Annex II,
Chart 2) would be structured around sections for research, training and
support services (e.g. maintenance, farm management, finance and accounts,
and administration). The operational and financial management of non-
research and/or commercial activities would be separated from that of
research and the demands of such activities would be procured separately
from the resources allocated to research. At Centers with more than one
major research program, all service functions would be common. The NRCs
and RRCs would be equal in status; they would relate to each other through
the coordinators, the Program and Factor Committees, as well as through the
participation of scientists working in nationally coordinated programs in
the Research Center Committees. Job descriptions of key staff at NRCs and
RRCs are given in Annex II, Appendix 1. Although priorities between major
research programs would be decided at the national level (para. 5.08),
responsibility for the development of long-term proposals in agreed key
areas of research would be with the research program coordinators and
Center Directors.
5.23     Strategic research proposal development for RRCs would be directly
supervised by the Research Center Directors. For national programs, this
would be the coordinators' task who would also be responsible for the
linkages of their programs with other related research including that at
the RRCs. The initial drafting of annual programs of research and of
annual reports would, for national programs, be assigned to the
coordinators. At the RRCs, senior agricultural research officers would
carry this responsibility under the Director's overall supervision.
Because the RRCs main task involves adaptive research to evolve technology
for the farmers of their mandate areas, Center Directors would be
responsible for the regular participation of researchers in monthly
workshops, their involvement in on-farm work and in diagnostic surveys
(para. 5.28, 5.29). Research staff would be stationed only at the
recognized National and Regional Centers with subcenters and testing sites
manned exclusivel^ by technical staff (except for Mariakani). This would
ensure that at all NRCs and RRCs, the required critical mass of scientific
expertise providing for the establishment of well-balanced
interdisciplinary teams, would be available; it would also facilitate the
provision of facilities such as housing, schools and recreation that are
essential to a conducive work environment. It was agreed at negotiations
that the station rationalization would be completed by June 30, 1989.
5.24     Preparation of some of KARI's long-term nationally coordinated and
regional programs for research is well underway (paras. 3.10-3.15). These
would be: (i) finalized before September 30, 1987; (ii) submitted to IDA
for review; and (iii) approved by KARI. Each major comriodity, factor or
disciplinary program as well as each RRC program would under NARP, propose
a long-term plan and strategy as a framework for research. Such proposals
would include:
(i)     a review of past research and achievements;



- 37 -
(ii)    an inventory and diagnosis of priority constraints in the
mandate area(s);
(iii)   a design including a time frame to overcome these
constraints through research;
(iv)    methods of technology dissemination;
(v)     staff training and external expert assistance
requirements; and
(vi)    investment implications.
5.25     A detailed outline for long-term research program proposals is
provided in Annex I, Appendix 1.  KARI's Director would be ultimately
responsible for the preparation of these strategic research proposals
according to the time s_hedule shown in the POA (Annex III). Before
approval by KARI, these long-term strategies would be reviewed by IDA. The
annual research programs would be designed on the basis of the agreed long-
term strategies. In order to fit the forward budget process (para. 5.14),
the scientists at NRCs and RRCs would in consultation with the respective
Committees (paras. 5.11, 5.13), prepare the proposals for future annual
research programs, including proposed budgets for all activities by mid-
June of any given year. The financial year of concern begins July 1 of the
next year but the experimental year starts much earlier (about February 1)
for Research Centers in the Rift, Western and Coastal regions and somewhat
later (around August 1) for Centers located in Central and Eastern
Provinces. Given these differences and recognizing that relatively few
Centers are characterized by the September to July season, a suggested
calendar for annual Center reporting and research programming has been
provided in Annex II, Table 3.
5.26     The reorganized RRCs would apply a systems-oriented research
approach consisting of constraint diagnosis, problem resolution through on-
station experiments and on-farm studies as well as the dissemination of new
knowledge generated in this manner, through the extension service to the
farming community (Annex I). The specific program of each RRC will reflect
the particular problems related to the resource base, the priority crop and
livestock commodities and the dominant production system(s) in the mandate
area (map IBRD 20117). Where appropriate, the RRCs would conduct
cooperative on-farm research with the Research Foundations for coffee and
tea and other privately funded research to jointly improve extension
messages (para. 5.08).
5.27     In all cases there would be a strong socio-economic input to
address the need for economic analysis of existing and potential production
situations, farm management research and the orientation of newly developed
technologies to the farmers' and national economic considerations. Each
RRC would be charged with responsibility for adaptive research to increase
productivity at the farm level in a given agro-ecological zone and for
training of extension staff in a particular administrative mandate area
through regular monthly workshops or special courses. Depending upon the
range and diversity of the area to be served, RRCs may have several
subcenters for technology testing. Detailed knowledge of the area on which



- 38 -
each RRC works is an essential prerequisite for the formulation of the
RRC's research program. In preparation of the drafting of research
strategy proposals, a "status report" would therefore be composed by each
RRC and incorporated in the long-term research proposal (Annex I, Appendix
1). All RRCs would have interdisciplinary sub-programs of research in:
(i)     diagnosis and analysis of production systems;
(ii)    technology adaptation and development;
(iii)   technology integration in crop/livestock production
systems;
(iv)    on-farm research and technology transfer.
The suggested implementation sequence for RRCs is shown in Annex III.
Research/Extension Interaction
5.28     Scientists at RRCs would initially draw on the stock of ex!sting
technology at NRCs and elsewhere and adapt this knowledge to the needs of
farmers in their mandate areas in cooperation with extension staff;
recommendations would evolve from this. In this process, they would also
identify new problems and priorities for the NRCs to focus on. It was
agreed during negotiations that the mandates of (and relationships between)
KARI, MOA, MOLD and the extension service would be improved so that their
respective roles and responsibilities in the various stages of generation
and dissemination of technology would be clearly defined; these improved
linkages would be introduced no later than July 1, 1988. The envisaged
structure would allow for the joint planning of annual work programs in
areas of common interest and facilitate effective coordination at all
levels. Interaction between research and extension would be improved
through the participation of different levels of extension staff in: (i)
formulation of nationally coordinated research programs; and (ii)
programming research at RRCs. Researchers and extension staff would also
jointly conduct diagnostic surveys and monitor the impact of new technology
including farmers' reactions, to obtain feedback.
5.29     In order to ensure effective research/extension linkages and an
efficient transfer of technology to farmers, the following actions would be
taken by KARI before July 1, 1988:
(i)     appointment of a Research Extension Coordinator (REC) at
Headquarters (job description Annex II, Appendix 1);
(ii)    expansion of the joint research-extension diagnostic teams
for on-farm research in a farming systems perspective
already functioning at some Centers, to all RRCs in order
to study socio-economic and other factors which influence
farmers' decisions such as to facilitate more efficient
technology development;
(iii)   instructions to the Directors of all RRCs to ensure that
at least 2 research scientists would participate in each
district's extension pre-workshop field visits and in the
mn,9$l v worlchrbn .



- 39 -
(iv)    request researchers to train the extension staff and to
promote extension feed-back to research to enable a two-
way flow of information;
(v)     give the Research Center Committee at each RRC a mandate
and composition that ensures that the research system
develops technologies which are tailored to farmers' needs
and constraints; and
(vi)    encourage NRCs to organize technical courses conducted by
research specialists for extension Subject Matter
Specialists.
MOA and MOLD would instruct senior extension Subject Matter Specialists to
regularly participate in the national Commodity and Factor Committees. The
Agricultural Information Center would be used more intensively by the
research and extension organizations. For this purpose KARI and extension
managers would jointly prepare an annual action program to be undertaken by
the Center. The monitoring and evaluation units of KARI, MOA and MOLD
would survey the implementation of the research/extension linkage program
and provide regular feedback to their managements. Progress in this area
would be especially reviewed during joint donor Project supervisions (para.
5.33).
5.30     Another area where research needs to interact more closely with
extension relates to the function of women in agriculture. The important
role of women and the gender-related division in terms of farm labor, type
of farm activities and farm-income in Kenya agriculture is generally
recognized. Women continue to be the main family food producers on small
farms but they also move into commercial farm activities (like maize
production, tea and coffee harvest). Many men are engaged in off-farm
occupations and they therefore participate only in major investment
decisions. As second income receivers, women become more and more involved
in local trade and investment planning (such as cattle purchase if they
derive income from milk sales). Under the NARP, research and extension
would pay much greater attention to how they can most effectively address
the requirements of major decision makers on farms. The national extension
service has already taken several successful initiatives (Annex I).
However, although more effective extension approaches are pursued, the
technical messages have remained the same for male-and female-led farms.
Under the proposed Project, an attempt would be made to develop
differentiated messages (such as on crops, activity mixes, tools,
investment priorities etc.); they would be the outcome of specially
designed farming systems research. First, the extension agents and
researchers would be trained to better understand the range of issues
involved and to conduct surveys with relevant questions. The extension
services would then generate more meaningful messages and/or new research
requirements. Such research might identify questions especially important
to women (e.g. the need for varieties reducing weeding labor, improved
threshing techniques, etc.). Currently, 152 of agricultural researchers
are women and an attempt would be made tG increase their input into
adaptive agricultural research; the Research Center Committees would
monitor progress in this area.



- 40 -
Other Linkages
5.31     Research.  The effectiveness of research in KARI would be
facilitated through strong formal and informal ties with other national and
international centers involved in agricultural research (para. 3.19). For
example, cooperation with the University of Nairobi would include post-
graduate thesis projects, shared external expert assistance, joint staff
appointments, contract and joint research as well as workshops. A
KARI/Nairobi University Working Group would prepare a long-term framework
for cooperation. With foreign institutions, collaboration would involve
exchange of genmplasm to build up gene banks, attendance at conferences and
seminars, exchanges of staff, participation in training courses,
acquisition of publications and cuoperative research projects.
5.32     Services.  Agricultural services that are important in increasing
agricultural productivity and with which research should be closely linked
are credit, input supply and marketing. Existing problems (paras. 1.05-
1.07) are being addressed through the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Program (paras. 1.08, 1.09). Linkages of research with other services
would be strengthened through the composition of KARI's Board (para. 5.01
and Annex II). In the context of the proposed Project, linkages between
research and these other services would also be intensified through the
mechanism of regular fortnightly training sessions, monthly extension
workshops and through the Provincial Agricultural Research and Extension
Advisory Committee meetings. Representatives of these other services,
including agro-business would be invited to attend these meetings such
that: (i) research and extension would be aware of the actual input supply,
credit and marketing situations in designing research programs and in
formulating recommendations for the adoption of new technology; and (ii)
those involved in the supply of credit, inputs and purchase of produce
would be regularly brought up to date with regard to extension strategy,
the farm activity calender and farmers' probable requirements.
D. Donor Coordination
5.33     A strong and purposeful research management system, effective
financial and budgetary procedures and regular consultation are critical to
donor coordination and would be ensured by the new KARI. The donors have
agreed that the programs to be supported by them would fit NARP in terms of
substance and approximate cost and would be reviewed and approved by the
KARI Specialist Committees given agreed phasing in the light of KARI's
overall research strategy and priorities (paras. 5.08, 5.10 and POA, Annex
III). Donors would channel their funds to meet local expenses entirely
through KARI (para 4.07). At negotiations, it was agreed that: (i) KARI's
Annual Work Program and Budget as well as any proposed amendments of the
POA (Annex III), would be provided for review to all donors, normally
before January 31 each year; and (ii) all donors would each year, in
January or February, be invited to participate with IDA in one joint
mission to evaluate the implementation of the overall program including
managerial, technical, financial and procurement aspects. The first joint-
donor review might however, be undertaken earlier to resolve any
outstanding issues. In addition, most individual donors would, once a
year, review specific research programs supported by them.



- 41 -
5.34     While the donors have agreed that there would be one system within
KARI for management information, monitoring and evaluation, it would be the
responsibility of KARI to use donor funds in setting up such an integrated
system. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that by March 31,
1988 KARI would prepare a proposal for the establishment of information
systems, including monitoring and evaluation, and financial and research
management procedures satisfactory to the donors and would introduce these
new procedures by July 1, 1988.
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
Nature of Project Benefits
6.01     The Project is expected to improve significantly the organization
and management of Kenya's agricultural research system, thereby using
-esearch resources more efficiently. Benefits arising from improved focus
of research priorities, higher quality research, and better
research/extension linkages, would show up in the impact of the revitalized
KARI on agricultural production.   The Project would contribute directly to
accelerating agricultural productivity and growth. The proposed Project
would complement activities under the on-going IDA-assisted agricultural
extension project, its proposed follow-on stage, and planned improvements
in other agricultural services (paras. 1.08, 1.09).
6.02     The nature of Project benefits highlights the importance of
adjusting research priorities to reflect evolving needs and relative
economic benefits. This planning capacity would be created during the
first-phase Project. Annex V, Table 1 and 2 summarize the criteria and
guidelines that KARI plans to use in setting and adjusting research
priorities and provides further details about the consistency between
various indicators and the proportion of funds allocated to different
research programs. It is evident from these data that further examination
of relative resource allocations is required (e.g. in case of oil seeds and
cotton). The Project would help establish institutional capacity and a
systematic approach to setting priorities and adjusting research toward
those activities that generate relatively high economic returns as well as
meet other important national objectives (para. 2.10).
Returns to Investment in Agricultural Research
6.03     Considerable evidence from ex-post analysis shows that investment
in agricultural research in both developed and developing countries has
generated high economic rates of return, exceeding 40? in most cases.2   A
recent Bank-organized cross-country comparison of East and West African
countries suggests that similar, but somewhat lower retulrns have been
obtained in many of these countries. This study however, concludes that
2/ Agricultural Research (Sector Policy Paper, World Bank, June, 1981)
I - O/ -4q



- 42 -
returns are sufficiently attractive to justify further investments,
particularly wben coupled with improved extension. In the case of Kenya, a
study on the diffusion of hybrid maize found relatively high returns from
research during the 1960s and early 19708
6.04     An Economic Rate of Return (ERR) calculation for this type of
project with its first phase institutional emphasis, has little meaning.
The technology improvements developed, the rate and extent of their
adoption by farmers, and the productivity and output gains due to their
application cannot be accurately predicted and are likely to vary
significantly among agroecological zones. Moreover, future gains in
productivity would be attributable not merely to the adoption of
technological innovations but to the combined impact of various support
services (input supply, extension, etc.) as well as to that of the general
economic environment. Finally, the Project's support for research in a
large number of commodity and factor programs spread over numerous Research
Centers, poses serious data problems for a comprehensive ex-ante economic
analysis. The Project's monitoring and evaluation system would aim to
eventually develop a reliable data base for analysis of the economic
returns to various commodity and factor programs as a planning tool for
adjusting research priorities between and within commodity and factor
research programs (para. 5.15).
6.05     Notwithstanding the above comments, it can be shown that even
relatively small increases in productivity attributable to the Project,
would be sufficient to generate an ERR of 20X or more. For example,
equating the present value of the recurrent and capital costs of the
Katumani Regional Research Center with the present value of its benefits,
at an opportunity cost of capital of 20?, implies a yield increase for
maize in the mandate area of only 8? over current levels by the tenth year,
assuming maize is priced on an import-parity basis. If maize is priced on
an export-parity basis, the required yield increase of maize over this ten
year period would be about 301. This illustrative example assumes that all
research benefits would accrue to maize, which comprises only about 60Z of
the total cropped area in Katumani's mandate area (Map IBRD 20117). Annex
V, Table 3 provides the main assumptions and further details of this
example.
6.06     A recent review of 128 Bank projects supporting agricultural
research and extension in 10 countries concluded that the more successful
research organizations in the countries studied, displayed a combination of
some of the following characteristics: a strong central organization with
overall responsibility for most aspects of national research and with
funding control to back it up; some degree of autonomy from the routine
bureaucratic structure of the Ministry of Agriculture; good links, despite
the autonomous or semi-autonomous status, to the national planners and
policy makers; service units tither directly part of, or closely related to
the central research organization; deCentralization of regional research;
and active extension participation in translating research results into
recommendations communicable to users.3 Each of these elements is evident
in the redesign of Kenya's agricultural research system. The same review
3/ Strengthening Agricultural Research and Extension. The World Bank
Experience; Operations Evaluation Department, IBRD Report No. 4684,
September 1983) Pp xi, para. 34.



- 43 -
recommended that Bank-supported agricultural research projects: (i)
emphasize manpower training in particular of research program leaders; (ii)
develop the functions of overall research and station management; (iii)
facilitate research on the integretion of crop and livestock activities and
on farm management; and (iv) consider socio-economic, environmental and
political factors in research program design. The proposed Project is
designed to emphasize these elements.
B. Employment and Poverty Impact
6.07     The Project would have only a comparatively small direct
employment impact during the implementation period. Far more important
would be its indirect impact on employment and income generation in rural
Kenya. Through the eventual adoption of improved agricultural production
and farm management practices by smallholders, the Project would lead to
increases in on-farm productivity and farm output of the majority of
Kenya's 2 million farm families. While the potential yield increases for
crops vary considerably according to agro-climate zone, for most crops
there is scope for attaining significant yield increases over the next 15
years, provided there is an improved research and extension system.
Kenya's high population growth rate of nearly 4? p.a., and its limited land
resources will require sustained productivity increases for most crops and
commodities of at least 4Z p.a. The Project would play a critical role in
meeting these targets through the provisi^n of new and improved
technologies. These yield increases would generate substantial additional
employment and income for farmers, including farm women and agricultural
laborers.
6.08     Approximately 70X of the labor force is employed in agriculture.
Given the land tenure situation, income distribution and population
patterns, the Project's indirect employment and income effects would accrue
predominantly to the poor. In addition, increased productivity would
provide lower priced food to the urban population, most of whom also have
low incomes.
C. Budgetary Implications
6.09.    The Project's impact on GOK's budget, although significant
relative to the past and current allocations to agricultural research,
would be manageable. For example, in 1986/87, the proportion of research
expenditures to the total agriculture budget was 10?; in the Project's
first year, this ratio is expected to reach nearly 15?. On an annual basis
and excluding coffee and tea, the Project would be funding research at
about double the level (in real terms) allocated to research in the 1986/87
budget. The research budget would amount to almost 3X of the Agricultural
Gross Domestic Product, which is high by African standards but justified on
the basis of rapid population growth and limited high potential land. It
must also be realized that these budgetary increases reflect: (i) a
significant increase in donor funds for agricultural research, mostly on a
grant basis; (ii) the inclusion of several research-related expenditures
previously not shown under GOK's research budget (e.g. maintenance and
utility charges), or paid directly by donors (e.g. significant training and
exteral expert assistance-related local expenses); and (iii) the



44 -
introduction of the new Scheme of Service for KARI staff. There is also a
serious degree of deferred underfunding in both recurrent and capital items
essential to generate and sustain research activities. Under the new KARI,
all research costs, including grant funds from donors, would be shown in
the budget.
6.10     The Project's financing plan and the high proportion of donor
funds financing non-salary expenditures (including incremental non-salary
operating expenses) minimizes the Project's budgetary burden on GOK during,
the implementation period. For example, Annex IV, Table 11, which
represents the Project's indicative budgetary impact, shows that the
incremental GOK counterpart funding requirements over the Project period
will range from 4 to 40X more than current GOK counterpart funding levels
provided for KARI's agricultural research programs. This wide range is due
largely to the increased GOK funding for implementing the improved Scheme
of Service (para. 5.20). Moreover, of GOK's total counterpart funding,
about 83Z is to cover all project salaries and reiated allowances.
Moreover, most of the donor funds will finance capital expenditures and
will include funds for operating expenses on a declining basis over the
first phase of the Project. Given the donors' long-term commitment to the
Kenya National Agricultural Research Program (para. 2.04), several
bilateral donors would under . planned next phase continue partial funding
of non-salary recurrent costs beyond the end of the first phase. These
measures would help prepare GOK to finance the increased level of research
activity on a sustained basis. Notwithstanding the Project's financing
arrangements, GOK will need to ensure that the size, scope and phasing of
the research programs are adjusted to available budgetary allocations and
that the required level of funding is sustained well beyond the first phase
Project implementation period. In the event that there would be shortfalls
in the budgetary allocations for the Project, KARI would make the necessary
adjustments in accordance with the agreed priorities and phasing of
research programs and activities (paras. 5.08 - 5.10 and POA, Annex III).
D. Environmental Impact
6.11     The Project would help in providing for the needs of Kenya's
growing population while at the same time maintaining or improving the
resource base. The Project places priority on adaptive research, the
development of pest and disease resistant varieties to decrease dependence
on chemicals and soil and water conservation research (paras. 3.10, 3.13,
and 3.15). To the extent that the modernization of Kenyan agriculture
involves increased use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides, research
carried out under the Project would aim at generating techniques which: (i)
involve greater efficiency in application and thus, relative reductions in
doses per unit of land (compared with likely farmer practices in the
absence of sound research and extension guidance); (ii) draw to a greater
extent on integrated pest management techniques decreasing exclusive
dependency on chemicals; and (iii) provide technology for increased
protection against possible health hazards to use.s of agricultural
chemicals and consumers of farm produce. KARI researchers would ensure
that extension staff (and farmers) receive adequate training in the storage
and application of pesticides.



- 45 -
E. Proiect Risks
6.12     The Project would involve four main risks. These relate tot (i)
effectiveness of the reorganized KARI organization and management; (ii)
adequacy of budgetary funding levels and mechanisms; (iii) adherence to
agreed priorities and balance in research programs; and (iv) relevance and
adoption of research findings. These risks and the Project's measures to
minimize their adverse effects are discussed below.
6.13     Given the Project's unavoidable complexity, there is a risk that
the organizational, procurement, management and coordination arrangements
and procedures may not function as intended or may experience a delay in
functioning properly. To minimize this risk, the Project's design
involves: (i) a management information system coupled with Project
monitoring and evaluation (paras. 3.05, 5.15,); (ii) close donor
coordination, joint supervision missions, and involvement of RMESA staff in
order to ensure support of priority research programs (para. 4.10); and
(iii) a mid-term review in order to reassess the effectiveness of the
Project's organizational arrangements and if necessary, L.ake adjustments
(para. 5.17). During preparation, a two-year period was devoted to
securing consensus and commitment at both the highest political and working
levels on the Project's organizational procedures and coordination
structures (paras. 2.04, 5.33).
6.14     There is a risk that the Project's substantial increases in funding
requirements over current levels may exceed actual GOK budgetary
allocations, particularly to sustain research activities following the
Project's first phase implementation period. GOK's constrained financial
situation requires the implementation of a budget rationalization program,
which includes budgetary ceilings imposed on all Ministries. Donor funds,
however, result in increased ceilings for the agency concerned. To reduce
this risk, IDA obtained from GOK at the time of negotiations, assurances
that agreed procedures for approval and financing of research programs would
be followed (para. 4.07).
6.15     Another major risk in any agricultural research project is that
research findings generated may be irrelevant to farmers's needs or
inapplicable under actual on-farm conditions; that research findings may
not, or only inadequately and with undue delay, be transmitted to farmers
and therefore fail to generate the potential benefits as early and fully as
possible; and that a reversal in agricultural policy reforms currently
underway, may prevent the adoption of technological advances, i.e. render
them unprofitable. Another related risk in this Project involves the
balance in research programs - between and within commodity, factor and
disciplinary programs and between national and regional research programs.
Research results cannot be guaranteed, but to minimize these potential
risks, the Project's design includes:
(i)     emphasis on full funding of RRCs;
(ii)    orientation of research towards location-specific farmers'
needs, resources and skills, that have been clearly
identified prior to the formulation of research programs;
(iii)   emphasis on field-testing and adaptation of technology; and



- 46 -
(iv)    increased cooperation and communication of researchers with
extension staff and farmers for more rapid feed-back on
research impact.
The balance in research programs and consistency with sound economic
policies and research management priorities would be addressed through
strengthening:
(i)     KARI's research management and the effectiveness of KARI's
research planning;
(ii)    the Project's Commodity and Factor Coordination Committees
as well as the Specialist and Center Committees;
(iii)   the M & E system and its role in helping to adjust research
priorities in accordance with changes in economic policies,
national priorities and smallholder requirements; and
(iv)    periodic reviews of KARI's programs and strategies by
outside Review Panels.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS
7.01     The following assurances were obtained at negotiations:
(i)    the design of revised accounting systems by March 31, 1988
and the implementation of adequate programming, budgeting
and accounting procedures including separate accounts of
headquarters, program and station expenditures by July 1,
1988 (para. 3.05);
(ii)   the inclusion of donor funds in budgetary allocations, the
provision of adequate budgets by GOK to fund the NARP and a
gradual decrease of the ratio of salary costs to total
recurrent costs (para 4.07);
(iii)  submission to IDA of the KARI opening balance sheet by July
1, 1988 (para. 4.12) and provisioa of audited accounts
including those for statements of expenditure to IDA and
other donors no later than nine months after completion of
the financial year beginning in 1987/88 (para. 4.15);
(iv)   the Project's proposed Plan of Action (Annex III), its
timetable of implementation and its review in terms of
progress and adjustments with IDA and other donors every
year no later than January 31 beginning in 1988 (para.
5.04);
(v)    periodic reviews of KARI's research programs and strategies
by an independent Panel and arrangements for a mid-term
review of the NARP by a joint GOK/KARI/donor team no later
than September 30, 1990 (para. 5.17);



- 47 -
(vi)   approval by KARI's Board of the new Scheme of Service and
terms and conditions of service for KARI staff before March
31, 1988 (para. 5.20);
(ix)   improvement of the mandates and relationships between
research and extension organizations, their interactions in
technology transfer and the introduction of improved
linkages by July 1, 1988 (paras. 5.28, 5.29);
(x)    arrangements for donor coordination including joint
supervisions at regular intervals and the provision to
donors of information on KARI's annual work program and the
proposed forward budget each year before January 31,
beginning in 1988 (paras. 5.33, 5.34);
7.02     Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i)    the appointment of key KARI staff (para. 5.04);
(ii)   subm.ission to IDA of the revised and updated training plan
(para. 5.19).
(iii)  approval by KARI's Board of the revised staff structure and
establishment (para. 5.20).
7.03     A condition of disbursement against expenses made for individual
research programs would be approval of the program by IDA (para. 4.10).
7.04     With the indicated assurances and conditions, the proposed Project
would be suitable for a Credit on standard terms of SDR 15.5 million
equivalent to the Government of Kenya.



- 48 -
Annex I
Page 1 of 26
KENYA
NATIONAL AGP.ICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND RELATED AREAS - PAST AND FUTURE
A. Introduction
1.       The current research programs carried out by MOA's SRD, MOLD's VRD
and KARI have been described in detail in earlier ISNAR reports. The broad
proposed mandates of the envisaged National and Regional Research Centers
have been outlined in the NARP Project Preparation Report. It is not
feasible to include this wealth of documentation in the SAR. It is
nevertheless useful to summarize: (i) the background and current
organization of agricultural research in Kenya; (ii) major present research
programs; and (iii) on a selective basis, what is proposed in major areas
of research. This has been attemped below.
B. Background
2.       In the area of crop-related research, there are presently three
categories of research facilities under SRD (Table 1). The National
Agricultural Research Stations have countrywide responsibility for major
crops like maize (at the Kitale station), wheat (Njoro), horticulture
(Thika), integrated agricultural research (dryland farming at Katumoni) and
specialized services (e.g. soil analysis and crop protection at the
National Agricultural Laboratories). Regional Research Stations are
responsible for research specific to their assigned region. These stations
ensure wider testing of new genetic materials and agronomic practices. The
third category comprises sub-stations or test sites operated by national or
regional stations. A significant research effort also continues at KARI,
Muguga with a research program divided in four departments - veterinary
science (see below), animal production, forestry and crops; plant
quarantine to facilitate import and export of seeds following
internationally agreed procedures is also handled by KARI. Research on
livestock consists of animal production and veterinary research under VRD.
There are several discipline-oriented national centers: animal production
(Naivasha); veterinary science (Muguga and Kabete); and range management
(Kiboko and Marsabit); research on pastuies and fodders is handled by
Kitale. There is also a network of regional veterinary stations. Several
livestock research centers provide research-related services to other
divisions in MOLD and to farmers.
3.       In the past, research centers were frequently established without
thorough study and evaluation of those already in existence. Their
mandates are therefore often ill-defined and insufficiently linked. Also,
due to a lack of communication and overall coordination, there is
significant overlap between research programs.



- 49 -
Annex I
Page 2 of 26
Research Management, Reporting and Programming
4.       Agricultural research in Kenya is currently uncoordinated and
management is weak. Planning and budgeting for individual research
projects are done at the stations with little consideration of national
plans and priorities. However, the station manpower allocations and
overall budget ceilings are defined at the national level by MOA and MOLD
without adequate regard for critical research requirements. Senior
agricultural research staff in MOA and MOLD operate as administrators
rather than as managers setting priorities. Station directors also dedicate
far too much time to routine administrative matters. Due to the lack of a
coherent national agricultural research program, donor-supported projects
have often been implemented outside the existing research system,
distorting information on real research costs.
5.       Management and research information is presently handled by manual
procedures resulting in serious delays and a lack of data critical for
timely budgeting and planning; this makes efficient management and cost
control impossible. Adding to these fundamental problems, Government has
purs,ed hiring, promotion and transfer policies that aim to employ all
school leavers with salary improvements mainly on the basis of seniority,
not performance. To advance their career, specialists often have to shift
to a new field (e.g. from maize to cotton) or become administrators. As a
result, agricultural research is staffed inefficiently and researchers have
become ineffective and demoralized.
6.       There is little review of previous research and a lack of
diagnosis of research needs before experiments are started. Research
reports are often not completed before new work begins. Station annual
reports are frequently behind schedule and some stations have not published
their work since 1980. One of the most glaring deficiencies in the present
research system is the total absence of monitoring and evaluation of
research projects to ensure that objectives are being efficiently pursued,
funds properly accounted for, the desired results achieved, and if not, the
project is modified or terminated. Researchers often are not aware of
findings by international organizations nor of progress made at other
stat:ions in Kenya. Institutional interaction is minimal and depends on
personal contacts rather than a systematic diffusion of information. Due
to lack of funds, most libraries have only the international journals ilp to
1976. The information that does exist is not very accessible due to pl,or
reference services.
7.       The present approach to research program formulation has not
recognized the site-specific demands for new technologies by extension,
farmers and private enterprise. New economic trends and changes in food
preferences are in danger of being neglected. There are gaps in research;
for example the importance of animal production to the small farmer and its
relationship to other components of the farming enterprise has not received
adequate attention. Allocated funds and resources (including donor
support) are spread thinly over a large number of projects some of which



- 50 -
Annex I
Page 3 of 26
are unrelated to priority needs and many lack the critical mass to generate
the desired results. A recent Bank-supported study of the allocation of
manpower resources in relation to commodity values indicated that crops
like maize, sugar and potatoes received a reasonable share of research
attention but that for crops such as rice, wheat, barley and cotton, the
relative allocation of research resources may have be'n too high. However,
roots and tubers gained little research attention. Thus, although other
factors should also be considered in allocating funding and manpower, the
"congruency" of research resources applied in relation to their relative
economic importance could be significantly improved.
8.       For the above reasons, although the system has increased
considerably in size and complexity, research output has since the mid-
1970s, declined in value and quality. It has been unable to effectively
respond to the challenges brought about by increasing population pressure
on land, greater demands for food and raw materials and the predominance of
small holdings. To turn this situation around requires improvements in
agricultural research management, organization, administration and priority
setting and above all, a renewed commitment and dedication of scientific
staff to the purposes of the national agricultural research system.
Financial Support
9.       The total annual budget allocation for research to the earlier
Ministry of Agricultural and Livestock Development and KARI (including
grants by donors) has recently (86/87) been about 13 million Kenyan Pounds
or US$ 15 million equivalent. When NARP was prepared, there were about 40
free-standing donor-assisted research projects involving total financing
(over several years) of approximately US$60 million equivalent. More than
10 different donors were involved and significant technical assistance was
included. The part GOK budget for research amounts to almost 2Z of the
Agricultural Gross Domestic Product which is more than in many other
countries in Africa. However, so much is necessary to cover salaries
(almost 80Z), that too little remains for the actual execution of research.
This situation is different for coffee and tea where Commodity Boards
encompassing all private estate and smallholder producers, finance research
through a cess on produce and adequate funding of non-salary operational
costs is ensured (at about 40Z of total recurrent costs). Government hopes
to expand private sector participation in research to cotton, pyrethrum,
sugar and other commodities. A firm policy of cost sharing between the
public and private sector however, remains to be worked out. Research
stations frequently provide other services to the farming community and
private sector (e.g. seeds, plants, seed quality control, soil fertility
analysis); they sometimes sell agricultural and livestock produce, drugs
and vaccines. Such activities need to be clearly separated from research
(i.e. independently managed); their price setting and accounting needs
improvement.



-51 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 26
C. Present Major Research Programs; International Linkages
Crops
10.      Research on food crops in the past was concentrated mostly on
plant breeding and commercial farming practices in the high potential
areas. Major breakthroughs have been the genetic improvement of maize,
wheat and barley for the highlands and the development of short season
maize varieties for the drier marginal areas. Less research has been
carried out on the technologies necessary to improve productivity of the
smallholder farmers, especially intercropping. Research on major food
crops now deals with maize, wheat, barley, beans and other pulses,
horticultural crops, sorghum, millet, potatoes, cassava, and rice. Kenya's
major export crops are coffee, tea, pineapple, flowers and pyrethrum.
Research on export crops has high priority because they play an important
role in earning foreign exchange. Research on coffee and tea is handled by
special Research Foundations outside the SRD system and is well provided
for. Major coffee research achievements include the breeding for
resistance to coffee berry disease and improved c:op management practices
(e.g. pruning). Past successes in tea research ha-ve been the development
of improved nutritional practices and the generation of better
establishment and pruning methods. Research in these areas is well
organized at least in part because producers have a say in the formulation
of research and its financing. However, closer linkages with the regional
centers and the agricultural extension service need to be forged. Sugar
traditionally has been an industrial crop and most estates do their own
agronomic research. A sugar research program has been started at Kibos to
adapt tractorized methods to small farmer, ox-drawn conditions and to
examine the potential for intercropping sugar with grain legumes and maize.
Cotton research (at Kibos and Mwea Tebere) has focused on selection and
breeding, pest control and agronomy. Crop improvement has proceeded mainly
by testing of introductions from elsewhere. Industry (through the Cotton
Seed and Lint Marketing Board) currently plays a (minor) role in funding
this research. Particularly in dryland areas, yields have been stagnant
and inadequate attention was paid to seed multiplication, research on
intercropping systems and appropriate pest control practices.
Livestock
11.      Research on livestock development at Naivasha covers animal
breeding and nutrition; the species are cattle (beef and dairy), sheep,
pigs, and poultry. The development of grade dairy cattle and contributions
by veterinary science that facilitated their widespread introduction in
Kenya, has been a major accomplishment. The focus of research programs at
the National Range Research Station, Kiboko is on range management,
grassland improvement, pastures, dryland cropping systems, and animal
breeding (cattle, sheep and goats). The Kenya Arid Lands Research Station
at Marsabit is involved in arid lands livestock research; its mandate
partly overlaps with that of Kiboko. Kitale has a strong research program
on planted pastures and forages that are however, suitable mainly for
large-scale ley farming systems.



- 52 -
Annex I
Page 5 of 26
Factors and Disciplines
12.      In addition to the major research programs on crops and livestock
commodities, there are in Kenya several research activities that concern
themselves with factors of production (soil and water conservation,
irrigation management, etc.) or with specific aspects of agricultural
production or disciplines (plant protection, agricultural engineering,
etc.). Research on production factors and disciplines is conducted at
several locations. The National Agricultural Research Laboratories at
Kabete initially provided analytical and veterinary services to the whole
agricultural sector, but soon also began research work on crop production.
This Laboratory concentrated on research on land and water resources
including irrigation. Research on soil and water management for dryland
areas is conducted at the Katumani Center. A soils and agricultural
chemistry section at the National Agricultural Laboratories provides
services for plant and soil analysis as well as for foodstuffs and water
quality. The Kenya Soil Survey located at the Laboratory is well
established and provides a good service. Plant protection at the National
Agricultural Laboratories involves an entomology section which provides a
central research and reference service on insect pests; a plant pathology
unit gives back-up support as a plant disease clinic to advise on diseases
and nematodes and on the screening and use of fungicides.
13.      The Veterinary Research Laboratory at Kabete has from the very
outset been involved in diagnosis of livestock diseases and the development
and sale of vaccines to combat them. This main laboratory and its satellite
at Embakasi (Foot and Mouth Disease) still produce more vaccines than any
other laboratory in East and Central Africa. The research program of the
Veterinary Research Division at KARI, Muguga has responsibility for
research and vaccine production for rinderpest, contagious bovine
pleuropneumonia, and contagious caprine pleuropneumonia. It carries the
national mandate for research work on East Coast Fever. There is also a
research program on important helminth diseases, especially tapeworm in
cattle and liver fluke in sheep. Much stronger linkages are required
between these Centers on animal production and health and the adaptive work
at the regional research stations.
Adaptive Research
14.      Research results obtained earlier were often based on experiments
carried out at only one research station. Existing recommendations
therefore frequently lack sufficient site-specificity. Kenya's enormous
diversity in ecological conditions requires considerable complementary
adaptive research to develop appropriate recommendations. Thus, the
improvement of the Regional Research Centers, making each responsible for a
particular agro-ecological zone and its range of socio-economic conditions,
needs to be given priority. This need was most clearly felt in the semi-
a.rid regions and the Katumani Center started an effort to improve the focus
of adaptive research in the early 809. This work was facilitated by
assistance of the Food and Agriculture Organization and by in-service



- 53 -
Annex I
Page 6 of 26
training courses on farming system research organized by the International
Center for Maize and Wheat Research.  An interdisciplinary team of
scientists at Katumani carried out promising research in the areas of
diagnostic studies and the on-farm testing of new technology in a farming
systems context; these activities also facilitated closer interaction
between research and extension. Aspects of this work were recently
supported in part by the IDA-financed Pilot Agricultural Research Project
(Baringo Pilot Semi-arid Areas Credit 962-KE). The pilot project succeeded
in developing methodologies for evaluating the relevance of past research,
priority setting and formulation of annual work programs. It became clear,
however, that the generation of research programs for the development of
technologies that farmers can easily adopt, requires long-term continuous
interaction between researchers, extension workers and farmers as well as
strong management, discipline, close monitoring and also specific training
programs for researchers and extension staff in research program
development.
Relations with International Research Efforts
15.      Several International Agricultural Research Centers contribute
significantly to agricultural research in Kenya. The International
Laboratory for Research on Animal Diseases cooperates in its programs with
the Veterinary Laboratory at KARI, the Kenya Medical Research Institute and
the University of Nairobi. The Laboratory's research on basic immuiaology
is a valuable complement to the work of the national institutes on vector
and drug research; an active collaboration is involved in respect of the
trial introduction of immunization procedures for East Coast Fever. The
International Center for Research on Maize and Wheat operates a regional
program for East Africa based at Nairobi. It runs 3 main research programs
including training; two on cereals (wheat and maize) and the third on
farming systems research. Since 1982, the International Potato Center has
conducted a successful potato germplasm importation, evaluation,
multiplication and distribution program based at the Plant Quarantine
Service, Muguga. The Center cooperates with potato research at Tigoni and
the Faculty of Agriculture of the University of Nairobi. The International
Council for Research in Agroforestry in Nairobi is concerned with the
collection and evaluation of information about current or potential
agroforestry components and practices and with devising field research
methodology and arranging for their testing. The International Center for
Insect Physiology and Ecology on the campus of the University of Nairobi
has facilities at KARI, Muguga and a field station at Mbita Point. The
Center has since its inception maintained close working relationships with
the Veterinary Research Department of KARI and with SRD. Kenya also
participates in two regional research projects and networks which
contribute to the national research effort: (i) the Semi-arid Food Grains
Research and Development Project in which the International Crops Research
Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics cooperates and which is supported by
the Technical and Research Commission of the Organization of African Unity;
and (ii) the planned Maize Research Network for Eastern and Southern Africa
of the Multinational Programming Centre based in Lusaka, Zambia.



- 54 -
Annex I
Page 7 of 26
16.      These cooperative ties with national and regional agricultural
research centers have contributed significantly to the development of more
productive crop varieties in Kenya. However, notwithstanding the
substantial input by international organizations, their overall impact on
Kenya agricultural research has been less than expected. This may be due
in part to the fact that many IARCs use Kenya as a base for their regional
African activities rather than to solely support the national research
system. However, the lack of an effectively organized national research
system and reluctance (due to sensitivity of Kenyan institutions) to fully
utilize services offered by the IARCs probably also played a role.
Stronger linkages with related international and national institutions
could significantly improve the effectiveness of the Kenya agricultural
research system.
D. Related Agricultural Services
Agricultural Extension
17.      The Kenya National Extension Service has been strengthened since
1983 when the Government embarked on the National Extension Project based
on the "Training and Visit" management system (Cr. 1387-KE). The
competence of the front line extension agents has been greatly enhanced
through monthly workshops and regular training sessions which address
current farmers' problems each fortnight. The system is designed to
provide feedback on the perfornance of new technology to the trainers and
to agricultural research.  Supervision has been facilitated by fixed farm
visits of the field extension workers. Extension activities focus on food,
cash and horticultural crops, livestock production and soil and water
management; overall progress is good. This is particularly the case with
maize in high potential areas where recommendations existed which required
virtually no additional purchased inputs and resulted in significant
increases in yields (e.g. time of planting, depth of sowing, spacing of
seeds, timely weeding). Women have been closely involved and are important
beneficiaries of the project; contact with farmers is reported to be for
about 70t with women who have proven responsive and effective in
implementing recommendations. There has been as yet, insufficient feedback
to research on specific problems of women farmers.
18.      It will however, take much more time to improve extension's
capacity to diagnose the reasons why farmers adopt (or reject) a
recommendation and to (jointly with research) further adapt recommendations
to the farmers' resources and preferences. Furthermore, as farmers improve
their practices, new messages are required. These new messages can only be
provided by research and through greater skills within extension. Longer-
term exposure is also needed to make the new approach part of the national
system. The current project ends mid-1988 and preparation of a second
phase began in December, 1986 with implementation to begin in July, 1988.
The Second National Extension Project would ensure that recommendations
squarely address farmers' needs. Specifically, the Phase II Project would



- 55 -
Annex I
Page 8 of 26
include: (i) improved extension management; (ii) better facilities for
staff (transport and housing); (iii) strengthened extension efforts on
animal husbandry, farm management, plant protection and farm mechanization;
(iv) greatly expanded training; and (v) much closer research-extension
linkages.
Seed Sun?jy
19.      All the consecutive activities of a sound seed industry have been
successfully developed in Kenyas from the development of breeder seeds
through the promotion of commercial seed production, seed certification and
seed marketing. Several companies produce seed for Kenyan farmers, four
local companies produce for export only and 12 foreign seed companies have
production interests in Kenya. Seed quality control was successfully
established through the National Seed Quality Control Service. In the
past, this service performed well and ensured constant seed quality, an
essential factor in obtaining farmers confidence. Improved seeds are made
available through a widespread mostly private retail network. The
estimated use of improved seeds is: maize 50Z of planted area (80Z in high
potential areas); wheat 502; and barley 1002. Total sales in 1983/84 were
about 17.500 tons for maize and 7.000 tons for other seeds. A Bank study
on agricultural inputs in Kenya describes the seed supply situation.1
Serious problems are the lack of certain varieties of seed suitable to
particular agroclimatic conditicos and seed shortages in drought years.  A
major effort should be made to generate new varieties adapted to specific
ecozones and cropping systems; this will require the building up of an
adequate gene bank which can more effectively support selection efforts.
20.      The supply of baseseeds is still the main task of research centers
(except for maize), this could be more efficiently done by the commercial
sector. The supply of seeds and planting material by research institutes
could be subcontracted to private growers or seed producers. Since the
quality control and certification of seeds is crucial to successful seed
distribution, adequate funding of the National Seed Quality Control Service
needs to be assured; certification activities should be financed from the
certification fees.
Veterinary Services
21.      Kenya produces about 1,600 million liters of milk and about
120,000 tons of beef annually.   The productivity of the national herd is
low. It is estimated that the average grade cow produces only about 900
liters of milk per annum compared to a potential of more than 2,000 liters.
Over two thirds of the national milk production and a little less than two-
thirds of beef production comes from smallholders. Cattle mortality from
disease in Kenya is high: 102 annually on small farms and 72 on large
farms. In recent years there has been a deterioration in animal disease
1/ Kenya Agricultural Inputs Review; Report No. 5643-KE; June, 1985.



Annex I
Page 9 of 26
control services in Uganda, Sudan, Ethiopia as well as in Kenya. Because
livestock is taken freely across the borders, livestock in Kenya is under
increasing risk of massive reintroductiun of rinderpest and contagious
boviiie pleuropneumonia. The decline in vaccination against foot and mouth
diseL: has increased incidence. In many areas of Kenya, the Tick Control
Prograni has broken down and the incidence of East Coast Fever has increased
with the result that the smallholder livestock industry is placed in
jeopardy. Responsibility for Kenya's Animal Health Services lies with
KOLD's Department of Veterinary Services which has some of the best
technical expertise in Africa. However, its management capability is weak
and its budget has been declining. A related problem is that cost recovery
for animal health services (vaccinations, dips, artificial insemination)
has been grossly inadequate.  To resolve these problems, Government with
the assistance of four donors including IDA, prepared an Animal Health
Services Rehabilitation Project.2 Given the improvements whibh will be
implemented under this project (Credit 1758-KE) during the next ten years,
the availability of sound extension advice on animal husbandry and
nutrition as well as on mixed farming practices to increase overall
productivity is essential. Research in these areas therefore needs to be
urgently intensified.
E. Training and Technical Assistance
A_gricultural Training; Status and Needs
22.      The capacity of an agricultural research system depends to a large
extent upon the quality of training of its scientists. Degree programs in
agriculture are provided by the University of Nairobi through its Faculties
of Agriculture and Veterinary Medicine. The Department of Animal
Production is a constituent department of both Faculties. Egerton
University College at Nakuru also grants degrees in the agricultural
sciences. At Nairobi, student intake for the Bachelors of Science in
Agriculture course has steadily increased from 41 in 1970/71 to about 180
in 1986 and for the Bachelors degree in Veterinary Medicine from about 40
to over 90.   Egerton University College, in its first year of operation
(86/87), enrolled 137 students for five B.Sc. degree programs. The college
has also been intensively involved in conducting in-service training
courses and workshops for scientists and support staff in the Kenya
agricultural research system. Post-graduate programs (mainly M.Sc., some
Ph.D.) are offered in 9 fields by the Faculty of Agriculture (Nairobi) and
in 7 fields by the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine. At present (1987),
about 140 students are registered for postgraduate programs in Agriculture
and 50 in Veterinary Medicine. Despite many bilateral assistance *rojects,
facilities for post-graduate education are inadequate with serious problems
in staffing, equipment and operating funds; this situation severely affects
the quality of scientific manpower available for research.
21 Kenya Animal Health Services Project, Report No. 6367-KE; December 1986.



- 57 -
Annex I
Page 10 of 26
23.      There is an acute shortage of well-qualified scientists in the
agricultural research system.   Table 2 gives the composition of research
personnel and their degrees by research station and tentative estimates of
future requirements. Out of a total of about 470 (1985) research officers,
there are less than 20 Ph.D. and only about 200 M.Sc degree holders. Some
critical discipline areas are particularly ill-served e.g. only 2
M.Sc/Ph.D. in Soil Science, 1 in Agricultural Engineering, 1 in Soil and
Water Engineering and none in Animal Physiology. It is evident that there
is an urgent need to: (i) increase the number of M.Sc and Ph.D. degree
holders; (ii) strengthen the Kenya graduate and post graduate education
system to meet the present and future training needs; and (iii) establish
greater and more diverse in-service training capacity. However, on the
short-term it would not be feasible for Nairobi University to significantly
increase graduate and postgraduate output at acceptable levels of quality.
Technical Assistance
24.      With about 60 foreign experts (1985), technical assistance
currently constitutes a major element of donor-funded research projects in
Kenya. Although a significant input has been provided to Kenya's
agriculture (e.g. in the breeding of maize hybrids and the development of
zero-grazing systems for grade cattle), the benefits have not always been
commensurate with the numbers of staff. There has been a lack of
management of technical assistance and of its purposeful application. The
TA framework has sometimes been used for the training of young scientists
from donor countries. As a result: (i) T.A. personnel often worked
exclusively on their "own" projects without linkage to those engaged in
other related research programs or even the station Directors; and (ii)
there has been insufficient emphasis on identification, early-on, of Kenyan
counterpart scientists for training and on phasing out technical assistance
when Kenyan scientists became available. GOK therefore views technical
assistance with considerable reservation and wishes to judge its utility on
a case by case basis.
F. Future Research Perspectives for Key Research Areas
25.      Priorities for commodity and factor research recognized in the
NARP have been summarized in Table 3. Long-term strategy proposals have
been drafted for: (i) maize; (ii) tickborne diseases; (iii) soil and water
management; and (iv) the regional research program at Katumani. These
proposals are currently being refined and will later be formally approved
by KARI (and IDA). The implications for annual programs of research and
training have also been determined. These programs would be initiated
during the first two project years and they would serve as models for the
preparation of proposals for additional national and regional research
programs. Past and future research in these areas is therefore discussed
in some detail below. Other research activities that would be part of the
research program initiated during the first two years are only treated in
summary fashion; detailed proposals in these other key areas would be
prepared by KARI during project implementation and approved by IDA. An
outline for such long-term research proposals is given in Appendix 1.



- 58 -
Annex I
Page 11 of 26
Crops; Maize Research at Kitale
26.      Systematic work on maize improvement at Kitale began in 1956 with
the establishment of a breeding program for late maturing maize; a program
for early maturity material was started simultaneously at Katumani.
Additional research efforts for maize were initiated at Embu for the mid-
season highlands and near Mtwapa at the Coast in the mid 19608. The Kitale
program has been the most productive with release of Kitale Synthetic II in
1961 and the high yielding hybrids H632 and H622 in the early seventies. A
1981 hybrid, H625 is the latest tested Kitale product although more
recently in 1986, improved versions of the hybrids H612D, H613D and H614D
were released. These Kitale hybrids have a high production potential when
grown under intensive management with high levels of inputs. They are
extremely tall, late maturing and mainly suited for mechanised, commercial
production systems. During the 1970's, the Embu station developed hybrid
maize varieties H511 and H512 for medium maturity areas but these are not
widely adopted. Insufficient rainfall after pollination occurs often and
this frequently reduces yield. The coastal lowland program released an
imported hybrid (Pioneer X105A) and the Coast Composite in the early
seventies. Earlier maturing maize varieties compatible with lower and
irregular rainfall were released by the Katumani program in the mid-1960s
(Katumani Synthetic II and IV and Composites A and B).
27.      Agronomic research on maize has been concentrated primarily at
Kitale. In the mid-1970s, an ODA-assisted Maize Agronomy Research Project
focussed on the yield effects of planting dates, plant populations, methods
of weed control and the effects of different rates and application methods
of fertilizers. Although much of this work was done with maize as a sole
crop, a good agronomic understanding of maize production factors in the
high potential areas around Kitale was developed. Much less is known with
regard to the most appropriate crop husbandry practices in the more
marginal areas where maize is often grown in mixed cropping systems. With
the subdivision of farms into smaller and smaller units, multiple and mixed
cropping systems have become much more common and the area under sole maize
is decreasing. A considerable gap exists between the experimental yields
obtained from the combination of improved varieties and the package of
agronomic practices developed by Kitale and actual farmers' yields: the
average on station maize yields for example, show potentials of 10 tlha
compared with averages now obtained on smallholder farms of less than 2
t/ha.
28.      Maize is the most important food crop in Kenya and  this will
become increasingly so in the foreseeable future. Increases in yield of
at least 4.0? per annum are called for in Sessional Paper no. 1 of 1986
with the geographic focus to be on the high potential areas. More than for
any other crop, research should help to retain self-sufficiency in this
national food grain. Maize is poorly adapted to dryland conditions
particularly under low levels of management. While it would not be prudent
to restrict maize research to the high potential areas, the long-term
strategy would be to replace or complement maize in semi-arid areas with
more adapted crops like sorghum and millet because of the better overall
performance of these crops in such difficult environments.



- 59 -
Annex I
Page 12 of 26
29.      The revitalized maize research program would be designed in direct
response to Kenya's development plans and food requirements. Based on a
careful assessment of the different agro-ecological zones, the short,
medium and long range perspective of maize research has been developed and
the technological support needed for increased maize production in
different regions defined. This includes an assessment of the types of
maize varieties needed (hybrids, composites, open-pollinated varieties)
with their desired maturities, grain quality characteristics, plant height
and other desirable agronomic properties. It is envisaged that the RRCs
at Kakamega, Katumani, Embu and Mtwapa would play special roles as
cooperating centers in the coordinated maize program to facilitate the
generation of varieties or hybrids suited to their particular areas.
Research programs are being designed on an interdisciplinary basis with
major emphasis on high productivity combined with more efficient use of
high-cost farm inputs. Possibilities for intercropping systems of maize
with short duration grain legumes would also receive priority attention.
30.      The primary objective of the late maturity breeding  program (at
Kitale) would be to substantially increase the maize harvest index. This
would facilitate greatly boosted (grain) yields without significant
increases in total dry matter production, nutrient uptake or soil moisture
requirements. Efforts would be made to reduce lodging by generating
smaller plants with lower ear placement. Greater emphasis would be given
to the development of prolific hybrids because these are more stable in
intercropping systems. An attempt would be made to accelerate the
development of resistances to maize streak, leaf blight, rust, smut and rot
as well as to Striga and stalk borer. In the semi-arid areas (Katumani),
emphasis would be on further improvement of drought-escaping
characteristics. In the coastal belt (Mtwapa), the development of heat-
tolerant varieties would be particularly important.
31.      Agronomic recommendations require constant and critical re-
evaluation in the different zones taking into account the diversity of the
target groups and changing input costs. The evaluation of production
constraints in the context of the current farming systems of these areas
and the development of suitable technologies to bridge gaps therefore will
be of primary importance in the new maize research program. The focus in
future agronomic work would be on resolving the problems of small-scale
subsistence farmers who market production that is in excess of family
requirements. The main aim of this research would be to reduce risk and to
maximize profits (not necessarily yields). This would include trials on
efficient use of fertilizers (and organic manures) in different
agroclimatic areas, identification of desirable rhizobiums and the
development of viable systems of inter-and relay-cropping. Much of the
research would involve on-farm experimentation accompanied by careful
economic analysis. A prerequisite for success in these types of studies
will be a detailed characterization of the soils of the maize producing
region such that fertilizer trials can be conducted systematically. Maize
is grown by nearly every Kenyan farmer in a great diversity of agroclimatic
environments. Thus, strong linkages with the network of RRCs would be
essential to an effective national maize research program.



- 60 -
Annex I
Page 13 of 26
Animal Health: Research on Tickborne Diseases at Muguga
32.      The tickborne diseases are limited to ecological zones II - IV
because of the distribution of ticks that are vectors of the four main
diseases: East Coast Fever, Heartwater, Anaplasmosis and Redwater. Of
these four, East Coast Fever is the disease with the greatest economic
impact because grade dairy cattle will die if exposed to the disease, and
Zebu cattle will suffer high calf mortality. Dipping programs to eradicate
the vector are very costly and threatened by acaride tolerance build-up in
the tick population (e.g. Boophilus tick). About 24Z of the agricultural
production at farm gate value are affected, including 80% of the cattle
herd. About 60% of Kenyan farming families, especially smallholders suffer
losses due to dipping costs and/or death rates. The state of knowledge for
developing a combined vaccine against all four tickborne diseases is
favorable. ODA-assisted research has developed a methodology to immunize
cattle against East Coast Fever, but at too high a cost to be economical.
Also, cattle immunized against East Coast Fever have frequently died from
Heartwater. Unfortunately, little, if any research results may be
transferred from elsewhere, because East Coast Fever is a localized disease
in Eastern Africa. The International Centers work on the disease, but, so
far without applicable results. The time horizon for reaching simple,
extendable breakthroughs cannot be anticipated but existing results are
encouraging.
33.      The economTc impact of a quadrivalent vaccine against tick-borne
diseases would make the dipping program less critical and save many
animals.   Existing research facilities and research support staff are an
excellent basis for the research. The National Veterinary Research Center,
Muguga has a reputation for its past research on East Coast Fever. If an
effective and economical vaccine could be developed, the network of
government and private animal health services that is being improved under
the Animal Health Services Project (Cr. 1758-KE), could be utilized for its
application. Livestock producers would, no doubt, make use of such a
vaccine. The program therefore would be of the highest priority. The
proposed project to develop a national tick-borne disease research program
for Kenya would be co-ordinated from the National Veterinary Research
Center, Muguga. The program would aim at developing new research
interventions and the adoption of already existing technologies to
counteract the heavy losses in livestock and livestock products resulting
from the major tick-borne diseases. Technology generated through research
would culminate in the development of a new diagonostic test against
Heartwater, better and improved sero-diagnostic tests for Anaplasmosis,
Babesiosis and Theileriosis, which would be cheap, specific and useful for
field studies. The program would also develop or adapt suitable
immunization methods against Anaplasmosis, Babesiosis and Heartwater.
34.      A major effort of this proposed program would be directed at the
application of an infection and treatment method of immunization against
Theileriosis on a countrywide scale, but specifically aimed at helping the
small-scale dairy farmers. Towards the end of the research program,
investigations would be undertaken into having a combined vaccine against



- 61 -
Annex I
Page 14 of 26
the four diseases and this immunization method of control against tick-
borne diseases would be assessed as an alternate method of tick-borne
disease control through cattle dipping. The program would strengthen the
research resources at Muguga and other collaborating centers involved in
tick-borne disease research. There exist excellent interlinkages and
collaboration between Muguga and international institutes, as well as the
local Tick and Wildlife Center at the National Veterinary Research
Laboratory, Kabete. The program to accomplish the goals and objectives for
the mandate of tick-borne diseases is expected to cost approximately 2
million Kenya pounds spread over five years. Methods of monitoring and
evaluating progress of this proposed project have been developed as well as
techniques for reporting and dissemination of the program achievements and
constraints. The success of this program would be reflected by decreased
livestock mortality and increased productivity of the national cattle herd.
The impact would be especially strong in the grade dairy cattle herd
through savings from discontinuation of the dipping program allowing
faster build-up of high-yielding cattle. Such expansion would mean
increased local availability of dairy and beef as well as substantial
savings of foreign exchange. Most of the required manpower would be
derived from local resources although a small component of highly
specialized assistance by foreign experts would be essential.
Factors; Soil and Water Management Research at Katumani
35.      Research focusing on specific subject matter areas andlor factors
of production was previously concentrated mostly at KARI, Muguga (formerly
the EAC) and the National Agricultural Laboratories, Kabete. These
programs would be reorganized as part of the NARP and several activitiee
would be strengthened. In case of shortfalls in available resources,
research should initially be limited to those subjects that are already
ongoing and of high priority. Soil and water management (and also crop
protection) are clearly in this category and comprehensive national
programs would be initiated at an early stage.
36.      Research Centers that are currently working on soil and water
management and conservation and have staff with the background to support
this type of research are: (i) the National Agricultural Laboratories
comprising Soil Testing, Soil Survey and Irrigation and Drainage; (ii) KARI
Muguga, which has departments of Soil Physics, Soil Chemistry, Agro-
meteorology and other supporting disciplines; and (iii) the Katumani
Center. Other centers involved in this subject matter area outside the
Ministry of Agriculture are Departments from the College of Agriculture at
the University of Nairobi as well as some scientific staff at Egerton
University College. Past soil and water conservation and management
research in Kenya has covered a wide range of subjects from erosion
quantification and environment characterization and classification to
mechanical and vegetative runoff and erosion control mithods. Catchment
studies under different types of vegetative cover have confirmed the
importance of canopy. Research on the effects of erosion has established a
significant impact on nutrient availability, moisture holding capacity and



- 62 -
Annex I
Page 15 of 26
o'ierall productivity of soils. Studies on conservation methods and
techniques have primarily addressed the problems encountered in large-scale
farming and most solutions proposed are difficult to implement on
smallholdings without qlaborate provisions for joint action with regard to
establishment and maintenance. Water harvesting potentials have been
investigated for several areas and appear to have promise for some.
37.      In recent years, research for semi-arid areas has concentrated
mostly cn: (i) crop yields and water use in relation to rainfall amounts
and distribution; (ii) the measurement of soil and water losses on cropland
and grazing land under different management practicest (iii) development of
tillage practices (and equipment) for dryland farming; (iv) structural
methods for soil and water conservation on cropland; and (v) testing of
improved cultural practices and farming systems. However, these activities
generally have not yet reached the stage of actual recommendations for the
extension and/or soil conservation service. Much of the available
information is based on case studies and therefore difficult to
extrapolate, many of the reports are not easily accessible. Thus, one of
the priority tasks of a revitalized program will be to inventory and
interpret previous studies and to draw the implications for the current and
future research program for soil and water conservation.
38.      The newly formulated research program on soil and water management
would consist of two main components, one located at Muguga addressing the
problems of high and medium potential areas (agroclimatic zones II and
III), the other at Katumani designed to facilitate soil and water
conservation in arid and semi-arid regions (Zones IV to VII). The program
would be coordinated from Katumani and this Center would closely cooperate
with Regional Research Centers and also the Kiboko National Range Research
Center. Because of a lack of sufficient trained Kenyan manpower in this
area of research, training would be an important aspect; significant
initial assistance through external expertise would be required.
39.      The soil and water management research program would have the
following primary objectives:
(i)     to support a productive agriculture by generating
technology for increased food output that adds to the
quality of rural life;
(ii)    to sustain and where possible improve the productivity of
the land; and
(iii)   to provide a capacity to generate new production
technologies in cooperation with other research programs
and to contribute to training.
Four sub-projects are envisaged, each with several activities:
(i)     a national project with coordinating responsibility;



- 63 -
Annex I
Page 16 of 26
(ii)    a sub-project in semi-arid areas aimed at improved
"conservation farming systems";
(iii)   a sub-project for high potential areas;
(Uv)    a sub-project for arid and semi-arid rangeland (to be
initiated later).
40.      The national project would focus on broad surveys of erosion and
related subjects, national data collection and analysis, establishment of a
data bank, linkages with outside institutions as well as facilitating ties
between research and extension. The subproject for semi-arid areas would
be located at Katumani and have specific responsibility for agroclimatic
zones IV and V. It would focus on establishing relationships between
erosion and soil/climate characteristics, the impact of erosion on
productivity, crop water use and climatic risk and most importantly, on the
development of technically and economically viable conservation farming
systems. The sub-project for high and medium potential areas would
concentrate on the refinement of physical components of soil conservation,
the development of integrated livestock, fodder and food crop production
systems that facilitate erosion control, and improved methods of earth-
moving, ensuring by appropriate research that soil conservation techniques
bring an economic return and can be maintained over the long term. The
(future) arid and semi-arid rangelands project would be designed to
generate improved water infiltration and water harvesting techniques, to
develop management methods for rotational grazing, and arrange for the
collection of fodder shrubs. Its location (possibly Kiboko or Marsabit)
would be determined later; strong linkages would be developed with the
Kenya Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Unit.
Other Nationally Coprdinated Crops Research Programs
41.      Grain Legumes.  The National Horticultural Research Station, Thika
is responsible for iesearch on horticulture, vegetables and grain legumes.
Private enterprise plays an important role in supporting fruits research.
As a group, the grain legumes (i.e. beans, cowpeas, grams and pigeonpeas)
are the second most important category among the foodcrops both with regard
to acreage and production. The yield level of these crops is low due to a
lack of suitable varieties and inadequate information on appropriate
production technology as well as the fact that they are grown primarily in
medium potential areas characterized by harsh conditions. Most research on
beans in the past was done at Thika; some work was carried out at the
University of Nairobi and at Katumani. Several new varieties have been
developed: GLP2 is a good yielder with reasonable resistance to major
diseases particularly in high rainfall areas and GLP4 is a Canadian Wonder
type with good yield potential in areas with medium rainfall. Mwezi Moja
(FLP-1004) is recommended for semi-arid areas. Agronomic research has
studied crop management practices both under sole and intercrop conditions;
areas of research focus have been time of planting, weed control, fertility
management, rhizobium application and crop competiticn effects.



- 64 -
Annex I
Page 17 of 26
42.      Cowpea is grown both for grain and as a leaf vegetable;  the main
production area is Eastern Province but the crop is also grown in Coast and
Western Provinces. Major production constraints are vulnerability to
insect pests and susceptability to fungal and virus diseases. A well-
developed breeding program has started at Katumani; several high yielding
varieties (e.g. Katumani 80 and Machakos 66) have been released and are
grown by farmers; new material has also been developed for dryer areas
(less than 200 mm per season) e.g. KVU 095, and KVU 419. Pigeonpea is the
most important grain legume in semi-arid areas. Research, mostly at
Katumani, has focussed on reconstituting plant type, as well as tolerance
and resistance against insect pests and diseases. Early (120 days), medium
(160-170 days) and late (250 days) maturing groups have been identified and
high yielding lines have been developed in each group. Improved and highly
promising varieties are 60/8 IIRA, 576/3, and E9. At Katumani, work has
also been done on mungbean, dalichos and chickpea; mungbean varieties No.
22 and No. 26 have been particularly sussessful.
43.      Future research for these crops would apply stringent priority
criteria in selecting areas for primary research attention. The two main
research centers to be involved in crop improvement research for legumes
would logically remain Thika and Katumani; the coordinator could be located
at either center. Efforts to develop early maturity, drought-resistant
grain legume varieties of superior and more stable yield will not make a
significant impact unless combined with genetic resistance against major
insect pests. For beans, for example, the focus would be on breeding for
resistance to Bean Common Mosaic and halo blight with agronomic research
being tailored to regional needs, especially thole in the drier
agroclimates. Adaptive agronomic research on grain legumes and the
cropping systems in which they are grown would be conducted at all RRCs
where these crops have an important place in the mandate area.
44.        Wheat.  Although wheat is the third crop in terms of area
harvested, it is surpassed by Irish potatoes, bananas and sugarcane in
addition to maize and beans with regard to value of produiction. Wheat is,
to a great extent, produced by large and medium scale farmers, mainly in
Uasin Gishu and Nakuru districts. The National Plant Breeding Station, at
Njoro is responsible for the breeding and agronomy of wheat, barley,
triticale, oats and oilseeds and also for coordinating research work on
sesame, groundnuts, and soybeans. Research at Njoro in addition covers
other areas of crop protection, soils and nutrition management, and crop
utilization. The station has significant linkages with IARCs engaged in
related research. Njoro has played a major role (with cooperation by
International Centers) in the development of improved wheat variet'es and
better agronomic practices. Significant gaps however, remain between the
station's production technologies and yields versus the average crop yields
and agronomic practices in the main wheat growing areas. The station has
recently attempted to concentrate on developing appropriate technologies
for the production of wheat and other crops by smallholder farmers in the
zone.



- 65 -
Annex I
Page 18 of 26
45.        Demand for wheat in Kenya has been growing at about 7Z per year
as a res"lt of changing eating habits. Wheat production has howaver,
steadily declined during the last decade, reflecting the fragmentation of
large wheat farms and a shift of the better land into maize. The
substantial yield increases achieved through the use of improved
technologies have not compensated for this decline in total production.
Kenya now imports more than a third of its wheat consumption. Prospects
for expansion of wheat area are small. Although in the short to medium
term, agronomic research might help small-scale wheat farmers to produce
more effectively, the magnitude of impact is unlikely to be large.
Research in the longer term might be aimed at expanding and promoting
triticale into drier areas but the dividends of such work are unlikely to
be substantial and/or long lasting. Thus, wheat research having arrived at
a crossroads, would require an in-depth review before decisions on the
scope and orientation of future programs are made. Until such time,
current programs would need to be continued on a maintenance basis. The
review would include a perspective plan with regard to the place of wheat
in Kenya's agriculture given the agroclimatic and socio-economic
characteristics of present and potential areas for wheat production.
Conditions in world markets and expected future developments as well as
alternative production possibilities in axeas that now produce wheat would
also need to be considered. A careful assessment would be made of the
wheat varieties presently recommended to Kenyan farmers and their potential
to replace the traditional varieties of low harvest index and longer
maturity; viable strategies to accelerate adoption would need to be
developed. Crop improvement would emphasize stability in performance and
efficient response to improved management and nutrition; control and
management of wheat diseases (e.g. rust) would need to receive priority
attention. A revitalized wheat program would undoubtedly have to
concentrate on agronomic practices specially tailored to the needs of small
farmers with particular attention to sowing dates, cultivation techniques,
balanced fertilizer application and threshing methods. Rather than
treating wheat as a sole crop, the crop would need to be studied as one
component of a cropping system or sequence.
Other Nationally Coordinated Animal Production and Health Programs
46.        Options may exist for a more effective organization of animal
production and health research; these should be carefully reviewed by KARI
at the time long-term strategic proposals are finalized and before going
ahead with any investment program. NARP represents a historic chance of
putting things right and this opportunity should not be lost. In summary,
the options for (re)organizating KARI's national animal production effort
would be the following (in order of preference):
Option I
Dairy cattle in the highlands             Muguga
Animal nutrition                            n



- 66 -
Annex I
Page 19 of 26
Pastures and fodders
(Stress physiology) 3
Cattle in medium potential areas         Naivasha
Sheep/goats
Pigs
Poultry
Reproductive physiology
Animal breeding
Option II
Dairy cattle in the highlands            Naivasha
Cattle in medium potential areas            a
Sheep/goats
Pigs                                        a
Poultry                                     n
Pastures and fodders                        0
Animal nutrition                            n
(Stress and physiology) 1                  a
Reproductive physiology                     a
Animal breeding
Option III
Dairy cattle in the highlands            Naivasha
Cattle in medium potential areas
Sheep/goats
Pigs                                        a
Poultry
Pastures and fodder                      Muguga
Animal nutrition 1
(Stress physiology)
Reproductive physiology                  Naivasha
Animal breeding                          Naivasha or with the
Animal Recording Center.
47.        Intensive dairying.  Smallholder dairying with grade dairy
cattle is one of the most successful developments in Kenya over the last 30
years. Over half of Kenya's farmers and pastoralists live in the highland
zone where grade dairy cattle livestock units consist of grade dairy breeds
and their crosses with the Zebu. The technology for milk production with
grade dairy cattle was developed on large-scale dairy farms during colonial
times. Over the last 30 years, the production system was adapted to
smallholdings; the upgrading process is still underway. By 1985, about 53?
of total milk production came from grade dairy cattle, equivalent to about
122 of the farmgate value of Kenya's total agricultural production. A
quantum jump was achieved compared to the previous system of indigenous
Zebu cattle, with the smallholder dairy cow in Kenya now producing about
3/ Not a priority area of research.



- 67 -
Annex I
Page 20 of 26
900 litres of milk per year. However, dairy cows in the developed
countries reach 5-9 times this level and grade dairy cattle offer many
opportunities for further increases in productivity and land use intensity
with zero grazing (fodder being cut and carried to the cattle kept in
houses or compuunds) being the last innovation. Valuable results for
extension were produced by the Dairy Cattle Research Section at Naivasha
supported by the Netherlands.
48.        Fortunately, environmental conditions in the humid and sub-humid
Kenyan highlands have great similarities to those in the temperate zone
dairy countries, and many results from there can be transferred following
adaptive research for the Kenyan smallholder system. Although some
extendable results are coming forward from the research and extension
services, the untapped potential requires a heavy research input for the
short, medium and long term. Quick progress may be expected regarding
fodders, feeding and management, while the results for animal breeding,
health and physiology research would be of a long-term nature. The
delivery system for research is excellent, following the reorganization of
extension and the expansion of the Dairy Development Project into 14
districts. Smallholder dairying in the highlands, therefore merits a
priority research input. Dairy herds exist at all of the Regional Research
Centers in the high potential areas of Kenya, but so far low priority was
given to research on dairy cattle. The national center at Naivasha has
deteriorated from earlier standards but some good research is conducted
with the dairy cattle herd at Muguga (with regional research being done for
Kiambu district). A decision therefore needs to be made on where to locate
the coordinating responsibility.
49.        Pastures and Forages.  An important contribution of the past
research program on pastures and fodders located at Kitale has been the
generation of a large collection of species of grasses, legumes, fodder
trees and shrubs. All these collected and introduced materials have been
tested and are now grown in several ecological zones. The breeding work
with Rhodes grass and Nandi setaria has resulted in the development of
three new cultivars. A superior clone (in terms of dry matter yield, and
mould resistance) was developed by the Napier grass breeding program.
Significant achievements were made in terms of improved agronomic practices
with particular reference to seed rates, methods of pasture establishment,
legume/grass associations and fertilizer requirements. Several studies
were also carried out to determine stocking rates, appropriate grazing
systems, growth rates, grazing behavior of different breeds of livestock,
and milk production from pastures. However, major changes have taken place
in land tenure within the last two decades and the original large-scale
farming system has been transformed into mainly a smallholder system. This
means that planted pastures, suitable for large-scale ley farming systems
are no longer of the same importance while cultivated forage crops used in
zero-grazing systems have become more important because they are required



- 68 -
Anne% I
Page 21 of 26
by smallholders. Simultaneously, cultivated crop agriculture has expanded
in both high potential and semi-arid areas with a consequent reduction in
the area of planted and/or natural pastures available for grazing and an
increase in the availability of crop by-product feeds. Thus, before long-
term strategies are finalized and coordinating roles assigned, a review of
the most suitable future structure of research is required.
50.        Future pasture and fodder research would need to make a careful
(re)assessment of potential fodder resources of Kenya in the different
agro-ecological zones in order to evaluate suitable research strategies.
This would include an evaluation of the potentials for intensive fodder
production on high potential lands with assured rainfall (or irrigation),
as well as those for rainfed lands of medium potential, and for arid lands
subject to frequent and extreme moisture stress. Because of thet (i)
increasingly important role of the semi-arid areas in animal husbandry; and
(ii) the critical role that livestock production plays in the farming
systems of these areas, research should be focussed in particular on the
needs of farmers in regions of medium potential. With a high density of
ruminant livestock in high and medium potential districts, shortage of
adequate feed, particularly in the dry season, is a constraint on achieving
high productivity in grade dairy cattle, (as well as for wool sheep and
dairy goats). The generation and adoption of farming systems that will
conserve natural resources and sustain yields is another priority objective
in these areas. The ongoing intensification of dairying in high potential
areas could increase overall soil fertility and should not endanger the
resource base. However, stocking rates in semi-arid areas are already high
and a major research and development effort is urgently required to provide
drought-resistant forage and acclimatized livestock for these areas. Many
rangelands are overgrazed and although further study is needed, a major
development effort is urgently required to prevent greater deterioration
and this would need research. Improved employment opportunities would come
about with the enrisaged increase in zero-grazing dairy farming systems and
the close integration of animal husbandry and crop production at the small
mixed farm level; this area therefore would also require a major research
effort.
51.        Based on previous evaluations of existing germ plasm and on new
introductions of grasses and legumes, major aspects of pasture and forage
research would be: (i) the introduction of legumes to ensure more balanced
animal nutrition and improved soil fertility; (ii) the identification of
fodder species for stall feeding and grazing pastures; (iii) the
organization of agronomic research to evolve optimum mixtures of grasses
and legumes, sowing dates, harvesting practices, etc; (iv) the development
of fodder conservation practices for lean periods; and (v) the integration
of animal husbandry and crop production within a single farming system.
52.        Even if it were decided to reassign the coordinating role for
animal nutrition research to Muguga, strong cooperative programs at Kitale
and Katumani would need to be continued. Priority programs at Kitale would
bet



- 69 -
Annex I
Page 22 of 26
(i)   to continue to assemble, maintain and evaluate grasses,
legumes and other forage crops suitable for use in the
agro-ecological zones of Western Kenya; and
(ii) to intensify investigations into the most suitable methods
of propagating, managing and utilizing forage grasses and
legumes that can be used for the feeding of grade dairy
cattle and other classes of livestock in zero-grazing
management systems.
53.        At Katumani there would be (in addition) two other priority
programst
(iii) to investigate the management and utilization of the most
suitable grasses and legumes for natural pastures in
dryland farming; and
(iv) to study the most suitable methods of propagating and
utilizing legume bushes that can be browsed and legume
trees that can be lopped in the ery season to provide
livestock feed.
Program (i) would be replicated at Naivasha (grasses and legumes suitable
for natural pastures in ranching areas) and Mtwapa (grasses and legumes
suitable for pastures in the high rainfall coastal strip). Of a lower
priority at Kitale would be the continuation of forage breeding and ley
pasture investigations. Forage breeding investigations would ultimately be
terminated as resources are not adequate for all types of pasture and
forage research and new varieties of forages can be imported from other
breeding centers.
54.        Animal health research. Knbete.  The previous National
Veterinary Laboratories would have the national mandate for diagnostic work
and resarch on: (i) entomology and acaricide evaluation; (ii) poultry
diseases; (iii) Arboviruses (Rift Valley Fever, Blue Tongue disease, etc.)
and other virus diseases; (iv) disease interactions between wild life and
domestic animals; and (v) veterinary epidemiology and economics. The
proposed clearer separation between animal health research (to be carried
out by KARI) and the quality control and diagnosis functions of the MOLD's
Veterinary Department has significant implications for the operations at
Kabete. The Veterinary Investigation Laboratories would stay outside KARI
and facilities at the Veterinary Laboratories, Kabete as well as the Foot
and Mouth Disease Laboratory at Embakasi would also remain with the
Veterinary Department; the same would be the case for the surveillance of
rinderpest; contagious bovine pleuropneumonia, contagious caprine
pleuropuieumonia, foot and mouth diseaue, helminthic diseases and vaccine
production as well as the dip surveillance program.
55.        Programs that would have a research and field services component
include: ticks and ectoparasitology; epidemiology; foot and mouth disease;
bacterial diseases; helminthology; virus disease and trypanosomiasis.



- 70 -
Annex I
Page 23 of 26
Because of: (M) the importance of in particular the studies of economic
impact of diseases and disease control strategies for priority setting in
animal health research; (ii) the continued relevance of the tick and
ectoparasitology research programs; and (iii) the sizeable losses caused by
helminths to cattle, sheep, goats and poultry, an early resolution of the
mandate question is essential. Immediately thereafer, the strengthening of
these important research programs would need to be initiated.
other Nationally Coordinated Research Programs o Factors and Disciplines
56.        Soil fertility and plant nutrition.  Given the lack of location-
specific recommendations for using chemical (and organic) fertilizers, the
initiation of a nationally coordinated program in this area is urgent.
Such a program would need to include a national trial network to: determine
critical limits of nutrients in soils and plants for establishing
fertilizer requirements of crops; study nutrient management through field
experiments involving time, method, rate and source of fertilizer
application; investigate nutrient economy through organic recycling and
introduction of bio-fertilization; characterize and ameliorate soil-based
constraints to crop production; and examine the effects of agro-chemicals,
including fertilizers and pesticides on soil environment and crop
productivity.
57.        Continuity of the current research on fertilizer use which
involved widespread field trials and computerization of results is
essential to provide a better base for fertilizer recommendations. Most of
this work has in the past been organized from the National Agricultural
Laboratories. Concurrently with the design of long-term strategies for
soil fertility research, the Laboratory's mandate (and that of other
Centers involved in similar research) would need to be reviewed and, if
found necessary, updated.
58.        Plant Protection.  Continued and strengthened work on plant
protection is also important. However, before preparing long-term research
proposals, it will be necessary to determine thze exact responbilities of
the different organizations now involved. The relationships between more
basic work being done at Nairobi University and that at KARI Centers would
need to be spelled out. Integrated pest management would be an important
aspect of such a program, as would be inputs of IARCs in the work on
resistance breeding. Because the use of agrochemicals would also be part
of the mandate, collaboration with the Pesticide Control Board set up under
the Pest Control Products Act of 1984 which includes a Specialist Approval
Committee for Agricultural Pesticides, would also be required. This
Committee is charged with the evaluation of residual long-term effects of
agrochemicals, field inspections, monitoring of trading and manufacturing
of chemicals, etc.
Regional Research Programs
59.        Not all improved technology is accepted by the farmers.
Questions that arise ares (i) has the technology really reached the



_ 71 -
Annex I
Page 24 of 26
farmers; (ii) is the technology economically viable; and (iii) is the
technology relevant to the farmer's needs? To specifically address these
questions, the country has been initially divided into eight agroclimatic
zones of major importance. A network of Regional Research Centers would be
assigned responsibilities of focusing on the improvement of the
productivity of the major production systems in the identified agro-
ecological zones. These Centers include 3 that would serve the dual role
of national and regional research. In addition, some of the NRCs will have
small RRC type programs to serve special areas (e.g. Kiboko and Marsabit).
Research at the RRCs would be holistic and systems-oriented with a focus on
the identification, diagnosis and analysis of production problems;
identification, packaging and testing of available technologies; and
adaptation of technologies for increased productivity at the farm level.
60.        RRCs would play a major role in developing and facilitating
interaction between the research and extension services, in the training of
extension personnel, in promoting joint on-farm research and training
activities and in analysis of feedback information from farmers and
transmission of such data to NRC9; these relations are schematically
illustrated in Chart 1. RRC programs would cover assigned administrative
districts and fully complement Government development strategy.  The
program of each RRC would focus on research in the crops and livestock
production systems characteristic of the mandate areas. They would
develop, through field experiments, packages of agronomic practices and
improved management of crops and animals in production systems that would
maximize returns to investments, and would demonstrate these improved
practices to farmers and extension personnel. They would develop effective
systems of scientific communication with National Research Centers and
promote the flow of new and improved materials and technologies for
testing, improvement and incorporation in recommended practices. The
specific program of each RRC would reflect the problems of the resource
base, the priority crop and livestock commodities, and the characteristic
or dominant production systems in the mandate area. In every case there
would be socio-economic inputs to meet the need for economic analysis of
existing and potential production situations and to ensure the orientation
of technologies to farmers' and national economic considerations.
61.        The area of on-farm research is of critical importance to the
proper linkage between research and extension. The objectives,
methodologies, designs and responsibilities for different activities would
be defined as follows:
(i)    On-farm verification experiments are pre-extension adaptive
research trials carried out on farmers' fields representing
agro-climatic conditions different from those of research
stations; they would consist of several treatments and
replications and could be quite complex. The responsibility
for their design, implementation and analysis rests with
research with assistance provided by extension in
identifying suitable farmers and sites. On-farm
verification experiments would be funded by the RRCs and
entail neither cost nor risk to the farmers on whose fields
they are carried out.



- 72 -
Annex I
Page 25 of 26
(ii)   On-farm trials are tests of new technologies successfully
concluded on research stations. They aim at taking account
of farmers' preferences and constraints before extending a
new technology on a large scale. These trials should be of
a very simple design; treatments should be limited to one or
two with the present common practice as a control. No
participating farmer should be required to replicate a trial
and management level of the trials should be in tune with
the farmer's abilities and practices. However, it is
necessary to involve as many farmer-participants as possible
in order to draw valid conclusions. Research should have
the main responsibility (with extension staff participating)
for designing and analysing the trial results while
extension should select participating farmers, assist in
establishing the trials and provide routine supervision.
Evaluation of the results of on-farm trials should be the
joint responsibility of research and extension (with the
involvement of participating farmers).
(iii) Demonstrations concern proven new technologies which have
passed through all the above steps. Responsibility for
their implementation rests entirely with extension staff and
farmers. However, it is important for research staff and
the diagnostic teams to investigate how the new technology
is actually adopted and to identify the constraints which
may hinder full adoption in order to design further
refinements or devise new research proposals.
62.      The Katumani RRC.  Region-specific, adaptive farming systems
research at Katumani was initiated a few years ago and qualified and
experienced staff is now available. Diagnostic surveys have been completed
for Machakos, Kitui, Embu and Meru districts and reports have been prepared.
Technology testing and adoption studies including economic analyses in these
districts are ongoing and research/extension linkages have been
strengthened. The regional mandate of the Katumani Center covers the agro-
ecological zones LW5, UM4 and UM5.  Rainfall amounts, distribution and
duration are the main factors limiting production. The land use pattern is
mixed farming. Frequent crop failures occur and livestock provides
insurance during times of drought. Due to increased population pressure and
because of the fragile nature of the environment, the land resource base is
deteriorating.
63.      Priority objectives of the RRC, Katumani are based on a diagnosis
of the farmers' most urgent needs. They are in conformity with GOK's
objectives in ongoing development programs and were formulated after in-
depth discussions between researchers, extension workers and farmers. The
immediate goals are:
(i)    to test through adaptive and on-farm research, improved
varieties of maize, sorghum, millet, pigeon-pea, cowpea and
cotton;



- 73 -
Annex I
Page 26 of 26
(ii)   to generate agronomic practices for recommended varieties
with particular emphasis on improved management, low
monetary inputs, drought tolerance and intercropping.
(iii)  to identify high yielding pasture and legume forages and
fodder crops and to develop appropriate management methods
to increase feed for animals;
(iv)   to develop more productive, less risky farming systems which
seek to stabilize production through effective combinations
of crop and livestock enterprises making use of conservation
farming techniques to increase in-situ moisture storage and
reduce erosion;
(v)    to undertake economic analyses of existing and improved
farming practices;
(vi)   to effectively communicate new scientific information to
users and other scientists; and
(vii)  to train staff of extension and other services.
64.      Other Regional Programs.  Because of the significant reservoir of
new technology that needs to be further adapted, priority would be given
under NARP to the rehabilitation and strengthening of the RRC network.
Except for Garissa and Kisii, all regional programs would begin to be
implemented during the first two Project years. Some agroclimatic zones in
dry areas are characterized by an exclusive dependence on extensive
livestock production. Because of their special requirements, a subcenter of
the Mtwapa RRC (Mariakani) and two of the NRCs (Kiboko and Marsabit) would
be charged with specific responsibility for these zones.



- 74 -
ANNEX I
Table 1
Page 1 of 3
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
LOCATION, PROGRAMS AND SIZE OF RESEARCH CENTERS
Station                              Main Program                 Land
and substations
1.   National Agricultural Research Maize and pasture breeding         912 ha main station
Station, Kitale                 & agronomy. Animal production  No substations
2.   National Sugar Research          Sugarcane breeding &             212 ha main station
Station, Kibos                  agronomy                         14 ha substation in
south Nyanza
3.   National Plant Breeding          Wheat, barley, oil crops         200 ha main station
Station, Njoro                  breeding & agronomy              No substations
4.   National Agricultural            Soil chemistry, soil             15 ha Kabete
Laboratories, Kabete             survey, irrigation and          No substations
drainage, pesticide analysis
5.   National Horticulture            Selection and agronomy of        365 ha main station
Research Station, Thika         hotticultural crops, fruits,   24 ha substation
vegetables and dry beans        Gituamba
6.   National Dryland Research        Farming systems for dryland    512 ha main station,
Station, Katumani               agriculture.  Integrated         substation at
crop/livestock programs.        Kampi Ya Mawe(49 ha),
Voo (560 ha),
Kiboko (25 ha) and
Perkerra (60 ha)
7.   National Potato Research         Potato selection, breeding      97 ha main station,
Station, Tigohi                 and agronomy                     substations of 2,4 ha
at Njabini and of
3.2 ha at Marimbu
8.   Coffee Research Foundation       Coffee breeding, agronomy       255 ha m.ain station
and plant protection.           substations at
Extension liaison               Koru (126 ha),
Kisii (10 ha),
Meru (23 ha Meru)
and Azania (63 ha)



- 75 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
Page 2 of 3
Station                          Main Program                     Land
and substations
9.   Tea Research Foundation         Clonal selection and             390 ha Kericho
agronomy of tea                 No substations
10.  National Animal Husbandry       Breeding and nutrition of        2560 ha main
Research Station, Naivasha      livestock (mainly cattle         station with
sheep, goats and poultry).      1457 ha substation
at Olmagogo
11.  National Range Research         Improvement of animal            30,000 ha main
Station, Kiboko                 production                       station
12.  Buchuma Range                   Range management and animal    9,000 ha main
Research Station                production                       station
13.  Agricultural Research           Dryland cropping systems         1174 ha main station,
Department KARI, Muguga         research, biological pest        1619 ha Athi River
control, virology and animal    substation
production.
14.  Veterinary Research             Veterinary research:             see above
Department, KARI Muguga         (virology protozoology
bacteriology, helminthology)
15.  Eastern Agricultural            Sorghum & millet breeding        101 ha main station
Research Station, Kakamega      and agronomy, horticulture,    223 ha substation
maize agronomy, groundnut,      at Alupe
animal production; adaptive
research
16.  Nyanza Agricultural             Maize agronomy, sorghum &        100 ha main station
Research Station, Kisii         millet, grain legumes and        substations of
horticulture, adaptive          4 ha at Homa Bay,
research                        4 ha at Oyani, and
7 ha at Kilgoris
17.  Pyrethrum & Horticultural       Pyrethrum and horticultural    225 ha main station
Research Station, Molo          research                         substations:
266 Marindas,
20 ha Perkera, and
6 ha Limuru.
18.  Nyandarua Agricultural          Animal production especially   405 ha main station
Research Station 01 Joro Orok  pigs, sheep and goats;            No substations
maize breeding
19.  Embu Agricultural Research      Maize agronomy, pasture and    71 ha main station
Station                         fodder crops                     substation:
19 ha Murinduko



- 76 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
Page 3 of 3
Station                              Main Program                  Land
and substations
20.  Mwea-Tebere Agricultural        Cotton and sunflower             50 ha main station
Research Station                selection and agronomy.          substation
32.5 ha Giaki
21.  Coast Agricultural Research    Coconut, cashew, cassava,         242 ha main station
Station, Mtwapa                 citrus, maize, vegetables        substations:
and cowpeas                     20 ha Kutuga
16 ha Msabaha and
8 ha Mpeketoni
22.  Animal Husbandry Research       Livestock production             400 ha
Station, Mariakani
23. Cotton Research Station,         Cotton selection and             20 ha main station
Kibos                           agronomy.
24. Beef Research Station,           Beef research                    1632 ha main station
Naivasha                                                        No substations
25.  Ahero Irrigation Research       Water management, pest           Undefined - Ahero
Station, Kisumu                 control, rice agronomy          Irrigation Scheme;
substation at
Mwea-Tebere



NAT A R N RE CO LTi%AL  ESFARCH    JECI          FOR
OISTRIBtJTION IM3 REOLTRIMErNTS OF PESLARCH STA. TLAIDNS FOlR TRAININC 1/
DOSCTLINtENS/CETRts    KATU- KI7- NJtYtS  EM8U CARl- KAKA- KISII MTWAPA K'EA-    KIBtS  THIKA   TIC-             MOLO LD     tLA NAL   LAREr  KItS   KI8-   NAIV-          tCA VET.    KARI PRESNT RQIRE- StHtT- TRAINI1l 2/
MANI   ALE               ISSA  '-ECA                  TE3ERE   (C) 2           ONI                (Ag")         NSCCS   (5) 2 DKO    ASHA    (Vet)  LAS         HQRS TOTAL   MtTS    FALLS  RElWRE-
Plant Broader                                                                           -T - -  -  1   4  -2                1                   -        -                                            6 a 
ConatCi *t                                                                                                                 2                                                                  2       2         0      1
Agronroi St              2      1    1       1    2       1      1      2      2                5        1        2         1                     1              1                           24       67       43     21
P3Soil Phooh rt          2                                                                                                                                                                            4         4      4
Seat Sci nti-T           2                                                                                                         7                                                          9       32       23     13
SQoI Phys;c;st                                                                                                              1      1                                                          2        4        2      4
Soil/A  r.c   Ct..t             2                                                                                          3       8                                                         13       1S        2      4
So M Iicrobiolog.gt                                                                                                        1                                                                  1        5        4      4
EnMo.olog.et                         3       1                          1                2      2                 1        2       2                                                         14      39        25     29
Plant Potholor.tt               1    2       1                          3                       2       1                  1       1             2                                           12      37        2S     23
Pleft. 'iroloegZt                   1
Nemtologi-t                                                                                                                2       1                                                          4        4               2
Wed  Sci;tl-et           I                                                                                                                                                                     1       3        2      2
Horticulturist                                                                                                    1                                                                           1        9        8      7
Sed Sci4nt*nt                                                                                                                                                                                 2        8        6      6
Po.t her,.t Tech                                                                                                                         2                                                    0        1        6      1
Fcod Technologist                                                                                        1                                                                                    1        3        2      3
Agrc. Enginesr                                                                                                             1                                                                  1        9        8      a
Alro-Met.rolmfogit                                                                                                         2                              1                                   3        3               2
I-r* DLOri. Sci.nt'at
So, lht  t          r1Engin-*                                                                                                      I                                                           1       20       19     7
Agro(Socio) Eco.,o.et  2              1                                                                  1                 1                                                                  5       22       17     18
An,si 8re<der                                                                                                                                                    6                            6       10        4      6
Animal Prod. Sciont.ist  I      I                         I      1                                                         1                                     1                            6       29       2      24
Ani.ol Physiologist                                                                                                                                                                           0       2         2      2
Ani.  ktutritiono.t             1                                I                                                         3                                                                 12        7        5      3
Rang. Scientist                                                                                                                                           B                                   8        8               3
Pat/P. r ASe  onotii t                                                                                                                                                                        0        3        3      2
Vot. Sc,enteit                                                                                                                                            2               7      6           13       17        2
Vet. Bochn.t                                                                                                                                                                     4            4        8        2       1
Vot. Glacter;o d_ ist                                                                                                                                                    2       3            5        3
V.t. ePca.riologist                                                                                                                                                       2      2            4        4
Vet. Parthtologist                                                                                                                                                        2      3            S        6        2       1
Vet. Prto&.                                                                                                                                                               3      S            8       10        2      2      _1
Vet. Protoit                                                                                                                                                              6      5            11      12        1       1     .,
Vet. Virol-.t                                                                                                                                                             3 5    3             a      10        2      2
5R;Etr.c L.                     1   2                                   1                                                  1                                                             S   10       10               4
Ren/Ext. L.geieon0                                                                                                                                                                                     1        1       1
PI.nnh,g * Pbnasege_.t                                                                                                                                                                        0        2        2      2
"Sc & PhD Haoldele 3              13T                                                                                                       .     S T    3     4  TT4             TI   3 1  7  9
65c Holder.                                                                                                                                                                                  221 4ii..                N9
Totacttold Re.. O re    ,t9    S   21    iL             I.  i2                 6         5      e       4         3               4     14       9       .4 -                   14                             125    125
Tots$ Res  Office4s14   1G                       12      a     28      T        T+ U                      9        2       ~              T1                     3
1/ Th. det-,b,.to.n of ffMc 'rd PhD dorg,e hold.-.  . goin by  soaerch  ente, and d.o.pl.n
2/ 1C) *Tend- for cotton. (5) for  e.ge,.
3/ T"aining  eoq,uiresont  relate to the f;rvt S yeere of the  -roe.: ,th oo_ pIe..   for eteff t.uno-r. ->p-oipt0ly 300 65c degree holders -ould n*ed to be trained for MSe degres..



- 78 -
ANNEX I
Table 3
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
PRIORITIES FOR RESEARCH
Total 1/ Relative  Rank         Total        Remarks
value     value   (based        area
(MKL)      (2)    on value) (1000 ha)
A. CROPS/LIVESTOCK 2/
Research priority 1
Coffee                        223.6    20.9       1         150
Dairy                         168.7    15.8       2      2,409
Maize                         137.6    12.9       3       1,168
Tea                           123.2    11.5       4          83
Meat (beef, sheep,goats)    121.1    11.3         5       n.a.
Roots/tubers                   83.8     7.8       6         408
Fruits/vegetables              67.3     6.3       7         145
Grain legumes                  34.1     3.2       8         -      (Intercropped)
Wheat                          21.7     2.0       9         114
Sorghum/millet                 15.5     1.4      10        346
Research priority 2
Sugar                                                        88    (Subsidized)
Rice                            5.2       .5      12         10
Co;ton                          4.1       .4      13        109
Oil seeds                       4.1       .4      14         21
Treecrops                       4.1       .4      15         26
Pyrethrum                       4.1       .4      16         10
Range/pasture                   n.a.                        n.a.
Research priority 3
Other fibers (sisal)           11.4     1.1       11         57
Other cereals (barley)          4.1       .4      17         10
Floriculture                    n.a.                        n.a.
Poultry/pigs                    n.a.                        n.a.
Camels                          n.a.                        n.a.
Other commodities
(tobacco etc.)               37.3      3.5       -         26
1,070     100                5,170
B. FACTORS/DISCIPLINES
Research priority 1        Soil and water managLment including dryland farming.
Research priority 2        Food and dairy technology, agricultural
engineering.
Research priority 3        Agro-forestry, grrmplasm collection.
1/  Sources, The GOK NARP preparation report of September, 1986 and the ISNAR
report of September, 1985.
2/ Priorities 1, 2 and 3 were assigned by MOA and MOLD



_ 79 -
KENYA NAIIONAL AGRlCUTlURAL RSEARCH PROGRAM
Annex 1. Chart 4: FormerlExtenslonlResearchlInkagm
A
f                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Exlermson
reenum                                Research~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rior~'os1
_ _                        -- /:\ dT
_---~          MOA MVfry of Ago /
A, Ag'0,,,, sI''~tyCo,               MOLD Msvs,,y of L.lwtock OslopIen
tA (1.'   Ng',oCCc                         NawgaI9R= =w0CcAe
FI  P'~   '.l  e'                 AMAC Pro,.-.co Arc.fto Rsfa,Cn
AX   S04   g   o  .oe Co,,lo,              oAd EIoool. A4.40y Cco,,nw
RfC   woo          Cw,en
wood i  \ I  -31 f;  I



-80-                    ANNEX I
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
OUTLINE LONG-TERM RESEARCH PROPOSAL
I.       Summary
II.      General Agricultural Characteristics of the Agro-Climatic Zone(sJ
1.1       Delineation and general description of the zone (s)
1.2       Population characteristics
1.3       Physiography
1.4       Soils
1.5       Climate
1.6       Irrigation
1.7       Land-use patterns
1.8       Socio-economic characteristics
1.9       Cropping patterns, major crops and crop sequences
1.10      Important crops (area, production and productivity)
1.11      Status and constraints:
Food and cash crops
Horticulture
Livestock
Inputs
Credit
Agricultural engineering
Marketing
III.     Agro-Ecological Situations in the Agro-Climatic Zone (s)
2.1       Basic criteria in identifying agro-ecological
situations.
2.2       Summary of agro-ecological situations with respect to
delineation, soil, climate, physiography (topography),
land holding patterns, irrigation, cultivated area (net
and gross), cropping intensity; any other important or
special characteristics; major crops and cropping
systems; adoption patterns with reasons for non-adoption
and production constraints indicating the specific
situaticns; main extension and research gaps.
2.4       Typical or innovative agricultural farming practices
with rationale.
IV.      Research and Extension; Linkages
3.1       Linkages between research activities
Linkages within the zone
Linkages between different zones and headquarters
Linkages with national and irternational institutes
and universities.



- 81 -
ANNEX I
Appendix 1
PaAe 2 of 2
3.2       Workshops
Pre-seasonal workshops
Monthly workshops
Zonal workshops
Short training programs
Joint field visits.
3.3       Extension-oriented activities
Farm trials
Demonstrations
Publications
Radio programs
Other extension programs.
3.4       Feedback from Extension to Research.
3.5       Strategy for strengthening research-extension linkages.
V.       Research Priorities and Strategies
4.1       Research gaps/needs
4.2       Research priorities
4.3       Research strategies
4.4       Development strategies
VI.      Details of the Research Programs
5.1       Detailed features
5.2       Implementation plan and timeschedule
5.3       Management implications
5.4       Staffing
5.5       Research station facilities
5.6       Transport
5.7       Technical assistance requirements
Training
Consultant services
5.8       Reporting
5.9       Cost estimates
5.10      Collaboration arrangements (linkages with national,
international - nters, support to extension, farm
trials)
5.11      Funding requirements and arrangements
VII.     Expected Results and Impact
6.1       Benefits and economic aspects
6.2       Envisaged time schedule
6.3       Possible causes of delays, adjustment methods
Basic Annexes
Organization and staffing
Parameters used, costing data (materials, equipment,
unit costs etc.)



- 8 2-                        ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
KENYA NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT. MONITORING AND EVALUATION;
JOB DESCRIPTIONS OF KEY KARI STAFF
Introduction
1.       This Annex deals with some organization and management aspects of
the new KARI. Specifically, it discusses proposals fors
(i)     reorganizing KARI, the research centers and research;
(ii)    responsibilities assigned to the Board of Management;
(iii)   planning and programming of research; and
(iv)    supervision, monitoring and evaluation of research and
scientists.
The new Kenya Agricultural Research Inccixute
2.       The new Kenya Agricultural Researeh Institute would be a semi-
autonomous Government agency which consolidlates the existing KARI at
Muguga, the Scientific Research Divisi3v of MOA and the Veterinary Research
Division of MOLD, into the reorganized Kenya Agricultural Research
Institute at Nairobi. Existing legislation, the (amended) Science and
Technology Act of 1977, established the basis for KARI as well as for
Research Institutes in other fields. Several other Research Institutes
were established and function well. The Kenya Medical Research Institute
for example is a model of an effective research establishment. The Kenya
Agricultural Research Institute was never established as provided for under
the Act. What has been called KARI was merely one research station located
at Muguga which was formerly the headquarters of the East African
Community's Agricultural Research Organization. The organization and
management systems for the new KARI would be partly modelled on those
successfully introduced by the Kenya Medical Research Institute since they
are judged conducive .o the production of high quality and valuable
research. No new legislation is required.
3.       The organigram of KARI, shown in Chart 1, provides for a Board of
Management, a Director, and three Departments, each headed by a Deputy
Director (Crops, Soils and Water; Livestock; and Finance, Planning, Finance
and Administration). All crop and proakuction factor oriented stations
would be under the authority of the Deputy Director for Crops, Soils and
Water who would be aided by Assistant Directors for: Soil, Water and other
Resources; Crops; and Regional Research Centers. The Deputy Director for
Livestock would supervise all animal production and animal health research
with Assistant Directors for: Animal Health; and Animal Production. An
internal Auditor would report directly to the Managing Director. The
external audit of KARI would be undertaken by Kenya's Auditor General
Corporations. The Chairman of the Board of Management was nominated by the
Minister of Agriculture in November 1986, and his nomination was approved
by Kenya's President. Other members of the Board have been appointed and
include representatives of Nairobi University, private enterprise and high



- 83 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
level civil servants from MRST and also the Ministries of Agriculture,
Livestock Development, Finance and Planning. This organization is
consistent with KARI's status and with the requirements of the Science and
Technology Act. The Board would meet at least four times per year. KARI's
Managing Director is Secretary to the Board and to the Board's twfo standing
committees: the Finance and Administration Committee, and the Science and
Technical Committee. The Board will deliberate on policy issues. The
Board would also be a mechanism for coordinating input into agricultural
research policy by those ministries and non-Government institutions
interested in the results of research. The Board of Management has
delegated adequate powers to the Director of KARI, consistent with the
legislation defining the role of managers and Boards of Directors of state
corporations in Kenya (outlined in the State Corporations Act of November
1986). Therefore, day to day management would be the responsibility of
KARI management staff. The establishment of effective management functions,
particularly research planning, programming, budgeting, supervision,
reporting, monitoring and evaluation would be critical to the success of
the national agricultural research program.
4.       The establishment of the new KARI began in November 1986 and it is
envisaged that the KARI organization and management systems will be
functional by July 1, 1987. However, another year will be required for
full development of cost accounting, monitoring and evaluation, and
financial management systems. Draft job descriptiorLs for key KARI
management staff are provided in Appendix 1. These would be finalized and
approved by the KARI Board before the end of 1987. The most essential task
of KARI's management is the timely implementation of the NARP.
5.       Under the amended Science and Technology Act and the State
Corporations Act of 1986, KARI is empowered to enter into contracts with
third parties, to procure goods and services both nationally and
internationally and to sell produce (from research stations). KAR, can
acquire and hold property on its own name, and can sue or be sued in its
corporate name.
Adaptive Research at Regional Research Centers
6.       Each of the RRCs (Table 1) would focus on the identification and
diagnosis of production problems in its assigned agro-ecological zone and
adapt technologies for increasing production at the farm level. The
Regional Research Centers would include Mtwapa, Embu, Garissa, Kakamega,
Njoro, Katumani, Kitale and Kisii. Regional research on extensive
livestock production would also be carried out at Kiboko and Marsabit
(Table 1). A proposed organigram for a research center is shown in Chart
2.
Improved National Commodity and Factor Research Programs
7.       Nationally coordinated commodity and factor research programs
would initially be organized out of 16 National Research Centers, and two
Regional Research Centers. The National Research Centers with their
corresponding commodity and factor programs are listed in Table 2. For



- 84-                        ANNEX II
Pase 3 of 3
several of these programs further work is required to determine the
appropriate center in which to place the lead responsibility and
coordinating role (e.g. plant protection, cotton, sorghum/millet,
pasture/fodder and livestock). NRCs will address national research
problems of commodities or factors of production. They will be the
principal research stations for generating and testing improved
technologies, e.g. for maize, wheat, veterinary medicine, oilseeds, and
soil and water management. NRCs vould be organized and managed in a manner
defined by their long-term strategic plans that are presently being
prepared. Models have been completed for programs at the Kitale, Muguga
and Katumani NRCs.
Research Planning and Programming
8.       KARI's budget cycle has to be tied with GOK's financial year.  For
budget purposes, the annual research programming exercise would begin at
the end of June when NRCs, RRCs and commodity and factor coordinators
submit their annual reports for the previous year and initial proposals for
the coming 3 years to KARI's Planning, Programming and Budgeting Section.
The coming year begins July 1 of the next year.   A meeting on June 30,
1987 for example will plan for the budget year July 1, 1988 to June 30,
1989. After many modifications, the exercise ends in early April when the
final Annual Plan and Budget are communicated to Research Centers for use
in the year beginning July 1. However, the research planning sequence at
crops research centers is determined not by the fiscal year but by the
beginning and end of the growing season. Thus, planning of any year's
annual program needs to start more than 1 year before the start of a given
season, while adjustments to the current year's program are made on the
basis of preliminary budget dat&. A detailed research programming calendar
is given in Table 3.
Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
9.       Supervisory roles are explicit in the organization proposed for
KARI (see Chart 1) and in the job descriptions of key KARI staff (Appendix
1). Under the National Agriculture Research Program, a monitoring and
evaluation (M & E) system will be established to ensure that research is
steered in the proper direction and that the scarce resources available are
allocated according to priorities and effectively utilized. The Monitoring
and Evaluiation Section of KARI would undertake this function; the M & E
Section would also implement a comprehensive system of evaluation of
research projects. In order to do this, it would be necessary to compile
relevant data on agricultural commodities in different production zones
including estimated real and potential yields, benefits and production
costs. Evaluation would be mostly concerned with:
(i)   measl.ring the effect of crop/commodity and farming systems
research on production in the major production zones;
(ii)   ex-post evaluation of research projects;
(iii)   other socio-economic impact of the application of
technological innovations and adoption by farmers;
(iv)   evaluating res arch program progress.



- 85 -
ANNEX II
Table 1
KENYA NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
REGIONAL RESEARCH CENTERS
CENTER                           LOCATION    MANDATE 1/
1.   Regional Research Center         Kakamega    Adaptive research for
Western Highlands;
support to national
maize program.
2.   National Agricultural            Kitale       Adaptive research for the
Research Center                               Upland Plateaux
3.   Regional Research Center         Kisii        Adaptive research for the
Southwestern Highlands
4.   National Plant Breeding          Njoro        Adaptive research for the
Center                                        Rift Valley and Western
part of Central Highlands
5.   Regional Research Center         Embu         Adaptive research for
Central eighiands and
Western part of semi-arid
areaa; support to national
maize program.
6.   National Dryland Farming         Katumani    Adaptive research for
Research Center                               Southern, Central and
Northern semi-arid lands;
support to national maize,
sorghum and cassava
programs
7.   Regional Research Center         Mtwapa       Adaptive research for the
Coastal areas-
coordination rootcrops;
cooperation in sugarcane
research; subcenter for
adaptive research on
animal production at
Mariakani.
8.   Regional Research Center         Garissa      Adaptive research for
dryland areas.
1/   All the regional research centers will include substantial animal
production research which will be linked directly to the relevant
National Centers. The NRCs at Marsabit and Kiboko would serve the
regional needs of the northern districts in terms of animal production
research.



- 86 -
ANNEX II
Table 2
Page 1 of 3
KENYA NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
NATIONAL RESEARCH PROGRAMS AND CENTERS
Commodity/Factor/Discipline          Coordinating Center 1
A.     Crops2
(i) Maize                        National Agricultural Research Center,
Kitale with cooperative activities at
Kakamega, Embu, Mtwapa and Katumani
(ii) Root and tuber crops         Regional Research Center, Mtwapa, with
cooperative activities at Katumani and
Kakamega
(iii) Potatoes                     National Potato Research Center, Tigoni
(iv) Grain legumes                National Horticultural Research Center,
Thika with cooperative activities at
Katumani
(v) Oilseed crops                National Plant Breeding Center, Njoro
(vi) Wheat, barley, triticale    National Plant Breeding Center, Njoro;
private sector assistance for barley
(vii) Pyrethrum                    National Pyrethrum Center, Molo
(viii) Sorghum and millet 3         Regional Research Center, Kakamega
fieldwork at Alupe; cooperative
activities at Katumani
(ix) Horticultural crops and      National Horticultural Research Center,
vegetables                   Thika with cooperatile activities at
Kakamega, Kisii and *1twapa; assisted
by private sector
(x) Sugar                        National Sugar Research Center, Kibos
with cooperative activities at Mtwapa
(xi) Cotton 4                     Mwea Tebere National Cotton Research
Center with cooperative activities at
Kibos
(xii) Treecrops (coastal)          Regional Research Center, Mtwapa
I/The research programs for tea and coffee are not included, because they
are handled by the respective Tea and Coffee Boards. Seed research is*not
included separately because it will be conducted by the National Seed
Quality Control Service.
2/The presently existing names of the research centers are used. With
station rationalization the names may be brought in line with proposed
programs and the KARI structure.
3/The coordinating role remains to be assigned.
4/The coordinating role remains to be assigned.



- 87 -
ANNEX II
Table 2
Page 2 of 3
B.     Animal Production and Range Management
(i) Pasture and fodder 5         National Agricultural Research Center,
improvement and management   Kitale with cooperative activities at
Molo, Oljoro Orok, Alupe, Katumani
and Mtwapa
(ii) Animal breeding and animal  National Animal Husbandry Research
husbandry (dairy and beef,   Center, Naivasha with cooperative
sheep, goats, pigs,poultry) activities at Mtwapa (Mariakani)
(iii) Animal nutrition and         National Agricultural Research
physiology; regional dairy  Center, Muguga
research; dairy ranching 6
(iv) Range management and         National Range Research Center, Kiboko
animal production 7
(v) Animal production in         National Arid Lands Research Center,
arid lands 7                  Marsabit
C.     Animal Health
(i) Veterinary research on       National Veterinary and Animal
tick-borne, arbovirus and    Production Research Center, Muguga
bacterial diseases; rinder-
pest
(ii) Arbovirology,                National Veterinary Research
helminthology, entomology    Center, Kabete 8
D.     Factors
(i) Soil and water management   National Dryland Farming Research
Center, Katumani with cooperative
activities at the National
Agricultural Research Center, Muguga
(ii) Agricultural botany,         National Agricultural Research Center,
plant genetics, quarantine, Muguga
germplasm collection
5/The coordinating role remains to be assigned.
6/The coordinating role remains to be assigned; the role of Muguga in maize
research and regional research in the Kiambu district is unclear and would
be harmonized with the NARP concept.
7/A clear and separate mandate definition remains to be determined for
Kiboko and Marsabit.
8/Kabete's role remains uncertain until a decision on which facilities to
turn over to MOLD has been taken.



- 88 -
ANNEX II
Table 2
Page 3 of 3
(iii) Agricultural engineering    National Agricultural Research
Center, Muguga with cooperative
activities at Katumani
(iv) Plant protection             National Agricultural Laboratories,
(entomology, pesticide        Kabete
application, toxicity,
control) 9
(v) Soil fertility and plant    National Agricultural Laboratories,
nutrition                     Kabete (also Kenya Soil Survey)
(vi) Socio-economics              Headquarters, Nairobi with cooperative
activities at all NRCs and RRCs
(vii) Irrigation                   National Irrigation Research Center
Ahero (future development)
9/The coordinating role remains to be assigned.



- 89 -                        ANNEX II
Table 3
Pane 1 of 2
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
RESEARCH PROGRAMMING CALENDAR
Date          Ac- ivity to be completed
February 1    Individual scientists and teams finalize reports on the
previous year's research and use this information as input for
making modifications in plans for current year's experiments.
1/
March 15       Programs/Centers draft their Annual Reports.
April 15       Programs/Centers draft next year's research proposals. 2/
May 1          Commodity/factor Committees and RRC scientist teams meet to
review last year's results and consider next year's propoaals.
May 15         Programs/Centers draft broad proposals for the two years after
the "next" year (to arrive at three year forward proposals
similar to the forward budget process).
June 15       Final Annual Reports and three-year draft research proposals
submitted to the KARI Planning Section.
July 15       Treasury budget guidelines communicated to MOA, MOLD and KARI.
July 31       KARI's Planning Programming and Budgeting Section submits
national program and budget (composed of Center proposals and
KARI estimates and brought in line with budget guidelines), to
KARI management which approves or modifies the plan.
1/     For centers in Central and Eastern Province these draft reports would
be completed by the end of September of the previous year in order to
be ready before the next crop season starts.
2/     For those research programs scheduled for an in-depth review by a
Specialist Committee, the period between April 15 and June 1 would be
most appropriate so as to permit the Review Report to be used in the
routine planning process.



90 -                         ANNEX II
Table 3
Page 2 of 2
August 15       Approved research programs are returned to National and Regional
Centers for development of the detailed research programs that
for most Centers will start February next.3/
September 15   Detailed research programs and budgets by commodity, factor,
discipline and Center submitted to KARI management for approval
and thereafter to the KARI Board.
January 1       Annual forward budget exercise with possible modifications of
forward budget and therefore in actual research plans.
January 15      Approval of the annual national program by KARI Board.
February 1      Final adjustments of detailed research plans on basis of last
year's results and the next - fiscal - year's budget.
February 1      Beginning of the following year's cycle.
3/ Much later (October) for the centers in Eastern and Central Provinces.



KENYA NATIONAL AGRICIUTURAL RESEARCH PROGRAM
Annex 11, Chart 1: Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
Organizational Structure
>~~~~~~uio                                 k 1 , 
A CMQ0.                     ASf   cWA2C                                                                                       n
W en Io(ND )cS ctsl                            r           El HeCtt
*                                                                          I                                                                           .
*                                                                                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*                                                                                                                   I aITAP  NA*AI'anning                                             I01.I
~~~|DC Sods         i                                      tD,           L                                        HD 9 |og
D         g W ] D ' | | DI& &*O
.                                                                                                                I                                       L J
I                                                                                                                L       Y~~~~~~~~~~~angr''tLnsF1o,42
I             }                I             1               1             SQC5}           1              {NRC]           I            aU
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ |an                                         W  4Est Se 4_ *[IN             range   lfI  
l  WATBR   _11>|Al  .4t       |AoS                                                                                        I  _ 
1 [   LAET      |                                 * t   KAWMANI *+   |nL4n                                                    V_
eI    MOIOWt g                                                    fTL 
Hofrru      dw,In   A.Aho hy      AD  . AU`st1, D6ec1o.
_.-Tchn*sco  Una9es nac Coordfr,aiIo.    DD  = DvuSy DO"tw
Also to .,C                        NRC   t ob SeGIch Ce~fe
**Whsn DB.oQb d                                                                                                                                                                         &  MOtD. MhnJot tIeock Devetopr  AQck aa^3s5Q
*+Ako Coo   lSg t eSl PgL n,sC    IRCs - Rsgal R lCI Ces"
+  Soto Lcon NRC



- 92 -
KENYA NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Annex 11 Chart 2: Organization of a Research Center
[praclallst Co nmmI1|                                         4  Kari Headquarters  |
National Commorilty &                                  otfete               Committfee'
Foctor Groups
Rc .,h Projct             Training             Research              Finance &               Farm              Aministrotion
Leaders                                 Support Servces          Accounts             Management             diisrto
f~~~~~iT]    F 1  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l~Pnance &                                      Planting &            Flectrical &
Commodity   'R       h'                                   Laboratory             Budget {rtiliZ1r                         Lob Equipment
or Factor  ~   rcMaintenance
I                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~Librairyt                                            Civil Works
Documentation  |        Accounh                Eves ock            Maintenance
Labor        ~~Mechonical
*                      Computer              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Banking  Opeatiors            Equipment
I  I   |    84 Operations   | Maintenance
F@1                                          3teoro                                     Machanical              Workshop
[  v J                                                                                Operationis
Inventory
Plant             Management
Protec5on            and Stocks
Farm Developmenl       Comm-nica7ton|
& Maintenonce          & Transport
Research
Operations             Security
Personnel
Denotes hierarchicol relationship.
______. Denotes coordination rather than hierarchical relationship
'Consists ot senior Center stoat including Director. plus representatives
from Extension Service, and private enterprises. as well a3 notlonal
commodW foctor cootdinotors who have progroms at the center.
Exlst only In RRCs
World Bnk-31159:2



ANNEX II
- 93 -                     Appendix 1
Page 1 of 23
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROGRAM
SUGGESTED JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR KEY KARI STAFF
INTRODUCTION
1.       Improved management of the Research Centers requires the
development of detailed job-descriptions for all research officers and
support staff working at the Center. This is ecually needed for KARI
headquarters, responsible to manage the research structure and supervise
the staff at the Centers. Clear job descriptions will indicate the
responsibility and authority of each staff member, thus helping to achieve
efficient delegation of tasks and effectiv4 supervision of results.
Ultimately, job descriptions should bp consistent and therefore one cannot
limit the job description tasks to a .ew officers. To initiate and assist
in developing these job d?scriptions, drafts are provided for some key
staff. These drafts are thp result of discussions in working groups formed
during Project preparation and descriptions already available at some
Research centers.
2.02     These job descriptions cover the following functionaries:
(i)     Director
(ii)    Deputy Director Crops, Soils and Water/Assist. Directors
(iii)   Deputy Director Livestock/Assist. Directors
(iv)    Deputy Director Finance, Planning and
Administration/Assist. Directors
(v)     Head Planning, Programming and Budgeting Section
(vi)    Head the Manpower Development and Training Section
(vii)   Principal Training Officer
(viii)  Regional Research Center Directorl
(ix)    National Research Program Coordinator
(x)     Senior Agricultural Research Officer RRC
(xi)    Researrch Officer (RRC)
(xii)   Executive Officer (RRC)
(xiii)  Research-Extension Coordinator (HQ)
I. DIRECTOR
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
1.       The Director of KARI is the officer responsible for the
implementation of the National Agricultural Research Program in Kenya. The
Director works under the overall direction of KARI's Board of Management.
1/NRC Directors will have similar management responsibilities as RRC
Directors. However, NRC Directors will focus their research supervision
activity primarily on applied research and linkages with related Research
Institutes, while RRC Directors focus their research supervision on
adaptive research and linkages with extension.



ANNEX II
_ 94 -                    Appendix 1
Page 2 of 23
In order to fulfill this responsibility, he would spend all of his time on
issues connected to agricultural research. He would hold no other post,
nor engage in any non-research related activities. He would develop and
organize support for research at the national level. He would exercise
appropriate administrative, technical and financial control over KARI
staff, and ensure that they perform effectively. He would organize and
maintain a training program adequate to achieve a high level of
professional competence at all levels in K&RI. He would promote
satisfactory research-extension linkages and ensure an effective annual
program of field trials. He would check on the implementation of the
National Agricultural Research Program primarily through supervisory visits
to Research Centers and to farmers' fields, conveying his findings to KARI
and Ministry staff responsible and also periodically, to the Board.
MAJOR TASKS
2.       The major tasks of the Director include the supervision of KARI
managers in particular the three Deputy Directors (Crops, Soils and Water,
Livestock, and Planning, Manpower Development, Finance and Administration);
participation in the activities of KARI's Board of Management; and
coordination with the Ministries of Research, Science and Technology,
Agriculture, Livestock, Plaiming, Finance, the International Research
centers, other related institutions and Donors.
3.       Critical KARI activities to be supervised by the Director include:
(i)     strategic research programming for KARI, each major
commodity factor and discipline, and for the various
Research Centers;
(ii)    preparation of the KARI Annual Research Program;
(iii)   preparation of the three-year forward budget and the
Annual Budget;
(iv)    the execution of research and its reporting;
(v)     financial management (including obtaining donor funds),
accounting, auditing, etc;
(vi)    personnel management;
(vii)   preparation and execution of training programs; and
(viii)  close coordination with research users (veterinary
department, extension service, private industry), and with
providers of basic research results (International
Agricultural Research Centers and other National
Ccenters);
The Director would also:
(i)     participate in Board of Management discussions; and



95-                          ANNEX II
Appendix 1
Page 3 of 23
(ii)    take part in periodic reviews of research results and
their evaluation.
QUALIFICATIONS
5.       The qualifications and experience of the Director would be:
(i)     Post-Graduate degree in agriculture;
(ii)    at least fifteen years experience in the field of
agricultural research (or exLension), preferably including
veterinary science; and
(iii)   proven ability to lead, coordinate and manage complex and
large organizations.
II. DEPUTY DIRECTOR CROPS, SOILS AND WATERIASST. DIRECTORS
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
1.       The Deputy Director of the KARI Crops, Soils and Water Department
would have the overall management responsibility for research in each of
these areas. He would work with three Assistant Directors who he would
directly supervise. These Ore:
(i)     The Assistant Director of the Crops Division in charge of
eight National Researcii Centers including Kibos (sugar),
Lanet (seed quality), Molo (pyrethrum),, Mwea-Tebere
(cotton), Tigoni (potatoes), Thika (horticulture and
beans), Njoro (wheat oilseeds and RRC), and Kitale (maize,
fodder and pasture, and RRC);
(ii)    An Assistant Director of the Soils and Water Division in
charge of four National Research Centers which focus on
resources, factors (particularly soil and water resources)
or disciplines. These Centers cut across crop and
livestock research and include Katumani (soils and water
but also dryland farming systems and RRC); Muguga (soils
and water, plant protection, plant genetics, plant biology
and quarantine); National Agricultural Laboratories,
Nairobi (soil resources, soil survey, agricultural
chemistry, entomology, plant pathology, and research
support services); and Ahero (the National Irrigation and
Drainage Research Center) which is to be established
later; and
(iii)   An Assistant Director Regional Research Centers in charge
of five Regional Research Centers including: Embu,
Garissa, Kakamega, Kisii and Mtwapa. This Assistant
Director would also coordinate the regional research
undertaken at the three NRCs which have in addition an RRC
function (Njoro, Kitale, and Katumani). He would with the
Research/Extension Coordinator (see page 21), also be
responsible for extension liaison at headquarters, and for



-96 -                          ANNEX II
Appendix 1
Page 4 of 23
supervising extension liaison activities at the NRC and
RRC level.
MAJOR TASKS
2.       The ma,or tasks to be supervised by the Deputy Director for Crops,
Soils and Water for the execution of which, each in their own area of
assignment, the Assistant Directors are responsible, include:
(i)     planning, management and coordination of all research
activities of the department;
(ii)    preparaticn of long term strategic rese&rch plans and
annual work programs and budgets for each of the research
programs carried out under the responsibility of the
department in close liaison with the KARI Planning,
Programming and Budgeting Section, the Monitoring and
Evaluation Section, the Deputy Director Planning, Manpower
Development, Finance and Administration, the Deputy
Director Livestock, KARI's Director and the Board;
(iii)   management ot Lhe department's expenditures and the proper
handling of all its personnel matters;
(iv)    transmission of the recommendations and decisions of the
Managing Director and the Board of Directors that concern
the department or its personnel to the Department staff;
(v)     coordination of the activities of the department with
those of the other departments of KARI and of other
organizations in and outside Kenya that carry out research
and experimentation in relevant fields;
(vi)    preparation of quarterly progress reports and annual
scientific reports for the department in close liaison
with the Monitoring and Evaluation Section, presenting
these to KARI's Managing Director and at the Annual
Research Review Conference;
(vii)   development of a training program for departmental staff
(with the Training Officer);
(viii)  determination of the department's needs in the area of
scientific documentation and the preparatic. of purchase
oriers for books and articles for transmistion to the KARI
Documentation Center;
(ix)    the department's functional relations with other
organizations (especially the Agricultural Extension
Division), related projects, farmers and other users of
research results, ensuring constant awareness of user
needs; and
(x)     compilation and presentation of the department's research
results in a form suitable for the national authorities



- 97                           ANPEX II
Appendix 1
Page 5 of 23
responsible for rural development and agricultural
research.
QUALIFICATIONS
6.       The qualifications and experience of the Deputy Director Crops,
Soils and Water would be:
(i)     a post-graduate degree in agriculture or a related field;
(ii)    at least ten years experience in relevant aspects of
agricultural research preferably related to small farm
production problems;
(iii)   actual experience in agricultural research management and
programming; and
(iv)    proven ability to lead and coordinate the activities of
multidisciplinary research teams.
7.       The qualifications and experience required for the Assistant
Directors would be similar to that for the Deputy Director except that five
years of actual research experience would be considered adequate.
III. DEPUTY DIRECTOR LIVESTOCK
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
1.       The Deputy Director Livestock will directly supervise two
Assistant Directors in charge of National Research Centers. These are:
(i)     The Assistant Director Animal Production in charge of the
three national Livestock Research Centers including the
National Animal Production aesearch Center at Naivasha
(dairy and beef, sheep, goats, pigs ar.d poultry); the
National Range Research Center at Kiboko (range ecology,
agrometeorology, range animal production); and the Kenya
Arid Lands Research Station at Marsabit. This Assistant
Director would also be technically in charge of livestock
research at the regional research stations which are under
the Deputy Director Crops, Soil and Water.
(ii)    The Assistant Director for Animal Heaith Research in
charge of two National Veterinary Research Centers
including the National Veterinary and Animal Production
Research Center at Muguga; and the National Veterinary
Laboratories, at Kabete.
MAJOR TASKS
2.       The major tasks to be supervised by the Deputy Director Livestock
and to be executed by the Assistant Directors are similar to those of the
Deputy Director in charge of Crops, Soils and Water in relation to the
specific activities of the Department (animal 9roduction and veterinary
research).



-9                         ANNEX II
Appendix 1
Page 6 of 23
QUALIFICATIONS
3.       The qualifications and experience of the Deputy Director for
Livestock Research would be:
(1)     a post-graduate degree in livestock, veterinary medecine
or a related field;
(ii)    at least ten years experience in relevant aspects of
livestock and/or veterinary research and knowledge of
small farm livestock production problems;
(iii)   actual experience in research management and programming;
and
(iv)    a proven ability to lead and coordinate the activities of
multidisciplinary research teams.
4.       The qualifications and experience required for the Assistant
Directors would be similar to that for the Deputy Director except that five
years of actual research experience would be considered adequate.
IV. DEPUTY DIRECTOR
FINANCE, PLANNING, AND ADMINISTRATION
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
1        The Deputy Director for Planning, Manpower Development, Finance
and Administration would directly supervise three Assistant Directors;
these are:
(i)     The Assistant Director Planning and Manpower Development
in charge of four XARI headquarters Sections including (a)
the Planning, Programming and Budgetting Section which
would assist KARI management in annual programming and
budgetting, undertake medium and long range planning,
prepare commodity and factor research programs which could
be subn'tted to donors for financing and also coordinate
donor support; (b) the Monitoring and Evaluation Section
which would monitor and evaluate research undertaken at
the research centers and at the beginning of each year,
provide technical evaluations to KARI management which
together with the input from the Planning, Programming and
Budgetting Section, would enable KARI to approve (or
reject) specific research programs and projects; (c) the
Manpower Development and Training Section which would plan
the short and long term training of KARI staff, based on
the needs of research programs; and (d) the Data
Processing and Information Section;
(ii)    The Assistant Director Finance in charge of four Sections
including: (a) Accounts, (b) External Financing, (c)
Assets Management, and (d) Supplies, Procurement and
Stores; and



- 99 -                        ANNEX II
Appendix 1
Page 7 of 23
(iii)   The Assistant Director Administration who would manage,
six Sections including (a) Libraries, (b) Publications,
(c) Personnel Administration, (d) Station and Equipment
Maintenance, (d) New Construction, and (e) Transport.
MAJOR TASKS
2.       The Deputy Director Planning, Manpowter Development, Finance and
Administration would be involved in all major KARI management decisions.
As such, he would regularly visit stations and review research results and
proposals personally. The most important tasks of the Deputy Director in
charge of Planning, Manpower Development, Finance, and Administration would
be the supervisioi. of the activities for the execution of which the
respective Assistant Directors would be responsible; these are:
(i)     research planning and programming (see job description of
Head of Planning, Programming and Budgetting Section in
collaboration with other KARI management staff and the
Board of Management;
(ii)    research monitoring and evaluation;
(iii)   training (see job description principal training officer);
(iv)    personnel management;
(v)     financial management and cost accounting;
(vi)    KARI budgeting;
(vii)   publications;
(viii)  library management;
(ix)    station and equipment management;
(x)     donor coordination and mobilization of donor funds;
(xi)    procurement.
QUALIFICATIONS
3.       The qualifications and experience of the Deputy Director Planning,
Manpower Development, Finance and Administration would be: (i) a university
degree (or its equivalent) in business administration or a related area
(ii) having formal knowledge of agricultural research, agricultural
economics and finance; and (iii) at least 10 years experience in management
and administration. The qualifications and experience of the Assistant
Directors would be similar, except for (iii): five years experience would
be considered adequate.



- 100 -                      ANNEX il
Appendix I
Page 8 of 23
V. HEAD PLANNING, PROGRAMMING AND BUDGETING SECTION
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
1.       The Head of the Planning, Programming and Budgeting Section will
carry overall responsibility for the work of tk.e Section. He will report
to the Assistant Director of the Planning and Manpower Development
Division, who in turn reports to the Deputy Director Planning, Manpower
Development, Finance and Administration.
MAJOR TASKS
2.       The Head of Planning, Programming and Budgeting would be
responsible for:
(i)     planning, managing, and supervising the Planning,
Programming and Budgeting Section;
(ii)    acting as senior advisor to KARI's Managing Director
regarding the development of national systems for research
program planning, coordination, budgeting, and management;
(iii)   in coordination with the Monitoring and Evaluation
Section, and with the collaboration of the Deputy
Directors and their senior staff, evaluating research
results and updating both the annual and the long-term
agricultural research strategies;
(iv)    representing KARI management in Commodity, Factor and
Specialist Committee meetings (which develop and review
medium and long-term commodity and factor research
programs), and Center Committee meetings (which develop
research center programs);
(v)     participating in the Annual Research Conferences to review
progress with the head of the Monitoring and Evaluation
Section;
(vi)    preparation of the KARI annual research program (on the
basis of inputs from the H & E Section, Research Center
reports, proposals and publications, Commodity, Factor
Specialist and Center Committee recommendations, the
summary of the Annual Research Conference recommendations,
advice from Finance (the budget ceilings, retained
revenue, donor contributions), decisions by Management and
Board etc.);
(vii)   defense of the KARI research program and budget for
outside reviewers; and
(viii)  preparation of research sub-projects for financing by
donors.



- 101 -                      ANNEX II
Appendix 1
Page 9 of 23
QUALIFICATIONS
3.       The qualificatAons and experience of the Head of the Planning,
Programming and Budgeting Section would be:
(i)     a post-graduate degree in agricultural economics,
agriculture, veterinary science or a related field; and
(ii)    at least seven years experience ia agricultural research
management and programming.
VI.  HEAD MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING SECTION
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
1.       The Head of the Manpower Development and Training Section is the
officer responsible for the implementation of training programs and the
promotion of career development for all research personnel, under the
overall guidance of the Assistant Director Planning and Manpower
Development. In order to fulfill this responsibility he would develop a
strategy to lmprove and maintain a high level of professional competence of
the research staff, in consultation with appropriate Division Heads,
Research Centers Directors and external financiers. This strategy would
support priorities set and KARI's overall research framework and take into
account short as well as long-term goals. He would closely cooperate with
representatives of institutions of higher education and other research
institutes, national as well as international. He would check on the
implementation of programs through field visits to the Centers and direct
contacts with research staff, conveying his findings to KARI management and
Center Directors. He would be the primary contact point for donor funding
of research training programs.
MAJOR TASKS
2.       The head of the KARI Manpower Development and Training Section
would have the following major tasks:
(i)     development and seeking management approval for annual
training programs including budgets;
(ii)'   direct supervision of the staff of the Manpower
Development and Training Section as well as consultants
assisting him in his task and reporting to him;
(iii)   ensuring that job descriptions are developed for KARI
staff in a systematic manner, discussing and updating
these with relevant staff annually and submitting these to
management; checking periodically that the training
programs remain consistent with the established and actual
job descriptions;
(iv)    ensuring that guidelines Rare prepared and updated
concerning procedures which would promote opportunities
for professional career development and upward mobility in
the research establishment;



- 102 -                    ANNEX II
Appendix 1
Page 10 of 23
(v)     the organization, implementati,  and evaluation of
training courses and seminars :.. Kenya;
(vi)    the progress of training and trainees abroad, by ensuring
that the context of such training responds to relevant
croplfactor/systems program objectives and stays within
budgetary limits;
(vii)   ensuring the attainment of the objectives of his section
as to the completion of the yearly training program;
(viii)  making proposals to his supervisor and KARI top management
on the organization of his section, within the context of
the general mandate of the division and KARI;
(ix)    assuring himself that the personnel section takes care of
the proper reintegration of trainees in the research
structure and programs;
(x)     receiving and evaluating trainees' reports on training
results and summarizing them in the annual report;
(xi)    if requested by the Division's Assistant Director,
representing KARI in meetings with representatives of
research and educational institutions rendering national
or international training services;
(xii)   preparing an annual report on the progress and development
of training activities and their impact on competence
improvement, development of special programs and adequacy
of center staffing;
(Yiii)  responding to t4chnical queries from external financiers
and maintaining correspondence with cooperating training
institutions;
(xiv)   preparing basic documentation and guidelines for job-
evaluation and career development; and
(xv)    preparing the yearly evaluation of the division's staff.
QUALIFICATIONS
3.       The qualifications and experience of the Head of the Manpower
Development and Training Section would be:
(i)     a post-graduate degree in agriculture or a related field;
and
(ii)    at least five years experience in the management of
training pLograms.



- 103                           ANNEX II
Appendix I
Page 11 of 23
VII. PRINCIPAL TRAINING OFFICER
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
1.       The detailed preparation and implementation of the proposed
training plan for KARI will be the responsibility of the Training Officer.
This officer would be located in KARI's Section for Manpower Development
and Training. In view of the critical importance of the training function
in KARI, the Training Officer would work directly with the Head of his
Section. The Training Officer would also work closely with senior managers
in KARI.
MAJOR TASKS
2.       The functions and responsibilities of the Training Officer will
bet
(i)     to develop and review annual and periodic training plans
for KARI staff in consultation with KARI management and
the various heads of KARI Departments, Divisions and
Research Centers;
(ii)    to liaise with Nairobi University, agricultural and
veterinary colleges and other institutions in the
development of suitable training programs and courses for
scientific and technical staff of KARI;
(iii)   to compile and maintain detailed information on relevant
training programs in-country and overseas and to
periodically circulate this information in an appropriate
form to senior managers in KARI;
UiV)    to plan and organize suitable in-service training courses
for KARI staff in consultation with heads of KARI
divisions and Research Centers Directors;
(v)     to liaise with Ministry of Agriculture and with Ministry
of Livestock Departments concerning matters of training;
(vi)    to arrange periodic reviews of training courses offered to
KARI staff;
(vii)   to liaise with IARCs on matters of training, this may
require visits by the training officer to IITA, CIAT,
ICRISAT, ILCA and other Centers soon after appointment;
(viii)  to compile and maintain relevant documentation on trainees
in KARI;
(ix)    to compile annually a report on the training activities in
KARI and on progress achieved;
(x)     to assist and facilitate the preparation of training
materials for in-service training and other presentations
on training in KARI; and



ANNEX II
- 104 -                      Appendix 1
Page 12 of 23
(xi)    to establish evaluation and recording systems for training
and follow-up activities.
3.       QUALIFICATIONS
The minimum requirements for the post of Training Officer in KARI
would be:
(i)     a proven record as a competent administrator at a senior
level in large, preferably public service, organizations;
and
(ii)    a capacity to interact effectively with a diverse range of
personnel.
It would also be highly desirable, that the training officer has:
(i)     an agricultural research or agricultural education
background; and
(ii)    previous experience in managing training programs.
VIII. REGIONAL RESEARCH CENTER DIRECTOR
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
1.       Each RRC Director will organize, manage and supervise all
activities at the RRC. The RRC Director will check on the implementation
of the RRC's entire program through supervising visits to farmers' fields,
visiting the monthly extension workshops and by conveying findings to RRC
staff and to extension staff. To do this he would spend about 20X of his
time in the field where he would visit farmers and staff in the districts
and divisions covered by the RRC. On these visits he would review the role
and impact of the field activities of the research staff, and the accuracy
and success of the transfer of research recommendations to the field. He
would communicate his findings to provincial and district extension
officers, and review, as appropriate, his suggestions for improving
operations with RRC staff. He would spend about 20X of his time in visits
to national and regional research stations and to sub-stations. He would
ensure regular visits by his research staff to farmer's fields and
participation in fortnightly extension training sessions. He would also
review the cooperation between research staff and extension staff in
organizing the monthly extension workshops, through preparation of meeting
calendars for each semester. He would monitor the timely preparation of
the program of farm trials and review (with the District Agricultural
Officers) the results of this program with District Development staff. He
would see to it that scientific resource materials required for the
implementation of the RRC program for which he is responeible are obtained
and distributed.
MAJOR TASKS
2.       The functions of the RRC (as well as NRC) Directors would include:



- 105 -                     ANNEX II
Appendix 1
Page 13 of 23
(i)     supervising center staff and personnel management
(including the assignment of duties, staff evaluations,
assigning facilities to staff, providing professional
guidance to staff and ensuring staff well-being);
(ii)    annual research program planning, with research programs
prepared by individual researchers or teams and reviewed
by the Research Center Committee;
(iii)   monitoring and evaluation of research at the Center;
(iv)    budgeting;
(v)     overseeing fida'ncial management and accounting;
(vi)    procurement;
(vii)   station maintenance;
(viii)  station operations; and
(ix)    transmitting KARI management decisions to station staff.
3.       Because of the major new responsibilities of RRC Directors in
adaptive research, the specific tasks related to adaptive research are
listed below:
(i)     participation in studying the main agricultural production
systems in the agro-climatic zone in which the RRC is
located through diagnostic surveys and monitoring;
(ii)    coordinating and supervising adaptive research at the RRC;
(iii)   monitoring on-farm testing of research results in close
collaboration with the nationally coordinated commodity
factor and disciplinary research programs which generate
these results;
(iv)    coordinating the preparation of progress and scientific
reports on the agronomic aspects of adaptive research
according to guidelines from the Head of KARI's Monitoring
and Evaluation Section;
(v)     coordinating adaptive research activities with the
extension service of the Ministry of Agriculture and the
Ministry of Livestock Development; and
(vi)    acting as senior advisor to the diagnostic teams at the
RRC.
QUALIFICATIONS
4.       The qualifications and experience of the RRC Directors would need
to be:



- 106 -                    ANNEX II
Appendix 1
Page 14 of 23
(M)     a post-graduate degree in agriculture, or related field;
(ii)    at least five years experience in agricultural research,
part of which in adaptive research and preferably
experience in agricultural extension; and
(iii)   actual experience in interdisciplinary agricultural
research planning and programming.
IX. NATIONAL RESEARCH PROGRAM COORDINATOR
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
1.       Each national commodity, factor or disciplinary research program
will have 8 program coordinator. The coordinator will be a senior
scientist capable of providing scientific leadership for the national
program. The coordinator would exercise little administrative control over
the staff of the cooperating Centers, which for all practical purposes are
an integral part of the Centers in which they are located. He must
maintain cont&cts with the Directors of the cooperating RRCs and with the
concerned scientific staff to ensure that the part of the coordinated
research program assigned to each individual is fully implemented. The
coordinators would be expected to report directly to the respective
Assistant and Deputy Director of KARI with regard to the funding of the
coordinated programs and their progress. Using the committee structure
defined in the Government's Project preparation report, the national
commmodity and factor program coordinators would organize collaborative
research programs with the appropriate NRCs and the RRCs. The Program
coordinators are responsible for convening annual Commodity or Factor
Committee meetings, preparing reports, and to act as secretary of the
Specialist Committees, in close collaboration with the relevant Deputy
Director of KARI.
MAJOR TASKS
2.       Most important tasks of the research program coordinators (in
addition to the organizational tasks described above) include:
(i)     coordinating and supervising the research activities of
all the research workers participating f '.l-time or part-
time, within or outside KARI, in the specific research
program for which the coordinator is responsible;
(ii)    coordinating execution of all relevant on-station research
work with the Station Directors;
(iii)   coordinating all laboratory services for the research
program with the chief of the central laboratories;
(iv)    preparing annual work programs and budgets, including all
central services' needs in coordination with fellow
research workers, and in close liaison with and according
to guidelines from the relevant Deputy Director;



- 107 -                        ANNEX II
Appendix 1
Page 15 of 23
(v)     supervising and controlling the research team's
expenditures;
(vi)    preparing quarterly progress reports and annual scientific
reports according to guidelines from KARI management;
(vii)   ensuring that research results are written up for
publication in scientific and technical journals, and are
synthesized in suitable form for the extension services;
and
(viii)  training of staff in technical and managerial matters (in
consultation with the Head Manpower Development and
Training).
3.       The qualifications and experience of a Research Program
Coordinator would be:
(i)     a post-graduate degree in agriculture, or related field;
(ii)    at least three years experience in agricultural research;
and
(iii)   a keen interest and proven ability in research management
and in leading a multidisciplinary research team.
X. SENIOR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH OFFICER (RRC)
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
1.       A Senior Agricultural Research Officer carries responsibility for
the execution of a research program at an RRC and leads a team of
scientists. He is responsible to the RRC Director.
MAJOR TASKS
2.       The major responsibilities of a Senior Agricultural Officer would
include:
(i)     to coordinate the research program(s) allocated to station
research officers for whom he has responsibility and to
give professional and administrative guidance to these
officers;
(ii)    to formulate individual research programs with reference
to decisions made regarding overall Center research by
KARI management and the Research Center Committee;
(iii)   to advise the Center Director on all technical matters
related to research;



- 108 -                      ANNEX II
Appendix 1
Page 16 of 23
(iv)    to liaise with all officers under him and to formulate
seasonal and fortnightly work programs;
(v)     to assist officers under him in design, lay out, conduct,
data collection, analysis and write up of research
programs;
(vi)    to manage staff under his authority including evaluation
of their performance;
(vii)   to authorize use of research center supplies and equipment
by his team;
(viii)  to translate research findings into simple recommendations
(in consultation with the Center Director and with
extension staff) for use by farmers and extension staff;
(ix)    to keep and maintain appropriate and comprehe.'sive
registers showing all materials tested and the results;
(x)     to draw up an outline of crop/enterprise activity
schedules following a chronological order of events or
* ae other acceptable format for the purpose of giving
guidance to the Provincial and District extension staff
and the Center Director in planning for extension
activities;
(xi)    to plan and attend all exhibits used in field days and
shows and other publicity in which the Center
participates;
(xii)   to receive official visitors, farmers and other clients
visiting the Section and to keep records of such visits.
The Senior Research Officer may delegate this function
(while still retaining responsibility) to any other
officer in his Section considered competent:
(xiii)  to compile all requirements for the Section, this
includes: transport, labor, stencils, papar etc. The
stores section would be under instructions not to issue
any stores unless against a prior and approved budget;
(xiv)   to compile all research results of the Section at the end
of each season into a technical report in a style and
format prescribed by KARI;
(xv)    to ensure that all officers (senior and subordinate) are
at their respective places of work and to institute
disciplinary action (in consultation with the Center
Director) when the situation warrants it;
(xvi)   to convene at least once every fortnight, a Section
meeting in which fortnightly work plans and work progress
are discussed. Minutes of the meeting would be kept.



- 109 -                      ANNEX II
Appendix 1
Page 17 of 23
(xvii)  to receive new officers joining the Center and to draw up
an orientation brief (in consultation with other Section
heads);
(xviii) to participate ir the Research Center Committee when it
discusses matters pertaining to Center land use and
livestock production policy;
(xix)   to liaise (in consultation with the Center Director) with
District Extension Services to establish constraints
requiring research attention and to prioritize such
constraints; and
(xx)    to assist and encourage all others in the Section to
publish their results in scientific and other media.
QUALIFICATIONS
3.       The qualifications and experience of a Senior Agricultural
Research Officer would be:
(i)     a post-graduate degree in Agriculture or Veterinary
Science; and
(ii)    at least five years experience in conducting
interdisciplinary agricultural research.
XI. RESEARCH OFFICER (RRC)
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
1.       The Research Officer in an RRC is the officer responsible for the
planning and implementation of research projects. In order to fulfill this
responsibility he/she would collect relevant data on which to base the
research and ensure exact implementation of program activities according to
agreed plans both in the laboratory and in the field. He/she should
generate relevant conclusions from analyses of research program results and
together with the district extension officers define recommendations for
farmers to apply on their farms. The Research Officer would report to the
Head of the Section at the RRC or research team leader as designated by the
RRC Director.
MAJOR TASKS
2.       The responsibilities of a Research Officer would include:
(i)     formulation of research project(s) with reference to
decisions regarding overall center research, KARI
management and the Research Center Committee;
(ii)    design of research project(s) according to detailed
guidelines provided by KARI management. Specifically such
programs would include the following major components: (i)



- 110 -                    ANNEX II
Appendix 1
Page 18 of 23
title, (ii) introduction, (iii) rationale, based on
diagnostic survey. (iv) objectives/output, (v) design,
(vi) trial locations, (vii) data to be collected and
methods to be used, (ix) collaborating officers, and (x)
comprehensive budget;
(iii)   presentation and defense of proposed research program(s)
at discussions with Section Heads, Center Director and at
relevant Commodity or Factor Group meetings;
(iv)    supervision of all laboratory work and field
implementation of the program(s); provision of written
instructions to all technical and subordinate staff
carrying out data collection and other program
implementation activities. Demonstratation of the
specific tasks to be undertaken by staff and explanation
of objectives of each activity;
(v)     analysis of data and write-up of all research findings in
accordance with g4idelines provided by KARI management and
in consultation with the Section Head;
(vi)    preparation of a quarterly progress report for each
research program and description, in concise format, of
the status of program implementation;
(vii)   preparation of an end of season or final report for each
research program in accordance with the format provided by
KARI management. These reports would be finalized not
later than two months after completion of field and
laboratory work. The report would be divided into three
parts: (a) full details including raw data, (b) a
summarized version for inclusion in annual reports, and
(c) abstract form for inclusion in computerized data base
or in other forms of publication;
(viii)  interaction with extension staff through diagnostic
surveys, workshops and in the program planning and
implementation process. Being a member and attending the
relevant professional specialization group meetings.
Presenting conclusions reached at the end of each research
program, formulating field recommendations and preparing
suitable handouts jointly with extension staff;
(ix)    having continuous contact with extension staff regarding
research program implementation, participation in
extension training and other joint research-extension
related activities;
(x)     being updated on all professional aspects relevant to his
field of expertise and all allied subject matter. Being
aware of all research publications both national and
international and having personal contacts with
researchers at other Centers including IARCs; and



- 111 -                     ANNEX II
Appendix 1
Page 19 of 23
(xi)    participating, if appointed, to KARI Commodity and Factor
Groups as well as Specialist Committees and keeping
abreast of all their deliberations, material distributed
and conclusion reached.
The Research Officer would also:
(i)     be responsible for and directly supervise technical and
subordinate staff connected or assigned to the research
program;
(ii)    deal with all work-related correspondence within and out
of the RRC on behalf of the Director but in consultation
with the Section Head; and
(iii)   draw up his fortnightly plan of work and for technical and
subordinate staff assigned to his program.
QUALIFICATIONS
The qualifications of a Research Officer would be:
(i)     A graduate degree in agriculture or a related field; and
(ii)    proven ability in Agricultural Research.
XII. EXECUTIVE OFFICER (RRC)
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
1.       The Executive Officer is the person responsible for assisting the
Center Director of the RRC in all areas of administration. He would be
responsible for all matters concerning personnel, budget and equipment and
all other research center administrative affairs. He would be the main
contact with KARI management on subjects pertaining to administration and
would assist the Director in supervising the implementation of GOK/KARI
managemenat administrative procedures. The fxecutive Officer would be
directly accountable to the Director of the RRC. He would represent the
Director in the coordination of RRC affairs with the Planning and Manpower
Development, Finance and Administration Divisions at KARI Headquarters.
MAJOR TASKS
2.       The Executive Officer would:
(i)     deal with staff salaries (payments, increments, stoppages,
transfers and returns);
(ii)    review and update the staff list every four months at
which time he would maintain and update center complement
control and advise the Center Director of any
discrepancies;



- 112 -                         ANNEX II
Appendix 1
PaRe 20 of 23
(iii)   process and translate terms of service of all officers;
(iv)    process allowances due to all officers, draw attention of
respective officers to their allowance entitlement for
housing, leave, disturbance and others in this category;
(v)     institute all statutory deductions such as PAYE, NSSF,
NGIF;
(vi)    process and effect procedures in the event of  a
dismissal, transfer, retirement or resignation of an
officer;
(vii)   interpret COR, Ministerial, DPM, KARI management and other
similar circulars and display them on Center public notice
boards for the benefit of all officers;
(viii)  supervise administrative staff to ensure satisfactory
service. Such staff would include copy-typists, clerks,
officers of account section (through Chief Accountant),
store keepers and janitors.
(ix)    supervise proper functioning and maintenance of office
equipment and furniture;
(x)     keep record and advise KARI headquarters monthly on all
matters related to leave and overtime;
(xi)    activate the necessary GOK machinery required to board and
replace all Government stores in accordance with
Government and KARI procedures;
(xii)   assign duties and responsibilities in such a manner that
all rules and regulations governing stores are adhered to.
Carry out monthly, physical checks on stores and all
instruments of store keeping, reporting quarterly to the
Center Director. Undertake a periodical stock taking in
accordance with KARI management guidelines. Act as
supplies officer if such officer has not been appointed or
is absent;
(xiii)  prepare annual draft estimates of budget requirements in
close consultation with Section Heads and the Center
Director;
(xiv)   control all votes and submit weekly reports to the Center
Director on the status of all votes;
(xv)    maintain a serial numbered register of voucher payments.
The register would include all relevant details pertaining
to vouchers, payments or rejections;
(xvi)   prepare and examine vouchers;



- 113 -                     ANNEX II
Appendix 1
Page 21 of 23
(xvii) be custodian of all imprests;
(xviii) be custodian of all accounting documents;
(xix)   verify monthly expenditure returns.
(xx)    coordinate procurement of goods;
(xxi)   supervise the accounting of Appropriation in Aid (Revenue
etc.) submitting a monthly and annual report to the Center
Director;
(xxii)  receive and take appropriate action on internal and
outgoing mail coming from the Director and supervise the
taking of minutes and filing of correspondence;
(xxiii) be responsible for and maintain Center archives;
(xxiv]  be custodian of all library material and ensure the
library facilities are extended to all users; and
(xxv)   plan and be instrumental in the implementation of a
training program for officers and staff under the
Executive Officer's supervision.
QUALIFICATIONS
3.       The qualifications of an Executive Officer would be:
(i)     a graduate degree in finance and administration or a
related field; and
(ii)    at least 5 years experience in administration of
agricultural research.
XIII.  RESEARCH EXTENSION COORDINATOR (HQ)
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
1.       The Research Extension Coordinator (REC) is the officer
specifically responsible for maintaining effective cooperation between
research and extension staff. In order to fulfill this responsibility, he
would spend all his time intensifying research/extension linkages. The REC
would hold no other post, nor engage in activities not related to research-
extension coordination. He would develop and organize meetings and
seminars at the national level to improve cross-fertilization of ideas
emanating from the research and extension systems. He would identify,
organize and promote training programs adequate to maintain the
professional skills of the research staff, so as to enable them to respond
to the demand for information generated by the extension program. He would
check on the implementation of the program through visits to farmers'
fields, monthly workshops and Research Centers, conveying his findings to



- 114 -                      ANNEX II
Appendix 1
Page 22 of 23
the relevant Research Centers and extension staff. The REC would report to
the Assistant Director RRCs of KARI and coordinate with the Chief
Agricultural Extension, Services and Administration of MOA.
MAJOR TASKS
2.       The REC would:
(i)     spend about 301 of his time in the field where he would
visit farmers and research and extension staff. On these
visits he would review the role and impact of the field
activities of the research staff and the accuracy and
success of the transfer of research recommendations to the
field. He would communicate his findings to provincial
and district extension officers, and review as appropriate
his suggestions for improving operations with the relevant
research staff;
(ii)    spend about 30X of his time on visits to national and
regional Research Centers and to sub-centres. On these
visits he would review with station staffs (a) how best to
respond to problems identified by the extension program;
and (b) the possible consequences of these problems for
future research programming and budgeting;
(iii)   ensure visits by research and extension staff to frmers'
fields and the participation of research staff in monthly
workshops and professional specialization group
activities. He would also review the participation of
research staff in organizing the monthly workshops,
through preparation of meeting calendars for each
semester. He would see to it that researchers, teaching
at the monthly workshops, would be trained (as required)
in didactical skills;
(iv)    through meetings such as those of the PAREAC, professional
specialization groups, monthly workshops, and individually
with researchers, facilitate the proper functioning of the
joint research/extension on-farm trials and review with
KARI and extension management the results of this program;
(v)     review the physical and financial requirements of the
research/extension liaison activities and ensure that
allocations received by the Center Directors are used
correctly and in a timely fashion. For this purpose he
would liaise closely with District, Provincial and Central
Agricultural Officers;
(vi)    see that scientifHc resource material required for the
implementation of the program are obtained and distributed
as needed;
(vii)   participate regularly and represent KARI in all meetings
of National, Provincial and District extension staff.



- 115 -                     ANNEX II
Appendix 1
Page 23 of 23
(viii)  see to it that the RRC would include in the draft annual
report the functioning and effectiveness of
research/extension interaction;
(ix)    react to responsible officers on reports analyzing the
results of on-farm trials and on extension renitoring and
evaluation reports, as appropriate; and
(x)     inform Research Centers Directors about important research
questions generated by the extension program.
QUALIFICATIONS
3.       The qualifications of the Research Extension Coordinator would be:
(i)     a post-graduate degree in agriculture or a related field;
(ii)    at least five years experience in agricultural research;
and
(iii)   at least five years experience in agricultural extension.



- 116 -
ANNEX III
Pale 1 of 7
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
THE PLAN OF ACTION
The implementation of NARP requires numerous actions at specific
dates. To ensure the effective execution of Project activities, several of
these actions need to then go on continuously or be repeated on a monthly,
seasonal or annual basis. The most critical of these have been summarized
below; the relevant para(4) in the Staff Appraisal Report are indicated in
parentheses. The implementation schedule of actions to be taken by KARI,
its subdivisions and other organizations has also been illustrated in a
bar chart (pages 5-7). Except for those actions and dates specifically
referred to in the legal agreements between IDA, GOK and KARI, target dates
and timings are indicative; they would be reviewed and if necessary revised
at the times of the annual joint donor reviews of the NARP.
PROJECT ACTIVITYICOMPONENT                         TARGET DATE(S) /FREQUENCY
A. Effectiveness Conditions
1.  Appointment key KARI staff (para. 5.04)        Before Project effectiveness
2.  Long-term degree training plan (5.19)
3.  Staff establishment (5.20)                        "
B. Proposal Preparation and Design
Donor appraisals of proiect components
EEC, IDA, ODA, The Netherlands, and other    Mostly Feb. - October 1987,
donors (2.04)
System, program and project proposals
1.  Research in maize, tickborne diseases          November 30, 1987
intensive dairy, RRCs Katumani, Embu
and Kakamega (5.08-5.10)
2.  Research/extension linkages (5.28, 5.29)       March 31, 1988
3.  Accounting systems (3.05)                      March 31, 1988
4.  Reporting formats (5.07)                       March 31, 1988
5.  M & E systems and work plan (5.15, 5.34)       March 31, 1988
6.  Information systems (5.34)                     March 31, 1988
7.  Donor coordination mechanisms and              March 31, 1988
procedures (5.34)



- 117 -
ANNEX III
Paae 2 of 7
8.  Research on wheat, &rain legumes, fodder/    March 31, 1988
forage production, soil and water manage-
ment, soil fertility/plant nutrition, RRCs
at Kitale, Njoro and Mtwapa; rehabilitation
laboratory services (5.08-5.10)
9.  Research on sorghum/millet, fruits/            July 31, 1988
vegetables, poultry, extensive dairy/
beef, plant protection, RRCs Garissa,
and Kisii (5.08-5.10)
10. Research on roots/tubers, potatoes, oil        September 30, 1988
seeds, cotton, range management, sheep/
goats, agricultural ngineering (5.08-5.10)
'1. Research on sugarcane, pyrethrum, pigs,        December 31, 1988
arid lands livestock, botany/germ-
plasm, rice, irrigation (5.08-5.10)
C. KARI ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Staffing
1.  Drafting/approval job descriptions (5.04)    December 31, 1987
2. Deployment external experts (5.21)              From December 31, 1987
3.  Appointment/transfer KARI staff (5.04)         July 1, 1988
4.  Approval new Scheme of Service (5.20)          Before March 31, 1988
Management and Resea-ch Committees
1.  KARI Board of Management (5.02)             ( Established
( and meet at
2.  KARI Board rinance and Administration       ( least 4 times/
Committee (2.08)                           ( year
3. KARI Board Science and Technical Committee(
(2.08)
4.  Commodity/Factor Committees (5.11)             December 31, 1987
5.  Specialist Committees (5.12)                   Before program
approval
6.  Research Center Committees (5.13)              December 31, 1987



- 118 -
ANNEX III
PaRe 3 of 7
Other
1. Engagement of consultants for improved
information system (4.14)                      September 30, 1987
2.  Special unit for donor coordination (3.20)   March 31, 1988
3.  Valuation/completion assets transfer            Before July 1, 1988
and submission balance sheet to IDA (4.12)
4.  (Re)assignment Center mandates (3.17)           July 1, 1988
5. Approval research program phasing by KARI
Board's Scientific and Technical Committee
(5.10)                                        July 1, 1988
6.  Introduction improved research/extension linkages          July 1, 1988
(5.29)
7.  Completion research station rationalization  June 30, 1989
(5.23)
D. TRAINING
1.  Initial briefing of KARI staff (5.18)           December 31, 1987
2.  In-country degree training program (para.  ( Annually
4.  Overseas degree training programs  (5.18,  ( starting
4.  In-service training programs         (5.19)  ( 1987
E.  M & E, REPORTING, SUPERVISION AND REVIEWS
1.  Introduction accounting systems (3.05)          July 1, 1988
2.  Introduction of reporting formats (5.07)        July 1, 1988
3.  Introduction M & E systems (5.15)               July 1, 1988
4.  Introduction donor coordination mechanisms   July 1, 1988
(5.34)
5.  Submission to donors of annual workplan/        Annually by
forward budget (5.33)                         Jan. 31
6.  Annual Research Conference (5.07)               Annually in May
7.  Joint-donor supervision (5.33)                  Annually in January/
February
8.  External Panel Review (5.17)                    1990 and 1993



- 119 -
ANNEX III
Page 4 of 7
9.  Mid-term GOKIJoint Donor Review (5.17)         By September 30, 1990
10. Project Completion Report (5.17)               By September 30, 1993
F. CONSTRUCTION AND EQUIPMENT
1.  Detailed design headquarters (3.04)            December 31, 1987
2.  Detailed designs RRCs (3.10)                   Simultaneous with
implementation of Bl, B8-11
3.  Detailed designs NRCs (3.11)
4. Equipment inventories/purchase for KARI,
RROs and NRCs



- 120 -                           ANNEX III
Pare 5 of 7
BAR CHART OPERATIONAL ACTION PLAN 1/
ACTIVITIES                   1986     1987     1988     1989    1990     1991    1992
_______  I*               1        1        1        1       i          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I.  ACTIVITIES COMPLETED            I        I        I        I        I        I
1. Preparation of NARP              1=                I        I        I        I
2. Joint donor evaluation           I  ===I           I                 I        I       I          I
3. Circulation of donor report      I        |        I         I       I        I       I          I
4. Establishment KARI Board         I      -I
S. KARI interim establishment       1      -   =
S. KARI Board approves NARP         I    -
7. Research coordinators selected   1        1=       J        I        I        I       I
8. Forward budget exercise          I   ---I-=    I            I       I        I
9. USAID appraisal                  I2 -       =                I       I        I       I          I
10.USAID effectiveness                       I                  I       I        I       I          I
II.  ACTIVITIES TO IMPLEMENT        I        I        I         I       I        I       I          I
A. Proposal Preparation and Design       I    j                 I       I                i
Donor appraisals                          I        g         I       I        I                  I
1. EEC                                       I===   I           I       I        I       I          1
2. IDA                              |        I==       III
3. Netherlands          1                    J      - =
4. ODA                                                I         I =--=
6. Others                           I        I--------- 1               I        I
System, program proposals 2/     I        I
1. Long-term training plans         I                        ==I      =I      =1      =1          =
2. Final procurement guldelines  |           1= -     -
3. Accounting systems               I        I== = =
4. Reporting formats                I        I  =I-             I - =
6. Monitoring and evaluation systemel        I  ====I==         1
8. Information systems              I         I-I--             I       I        I       I          I
7. Donor coordination mechanisms    I            - =                    I        I       I
8. Maize research                   I        I==5==  1          1       1        1       1          1
9. Animal Health research           I        I==    I           I       I        I       |          I
10.Datry research                   I        1-==    I         I        I        I       I          I
11. Regional research, Katumani     I        j = -
12. Regional research, Embu         I        I  __-__           I       I        I       I          I
13. Regional research, Kakamega     I        I  _       =               I        I       I          I
14. Wheat research                  1        1   =             I        I        I       I          I
16. Grain legumes research          I        I == =                     I        I J
16. Fodder/forage research          I        l                  I I
17. Soil and water managoment       1        l    =                     I l  l   l
18. Soil fertility/nutrition        I        I   ===            I       I        I       I          l
19. Regional research, Kitale       I               = _
20. Regional research, NJoro        I        I       -          I       I        I                  I
21. Regional research, Mtwapa       I        I    s c                            I l                I
22. Laboratory services             I        I    =s=
23. Sorghum/millet research         I        I   =
24. Fruits and vogetobles research  I        I        I = = _                    I       I          I
26. Poultry research                I        I   =2===          l       l        l       I          I
XJ Key:
Preparation (design, procurement)
Specific Action
Repeated Activity                   x  x
2/ For reaearch programs only the target dates for long-term proposal development are given.
Tho oequence is Indicative of priority ratings. The actual timing of implementation would
depend on available resources and capacity.



ANNEX III
-121-                           Page 6 of 7
ACTIVITIES                   1987      1988     1989     1990    1991     1992
-~~~~~~~~ =                         '         '''I"    I     I        I~    I
27. Extensive dairy and beef         I        I== =-
28. Plant protection                 I    2====-
29. Regional research, Garissa       I        I                 I==
30. Regional Research , Kisii l   I               _=-s=
31. Roots and Tubers                 j    =-=-2-
32. Potatoes                         I        I ====
33. Oilseeds                         I        I    __=
34. Cotton                           I         -_      I        I       I         I       I
36. Range management                 I                 I        I       I                 I
36, Sheep and Coats                  I    =  - =
37. Agricultural engineering         I        I _   _   =
38. Sugarcane                        I        I   3__=
39. Pyrothrum                        I        I   -       = -
40. Pigs                                               I ====-==
41. Livestock and Arid Lands         I        I      = - =
42. Agricultural botany, germplasm  I                           I _               i
43. Rice                                               I    -            I =  -
44. Irrigation                                                  I =               I
B. Organization and Management       I        I        I        I        I        l
Staffing
1. Job descriptions                  I I              I        I        I
2. Selection KARI Director/Dy. Dir. i                  I        I        I 
3. Appointment KARI mngt. staff      I   -             I        I        I        I       I
4. Briefing directors/coordinators  I   ==  I          I        I        I        I       I
S. Review staff availability/needs  I==II==
S. Appointment/transfer KARI staff  I         I =_     I        I        |
7. Inter-station transfer of staff  I         I =3
8. New scheme of service             I-I- IC
Management/Research Committees       I        I
1. Board meetings                      x x x  xlx x x x Ix x x x Ix x x xlx x x  xlx x x xi
2. Board Committee meetings          I       xlx x x x Ix x x x Ix x x xlx x x  xlx x x xI
3. Commodity or Factor meetings      I  ----xlx        I x      I x      I x      I x
S. Specialist Committee meetings    I  -_- xI       x I  x    I  x   I   x   I  x
S. Center Committee meetings         I  -----Ix        I x      I x      I x      I x
I        IIIIII
Other                                I        IIIII
1. Research program phasing          I     ------I
2. Completion assets transfer        I    ---i-- -
3. NRC mandate review/adjustment    I ____ _
4. Rationalization Research Stat.   I  ------           -  -  |
S. Donor coordination unit           I   ----I---== ---               - ==2=== ====-
8. Resoarch programming              I ---=- =I         ==I=====z====i               =I
7. Approval program phasing          I        IQ       I        I       I
8. New accounting systems            I    ---i---- =I=------ I - -=                  =
9. Budgetting                        I ------=====x ==x-=== ======-- --
10. Research supervision             I _--=      ===i==--     - x  =-=--==I =---= -  -
11. Program reporting                I ------x                      x       x        x
12. Center reporting                 I      ------ I       x x      x       x        x
13  KARI reporting                   i           x          x        xl      x       x
14. Publishing                       I        -- I======= ======== ==       CZ_  ===--
16  Audited accounts                 i                     x        x       x    i  x
16. Library Services                 I-----
17. Financial management              -------
18. Semiannual financial statements           I   x  xl    x  xl    x  ix   x   Ix   x
19. Forward budget                   I -  i =   =                      i==    I _
20. Approval establishmont                   =



- 122 -                         ANNEX III
Page 7 of 7
ACTIVITIES                    1987     1980     1989      1990    1991     1992
21. Annual budget                    I =3I ------I ---=
22. Center management systems        --------:   -                           =c =I----
23. Relations with MOA and MOLD       ----------            =     ====I==--==     I 2===I
24. Links with Kenyan extension       --                      ----- I----
26. Links with Kenyan Universities  IIla== =I=_    I= = ===k  I
26. Links with IARC-    -                                                          I =----
C. Training
1. Initial briefing of staff         I        1         1        I       I _
2. Kenya University degree training  --------
a. Foreion University degree trng.        ----I----===I=======            I
4. In-service training                  ---- -I ----c1-
D.  U A E. Reporting Supervision andl
Review                           l        I         I        l
1. Accounting, budgeting             I         -------==                                    I
2. Reporting                         -------- 
4. Donor coordination                I   ----I --==z=Iee===s   I =
3. Monitoring and evaluation         I   -          -
S. Annual workplan, forward budget  l          I
to donors                         1         Ix       Ix       Ix      Ix        Ix
S. Annual Research Conference             I   l x       I x         x    I x       I x     I
7. Jt. Donor Supervision             I         Ix       Ix       Ix      Ix        Ix      I
8. External panel review             I         I        I        I x                       I
9. Midterm OOK/Jt. donor review      I         I        I        I x    I          I       I
10. ProJect Completion Report        I         i        I        I       I         i          x
E.  Construction and Equipment       I         I        I        I        I        I
1. Headquarters                      l---I -------- I    =              I==-      I       l
2. Regional Centers                     -- -- I           _           I -__ =
B. National Centers                             --------I ____=          I
I  I     I        I       I         I       I
I        I        I        I        I        I       I
l   l        l         l       l        l        l~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX IV
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IDA DISBURSEMENTS



- 123 -
ANNEX IV
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ESTIMATED SUMMARY COSTS BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY AND YEAR
-(KP M)- ------------------                           X of
Expenditure Category                 87/88   80/89    8I990    90/91   91/92 Total   of Base Costs
A. Recurrent Costs
1. Salaries A Allowances             10.1    12.8    13.0    18.0   18.0    81.4            42.1
2. Transport and Other Travelling    1.6       1.8      1.8       1.8     1.6     7.9        6.4
3.  Other Operating Costs             2.6      3.1      3.4      3.6      8.6   16.0        11.0
Sub-Total Recurrent Costs        14.1     17.0     18.0    18.1   18.1   86.3           58.6
B. Investment Costs
1. Vehicles                           0.6      1.3      0.9      0.6     0.5      8.9        2.7
2. Equipment                          0.9      2.6      2.1      1.2      0.4     7.1        4.9
a. Civil Works                        1.6      6.0      8.9      2.9      0.4    17.7       12.1
4. Research Fund                      0.4      0.3      0.4      0.4      0.4     1.9        1.8
S. Tralnlng                           1.2      2.4      2.8      8,0      8.0    12.4        8.6
6. Technical Assistance               2.4      3.8      8.6      3.6      8.8   16.2        11.3
7.  Information System                0.2      0.3      0.2      0.1     0.2      1.0        0 7
Sub-Total Investments Costs       7.2    18.1    16.9       11.8     8.2   80.2            J
TOTAL BASE COSTS                 21.3    88.1    84.9    29.9   28.8   145.5           100.0
Physical Contingencies            1.1      1.7      1.7      1.6      1.8     7.8        5.0
Price Contingencies               0.9      4.2      7.8      8.6    10.0   80.9         21.2
TOTAL PROJECTS COSTS             23.8    39.0    43.9    89.9    87.6   183.7          128.2



ANNEX IV
SUMMARY TOTAL COStS OF PR0JECT (ID-1987 COtSIHT  PRICESI                                     -  124 -                                                           Tible  2
--------------------------------------------------- ------------------------2------------------------------------------
Itess                                             1997/88      19/1819      1909/9S     1993/91      ISSI/92       Tntal      Foiign        Local        Taxus        Total    For.       Local
Cost        Cost         Cost                    Cost      Cost       Cost
A. RECURRENT COSTS
SALARIES I OTHER STAFF COSTS:-
Personal Emalueents                              7,152,539   9,934,917   9,379,669   9,379,669   9,435,915  44,282,6                  1  44,282,69             I       55.4      3.3      55.4
Gratuity and Pensions Contributions               1,613,714   1,911,512   2,316,735   2,88,735   2,136,735   9,542,422                1   9,542,422            1       11.9      1.1      11.9
House Allowance                                    816,499      961,723   1,US,636   1,U9,636   1,U,636   4,9317,133                  3   4,817,131            l        6.3      3.1       6.3
Other Personal Allowaces                             18,336      21,715       21,826       23,826      23,826      131,528            1      13l,528           3        3.2      3.l       0.1
Medical Allowince                                  453,929      512,253      542,762      542,762     542,762   2,591,466             I   2,591,466            1        3.2      6.8       3.2
WSIIRTOtAL SAkARIES I OTHER STAFF COSTS            13,349,117  12,342,199  12,959,629  12,959,628  13,115,874  61,323,246               3  61,325,246             1      76.7       11.    76.7
TRANSPORT OPERATING & TRAVELLINS:                                                                                                     I            i           3'
Special AtcEov-ation Allovance                      57,125       58,526       59,312      59,112       39,112      292,686            3     292,686            3        1.4      8.1       3.4
Passaqe and Leave AllowianEe                       233,148      236,412      23,446      239,446      239,446   1,337,899             3   1,37,896             1          3      11.       1.3
Transport Operatin; Expenses                       794,563      813,9"       848,865     851,793      852,443   4,16,653   1,664,261   2,496,392        28,133         5.2      2.1       3.1
Travelling and Accoasodation                       362,124      379,179      395,308     397,313      398,523   1,932,329             3   1,932,328            1        2.4      31.       2.4
Externil Travel 6 Accommodation Expenses            126,994     126,994      126,994      126,994     126,994      634,971      634,978            o      31,749        3.8      Ol.8      3 
.fnSUBTOTAL IRANSPORT OPERATING & TRAVELLIN6         1,543,851   1,585,323   1,639,735   1,643,555   1,64,415   8,558,535   2,2W,231   5,759,3U4            239,781       13.1      2.9       7.2
OTHER OPERATIG EXPENSES.
Postal and Telegrams Expa  ses                       15,584      15,853       26,177       16,217      16,177       79,965       15,9S3      63,972        3,998        8.1 1     .3      131
Telephone Expenses                                 247,895      251,168      373,458      373,45s     373,458   1,619,436       647,774     971,662      161,944        2.6      3.8       1.2
O'ficial Entertaineent                               5,358        5,358        5,350       5,358        5,358       26,793        5,358      21,432            a        III 1     .8       .11
Cost of Conferences and Seminars                     17,63       17,63        17,633       17,60       17,633       89,33        44,333      44,331            1        8.1      3.1       3.1
Electricity, Water and Conservancy                 315,729      329,322      34,683      344,683      344,683   1,678,083       419,713   1,259,13       267,983        221      3.5       1.6
Raintenante of luildings                             12,351     123,675      341,755     281,151      292,519      938,43             i     938,439            3        1.2      B 8       1.2
Maintenance of Plant and Equipment                 383,753      492,363      494,485     532,285      523,145   2,393,925   1,677,149       712,778            3        3.1      2.1       0.9
Purchase of Drugs, Sera and Vaccines                136,352     133,699    124,986        143,981      143,986     699,337      139,6N1     553,436            a        8.9      8.2       3.7
Purchase of Experi,ental Animals                    112,271      69,587       63,412       68,412      68,412      377,393      331,676      75,419            3        3.5      0,4       1.1
Fare Inputs                                        325,182      332,991      347,156     347,356      347,356   1,69,343   1,319,614        679,736            5        2.1      1.3      03.
Trainiog                                            117,645     352,935      352,935     352,935      352,935   1,529,385       152,939   1,376,447            1        1.9      3.2       1.7
Purchase of Laboratory Stores                       158,885     156,273      162,927      161,927     261,927      792,939            1     792,939       39,647        1.3      3.3       1.5
Purchase of Food and Rations                         31,764      33,U8        34,383       34,393      34,383      167,96       13,776       67,184            4        3.2      3.1       3.1
Publishing and Printing Expenses                     59,953      39,95i       59,951       59,95B      5S9,53      299,733       59,933     239,833       14,98        3.4      3.1       3.3
Purchase of Uniform  and Clothing                   73,924       75,164       77,793       77,793      77,793      382,365      191,183      191,183      19,119        8.5      8.2       3.2
Library Expenses                                    135,472     136,252      137,363      107,363     137,363      532,935      266,452     266,452       53,2"         8.7      e.3       1.3
Purchase of Stationery                              58,722       63,812       62,387      62,387       62,387      336,694            B     336,64        15,335        8.4      3.        0.4
Advertising and Publicity                            23,651      24,233       24,233       24,211      24,233      122,451            3      122,458           3        3.2      0.3       3.2
Show Enpenses                                         3,393       3,439        3,378        3,318       3,378       16,965            0       16,965           3        8.31               3.3
Rents & Rates - Residential                          13,963      14,553       15,281       15,201      15,281       74,237            3      74,257        3,713        3.1      3.3       3.1
Rents & Rates - Woo-Residential                     53,468      182,771      182,771      192,771     282,771      784,542            O     784,542            1        111      3.3       1.3
Contracted Professional Charges                       2,751       2,751        2,753        2,753       2,753       13,753       21,33        2,751        2,751        3.3      3.8       8.3
Computer Charges                                     44,576      44,576       44,576      44,576       44,576      222,091       44,576     178,334            a        8.3      .1 1       .2
Miscellaneous and Other Charges                     156,354     161,463      264,637      164,637     164,617      811,633       81,164     733,474      485,819        1.3      3.1       3.9
Insurance Cover and Road Tax                         9,032       12,975       17,713      17,703       17,739       74,135       14,827      59,338            e        3.1      1.9       8.1
Fees, Comissionis and Honoraria                       5,522      76,214       81,574       01,574      81,574      326,457      133,583      195,874           31       8.4      3.2       *.2
aoSOBTOTAL OTHER OPERATING EIPENSES                 2,471,929   3,148,683   3,443,251   3,4SI,445   3,512,563  16,358,969   5,324,334  13,734,565           888,482       28.1       6.7     13.4
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                           14,364,797  17,366,791  19,142,502  18,193,627  18,174,852  85,442,649   7,623,535  77,819,114   1,128,263            136.8      9.5      97.3
8. INYESTMENT COSIS:
VEHICLES:
Trucks                                              165,333     137,533       33,33        43,3n             S     397,531      357,753      39,753            3!        .5      3.4       8.3
4 ND                                               324,333   1,377,251       737,5P      553,33       489,253   3,183,311    2,864,781      318,333           13        4.1      3.6       1.4
Motorhikes                                          64,343       62,233       38,833      1,561        4,40       172,138      154,872       17,288           1        1.2      1.2       8.S
Minibuses                                            16,33       16,533       33,3         16,5U            3       82,511       74,253       8,25s            a        3.1      3.1       8.3
###SUBTDTAL VEHICLES                                   569,543   1,293,530      956,3"       622,363     493,653   3,835,189   3,451,572        383,518           O        4.8       4.3      3.5
#01SUITOTAL FURNITURE & EUIPMENT                       894,962   2,535,282   2,133,I9    1,195,764       361,878   7,391,984   4,963,689   2,127,295        739,998        8.9      6.2       2.7
"ISIIRTOTAL CONSTRUCIION                             1,497,281   5,936,539   6,799,167   2,893,718       443,961  17,573,625   3,514,125  14,356,531    1,757,862         22.3      4.4      17.6
CCSUBT0TNL RESEARCH FUND                              347,813      353,133      39M,3NI      418,333     419,311    1,924,833      577,233   1,346,833            I        2.4      1.7       1.7
TRAINING II TECHNICAL ASSISTAIICE.                                                                                                    I           I            I!
Training                                         1,156,393   2,453,331   2,818,138    2,936,333   2,866,333  12,196,33!   0,537,23    3,658,833                8       15.2     13.7      4.6
Technical Assistance                             2,443,333   3,318,233   3,476,73    3,534,303   3,331,733  16,377,911  14,47B,111   1,637,793                 a       28.1     18.1       2.3
f*wSURTOTAL TRAININ6 I TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE         3,59,3[8   5,768,210   6,294,701   6,444,3311  6,67,733  28,273,911 23,337,311   5,266,593                    3!    35.3       28.8       6.6
eCtSUITOTAL RESEARCH INFORHATION SYSTEM                195,833     326,1U3      287,711     384,333      279,533   1,393,333       975,310     417,998            1        1.7      1.2       I.5
*aCSUBTOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                        7,133,483  16,289,521  26,731,365  21,878,132   9,165,689  63,187,888  36,49,236  23,59B,683   2,466,161              75.1     45.6      29.5
3           8            9'
TOTAL COStS                                     21,168,279  33,276,312  34,773,647  29,971,759  26,343,543 145,531,538  44,112,74U  131,417,797   3,594,424            81.9     M5I    126.8
PHYSICAL COItINGENCIES                           1,858,414   1,663,816   1,738,682   1,498,588   1,317,127   7,216,527   2,235,637   5,371,898           179,721        9.1      2.8      6.3
PRICE COUTIISENCIES                                009,160   4,192,915   7,312,466   8,496,994   9,956,724  31,830,967   9,347,534  21,493,533           76t,662       12.8      3.9      8.9
TOTAL PRVJECT COSTS                             23,115,761  39,132,943  43,914,796  39,967,343  37,614,291 283,645,131  55,665,911 127,979,223   4,535,837           2t3.8      61.8    142.1
.=  . ..:::::  .............. =s.s...:n          tt



A2NNEX IV
S361  06419f CM$1 OF PWOECI (18-                iladdOagl PkaCal A Nice CdOaIa.4-  75 
A. FCI17EA  cosTs
SALAMIS6 6 2197R 61FF COSTS:
Porson4l  olosusts                          1,81,5n  16,347,4811 4,668,23 12,1187,781` i3,474,487  56,418,62              6          6           I          8          8           8 56,7611,9,8          56  718,682  56,118.02
5rfalt~y v4d F,rs,ans coat,:4.tioA          7j,7988   2,241,926  2,52,186  2,673,46   2,86,611  42,V676,12                8          8           8 I  I           I                  4 82,V67,912        8 72,876,447  72,674,372
Kot  AlIo,ame                                 83,677  1,131,186  1,212,141  1,346,386  1,441,176   6,112,854              6          8          8           8          8             6,112,124           6 6,112,154   6,112,854
At9Pr Pers,1,a  All7iaate                      28,823     24,368     21,241      27,111     29,739      121,134                                                                         in  I88  2, 134  8    128,134      121,134
4#01(al 477A.a,ce                             482,413    WA,48    613,886    723,71        772,863   3,217,34             I          I           A          It         I          8  3,271,534           6  3,277,533    3,277,529
616SMOA174  SAMIES6  $ ~'TKE6 STAFF C0STS     18,971,527 14,513,132 46,329,134 17,284,864 18,516,684  11,864, In             I          8           I          I          I           S 77,684,122          6 77,684,122  77,M4,22
'R6k37061 AFAIA4F 1 G&1RTAVEL,ItNS,
SrnvIi  Ar:otodatmo  AllIauc#                  62,281     68,826      74,33      78,692     84,269     368,523       61,41      14,213      37,33      28,111     31,599     24,914           8    171,591    176,541      168,123
Fjssjg1 VA'  Leiav  AIoaict                   221,081    242,74,    263,M6    219,246    294,169   1,316,646        194,863     43,365    18,171    179,1186    13,1,96    115,639            8    542,341    542,541   1,316,866
Irpipo&  '7riI4  4ptAtia   4Poe              07,633    47, 243  1,149,571  1,134,528  1,217,244   5,244,384        632,73      218,862    1)4,671    541,518    408,441    447,621           8  2,198, 421  2,748,427   3,246,144
triwil,9 andA AccoaaolitiAf                   393,331    443,797    498,184    524,817    569A4    2,438,223        276,991    111,18      3935,644    3116,973    28,86    155,685           6    993,614    443,619   2,438,22
E.t?'00  1',,ul & kroaditt,op E,pe~Ast        138,677    149,345    168,812    16,346    181,341       78, 729 ' 148,278        56,372      69,213     57,853     58,973      49,278          8    367,261    367,261      748,724
fs,Subttlk6 '8685706  7P46T190 6 I8AVELLINI  1,605,88   1,863,4171  2,1666,82   2,191,608  2,331,01  11,15,643 '1,876,862    372,534  1,28,425    894,351    747,326    612,593                 8  3,529,373   ,39,"313  11,151,645
3t$Et OPEAlT1WS E79P651,
PotAal aad leiAqruai E,pinm                    17,118     18,64       28,383     21,572     23,181      111,713      11,324      9,217      3,352       7,836     18,928      3,849                 44,183      9,783      386,713
fle79p1,-A  1tpelse                           2718,7181   93,314    478,337   468,1116   333,238   2,867,933        34,482    13,696    2,1,67   2336,812         67,526     51,669           8    447,8813   947,883   2,861,433'
3fAi,r,7 i,te.7,,n,At                           5,821      6,381      6,134       7,745      1,657      33,684        5,65       1,626      2,749       2,29       2,858      2,214           6     15,389     15,384       73,499
'Ost ol (o,'4trenrI. mld Sosift4rA             19,219      8, 648     22,176     23,438     25,433     116,645       33,289     16,484           I          I          8           I          8     68,882     68,8812    7%46,4
Electl'cit), later so# Constrym~y             344,176    786,938    434,3111   439,635    492,281   2,117,848       277,936     36,781    233,437    271,814    267,328    134,447            6    938,382    938,385   2,717,848
Maneanet  lo,746,0                       13.406    147,914    384,671    214,974    413,422   1,238,341'   169,238       320,67    156,739      54,361    134,885    776,914           a    531,341    531,341   I,?38,247~
kairltonnct of 'lint &i' Ejulpsoct            473,83     379,815    623,851    663,797    746,M9   3,03,1,21        SU6, 14     12,164    448,751    423,633    311,877    278,744            6  1,29,735  1,21,732   3,837,823
P.104CrI    0t 0rmqi, Sets and VAEEcn,n       140,84     763,784    1711,642    188,115    284,328     878,979       55,495     17,497    7218,76    17,51,31    186,771    44,644            8    383,119    38,779       970,979
pu'cIii, of 1,pe'iIgMti7  Aniul4s             111,608     81,1134     86,1I"     91,22      97,693     468,635 '      721,13     4,386      68,568     93,321     68,642       8,324          8    2M,386    286,386       468,638
Fare 7,p,t,                                   352,893"   341,598    427,298    462,79"    415,51    2,142,381     274,989       59,633    799,768    722,244    367,479    181,942            8    996,433    996,433   2,142,318
I-atolpo                          i~~~~~~28,468    443,852    444,499    478,639    583,91   1,%62,848     518,854    294,427        8                      8          6          6  7,819,566  7,879,566   1,962,848
T'c aseo  LdaCnlto, Stores               164,161    183,7717   284,828    215,938    237,232       999,733 '     5,117      26,576    748,338    199,829     91,222      83,998          8     3,6 393,      388'u    999,733
puV,,ato 44 rood 4 U Raflon                    34,686     36,863      42,323     43,549     49,698     211,821'       1,769          I      28,392     67,737          8      42,94           8     84,728     84,728      211,827
P.,87,,6,,q and Pn,,t,ng E.opittl              65,465     18,541      12,537     79,943     82,869     371,46       784,875     57,08        3,184          8      8,283           I          8    286,86     286,862      377,I3
Firthis9 of O,'forns i'd Clothr'g              88,676     88,392      48,879    183,7YU    11,110       481,111      66,98      48,476      47,312    58,331      43,843      45,883          8    28,784    286,74        487,0114
L,lrvy E.pipsts                               113,172    124,922    134,896    142,705    452,8812     678,676     142,694      66,259      21,888     48,8609    74,4        33,692          6    3,91 336'M S,931        6781,67
Purrhisi of Sltit,war,                         64,124     11,314      78,668     83,493     89,889     386,228       63,413     23,174      37,38      31,157     28,352      37,671               1717,484    171,489     396,52
Ad1e~1t,,ejAG A  Poll,t,tv                     23,026     28,424      38,492     32,277     34,558      157,685      42,713     28,761       7,731          8      2,713           S          I     83,625     82,622      434,611
Snoa Empansas                                   3,76       4,844       4,256      4,514      4,821      21,332        2,313        484       1,249      3,782      7,383      7,988           8      9,863      3,68        21,332
$rots I Rates -" ie rti,,l,,                   75,73       17,114     49,224     28,377     21,822      93,783 '                     6       9,378     28,774          8      t1,741          6     27,487     31,481       92,7m
8,t,t  I k1ites  hOW-1ideanttAl                56,378    244,938    238,244    243,124    26894    1,88,3228        382,498    434,249           6          8     I    A           8          8    334,588    534,581   1,=832
Co9iCtract   Prnitn,,oo.1  Charles              3,63       3,234       3,465      3,667      2,927      17,296        -          2,594           8          8          6           8          8      4,313      9,543       17,296
Coslate' C9ar9tA                               48,677     52,421      56,186     39,442     43,65      2861,361                 28,565      26,686     19,476     16,184      73,837          8    732,333    132,133      810,367'
9nRielian,o,, lA,, Othmn Charles            778,739    784,83    281442    273,564    233,859   4,32,6'*    13i,  -           5,847    127,154    712,194       94,584     86,194           S    437,4781   431,478   1,82,586I
Io,,riRne, (Oyer and bid Tit                    8,171     73,228     22,314      23,615     25,289      1,247'    16,66          4,381      8,823      47,9142     8,88       1,971           6     41,723     41,723       95,247'
Fee, Coa,,,sr,no Ind Honoraria                  6,38      88,627    712,M8      13,719    776,487      423,786 '   7,172         3,375           a          I          8    416,361           8    474,858    114,83       423,716
,S687oA141  01668 O76867111 119642             2,899,347  3,693,443  4,338,494  4,654,568  5,8151,9481 21,481,71'i m o 3,, 12  ,788,648  4,972,832  7.,428,11  1,434,725  12,216,86              I9,316,463  9,316,465  28,411,737'
TOTAL. RECURRENT COSTS                     15,358,758 28,081,546 22,73,623 24,727,11  25,952,684 48a,24,9  '4,311,64    4,56,8   3,132,567  2,827,659  2,463,467  7,843,63  77,644,132 70,933,778 98,619,90  7111,244,498
8. I861S79E8T COSTS!
Trat Vs                                       188,18  1761,781       69,388      33,344          8     464,521      157,842     86,763     31,268      44,223    711,466      72,115          8     12,235    12,85        464,528
4 88                                          323,88   7,266,8146    929,256    748,833    698,649   2,311,446 '1,148,224    454,011  4,855,773    738,267    921,41        288,643           I     67,343     47,52   3,398,46
Kotarbikn                                      69,932     T3,247     38,38       74,812      6,28      9W,34         81,824     47,847      24,52      46,839     34,373      79,143          8      8,796      8,796      262,34
gioikvses                          10~~~~7,818  19,864    4t,$N      22,113          6      Into3   '    6,461      78,786      18,481     32,322      4,848      28,287          6          8t          6     461,66
"fM1TOTAL. VEH7ICLE3                             627,438  4,52t1,97  1,478,938    82,517    784,9323   4,7836,54  7,9127          3655,349  1,4129,786    242,844  1,677,83     268,842          I     84,793     84,192   4,756,516
#4,3780T8,. F773A1TUM  6 18677181                417,484  2,987,442  2,4.2M9  4,544,991    316,762   8,721,622   2,444,32   4,119,334  7,267,343  4,257,727  7,683446    723,487                      2331,233    237,225   9,728,123
an,50847184. CON5797J61701                     7,633,133   6,9841,333 ,56,5   3,118,15        633,972  21,676,1858 '6,967,813    273,786  6,841,243  2,446,10   4,138,772             8          S  2,515,821  3,343,821  21,676,1161
a.110810141 8151tA3  1t7O8                       378,924    441,688    491,4188    561,483    598,332   2,437,639 '          82,437,659             3          8          I           a          I          8           6   2,437,424
T.a,uTj                                     7,262,333  2,814,286  3,351,688  3,815,481  4.0,89,4   75,662,1314    288,678 14,922,817  7,779,822    738,78              8  7,484,415           8          8            153,662,834'
lichoocal kinistanra                        2,667,7)6  3,962,283  4,3811,642  4,778,333  4,114,8281 28,383,73       1 22,924  7,298,265  3,362,237  79,6)2,296,188  5,252,595                 I                I       21,383,72'
4NOIAD011 T8678188 & Y1614I467 ASSISTANC    3,438,186  6,783,443  1,931,32   8,383,474  8,861,476  36,645,767          418,992 1461,14,42  3,614,259  2,217,177  2,256,7M   6,7314,678           I          8           8  36,84,71
*Ae5881DtIA  8151091  18703T6778  5381N          273,874    383,376    362,58      485,184    399,726   1,764,66  '   5292        U2,3111    329,38            8          I           8          I          8           6   1,764,682
*404SUSTO1A4  789151114  Costs                 7,757,95  19,862,391 21,341,142 78,139,43771,668,102  73,4111633 '43,544,64  24,158,785 74,84,934  6,363,38   4,669,979  7,123,333                8  2,842,249 2,1842,249  73,4116,633
18191. 6851                                22,7115,767 39,732,943 43,814,796 33,97,348 37,674,291 1182,645,134  '17,764,738 25,722,467 77,787,587  9,418,941  9,13,446  9,517,993 117,664,422 1,73,16,27 92,462,1493183^65131'
P970766  C0217918t671
30160. 7806163 6055                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(79ID-1987  W039TAXT  PRC



-126                                                       ANNEX IV
SUIMARt COStS Of KARJ HEADQUARTERS (NID-1987 CONSTANT PRICES)                                                                                Table  3
Items                                           1987188    t1988/9    1989/9S     193/91    1991/92          Total       Foreign       Local        Taxes   'Total  For.  Local
Cost        Cost         Cost                   Cost  Cost   Cost
--                                                                       -K  POUNDS              ------------------------ ------------PUNS-------------------------- -S-----    ---- -  l  ---
A. RECURRENT S09STS
SALARIES & OTHER STAFF COSTSi
Personal Esoluaents                              311,131    435,798    475,933    475,833    475,833   2,173,429                 8   2,173,429            0    2.7   3.9    2,7
Gratuity and Pensions Contributions               43,653      53,925      56,621      56,b21      56,621      267,441            t     267,441             '   5.3   1.0    5.3
House Allowance                                   27,385      33,829      35,520      35,52       35,525      167,773            8      161,773            '   9.2   3.8    t.2
Other Personal Allowances                           1,886      2,231       2,343       2,343       2,343       11,365            1       11,365           3    3.1 1.0        . 5
Medical Allowatnce                                12,283      14,458      14,451      14,453      14,453       73,183            8       70,583           i    1.1  13.      1.1
-*SULTOTAL SALARIES & OTHER STAFF COSTS             395,259    548,232    584,767    584,767    584,767   2,689,791                 1   2,689,791             '   3.4   3.8    3.4
TRANSPORT OPERATING ts TRAVELLINS:
Spetial Accommodation Allovance                    2,758       2,755       2,753       2,755       2,751       13,751            9       13,751            '   9.9   3.5 5t    5
Passage and Leave Allovance                        5,627       5,627       5,627       5,627       5,627       28,133            8       28,133           8    I.9   3.5    3II
Transport Operating Expenses                      59,353      52,553      55,179      55,179      55,179      268,145      187,256      165,884     13,417    1.3   5.1 1     .2
Travelling and Accommodation                      28,959      29,453      38,925      35,925      39,925      158,279            a     158,279            8    9.2    8      5 8.2
External Travel & Accomsodation Expenses          34,926      34,926      34,826      34,826      34,826      174,131      174,131            1      8,717    8 2   8.2    8.t
ma,SUBTOTAL TRANSPORT OPERATING & TRAYELLING         121,353    125,218    129,317    129,387    129,387         634,432      281,386     353,045      22,114    I9    8.4    5.4
OTHER OPERATINS EIPENSES:
Postal and Telegrams Expenses                      4,498       4,455       4,455       4,458       4,489       22,18i        4,450       17,653       1,109    9.5   3.9    3.3
Telephone Expenses                               137,553    137,508    137,555    137,515    137,555          687,551      275,588     412,519      68,750     .9   1.3    t.5
Official Entertainment                               558         559         558         558         553        2,759          558       2,208                 5.5 11 .3    9.8
Cost of Conferences and Seminars                  17,688      17,688      17,689      17,650      17,60e       88,380       44,090      44,805            t    901   1.1    9,1
Electricity, Mater and Conrsevancy                11,55       11,595      11,llt      11,586      11,558       55,918       13,758       41,255      5,555    8.1   51.      5.1
Maintenance of Building                                 I           t          a           8 0                      8                                          8.5 I   .5    5.5
Maintenance of Plant and Equipment                      a           1          a           5           I            1                                          *.5 I   .0    5,I
Purchase of Drugs, Sera and Vaccines                    5           I          a           a           a            0            5            a           1'   5.5   3.3    8.9
Purchase of Experiaental Animals                        0          1           0           a           1            I            8            a           a    8.08.8   Ie'D
Far  Inputs                                             e           0          a           0           8            8      0           a         0 Ia 8.9    55               .'
Training                                          117,645    352,935    352,935    352,935    352,935   1,529,385          152,939   1,376,447             '   1.9   5.2    :.7
Purchase of Laboratory Stores                           e                      aea                     a            a 0  0  i                                  8I.    9.8    3.,
Purchase of Food and Rations                            0          e           a           I           a            I            I            I 8           8.8   1.1    1.1
Publishing and Printing Expenses                  55,58       55,538      55,085      55,508      .5,108      275,308       5 ,688    2n,801         13,75O     ,.3   5.1    5.3
Purchase of Uniforms and Clothing                  4,458       4,435       4,410       4,45t       4,488       22,905       11,855       11,985       1,185    3.5   5.3    0.8
Library Expenses                                  65,565      65,565      65,965      65,565      65,965      325,325      1s2,663      162,66       32,533    8.4   1.2    8.2
Purchase of Stationery                            13,755      13,755      13,759      13,755      13,755       68,759            8      68,758       3,48    8 .1   8.0    5.1
Advertising and Publicity                         22,859      22,595      22,095      22,585      22,059      119,953            8      11,5881            '   8.1   5.8    8.1
Show Expepses                                           I          8           5           8           a            a            a            I           a    8.9   9.5    5.9
Rents & Rates - Res:dential                             a           I          I           e           I            a                                       ' 1  0    8.1   9.5    Ile
Rents & Rates - Mon-Residential                   53,469    182,771    182,771    182,771    182,771          784,542            e     784,542             '   1.3   3.1    1.5I
Contracted Professional Charges                    2,758       2,755       2,755       2,758       2,759       13,751       11,588       2,750       2,755    5.0   9.9    1.0
Computer Charges                                  14,465      14,465      14,465      14,465      14,465       72,325       14,4t5      57,8968                1.1   5.5    9.1
Miscellaneous and Otter Charges                   24,365      24,365      24,365      24,365      24,365      '21,025       12,183     159,643      60,913   18.2   9.9    a.1
Insurance Cove- and Road lax                         889         119         999         990         995       3,9s0           7'2       3,169           e    8,5   0.5    5.5
Fees, Coomissions and Honoraria                    5,522       5,522       5,522       .,522       5,522       27,610        5,522       22,898           8    5.1   8,5    9.3
#saSUIToTAL OTHER OPERATINS EIPENSES                551,352    91,103    915,8h3    915,063    915,863   4,259,722           163,263   ;,446,468    189,833    5.3   :.j    4.3
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                          1,866,913  1,579,622  1,629,136  1,629,136  1,629,131    7,533,945   1,844,649   6,489,296    211,946    9.4   1.3    8.1
8. INVESTMENT COSTS:
VEHICLES:
Trucks                                                  8          1      27,599           5           1       21,500       24,758        2,758           0    8.5   5. 0    DJ.
4 MD                                              96,258      96,255    115,508       19,259           0      327,259     294,525       32,725            0    5.4   e.4    9.5
Motorbikes                                              I           I          I           a           I            a            0            0           0 5  .I   Ile       .51
Minibuses                                               I           9     16,553           a           a       16,559       14,853        1,653           a    9.3   5.9    5.8
*##SUBTOTAL YENlCLES                                  96,259     96,255    159,598       19,255           5      371,250      334,125       37,125           8 I .5   8.4    5.5
tt#SUBTOTAL FURNITURE & EOUIPMENT                          a           1     19,808    285,788    184,259        489,839      342,881      146,949     48,98      8.6   1.4    1.:
*f4SU8TOTAL CONSTRUJCTION                                  5    254,955    431,291    431,285             9   1,116,480       223,2el     893,128    446,568    1.4   9.3    1.1
HaSIUBTOTAL RESEARCH FUND                           347,18i    350,818    398,555    418,518    419,808    1,924,355          577,280   1,346,858    192,480    2.4   3.7    1.7
TRAINING I TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:
Training                                         976,915   2,258,990  2,618,595  2,706,199  2,666,908  11,216,359   7,851,251   3,364,888                 0   14.5   9.8    4.2
Technical Assistance                             597,585     972,288  1,139,750  1,192,318    955,708   4,647,950   4,363,!11          484,79e           8    6.1   5.5    t.6
###SUBTOTAL TRAINING & TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE    1,573,319  3,222,235  3,748,718  3,849,380  3,621,719  16,806,905  12,214,315   3,949,598                     8 1 25.1  15.3    4,8
*#,SUBTOTAL RESEARCH INFORMATION SYSTEM              195,858    326,808     287,750    354,388    274,5I8   1,393,355         975,318     417,Q98            O    1.'   1.2    5.5
SIJ8?OTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                     2,212,155   4,248,455  5,136,955  5,356,038  4,554,458  21,358,688  !4,667,186   6,691,5'4    687,94!   26,   :8.3    6.4
TOTAL COSTS                                    ',278,963  5,829,572  6,666,536  6,985,966  6,133,58t  28,89.,625  15,7:1,755  l3,:89,81            899,E89 '36.1  19.6   1S.5
=::=w=::::::::::::S:::::::::::S:S::  _S:::::S         ::::::::::::::=:: ::  2:==::::::::::::  :::-:::::-:-=                                         =:::::::: 



ANNEX IV
SUMMlARY COSTS OF VARI 4EADQUARTERS                                     -  127                                                 PTable  3
Itetns
IDA          AID          EEC       ODA        NETH      OTHERS       60iWR)      80KID)       GOW1T)         TOTAL
--                                             ------ -----------------F I N A N C I N 6-- ----------K POUlmoS-                ----------------------------------------------
A, RECURRENT C9STS
SALARIES I DCHER STAFF COSTS:
Personal Emoluments                                       e             a            a         t           O           8  2,173249              o  2,173,429   2,173,429'
Gratuity ard Oers:ons Contributions                                                                                    I 0  e  S  o  I    2.7,441  e    207,441     267,441
House Alowance                                            2             e            e         a           Q           a     I671713            0     167,173       16',713
Other Persona, Allowances                                 Q             0            e         a a                     e                        a       11,86.       :1,865
Medical Allowalce                                         I             a            a         a           a           a      78,t83            8      78,883         706,8!
v#4SU980lAL SALAL!ES t OT4ER S-AFf  COSTS                     a                              0 a   G          e               2,a q89791            0  2,689,791   2,6899,2
TRAWISPORT OPERATING & TkAVEL.lNS:
Special Actomaoda:lor Alloiance                       4,125         2,063            B         B           B           a            a e      ,563        7,563        ;3175D
assage and Leave A'lowante                          e,448         4,220             e         B           0           a            a      15,473       15,473       28,133
Transport Operati.g Expenses                         80,442       48,221             a         8           I           a            a    147,477       147,477      268,140
Tra%ellirg ani Accommodation                        45,584        22,542             B         P           e                        a      82o653      82,653       158,279
E,terna: Travel & 4C.onadation E.penses             S2,139        76,120             B         B                       I            e      ;5',72      95,772       174.1 Q
*f.Sl'9TAL TR4NSPORT 8PERATIN6 ' TRAVELbING            198,329        05,165            0          0                       3           e    348,937       348,9-7       634,43:
O7HER OPE;ATIN6 EXPENSES:
Postal and Teleg.ats Expenses                         6,600         330              8         a           B e                      o      12,IB        12,130       22,08
Telephone Exu,enses                                286,258       103,12;             o         o           B           0            8    378,e25      378,12'       68',500
Of4icial E7tertaincet                                  825           413                      e 0                                  t       1,513        1,512        2,750
Ccst of Con4erences arn  Sem:nars                    26,480        13,208                      0 e         e                        8      484 0        48,48e       89,00Q
Electricity, #ate, ind Conservan:y                   16,50          8,250            8         e           B 0         o            e      7,25D        38,25e       55,88 
Malitenance it Buliting                                   I             I                      0 Re                    o0                          E                       a 
Mair  riancen4 ofant and Eqvipeent                        B             e                       0 e0                                a o          0           o             e
Purtbase of Drugs, Sera and vacc:nes                      Q             e            e         Q           P           e            e            0           0             0
Pu-cnase Do  Eyperile0aal An:edas                         ?             ?            0         8                       e            B            0           0             0
Fare rquts                                                                                                                                                   I 8 a  Q      0
iralirn.g                                          458,216       229,488                                    0 B  a     a            e    841,162      941,14      1,v29,1395
Purhase of Latoratory Stores                              B             B            e         L           e           e            e           e            o             e
urchase 04  Food and kations                              8             8            8         8           8           B            B           0            0             e
Publish!nq aid   rinting Expenses                    82,580       4i,258             8                     e                               51,25    250        :r's,aoa
PUrchiase of jn;forts ard Clothing                    6,680        3,38              B         e           a           8            8      12,180       12,138       22o,80
Library Expenses                                     97,592       489f,7             8         B           e           o            0      18,929     1781K,2 q25,t25
Purchase 0  Statioinery                              28,625       13,3:3             8                     0           0                    7,813      37,e1:        63,75e
Advertising ane Publi:ity                           33,e88         :6,58                                                                   68,588      68.580       310,888
Show Elpepses                                             Q             e            e         D           e                        0                        e
Rerets S Rates -  esicent.al                              e             e            0         0           e           B            e           8            e             I
Reits 1 Rates - Ncn-Res,deitia1                    225,367       117.68e                                                           0 B   431,498    4-14,0          794,54:
Cortracted P5oiessaral 'barges                        4,1-5 2S?                      8         8 e        e                                7J63       lY62          :3,750
CPoputer Char-es                                    21,6          iE,840             8                    9 a          8            8 a9,779           3C,'7 9  7r,2-
Miscel'a'eous all Ott.e, Char;es                     3b,5l8       18,'14             8         8           e           e            e      67,B04      67,oe4       11,82
Irs4rance C,,er aid hoad Tax                          1,1B8           594           8          0          e            B            0       2,178       2,178         7,9q6
fees, CorRss313rs ard Non'caria                       8,282         4,142                                              I                   15,186 t15,16               7,,,'A
*nSUEJTCTAL )THER 9FEPA:N5 EPE6SES                   1,262,17        631,4-58                                 0            0 P  o2e ,5,347    ,31,3U    4 ,209,'21
TOTAL RECURRENT 29O  S                           1,4f3,246       726,623             8         0                       1  2,689,19     2,ts4,234  5,354,B76   ',573,985
8. !NYEETMENt rrS75S
VEHICLES:
TrLCks                                              1b,590         8,258        2,75a          a           0           8            8           e            e       Y,588
4 OD                                               1C6,352        98,175       32,725          0          B            I            8           I            8      '27,29 '
lotcrb. es                                                8             I            a         0          a            a            e           8            i             0
Minibuses                                             y,98e         1,950       1,658          8           I           I            I           e            8       16,5e2
'*#SL'8TOTAL VE"IELES                                  222,750       :11,35       3.125            B          a            8           8            0            a      3312Q
*fSUf8T!OAL rnUNITU.E & EOU'PlENT                      293,898       146,949      40,993           8          8            0 a                      0            e     489,830
*#S.1BT07A. C0NSTlLCCN                               893,128      0                                           8 Q  8     8           a    223,280       232        1,Hc.,408
**#SUBTOTAL PESEARCH F!4D                                     8   2,924,818             e          B          a            I           8            Q            a   1,924,088
TRAINING A TECHNICAL ASSI1TAN5Y:
Trd;a,nn                                           224,328   8,9'2,E80  i,.2!,698              B          3    B97,282              e           8            B  il,26,880
T?eCnlua1 Assistance                                9s,958   4,551,826               0         a           S    19.,916             a           a            0   4,G47,01?
#*,S'JET3TA! TRA1I4NG & TECHNICAL ASSISTAC E           3212 2      ,529,86   1,121,608             t          0 B1,91,196              a            a            0  1680
*#-SLBTCTAL RESEARCH INWORNATI:  SYS'E1                27p,4,60     bs9,658      417,990           8          B            a           I            o            8   1,392,38
SU8TO'TA  I' 4ESTIENT COS'S                      .,0889,7b   16,488,888  1,6251698             B          8  1,9:,lQt6              O    2;23,28C    :23,28  21,35e,680
TO7AL COSTS                                      3,46.2,52  17,!35,423  1,625, 698             0          e  1,891,19   2,689,791   2,897,564  15,7',356  28,9o2,62!
-:z:s:;n..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r: a::  ~~::~ 



* --     44.-C Zn,-,  --04,00-  00.4-   0000-00-000000-000c4                         0.400000   04444440  .0  04
*    *   n--   0=  000000              00000   00  00    :0   000  0  0..              0    004-40  0000   4-4 .04
'-s :...
,                                                                                                              4
- .q   *        000000  0 -             000000C440040000000000000000.00-    ..4400.-.0.---0  0000  4-4 -s
-      OO00 000000                     000   00000  00000.0   000
NO                                                                                          00  000 00  0 04
00
4                                                                                                                   U
44.44-co n.c--..-.-r.  0=0 o-..--or. oooo-o-.ooo-,.Oo-0o.oe..    -.000r-0..0   0000   0  0-4
*                                .4
-  00000         0  00000   00  0-00  00  000  0  CoO              00    04-40  0444-4ot- 4
.0                                                                                                               4
*    -                                                                                                              4
*                                                                                                                   4
*         000000 4-0C47 goo400e000000 e00000000004   00000 00000 0 4-4004
-  -         -                                                     44-0            
0                     4-444,-.       (4   0               -
IC                                                                        0    -.00-
*                                                                                                                   i
0  g00Og0  0U
4,00044 4.,.-.0-0-00. -00 047O0- 
4        0044.0-    04--0    -  '..44-4
--      ..-4OnS  *:-:  -0  4*4-4-                '.-  -     0-n   00    -44-.0-0=--n       00
C-. 0444-  00--.O    0-   0=0  4-,    4-00.                                          U
-, 0444-4  444     -n..o       -    e..-.o        .-.'.-   3                              04
*                                                                                4'           4-44-.   --         04
* *      .  .     -                                                                             .                *4
*    4    -0      0-                                                             0              4-            444  4.44
*    4                                                                                                            04
5                                                                                                              4
*    4                                                                                                              4
*  4  000000 000000 .-4 00 in 0 ..44                                           a:   ooo0o0o  
4.-s  *4.4U
4-0   C-C  4.4 .O-0         '-4-                 .4..,  .-.c..=4-4e                 04
-    -                            0 t.    0    44
4-4  U
-            n0                -      r,r'                                                      o jo   
0.4-On  -to 00 o-0000   00i4.00O00000 0                  0           0                1
o,..o-.- -0 -0 *- -a 4 --o .4 o no
.00(44-4  4440  -0000.0  0    0-4-40  t4    4-44-..  -    4-4 '.40-C.-..-0   00          4
C       f-n--.         n44..                                         4.40-   4.4   004-4C                     .44
CL,       4'4t-.      ..44-4,    0     -4-4444  44                           (444,    0    fl-Ce             4.*  4'4 4
0..     0                                                            --                      --    0
00000-404-4*4.       ---0---,--0  O
4-404    4... 4444. 0000         000  o 044  440          oc c-s on    0.-o-...-            0      04
0-o-0  4-4        00  n  a         con  -a                                                 ao    0  44
44444  4(-..0 nStO  ...t-   r,0=-Q0   0    =04-4  o    044-4--- 4-4Q                 00    4-. -..
o 4-4 04-4-40  .O   SOC   --    -04,44-4440  r,   000         nc-C-. 4-54-.   0    0         00    0  04
00   -c fl-c.4. --    -    44.044-  in          -               -    04-4     -    --         .=
0e*4-   0     -    c4
a Co -4=0-0-40-0n   0000 0444-4-00.'.    0                 0    0 0   42    4
4 04-. On     04-tO         U400  .00-  0      04  0       0   04-4       44-4                   0  =4
0                -004444440   4                 04-444                                 n
0 =    .0 0  -r.oo -o    -    44.0444,                         -    34.      44.                 -
4-.4.-  0    -    '.4                                             4-44-    -             4-4.4-4   0  4-44
4-..                            4*4   4
,-f-4,0C-40 Cflb40 0000440 0.-0000044 0444 00000=nr,oOr- 0000044-400 000 04
*    -   000-no   0 = 0 0 0 0  44-. 44- =     0.4 4-4 00-4  4.-CC-  0  00.-.  Iofl     4404400               0  4444
-    4r-...0 440  C4c-. - 440   f-0  44)0  .00  0     04-  0      fl-n  00       '.40  -044.0-   00    0  4-t4
*04.54                              .                         .                  .             .        .-     .  44
4-444                        =0,-..4-.e.O  4--CO  =          04-C'S  flf.4   00            .0    =  4-44
O , 0 - 00 - 4-cr-n- 444 -
laS - = c4.- C. - 444 -444-4 4444.4 4-4-4 0 4- 4
4-4  - 0  0  .                                                                                                   -
.4,   -      -                                                              -4              -                04
C -
-    1   t404-   0-.0'..40   0'-004404-4 42-00000 0.4-042000.-0g00    000000420  042420  
-   4-4.'.-.O  044044-400  -40   -o4440                                         414000
42                         404  ...4440    0.0-00  0-   44-00  0       000   4-40   45'.4-40-4 .0     00    =  0
4444       0- O4-,4-JC4,0.000   --    0-o4.4-444   4-4  4-0-4              -    ;444   4-..4-4fl 4-'444.4.    .00   44 -
0- =  -   0044,  0 a  -44.00-0    -    00-0                              nt-rn                                tS4 =1
04 =        4444-4-  44-   -    4-4
0                                                                             '.444         '.400    4-44-4   0  -4
*    .   noon   0  4-4.4r44404-  0000000.044000000440000044000                        42                          2
- 4- 0C00004 ar-n 0-00  000 44  044. 44.-
o  a        .-0 n-co4-  444-444,   - On  0-44-4000  0    '.400  .0       nV-c  00    0
C  -  -   .-,04-4-44-..O  00- 404-4.-    nfl 0-004-4    *0'.-              -0   04-'  fl44..004440       00         4-44
-  4-      ..4-4    0000    0    -    -  4-4-  0                            -    c-n    nw,--.4 04.4     --    -  4,4
0444-   0           -                                                - =              0      4-44,   0
0                                                                                    @4
4aS
0.44                      -                       -    4.4             4
-     -          -         04.           *               - -  0  4.w               =    =              I
4                                00               4. 4.  00                    .0   30
-    :
'4 tiC  0- 0*aa            &    444   -         I
.4 - 44* 4- 44 4)
.4    JO1 4.'.44  -                .-:*        00                          1
--  -                 0         ..0                                                   -                   4
4.0  -.00-4.-440a40=                  ..   -      !o.                           o
'=4          z.44142      -p'42C -:           4.                                     -        
0  000  -                               0   00  444             04-) 
..0400  -  .4    44   O-40O00         *S.4-  -44-              
-         aU.looW          OO44.4    4*4.0 54c42O   04.400 443                 0444445  03
0  -*tO   0.44  .-,-0...- .              4  00.441044                            
0400   40-0  *440                   0U.4.0             - -                                     c-s
-'40 -a - --.= 0.4t  o 000 -  c  -                                                 -
44504h           0      0                = 4*      --
.4ao 0-44 4100 ..t..-.c4)aaw                                        -*
000*00000                      0..4ww0
0.400=0-4 =0.. 0 044.4.4= -o- s
-   S0*4. *400'4*40   0044                 00   00.0.4
.400 -  =.c 04-00-42. .4-4.- ..-o = a.. ...                    .0..44444).o  4.0000000000   0  -a.. >,
0004. 04--444 '40 4-. C4-4 - 4 -
.400000000000   0=-.4..4 . .44.4.4.44.40 '48c8Zo.-   r.40..ofbc.4a..  -
I fl C4.0.004444. f O440 e-..4 4200444.0  .4 - ..4* 000-00=0 40.400424204.4 42 0 04 S
* - 0cn000-00..-4440.--L440100-04)Wr oo.&....oo ,&-.4uco.rWrO,r .-.-cfl 4n It
* -  I            0           .4                                              .4                0.4      W    .4    4
*    4 -          -                                                            *   -         41.4.40     41.4  0    4
4    40           -                                                            *  =          4-0041      00  .4    4



Annex IV
-  129  -                                                               Table  4
SUMMARY COStS PK  REGIONAL RESEARCH CENTERS (MID-1987 CONSTANT PRICES)                                                                    Page  2 of 2
                                                                                                      _---  ......-            __4...-... ___. __- _ - _ - _ - _ - _ - _ - _ - - - - - 4
Itess
IDA        AID       EEC        ODA        NETH      OTHERS     EOK IRI     6OK(ODI      6O0(TI       TOTAL
-FINANCINS--------- -- -OUN-S --- -----------------------                    -----FI NC           ------------ K POUNDS -----------------------------------------------
A. RECURRENT COSTS
SALARIES & OTHER STAFF COSTS:.
Personal Eoolusents                                      0           0         0          0            0          0  6.546,283           0   6,546,283   6,546.283
Gratuity and Pensions Contributions         ->0                      0         0          0           0           0  1,373,987           0   1,373,97   1.37',987
House Allowance                                          0           0          0         0           0           0    701,224           0      701,224     781.224
Other Personal Allowances                                0           0         0          0           0           0      13.090          0       13.090      13.090
Mledical Allowance                                       0           0         0          0            0          0    315,417           0      315.417     315.417
**tSUDTOTAL SALARIES & OTHER STAFF COSTS                    0           0          0         0            0          0  9.030,001           0   9,030,001   9.030,001
TRANSPORT OPERATING I TRAVELLING:
Special Accouiodation Allowance                     10.S56       3.775         0          0      11,488       3.300           0     25,644       25,644      55,063
Passage and Leave Allowance                        I,718        8,770         0          0      20.106      20,460           0     36.823       36.823     102.877
Transport Operating Expenses                        95.845      38,951         0          0     104,9970     8,726            0    218.087     218,087      546,599
Travellina  and Accownodation                       37,615      22.308         0          0      56,045      21,296           0     98,955       98,855     236.119
External Travel 6 Accoanodation Expenses            10,164       8,734         0          0      18.920       5.808           0     29,084       29,084      72,710
MSUBTOTAL TRANSPORT OPERATING & TRAVELLING            171.198      82,539          0         0     211,549    139.590            0    408,493      408,493   1,013.3tB'
OTHER OPERAT INS EIPERSES:
Postal and Telegrams Expenses                          799         537         0          0        1,239        330           0      2.810        2,810       5,713
Telephone Expenses                                   7.343       6.188         0          0      14,465       6,930           0     23,788       23,788      58.714
Official Entertaineent                                 770         440         0          0         99O         440           0      1,760        1,760       4,400
Cost of Conferences and Seainars                         0           0         0          0           0           0           0          0            0           0'
Electricity. Water and Conservancy                  17.925       6,303          0         0       17.534     19,580           0     40,079       40,079     101,420
Maintenance of Buildings                            50,531      27.479         0          0      55,405      37,833           0    118,034      118,036     289,284
Maintenance of Plant and Equipueat                  40.832      26.202         0          0      50,716      20,702           0    100,744      100.744     239.195
Purchase of Oruqs, Sera and Vaccines                 9.912       3.850         0          0      11,320      11,550           0     23,544       23,544      60.176
Purchase o4 Experimental Anidals                       770       3,300         0          0       1,095           0           0      8,085        8,085      19,250
Farm Inputs                                         42.978      14,982         0          0      45,650      44,440           0    100,114      100,114     248.164
Training                                                 O    0           0          0          0           0           0          0                  0           0!
Purchase of Laboratory Stores                        3.850       1,760         0          0       4,070       2,200           0      7,920        7,920      19,800
Purchase of Food and Rations                             0           0         0          0            0          0           0          9            0           0!
Pubitshinq and Printing Expenses                         0           0         0          0            0          0           0          0            0           0
Purchase of Unifores and Clothino                    8,701       3,696         0          0       9.664       7.590           0     19,906       19,906      49.557
Library Expenses                                     4.400       1.650         0          0       4.125       2,200           0      9.625        9,625      22.000
Purchase of Stationerv                               7,043       2,750          0         0        7,701      6,055           0     16.615       16,615      40.164
Advertising and Publicitv                                0           0         0          0            0          0           0          0            0            0O
Shou Expenses                                          605         220         0          0         605         220           0      1.650        1.650       3.300
Rents & Rates - Residential                              0           0         0          0           0           0           0          0            0           0'
Rents & Rates - Non-Residential                                      0         0          0           0           0           0          0            0           0
Contracted Professional Charges                                0          0          0          0           0           0          0            0                 0
Computer Charges                                     3.714       2,200         0          0       4,813       1,100           0     10.179       10.179      22,006'
Miscellaneous and Other Charqes                     14.944       6,171         0          0      17,259      13,200           0     35.547       35,547      87.120
Insurance Cover and Road Tax                         1,833       1,062         0          0       2.913         913          0       4.946       4.946       11,666
Fees. Cooissions and Honoraria                           0           0         0          0           0           0           0          0            0           0O
*HSUBTOYAL OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES                   216,948    108.789           0         0     255,564    175,284            0    525.345      525.345   1,281.928
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                              388.146    191,326          0          0     467.113    314.874  9,030,001    933.838   9,963J838  11,325.297'
8. INVESTMENT COSTS:
VEHICLES:
Trucks                                              27,500      11,000         0          0      33,000      11,000          0           0            0      82.500
4 VD                                               146.300      69,300         0          0     169,400      77,000          0           0            0     462,000!
Motorbikes                                          10,560       3,960         0          0      13,640       2,640           0          0            0      30,800
Minibuses                                            3,300       3,300         0          0       3,300       6,600          0           0            0      16,500
*IISUITOTAL VEHICLES                                  187,660      87,560          0         0     219,340      97,240           0          0            0     591,800
*e#SUITOTAL FURNITURE t EOUIPMENT                     368,983    163,716          0          0     407,220    177.114            0          0            0   1.117,033
e*MSITOTAL CONSTRUCTION                             2,353.505           0         0          0     200,035           0           0    372,460      372.460   2,926,000
#"SUBTOTAL RESEARCH FUND                                    0           0         0          0           0           0          0           0            0           O'
TRAININS t TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:
Traitninq                                                0           0         0          0           0           0          0           0            0           0!
Technical Assistance                                     0           0         0          0   1,080.000    500.000           0           0            0   1,580,000
d,#SaJTOTAL TRAINING I TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 0           0         0          0   1,080.000    500.000            0          0            0   1,580.000
'##SU8TOTAL RESEARCH INFORMATION SYSTEM                     0           0         0          0            0          0           0          0            0
###SUBTOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                        2,910,148    251,276           0         0   1.906,595    774.354            0    372,460     372.460   6.214,833
TOTAL COSTS                                      3,298.293    442.602          0          0   2.373,708  1,089,227  9,030,001  1,306,298  10,336,298  17,540.130
May 12, 1987



Annex IV
SWlHORY COSTS l FINANCINS PtAN OF NATIONAL t REWONAi. RESEARCH CENTERS                                                                                         Page b     of 2
Iteos                                          1987/88     1908/89      1989190      1970/91     1991192       Total      Fwenqs        Local        Taxes         Total       Far.   Local
Cost        Cost         Cost                     Cost         Cost    Cost
---------    -            ---- --                                -------    ----------------------------------------------------------- US  -
A. RECURRENT COSTS
SALARIES & OTHER STAFF COSTS:
Personal Esoluments                           5.828.635   7.199.E87   7,511,489   7,511,489   7,511,48U  35,562,796               0  35,562.987             0        U4.5       0.0    44.5
Gratuity snd Pensions Contributions           1.310,601   1.588.293   1,667,367   1,667,367   1.667,367   7,900,994               0   7,900.994             0         9.9      0.0      9.9
Nouse Allowance                                6U3,295       114,704     813,$51       131,351     813,351   3.84,133            0   3,858,133            0          4.8      o.0      4.8
Otber Personal Allosances                        13,911       15,065       15.865      15.865       15,865      77,372            0       77.372           0          6.1      0.0      0.1
Hedicil Allowance                               371,597      435.030     464,790      U4,t480      464,780   2,205,967            0   2,205.967            0'         2.8      0.0      2.8
ySISU8107AL SALARIES t OTHER STAFF COSTS         8,173,038  10,013.859  10.472.852  10.472.852  10.472.852  49,605.454               0  49,605,454             0        62.0       0.0    62.0
TRANSPORI OPERATING L lRAVELL1NG6                                                                                                 0            0           0
Special Akcoiaodatnen Allovance                  44,112       44,576      45,062       45.062       45,062     223.673            0      223.873           0          0.3       0.0     0.t
Passaqe and Leave Allowance                     177,557      180.229     183.035      183,035      103,035     906,689            0      906,E89           0          1.1      0.0      1.1
Transport Operating Enpenses                    639,295      653,366     682.594      684,509     686.159   3,345,914   1,338,365   2,007,548        167,296          4.2       1.7     2.5
Travellinq and Accosiodation                    290.7198      03.206     315,022      317,547     318,757   i,545,v30             0   1.545.930            0          1.9      0.0      1.9
External Travel & Akcomodation Expenses          77.626       77.626      77,626       77,626       77,626     388,130      388,130            0      19.407          0.5      0.5      0.0
flCSIOTOTAL TRANSPORT OPERATING & TRAVELLIKG   1,229.387   1,259,003   1,303,929   1,307,779   1,310,639   6,410,735   1,726,495   4,84,240              196,702         8.0       2.2     5.9
OTHER OPERATING EIPENSES:
Postal and Teleqrans Expenses                    10.066       10.316      10,623       10,623      10,623       52,252       10,450      41,801        2,b13          0.1        .0     0.1
Telephone Expenses                               98,735      101,951     224,179      224t,179     224,179     873,223      349,289      523,934      87,322          1.1      0.4      0.7
Official Entertainment                            3,928        3.428       3,928        3.928        3.928      19.640        3.928       15.712            0          .0        .0      *0
Cost al Conferences and Seetnars                      0            0            0           0            0            0           0            0            0'        0.0      0.0      0.0
Electricity, Nater ana Conservancy              287.789      298.057     312.178      312,178      312,178   1,522,380      380,595   1,141,765      152,238          1.9      0.5      1.4
Maintenance of Suxldinqs                          7.070       79,865     167,395      196,125      198.100     649.155            0      649,155           0          0.8       0.0     0.8
tiaintesance of Plant and Equipeent             344,480      446,435     446,855      451,300      461,660   2,156,730   1,509,711       647,019           0          2.7       1.9     0.8
Purchase of Drugs, Sera and Vaccines            124,471      126,707     128,885      128,885      128,885     637.832      127,566      5104265            0         0.8      0.2      0.6
Purchase of Experimental Anieals                 93.581       66.947      65,772       65,772       65,772     357.845      28b.276       71,569            0         0,4      0,4      0.1
Fare Inputs                                     278,487      284,315     296.124      296,124      296.124   1,451,176      870,705      5804.70           0          1.8       1.1     0.7
Traininq                                              0            0            0           0            0           0            0            0           0          0.0      0.0      0.0
Purcdase of Laboratory Stores                   146,925      152.313      157.967     157,967      157,967     775.139            0      773,139      38.657          1.0       0.0     1.0
Putrchase of food and Rations                    31.764       33.048      34,383       34.383       34.383     167,960      100,776       67,184            0         0.2      0.1      0.1
Publishing and Printing Expenses                  4.950        4,950       4,950        4,950        4.950      24,750        4,950       19,800       1,238           .0       .0       .0
Purchase of Unsfores and Clothinq                60,128       61.028      63,218       63,218       63,218     310,808      155,404      155,404      15.540          0.4       0.2     0.2
Library Expensos                                 36.007       36.787      37,595       37,595       37,595     185,580       92.790       92.7SO       18,558         0.2       0.1     0.1
Purchase of Stationery                           37,877       39.178      40,242       40.242       40.242     197,780            0      197,780       9,899          0.2      0.0      0.2
Advertising and Publictyv                         1.650        2,200       2.200        2.200        2.200      10.450            0       10.450           0           .0      0.0       .0
Shwm Etpenses                                     2.733        2,779       2.718        2.718        2,718      13,665            0       13.665            0          .0      0.0       .0
Rents I Rates - Resideotial                      13,860       14.553       15,281      15,281       15,281      74.257            0       74,257       3,713          0.1      0.0      0.1
Rents It Rates - Non-Residential                      0            0           0            0            0           0            ^            0           0'         0.0      0.0      0.0
Contracted Professional Charges                       0            0            0           0            0            0           0            0           0          0.0      0.0      0.0
Comuoter Charges                                 25,710       25,710      25,710       25.710       25.710     128.550       25.710      102,840           0          0.2        .0     0.1
11stellar,e ,us and Other ChtrtQs               115.214      120.048     122.477      122,477      122,477     602,693       60,269     542.424      301,347          6.8      0.1      0.7 I
Insurance Cover and Road Tax                      6,074       10,445      13,997       13,997       13,997      5:,509       11,702      46,807            0          0.1       .0      0.1
Fees. Coimissuons and Honoraria                       0       70.692      76,052       76.052       76.052     M,847        119,539     179,308            0          0.4      0.1      0.2
MfSU81OTAL OITER OPERATING EIPENSES              1.731.498   1,992.251   2,252,728   2,286,503   2,304,238  10,567,219   4,109,661   6,457,558          61.114          13.2       5.1     8.1
TOTAL RECURRENiT COSIS                       11.133,923  13,265,1l3  14,029,509  14,067,134  14,087.72R  66,593,408   5,836,156  60,747.252          817,816         83.2      7.3    75.9
8. INVESTrENT COSTS:
VEHICLES:
Trucks                                          110.000      110.000      27,500       40.000            0     287,500      258,750      28.750            0          0.4      0.3       .0
4 68                                            170.000    807,750       525,150      420.250      470.000   2.3S3.750   2,154.375      239.375            0          3.0      2.7      0.1
Notorbites                                       53.040       49,080      26.400        8,360        4.400     141.280      127.152       14,128           0          0.2      0.2       .0
HIualbuses                                            0       16.500      16,500       16,500            0      49,500       44.550        4,950           0          0.1      0.1       .0
na4SUBTOTAL VEHICLES                               333.040      983,330     596.150      485,110      474,400   2,872.030   2,584.827       207.203           0          3.6       3.2     ".4
MSUBTOTAL FURNIIURE & EQOUIPEIIT                   692.484   2,039,936   1,822.606       722.984      166,111   5,4,121   3.838.115   1,645,236         548.412 *        6.9      4.8      2.1
WSISTOTAL CONSTRUCTION                           1,067.621   4,707,909   5,077.007   2,231.728        443,960  13,528,225   2.705,645  10,22,580   1.352,822           16.9       3.4    13.5
uMSUBTOTAL RESEARCH FUIID                                0            0            0           0            0            0           0            0           0          0.0      0.0      V.0
TRAINING i TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE;                                                                                                  0            0           0
Traixino                                        180,000     200.000      200.000      200,000     200,000      S80.000      686.000     294.000            0          1.       0.9     0.4
Technical Assistance                          1.530,000   2,030,000   2.030,000   2.030,000   2,030,000   9.650.000   8,685,000         965,000            0         17.1     10.9      1.2
4naSUBTOTAL TRAINING , TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE    1,7104000   2,230,000   2,230.000   2,230,000   2,230.000  10,630,000   9.371,000   1,259.000                  0         13.3     11.7      1.6
-nitJiTOiAL RESEARCH I,FDRKATiOM StSTEM                         0           0            0            0                 0            0            0           0          0.0      0.0      0.0
0           0            0'
#"SUBTOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                      3,B03,145  10,001.175   9,725,763   5,669,022   3,314,471  32,514,375  18,500.356  14,014,019   1,901,235              40.6     23.1    17.5
0           0            0'
TOTAL COSTS                                  14,937,068  23,266,288  23,755,272  19,736.955  17.402,200  99,097,783  24,336.513  74,761,270   2,719.051             123.9     30.4    93.5
.....ss rass .s .soc -ssw-sssas-Xtva=v2s-: .tats-s-arta= ...... .-*to ...acJ=:z$*esr--t$tts a.............................ttSt*tSt.S-tttfl,S=
May 12, 1987



Annex IV
131                                                                     Table 5
SUlIMARY COSTS & FINANCING PLAN OF NAIONAl. & RE6IONAL RESEARCH CENTERS                                                               Page  2 of 2
Items
IDA        AID         EEC        ODA       NETH      OTIERS      ElIXIR)     60KI(D)     686(T)        TOTAL
------- ---------------------------------------P-----------------------------OfINANCIN-------------  FOUINDS-     --------------------------------------
A. RECURRENT COSTS
SALARIES t OTHER STAFF COSTS:
Personal Emoluments                                  0          0           0          0           0          D 35.562,907             0 35.562,987  35.562.987
6ratuzty and Pensions Contributions                  0          0           0           0          0          0   7,900,994            0   7.900.994   7,900,994
House Allownce                                       0          0           0          0           0          0   3.858,133           0   3,858,133   3,858.133
Other Personal Allowances                            0          0           0           0          0          0      77,372            0      77,372      77.312
Medical Allowance                                    0          0           0          0           0          0   2.205,967            0   2.205,967   2,205,967
&*SSUBTOTAL SALARIES & OTHER STAFF COSTS                0          0           0           0          0          0  49,605.454            A  49,605,454  49,605,454
TRAHSPORT OPERATING & TRAVELLING:
Special Accomodation Allovance                  33.996      5.500      29,925     22.264      13,608     16.500           0      102.279     102,279     223,873
Passage and Leave Allowante                     93,227     21.450     111,247    142,229      08.774     71,379           0     378.584      378,584     906,8089
Transport Operating Expenses                   341,371     88,055     599,507    429.458    276,051    234,543            0   1,377.929   1,377,929   3,345,914
Travelinog and Accoemodation                   136,021     40,021     313,075    230,530    108,700    102,023            0     605,949     605,949   1,545,910
External Travel It kccodation Expenses          49,115     10,120      55,023     45,357      27.362     33,440           0      167,11t     167,113     398,130
aisSUBTOTAL TRANSPORT OPERATING i TRAVELLiN6      654.429    165,946   1,107,681    077,838    51S,102    457,885            O   2,631,.54   2,631,854   6,410,735
OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES:
Postal and Telearaas Expenses                    5.721      1.100       4,409      6.222       7.456      2,725           0      24,619       24,619      52,252
Telephone Expenses                              57,743     11,050     212,120    190,753      38,416     32,750           0     340,390      340,390     873.223
Official Entertainmnt                            2.904        440       2,980      1,922       1.276      1,320           0       8,898       8,890       19,640
Cost of Conferttes and Seminars                      0          0           0           0          0          0           0            0           0           0
Electricity, Water and Conservancv             139,379     29,986     195,439    219,634    194,374      87,387           0     667,179      667,179   1,522,380
Maintenance of Buildings                        77,715     16.988     119,779      41.348     58.938     46.219           0      289.169     289,169     649.155
Maintenance of Plant and Equipwent             200,591     38,601     322.301    333,661    195.261    145,035            0     921,199      921.199   2.156,730
Purchase of Drugs, Seaa anJ Vaccines            34,157      5,280      95,425    125,129      73,473     21,560           0      282,807     282,807     637,832
Parchase of Experimental Aniails                29,013        165      48,730     79,920      41,742      5,116           0      153.159     153,159     357.845
Farm Inputs                                    121.48     32,319     158.434     96,964    245.935      99,876           0      690,258     690,258   1,451,176
Training                                             0          0           0          0           0          0           0           0            0           0
Purchase of Laboratory Stores                   63,653     19.319     111,462    157,960      68,283     48,489           0     304.074      304.074     773.139
Purclase of Food and Rations                     1,403          0      16,329     48,916           0     34,060           0      67,184       67,184     167.960
Publishina and Printing Expenses                   925          0       4,125           0      6,600          C           0       13.200      13,200      24.750
Purchase of Uniforms and Clothing               37.78C      7,665      37,544     39,939      26,079     28,195           0      133,608     133,609     310.808
Library Expenses                                11,385      2,200      22,153     30,624       7.480     24,571           0      79,167       79,161     185,580
Purchas* of Stationery                          22.648      5.304      29,664     24,717      14,795     19,074           0      91,579       l.579     197,780
Advertisina and Publicitv                          935          0       1,375          0       2.200          0           0       5.940        5,940      10,450
Show Exprnses                                    1.441        165       1,209      3,007         495      1,361           0       5,987        5.987      13,665
Rents I Rates - Reidential                           0          0       7,426     22,277           0     14,951           0      29,703       29,703      74,257
Rents & Rates - Non-Residential                      0          0           0          0           0          0           0           0            0           0
Contracted Professional Charges                      0          0           0          O           0          0           0           0            0           0
Computer Charges                                16.418      3.300      20,738     14,640       8,470      9,900           0      55.085       55,085     128,550
Mistellaneous and Other Chuges                  52,598     16,707     100,924     79.525      57,813     55,213           0     239.913      239,913     602.693
Insurance Cover and Road Tax                    5,201       1,755       6,867      9,295      3,937       6,023           0      25,351      25,351       58,509
Fees. Comissions and Honoraria                  89,654          0           0          0           0     89,654           0     119.539      119.539     298,847
itSUSTOTAL OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES               977.739    192,344   1,508,511  J,524,324  1,052,923    773.370            0   4,538,008   4,539,008  10,567.219
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                        1,632.169    358,290   2,516,192  2,402,161  1,568.025  1.231,255  49,605,454   7,16S,862  56,775,316  66,583,409
D. INVESTMENT COSTS:
VEHICLES:
Trucks                                         85,250      55,000      24,000     55,000     57,250           0           0      11,000       11,000     287,500
4 ND                                          573.650    192,500      909,750    103,950    570,500      89,500           0      53.900      53.900   2.393,750
Motorbikes                                     59,048      11,OOO      20,800    13,640       15,592     13,640           0       7,480        7,480     141,280
Ninibuses                                            0          0      13.200     26.400           0      9,900           0           0            0      49,500
#t#SUBTOTAL VEHICLES                              717,948    258.500     867,930    198.990    643,342    113,040            0      12,380       72.380   2,872,030
##,SUJTOTAL FURNITURE & EBUIPMENT               1,322,784    647,700     981,601  1,019,031    896,676    423,412            0      192.916     192.916   5,484,121
*wSUPTOTAL CONSTRUCTION                        4,017.180    221,375   4,897,037  1,739,630  1,209,416            0           0   1,443,587   1,443,537  13,520,225
###SUBTOTAL RESEARCH FMNI                               0          0           0          0           0          0           0           0            0           0O
TRAINJNS & TECHIICAL ASSISTANCE:
Training                                             0          0     217.000    569,000          0    194.000            0           0            0     990,000
Technical Assistante                                0  1.200,00   2,652,000  1,570,000    700,000  3,528,000              0           0           0   9,650,000
t*tSULTOTAL TRAININS & TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE             0  1,200,000   2,869,000  2,139,000    700,000  3,722,000            0           0            0  10,630,000
*e.SUiTDTAL RESEAACH iNFORHATIO  SYSTEM                 0          O           0          0                     4           0           0            0           0
m*mSUBTOTAk  INVESTMENT COSTS                   6,057,912  2,327,575   9,615,468  5,096,652  3.449,434  4,258,452            0   1,709,803   1,708,983  32,514.375
TOTAL COSTS                                 7,690,080  2,685,865  12,231.660  7,4908913  5,017,459  5,489.707  49,605,454   08,978,745  5,484,.199  99.097,783
May 12, 1987



KENYA KARP
SUMMARY COSTS ACCORDING TO RESEARCH CENTER AND CONNODITIV/FACrOR  1/
(KENYA POUNDS; MID-1987 CONSTANT PRICES)
CROPS              SOIL AND WATER             ANIMAL PRODUCTION              YETERIWY         RANGE AND ARID LANDS         TOTAL
RESERCH CENTER                     K Pounds            I    K Pounds             %    K Pounds              X    K Pounds           I    K Pounds             2     Y Pounds           X
KATUMANI                          5,777,487          7.3%  4,236,764          51.2!    577,741           3.4%           a         3.3!           a           .3%  13,591,912         7.3!
KITALE                            5,666,228          7.2%           a          0.0%  1,879,281            5.7%           B        3.6Z           a          0.02   6,745,539         4.6%
NJORO                             5,121,164          6.41           a          a.3l           t          0.N%           a         3.OX           I          3.3%   5,321,164         3.51
EMBU                              2,356,354          3.DI           a          0.0Z     135,926           8.71          a          .01%          I          3.3%    2,491,988        1.?Z
SARISSA                             686,217          3.91           B          3.60     79,591           8.4%           0         6.6!    773,358           7.l2   1,459,166         1.8%
K.AKAME5A                         3,663,820          4.7%           O          0.O%    211,328            1.1%           a        3.3%           a          3.O%   3,874,341         2.7n
KISII                             2,389,687          2.72           a          3.3%    123,554           8.6t           a         3.6!           I          3.N%   2,219,161         1.5S
"TWAPA                            7,695,143          9.9%           3          3.32    439,335            2.2%           a        3.3%           B          1.11   7,534,475         5.2!
INEA TEBERE                       1,648,819          2.1%           O          0.0%           I           3.3%          3         3.83           S          3.3%   1,648,919         1.12
KIDOS COTTON                      1,722,939          2.2%           a          6.3% O         O.3%                      I         0.0%           a          0.0%   1,722,939         1.22
TNIKA                             5,738,763          7.2%           3          3.32           I          3.3%           I         83.%           I          3.     S,731,761         3.9 
TI6011                            2,136,954          2.7J%          S          0.02           I           O.3%          a         3.?            I          O.O%   2,136,954         1.4!
MOLD                              2,270,578          2.9%           a          3.6%           a          2.1%           I         a.o%           I          3.3%   2,273,573         1.6%
LANET IOCS                        4,952,233          6.2%           3          3.0%    255,394            1.3            a        3.0%           I          3.3%   5,137,627         3.5%
KIBUS SUGAR                       2,231,983          2.8%           a                       3#Jr  I       3.3%          a 1.1%                   a          8.9%   2,231,3           1.52
N.A.L.                            9,258,983         11.8%  1,628,676          12.4X           o           a.o%           a        3.%            I          3.3t   13,286,755        7.12
P1USUA A6RIC.                     4,799,145          6.1%  1,631,992          19.7%  3,167,964           16.7%          a         0.8%           o          3.3%   9,599,392         6.62
&IDOKO                                               3.02           a          3.!n           I           3.3%           3        3.3%  6,819,B47          54.1%   6,119,847         4.1%
IVAA                                       3         3.%            I          8.8%  7,784,739           4.9!           a         O.OS           a          3.6!   7,794,739         5.3%
MUSUSA VET.                                I         B.8%           I          O.O%           I          9.0I 13,544,299         37.2%           O          6.0%  18,54,299          7.2%    ,. >
KABETE VET.                               a          3.3%           I          B.ox           I           3.3!  8,519,824        3D.02           a          6 .%   8,519,324         5.9%    t. Z
MARSABIT                                             o.a%           I 8.0%                    a           3.3%           a        0.% 3X,195,26            28.7%   3,195,233         2.2% 
KARI HQTRS                       11,867,551         15.1%  1,382,954          16.7%  5,194,231           27.3%  9,318,263        32.8%  1,129,656          10.2%  28,892,625        19.9% 1    .
T D T A L                        78,734,459        100.0X  8,283,375         131.0% 19,816,056          133.3% 20,381,586       163.0% 11,118,86b         103.8% 145,538,538       183.3%
PROGRAM AS % OF TOTAL                  54.1%                      5.7%                     13.1%                     19.5%                     7.6%                    1,3.38
I/ Breakdown of costs accordirg to center is provided in detailed tables found in the project file.
The allocation of funds according to research program and center geperally follom KARl's research
mandates for each research center. Further details for each comeadity and factor are provided in Table 7.



-   -  -  -- ------------- ------------------- - --------     -------------------- ---- --                                                                                      ----------------                                                             - ----- ---- ---- - ----------
anon                                                                                                             0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tt                         otrt                                                                                                                                                           0                                                   .OT  r
WN                                    ..Ol 401.7                                   .t              f.l                  t0             i47in                     0tt              0                                                                0                                         .l.O                               .,.. 1                                                                                                                       .6i             lt~t0               0t.ts
-             o         ota..            Sat...               .07.000                                           0                  *                 0                 0a                                      o                 o                 C        t,.nt                    o       tt..  ira .--.                               ,                 o0                                o                 C        ., *e           t.taroa.             a.e
ao 0ws       ti                         .loo                   n     m           otS                 t.                                       f*l              t.i                 W     n000t00                                                                                                                                  t ttt,00000' . .                                                                                                                             4olt                   o
aim   rim..  0  0  n.7  0  0  ifl.*e                     0        tot.tot                     0                  0                    0                0                 0                0                0        ittot              ..i>.                    0                 0                0                 0                0         004.020            *t*.O            tAO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA .. 
SOS.  55.00*  0         0.404                     0               ..             OtS.SO                     0~~~~~~~~-        0 ---  -            0----  i-i--      tot--------at-.A                                                                                                 ~           0  --------.--------    -0-                                                                                   -----
I=L   ~~~U"                                0                  0S0OW00.00?                                                                    0                  0                 0                  0                  0          .55                                   t.              l.40                              N.4                iC                                         0                00                                             4.0.0.01o..-
o   #   a   0           0         oti.ae                                          0                   0          a...tn                    a                  0                  00                                     0                 0                                 0       029.1W             t..                       0                0                 0                0                 0        004.0)           0.oto.tn           0.It
~~0   O T S           0                  0                   0                  0                  0                    o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--    --------------- 't ... .           o0                                                        ---0--0-----.....                                                            t------- -------   ---- -                                                       0 ------                                    -.----- ----
O urS                            0                  0                  0                  0 ~~~~~~~--------- -----0-                ------0---- 0                        -------0-- 0---- 0                              ---  0                     0----   ----------  --0                                      O?--------                                                    00                                                  0         4. 2              . b.                .t
~~  -  ---------------                  -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -   - ~~~~~~~--------- -------------.--



--  z                               a~~~~~~~ ~~~i        ~-   --                      --     --a- -   --., .a 
w  -    ~~~~~ 7.                                                                        S.                I IE.  l 3
~~~        ~~~                                                                                                                                     I~~~~~iz
31             I                                                                
CZt                         4,I
2 00                         i                    I1
0"~~~~~~    a  - 0--0                                               ---a         --3'----S--.                       ---          ---         -- -' -
W                  ~~~~~~              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10  10-  Rl II
er -to                           a-a     ~      ,~ 
m                                                                                                  -     -   -   -   -   -   -  - . -      4-- -4
a         -       2-~I                                                    --        --- 0        ---             - -   --          -t     -
-  10C'10  -  I                       -                                                                                     I --    ---    -----       --    
a.  n     -        C  t,                               -     -       - - -            - - -                 - - -           - - -              - -- -           
2    It
0                                                                                                          t*~~~~~~~~0   I 
a.r-,  'I 0  --I   C ..           -      I-   - --------------------
It                                                                                                                         IC-
~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~ a  a  IC  Cs-C4.    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 14    -.414-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11
5 0  B.   Ca3                            IS  --4--          1-4--   --   --   --  
~~             ii-    ------------------------------- -                                                                                  
It ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ n-                  CX,                               I     I
u40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                               4
oIl. a'    -   0V.r4.Cn.'                 -1i --                  -               -----  -                        '--    --         -  -   -   -I-a
.'LaS  P.O  C   P                                           ~~~~~~-'-5 -    - --             -----4                 - -
a  9        ~             ~~~ 9                                                                                                       -                       -,
C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ jC
=         -,                                    14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



- 135 -
ANNEX IV
Table 9
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
FINANCING PERCENTAGES FOR DIFFERENT EXPENDITURE CATEGORIES 1/
Disbursements
Amount              Disbursement
Category                                (US$ M)             Percentage
1. Non-salary operating expenses        4.5           (i)  402 up to an aggregate
amount of SDR 1.9M
(US$ 2.4 M); then
(ii) 25? up to an aggregate
amount of SDR 1.18 M
(US$1.5 M); then
(iii) 10X up to an aggregate
amount of SDR 0.47 M
(US$.6 M)
2. Vehicles, plant and equipment        4.7         1002 (of foreign expenditures)
70? (of local expenditures)
3. Civil Works                         10.0          80X (of expenditures)
4. Training and Expert Assistance       0.4         100X (of foreign expenditures)
80X (of local expenditures)
1/  In the Development Credit Agreementvadjustment the figures are disagrregated
according to KARI and RRC/NRC components; the figures also include an
unallocatted component to provide additional flexibility.



- 136 -
ANNEX IV
Table 10
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
IDA Fiscal Year                                 Accumulated
and Semester             Disbursments         Disbursements
--(USS M)-
FY 1987/88
1st                       .3                     .3
2nd                      0.7                    1.0
FY 1988/89
1st                      1.6                    2.6
2nd                      1.5                    4.2
FY 1989/90
Ist                      2.0                    6.2
2nd                      2.5                    8.7
FY 1990/91
1st                      2.5                  11.2
2nd                      2.5                  13.7
FY 1991/92
1st                      2.0                  15.7
2nd                      2.0                  17.7
FY 1992/93
1st                      1.0                  18.7
2nd                      0.9                  19.6



- 137 -
ANNEX IV
Table 11
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
INDICATIVE ESTIMATES OF THE NARP'S BUDGETARY IMPACT 1/
(I). Overall NARP Research   1986/87          1987/88   1988/9     1989/90      91 1991/92  1992/93 4/
Budgetary Expenditure    ro-Project    ---------------1st Phase  rojt-----------
year
A.  Recurrent                  10.0            14.1       17.1     18.0     18.1    18.2      18.2
B.  Investment                  5.0             7.2       18.3     16.7     11.9      8.2      8.2
C.  Total                      16.0            2l 3      33.4      34.7     a0.0    28.4      28i.4
D. Total Incremental
Expenditures                               6.3      10.4      19.7     19.0    11.4      11.4
(+42%)    (+123%)  (+131%)  (+100%) (+78%)   (+76%)
(II). GOK Counterpart
Funding Requirements
A.  Recurrent                   9.0            11.5       12.8     12.6      12.6    12.5     12.6
B.  Investment                  2.0             2.0        2.7      2.8      2.8      2.8      2.8
C.  Total                      ii.0            13.      -1570   1-5.3       16.3   M-3T       16.3
(13.0) V
D.  Total Incremental
Expenditures
(Over 19886/87 levels) t/    -            0.6        2.0      2.3       2.3     2.3       2.3
(+3.8%)   (+15%)   (+17.7%) (+17.7%)(+17.7%) (+17.7%)
(1) Excluding Improved
Scheme of Service                           2.6       4.0       4.3      4.3      4.B      4.3
(22.7%)   (36.4%)  (39SW     (3a%m   (39%)    (39%W
(2) Including Improved
Schme of Service                            0.6       2.0       2.3      2.3      2.3      2.3
(+3.8%)   (+15%)   (+17.7%) (+17.7%)(+17.7%) (+17.7%)
/  According to the overall NARP Research Budget and GOK counterpart funding requirements (KL mid-
1987 constant prices).
V/ For comparative purposes, this figure Includes the proposed Improved Schome of Service which Is
expected to be approved during 1987/88.
3/ Incremental expenditures are in relation to the 1986/87 levels shown for the two cases of
excluding and Including the Improved Schem of Service In 1986/87.
4/ Rofers to the anticipated first year of the second time-slice of the NARP.



-  3 i--A
ANNEX V
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
PRIORITY INDICATORS AND INDICATIVE PROJECT BENEFITS



ANNEX V
Table 1
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
SELECTED INDICATORS FOR SETTING NARP'S AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PRIORITIES 1/
Indica- Indica-
Land Area 2/            Farmgate Value 2/             Emp4oyment 2/      Value per Ho 2/  tive    tive        Prop2sed NARP Allocation
Ome       %XV ofMX of                                  SoYr.   Xarket  Expected  of Funds (S year  ro8r*m
Cormodity          ha         Total    Rank   K 6 M      Total    Rank   (000's)   Total  Rank   K 6/ha    Rank   Pros-   Benefits  mid-1987 constant prices)
-1983/84                 Pects 3   J        K(m)       X of
Total    Rank
A . C rops
1.  Maize          1187        23.6     1      137.4      18.0      1     712.0       23.3   1      163        6       A       G          19.7    13.S        1
2.  Beans                                       34.4       4.5      5                                                                      4.8     3.3        6
3.  Sorghuma/       345         7.0     3       16.5       2.2      8     217.0        7.1   3       48        7       A       A           4.7     3.2        7
Millet
4. Wh.t             112         2.3     4       21.4       2.8      9      21.0         .7          191        4       C       A           5.6     3.9        5
S.  V-getabl.s/
Potatoes       aS         1.6     7      90.9       11.8      3     114.0       3.7   4      913         1      C        G          8.4      6.7       3
6.  Fruits           il         0.2     8       32.0       4.2      6      69.0        2.3   6      298        3       G       A           4.3     3.0        a
7.  Cotton/fibers  III          2.2     S        3.6       0.6    10       58.0        1.9   7       32        8       A       A           8.3     4.3        4
8.  Sugar            87         1.8     6       37.0       4.9      4      89.0        2.9   S       n.e.              A       A           3.8     2.8        9
9.  Pyrethrum        10         0.2     8        4.0       0.8      9      16.0         .S   8     419         2       G       A           2.4     2.0       10
19. O0 Isseds        11         0.2     8        1.6       0.2    11        3.3         .1   9      141        8       0       C          18.3    12.6        2
11. Other Crops    597         12.1     2       94.3      12.4      2     289.5        9.1   2                         A       A
Subtotal, Crops   2531         S7i2.4 1irI                                178.8      M7                                                  7S.8    54.1 7J
B. Livestock
1.  Beef 4/                                     70.7       9.3 e/  2       312.0      10.2   3     n.e.               C        G           3.8     2.6        3
2.  DaIry 6/       2408        48.8 e/  1      1es.5      22.1 1/  1       883.0      21.7   1       79                C       0           8.0     5.6        1
3.  Other                                       51.1       6.7  /  3       601.0      16.5   2      n.e.               A       A           7.3     4.9        2
Subtotal,
Livestock        2408        48.8           290.3       38.1            1478.0     48.4                                                 19.1    13.1
Animal Prod.
TOTAL              4939-      100.0            762.7     lO0.0            3064.8    100.0                                                146.7   100.0 7/
Source: Main source of data is GOKis Sessional Paper No. 1, of 1988.
1/     These indicators would be used as rough guides in helping to set research priorities.  During Project implementation, KARI's Planning Division
would elaborate on these guidelines for use in helping to adjust research priorities and the allocation of NARP funds. Since KARI is not
responsible for coffee and tea research, the figures exclude these two commodities.
2/     Source of data Is from GOK's Sessional Paper No. 1, 1986. Values refer to the year 1983/84.
3/     Initially the criteria (i.e. good, average, poor) for these two indicators will be based on a somewhat subjective judgment, taking into account
future supply and demand trends likely to face Kenya; further quantification of these indicators by KARl during Project implementation could serve
as a useful guide for assessing Kenya's prospects for food security, export earnings and import substitution.
4/     Includes range land production.
S/     A distinction shouid be made between high and medium potential areas and cropped dryland areas.
3/     For livestock activities, the indicators of land area, farmgate value and employment have limited meaning.
7/     It is not possible to, in a meaningful manner, relate the indicators to NARP costs of other major research programs such as: soil and water: Kt8.3
million (6.7X); veterinary: KL28.4 million (19.51); and range and arid lands, Kk11.1 million (7.6%).



- 139 -
ANNEX V
Table 2
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
MAIN CONSIDERATIONS IN SETTING RESEARCH PRIORITIES 1
(i)     The economic -- and social as well as political --
importance of a commodity or region (i.e. current or
potential contribution to agricultural GDP, employment,
farmer incomes, nutrition, etc.). Relevant data are: area
involved, potential production, numbers of people to
benefit, employment projections, impact on foreign
exchange earnings and savings.
(ii)    Current market demand for particular commodities and
future projections. Indicative data for food crops
include: population pressure, changes in land use, price
treads, trade projections and changes in consumption
patterns. For industrial crops: changing demands for
export and local transformation (e.g. textile processing).
(iii)   The chances of a successful outcome of the research.  This
implies a highly subjective assessment of scientific
probabilities, time scales, resources needed, and probable
costs and benefits. Past experience and current knowledge
would be guiding factors.
(iv)    The factors which may affect adoption of results.  This
involves assessments of: the needs and perceptions (risk,
cost, etc.) of clients, the effectiveness of supporting
services, the level of political commitment, and the
possibility of policy-imposed constraints, e.g. pricing,
import policies, market quotas, etc.
(v)     The probable distribution of benefits from research.  This
involves a careful analysis of equity/efficiency,
producer/consumer, and other interests.
l/Taken from a paper prepared by a Working Group of the Special Program for
African Agricultural Research, "Guidelines for Strengthening National
Agricultural Research Systems in Sub Sahara Africa" (draft, October 1986).
There are at least five general considerations to take into account in
assessing what priorities and how many resources to allocate to a
particular commodity or group of commodities. KARI's Planning Division
would seek to apply these considerations in setting and adjusting its
research priorities and allocating its funds.



- 140 -
ANNEX V
Table 3
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
INDICATIVE ECONOMIC ANALYSIS FOR RESEARCH AT THE KATUMANI RRC
(K Pounds in million. mid-1987 constant prices)
Research Coste                          Research Benefits
Year    Without Proiect  With Proiect  Incremental  Incremental  Increm. net Benefits
1.00       0.28              0.50           0.22          0.00            -0.22
2.00        0.28             0.89           0.61          0.00            -0.61
3.00        0.28             1.12           0.84          0.10            -0.74
4.00        0.28             0.95           0.67          0.25            -0.42
5.00       0.28              0.75           0.47          0.40            -0.07
6.00       0.28              0.50           0.22          0.50             0.28
7.00       0.28              0.50           0.22          0.60             0.38
8.00        0.28             0.50           0.22          0.80             0.58
9.00       0.28              0.50           0.22          1.00             0.78
10.00        0.28             0.50           0.22          1.20             0.98
11.00        0.28             0.50           0.22          1.20             0.98
12.00        0.28             0.50           0.22          1.20             0.98
13.00        0.28             0.50           0.22          1.20             0.98
14.00        0.28             0.50           0.22          1.20             0.98
15.00        0.28             0.50           0.22          1.20             0.98
16.00        0.28             0.50           0.22          1.20             0.98
17.00        0.28             0.50           0.22          1.20             0.98
18.00        0.28             0.50           0.22          1.20             0.98
19.00        0.28             0.50           0.22          1.20             0.98
20.00        0.28             0.50           0.22          1.20             0.98
ERR                       20%
NPV of Incr Costs         2.0
NPV of Incr Benefits    2.0
Assumptions for Estimation of Equivalent Yield Increases (over a ten year period):
1) Full Benefits (Year 10): K Pounds 1.2 M (K Sh 24 M).
2) Cropped Area (Ha): maize 224,800; beans 110,000; total 448,000.
3) Benefits/cropped Ha (K Sh): maize 107; beans 210; maize equiv. 54.
Import-parity basis:
4) Economic Prices (K Sh/Kg.): maize 1.75; beans 4.1.
5) Equivalent Increase in Yields (Kg./ha): maize 61.1; beans 53.2; maize equiv. 30,.
6) Current Average Yields (Kg./ha): maize 800; beans 600.
7) Equivalent Increase in Yields (Z): maize 7.6Z; beans 8.9?; maize equiv. 5.2z.
Export-parity basis:
8) Economic Prices (K Sh/Kg.): maize 0.45; beans 2.1.
9) Equivalent Increase in Yields (Kg./Ha): maize 237; beans 104; maize equiv. 120.
10) Current Average Yields (Kg./Ha): maize 800; beans 600.
11) Equivalent Increase in Yields (Z): maize 302; beans 17%; maize equiv. 15%.



- 141 -
ANNEX VI
KENYA
National Agricultural Research Project
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT PILE
A.       Sector/Subsector Reports and Studies
1.   Kenya's National Agricultural Research System, ISNAR, The
Hague, September 1981.
2.   Kenya Agricultural Research Strategy and Plan, ISNAR, The
Hague, December 1985, 2 volumes.
3.   Kenya National Agricultural Research Project Working Papers,
prepared by the Joint-Donor Mission, July 1986.
4.   Kenya National Agricultural Research Program Joint-Donor
Mission Evaluation Report, February 1987.
5.   GOK Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1986.  Economic Management for
Renewed Growth.
6.   Science and Technology Act of 1977, (amended) in 1979.
7.   State Corporations Act of 1986.
B.       Project Related Reports and Studies
1.   National Agricultural Research Project Proposal (Draft) in
two volumes, April 1986.
2.   National Agricultural Research Program, Preparation Report,
Ministry of Agriculture, September 24, 1986.
2.   Kenya, Agricultural Inputs Study, Report IBRD 5643-KE, June
10, 1985, 3 volumes.
3.   Kenya, National Seed Quality Control Service, Evaluation
report on Netherlands Assistance, March 1983.
C.       Implementation Related Documents
1.   Consultant's Report on Livestock by K. Meyn, April 1987.
2.   Consultant's Report on KARI Research Information Systems by
S. Akwera, April 1987.
3.   Consultant's Report on Laboratory and other Equipment by W.F.
Pieters, April 1987.
4.   Consultant's Report on Civil Works by G. Jenkinson, April
1987.



NOTES



MAP SECTION



36'                                                              41O'
S U D A N                  W                                                          KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ELEVATION AND RAINFALL
4t         80 sC2 160 KltMETERS
/   \                      ,  \ - - -. - -   _                              _ _ _  _   _  _  _   _
/    'N'  .   ~   ~ _  \            ^   2r   4t       8    K  MILES
A,k_                      ' i'                       'l, o <_N                            /
'IO~~
Lo w'r                                                                                     /   /
g',                                                S O M A L IA
UN G A N D A    j  ,. jF   S t    x   -; i>> X                ,                Waj
a:t 4 '\                              -
igor  S ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ - 
MrttGCN~~~~~~~~ 



/  t O     U      ;   ' >'i  \\        '               >. .     .,g,  I, /                  v       D                                                                          >               '       aXt Aa  
A' /                                                                                                                                                                       / n,,om\ 
"u-i, .   ,             W, 'A    t   '   4,\4                                                                                                                                           1        ,     ,      ,
HomO say            motti
Isohyets. mIn ches                                               Q      l     a                                 .                                                                  .                               .
. }     .,,,, ibo~~Kbok,                                                                           {,_
N Notional Capitol                                                                                                                                                                                        / .'
i Provmce Copcitls                                                         I'o|t< sv                                                                                                                   .'Lm
Cfies cnd Towns    EIta,,t.ons                                                 SpoJX                      \    -    \&<    ,*    _    *zx,t,5,w5:0-e"ZcrL.
R,vers                          ' <|3,000  meve,s                t         O                                               ,/.
Trunk Roads                             24,000                        o                                                                                                                                                                'A '.r
S  econdary Road%                          1,500                               \                   ._1c                                                                                                                        ^      c
RCadYays                                 I 000                                  1?rN' ,\                                                 ''                                                                              >Stx    A
District Soundo,,es                     Soot/ttMNAeO,5                                                                                     \s~-      _^Xrfrat-7
Proyv,nce BounclarAes                   200                                                    /  <           t .          ..          t                             /                .      ,o                        pwttwoc>cfC*A 4   .
-   -   lnteernctonol Boundo,tes                                                                                  o                  I  7f
Tob A,r_  
PRtOVINCES AND OtSTRtCTS-   ,      
RlFT YALLEA f       WfE"ARJ AR' ,-E J'WA.1N'.RAV P         .vNL-R    NhC. R17A:,ERN. R' vii' F -NR
:A VA               "l -,.,MA               VA4A 4V,A               MA4,,zf4'A
ZES  **"            A"44A/'f.SA             *t R- I4At,4  ,     ,    7_, -,  .44" A.
'SAyS 2IV '4                                 $'q4''`,
7f 4 V5 F   ' '47A        iiA77  A'AZAN            *A..Ag                   'A,''>.(                                                "'                    -
1  * .N " E  'of~ i   r  S"r M   t' it    E  < '   1  RF w  a,   b4e  f     A '   'N                       M_    R  J   b O M B A S A                   L    - J s  e X(   .d b- B
0*0*.     FA.A~~~~~t'A'l          .4.4~~I'A f'
N                                               A*A~~~~~~~74A~~~~  '..~~~,A,  
,' '.~ , .,A'A.,A        0*S44   '               '4 'A '3,1 '4                                                        \                  r 'S S                   40
s ? tss< "tae o   *4f4'A             '\        .*\A-.tt  A' 
T   r r r   'Sw 2. ,f t vt r   * t i                                                                            \     V      /    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ^>_3                      \ 
_                                                                        3r,.                                                                                   oc.5 'no                                 0                               t     ,>9c
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-_________'FC't  004I                                                                                                                                              J                  A*A''-



34-                       36                         8                         403
S U D A N         .      (
.-~   n o 6c?    \                                    KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
AGROCLIMATIC ZONES
E   T   H   I  O   P  I  A   .
<   tRK{,,               ..                          To AdSr Add,o ,                7 A
'.7  /                                   ft~~~~~~~~~~~~/A   ,~-04
I/ F -                   >          )         o-  X          O  R T   H        /
2    ,             Z  .SA M8SRd A/A &SA                   ',F                    /   
z         '{e LV ALE  Y                  E A       T TE   N
K   I~~~~~~~~~~~~5 IV   R 
B~AR4NGO 



I                  te~ich                 '<IA. ;L  . '                                                                                                                  I
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
2  Nq  \   i  <   <            '\   )                     t                        \        /    f     -                     2'
--   eco'da'y Roccts                                                                                                                                  ..,         Lo '8 /ADtD /> > X/tm,
-1                                                                                   '''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G,' C
4,F A  Gtigil                         bu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T' no l. eii                                 b
~--   D?S'IO 'Ci  ,da',eS             C/Se i Ot?s S ,lo a.   n'?:s    tF
--       yIre.otNonaI Bcntidoi an,   *  Na',ona Copitol                                                       .CO d da i i Tue dr:nai,t,
. ._  _   .  Mahndl          to~~~~~~use ad lure borludwue nho,.,
70srvsxe i   t'~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a Itu ant do noorrt "itW. 
Kaitodo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iytann n h ellneu
P-a,y Roadi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~davin-aya n
Seco-da,y Roads~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ndSn.eic ceaaina
ZONE        lEFo     CL IMAtiC RES,C.NX-ON        AGR_UL1URAL POTENTsAL                                                                                                  ,el              byuaudanen
I 1      80%>        . Veuy hlJnTd Vrery h,gh    -    ~&    S                                                      ...                                               ......  s j  -
El      65-80         Hurnid                          Hlgh                               9         rig, Z arA   ......    5               /      | |                r         C:JuefeWd
m        50-65        Su,b.humid                      HigF. to Medoat                                                                     '                      A1    l.
1'       40- 50       Sub humnd to Senr. arld         MRednum                                                                                      <                  5 - FI IOP i A   7
_4   tV       25-40        Son, .'*rd                      Mlarginal                                        \      o~~/gla                   
z   5-25   Arrd                Loin                                                                        _t3tS17S5A  K   K            r ~5          D38tA[IT
STTT      'lti        Very aifd                        Very tow                                            N\',                         ML,muA,,A!          ,iE at                d
O   50   100   1501  200 Klorniete,.                                             ta -                               t-S                    C
>             e        ~       ~~      ~ 50  100\le                                                                          e                              <.        T 14- N 1
a                         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o   ,  f .0y-O
_~~ ~ ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r'-"-'(-'-V
1  3s4'               V eb' h u8'd                                                                                                            4 0-y h ,g h  T   7 A i  T A NO       U T
34'                                       36                                               38'                                              40 v,y  "dVe,y I8A1-I'OMA I



S U D A N            2 36                                       KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
,\ j                           MANDATE AREAS FOR REGIONAL RESEARCH CENTERS AND
LOCATION OF MAIN RESEARCH CENTERS AND INSTITUTES
oroO                  ETHIOPIA                  M- '                 er '-
)          Fergusons Gult 0                                    /
E\hye 3gsw O'
2  \   -I X   18ov 1
l,  X          '           (*rst~~~~~~~~~~~~Moit
UGANDA
|  SOMAALIA
Mr &GON  J   -                                                                     i
1>R  ,              0 , -  /  \  %<, ,M            .. Orr"



:    i'                                                                                         4
Mo,~e. podre fa&           t(it                                                                                                                                                         \
9-12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
7 Lrne,tclt  edngn,f.: o    NorinoshI                                                                    
NATIONAL RESEARCH CENtERS  1,,  Jpd ..... ,_\/
SUBJIECT                            tOCATION                                                                 ,                                                                     , __
M.- toi,p-rivre frrW                  K'tob'                                                                      Kto.  
? Pl0r1t p~Qtcct~Ot'. SvgruKo    r Kbotn   s                            "I,
ln,.ol haeon                         Ahera-,7o
4 Ttxr                                 Ke,tch.                                                                                                                                                                                    L Ki f     Tu
S Py`ethr                              A Molo \tE,>.. 
6 MfWrhoolt,m1wed                      Njoro                                               '                           
7 Ine,,tock bre-ftned4gmtalton         No;VOsho                               r                NsrN.W
c; Ptai't p'oterchor. agnculftrol boony                                           -<                             
O.'r,at thealth,.9ocrlulturat eng,,tee,'nCJ  Xgugo'/\/\\I Y
9 Potao                                Tgoo; Ao/ ^,
Soil fet.lty'plont nOfrlon         NAUKobe'e                                                               M'
-  Veterinrty xlrone                  Kobete                                                        /\i/tlN4                   !.                                    -_
Sox,o Ecnoma.cs (KARI)              No.mob.                                                         V
I Co%fnre Rvv rthS ,rP sBto  bher p.                                                             d Strr b                                                             " /  "
_    fHori,colturnrenri             Th.k rMT. .hirdt -i-nr sof                                                                                                                                                 [Je  ,  2   National Research Certeri
So Cod -tn                           KMwee Tobetr                                  "Id $h I., 11rntr        thr   To ....... Al01{                                                                                _
- ot to                              M no Tn                                       Pto   r   b tK  lor m    TA   t   r TN                        - .,                                                                    Regional  Research  Centers
R a n g e   g   I rn e n7 ts     }    W n. b                   fr                 0 S' o f  de WI I. n ft _                                                 Regnie                                                             a l  R e s e a r c t  M a n d a t e   B o u n d a r ie s
usc-d ld nds  bod-s,
. M. ona on oonei. foa                                                                                                                        Notioncl Capital
Of' OiS flOp dn .O IfiTpty if' the                                                                                                            NciriCaio
REG4ONAL RESEARCH CENTERS                                                       ThI i oip. Wioio Bok iokd th                                                                                                     1 ;Pr-aince Capitals
KitIn  il i9-e"1                                                                                                                              Prove inceCtapiti
4- KaIialn ,7r0g           /;i<ffi7 ..n 'evS -IJ?Vs ........... \ . 't   o. o .J                                                                                                                     0       Cities and Towns                    4-
K,-  ego                                                       o' *7^r '- t '  ' arson.  tndorser.li or, .    o                        *MOMBASA                                                            T-unk Roocds
K.t.-                                                          svrhrIfu e 40    80         120        160                                                                                                   S -    ecordary Roods
K>t                rn. isi-1 0511 ra irlO a0 i2 l-                                                                                                                                                            O Ralnods
Ma .pwotza (Mro,.ak.o)                                                       4 20       n- I J                                                                                                              District Boundartes Ci
Gar.ss                                                                                                     X                                                                                                r    ( _ _ P egion    Bound aries
r  -                                                                                   TOC7 CS 50     "rT                       40D -a- lnteer'tiro,aI Boundates
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~en I                   .s4



