Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15154
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICUL.TURAL RFSEARCH PROJECT
(Cr.1849-KE)
DECEMBER 5, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Kenya Shilling (KSh)
US$1.00 (at appraisal) = KShl6.00
US$ 1.00 (end June 1995)  KSh54.63
SDRI.00 (at appraisal) = US$1.27
SDRl.00 (end June 1995) = US$1.57
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
I July - 30 June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AD                  Assistant Director (KARI)
ARF        =       Agricultural Research Fund
ARGF               Adaptive Research Grant Fund
CGIAR      =       Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research
CIDA               Canadian Intemational Development Agency
CIMMYT              Centro Intemacional de Mejoramiento de Maiz y Trigo (Intemational Maize
and Wheat Improvement Centre)
DCA         =      Development Credit Agreement
ECF         =      East Coast Fever
ERR         =      Economic rate of return
EU          =      European Union
FAO         =      Food and Agriculture Organization
FAO/CP    =        FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
FS         =       Farming System
FSA         =       Faming Systems Approach
FSSU               Fanmng Systems Support Unit
GOK                Govemment of Kenya
GON                Government of Netherlands
GTZ                Gesellschaft fir Technische Zusammenarbeit
ICR        =       Implementation Completion Report
IDA                 Intemational Development Agency
ILCA                Intemabonal Livestock Centre for Africa
ISNAR      =       Intemational Service for National Agricultural Research
JICA        =       Japan Intemational Cooperation Agency
KARI        =      Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
MIAC       =        Mid-America Intemational Agriculture Consortium
MOU        =        Memorandum of Understanding
MALDM    =         Ministry of Agnculture, Livestock Development and Marketing
MRT        =       Ministry of Research, Technical Training and Technology
MTR        =       Mid-Term Review
NALRC      =       National Arid Lands Research Centre
NARP       =       National Agncultural Research Project
NRC        =       National Research Centre
NRRC        =       National Range Research Centre
ODA         =       Overseas Development Administration
RELO                Research Extension Liaison Officer
RRC                 Regional Research Centre
RREAC       =       Regional Research-Extension Advisory Committee
SAR         =       Staff Appraisal Report (World Bank)
SIDA        =       Swedish Intemational Development Agency
TA          =       Technical Assistance
UNDP        =       United Nations Development Programme
USAID               United States Agency for Intemational Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1849-KE)
CONTENTS
PREFACE .......................... i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................................................... .    .............. .. 11
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..................................................... I
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES                          ......I
13. ACHIEVEMFN T OF OBJECTIVES ......2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT......                                                    3
D PROJECTF SIJSTAINABILITY .....                                                                4
. BANK PERFOM RMANCE.                                                                       ..... 5
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                                                    ..... 6
G. ASSESSMENFT OF OIJTCOME.......                                                               6
H.    F1 JTI JRE    OPERATIONS  ............................  ................................................................................................. F  I
1. KEY lI                                 .                         .SSONS LEARNED .12
PART 11: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ..................................14.......... ......... 14
APPENDICES
Aide Memoire
Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1849-KE)
PREFACE
1.     This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National Agricultural
Research Project for which Credit 1849-KE in the amount of SDR15.5 million (US$19.6 million
equivalent) was approved on May 13. 1988 and became effective on August 11, 1988. The credit
was closed on June 30. 1995, two years later than the originally planned closing date. Final
disbursements under the Credit are vet to be made. At November 27, 1995, the undisbursed
balance of the credit was equivalent to US$ 1.1 I million, which is expected to be almost completely
disbursed by the end of thc calendar year. following resolution of certain outstanding disbursement
issues' . Parallel financing for the project was provided by United States Agency for International
Development (USAID), European Union (EU). Governmcnt of Netherlands (GON), Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA). Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA),
Gesellsehaft fur Technische Zusamnienarbeit (GTZ). Food and Agriculture Organization/United
Nations Development Programme (FAO/UNDP) and Overseas Development Administration
(ODA)
2.     Preparation of the ICR2" was undertaken by an FAO/CP mission which visited Kenya in
July 1995, coincident with IDA's final supervision mission. The ICR was prepared by FAO/CP on
behalf of the Agriculture and Environment Operations Division (AF2AE), Eastern Africa
Department and was reviewed by Ms. S. Ganguly, Division Chief, AF2AE and Mr. A. Deshpande,
Acting Projects Advisor, AF2. The main implementing agency, the Kenya Agricultural Research
Institute (KARI) prepared a paper3! on the experience of project implementation. In addition to this
paper, the report is based on discussions with the project management, material in the project files,
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), supervision reports,
the mid-tenn review report, and a final evaluation by the EU of their involvement in the project, as
well as a large number of papers commissioned by the donors or attached as working papers to the
joint supervision mission reports. The information provided was supplemented and substantiated
by the field visits and meetings with research and extension staff at several research centers of the
FAO/CP mission. The Borrower, KARI as well as ODA provided input/comments on the draft
report, which have been incorporated in the ICR
While the account was closed upon the completion of the requisite grace period of 4 months on
October 31. 1995 and no further Withdrawal Applications are being accepted, certain disbursement
issues pertaining to the Applications received prior to October 31 are unresolved; these issues are
expected to be resolved by the end of 1995.
2;  The ICR was modified to reflect the input of various Bank staff, co-financiers and KARI, who
reviewed the draft report prepared by FAO/CP, and ma' not mirror the FAO/CP mission s
assessment of the project's performance, sustainabilit)' and some of the lessons of experience.
3   Towards NARP I Implemiientationi Completion Report, KARI, January 20, 1995. The report is available
in project files.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1849-KE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Govemment of Kenya (GOK) decided to pursue an integrated national agricultural
research strategy in 1984. IDA lending in the mid- 1980s included policy oriented lending for
agricultural sector adjustment and investment lending, including the National Extension Project (Cr.
1387-KE) and the Animal Health Services Project (Cr. 1758-KE), both cofinanced by the Intemational
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD).  Following project identification in mid-1984,
Govemment proceeded with preparation of the National Agricultural Research Project with
Intemational Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR) assistance, financed by IDA. As
appraised in early 1987, the project was conceived as a first five year time-slice of a long-term program
of assistance for the development of Kenya's agricultural research system. Total project cost was
estimated at around US$204 million, of which about US$106 million was expected to be financed by
Govemment - mainly to cover the cost of salaries and other operating costs of research - and the
remaining US$98 million by a number of donors, including United States Agency of International
Development (USAID) (US$28.5 million), Intemational Development Agency (IDA) (US$19.6
million), European Union (EU) (US$19.1 million), Overseas Development Administration (ODA)
(US$10.2 million), Govemment of Netherlands (GON) (US$10.1 million) and other donors (US$10.6
million).
Project Objectives
2.    The main objectives were to: (i) focus on priority research programs with a significant
likelihood of high and early retums to investment; (ii) develop technologies that contribute to increased
productivity, particularly of smallholdings; (iii) intensify producer participation in research program
formulation; and (iv) strengthen linkages between research and other agricultural services such as
extension, as well as between the new agricultural research establishment and other institutions
involved in agricultural research.
3.    Although not stated unequivocally in the project documents, these objectives were more
relevant to the envisaged overall long-term program of research development than to the first phase
project per se. The de facto objectives of the first program phase were focused on institutional
development, as reflected in the project's components. These were: (i) assistance to restructure Kenya
Agricultural Research Institute (KARI) as a semi-autonomous agency; (ii) development of KARI's
management and research capacity through staff training and extemal expert assistance in selected
areas; (iii) support for the execution of adaptive research programs covering all of Kenya's agro-
climatic zones and for equipment and rehabilitation of the Regional Research Centers; and (iv)
assistance to implement critical nationally coordinated commodity, factor and disciplinary research
programs for applied research, and for the rehabilitation of the National Research Centers from which
such programs were to be managed. The SAR and other Project documents, however, failed to clearly



- Ii -
distinguish between the long-term Program objectives (para. 2), and the more realistic goals to be
achieved during the first-phase, supported under NARP I. Other important project elements were the
introduction of a new scheme of service for KARI staff; rationalization of the network of research
centers; improvement of research/extension linkages; development of strong linkages between KARI
and related research institutions in Kenya, in other countries and with the International Agricultural
Research Centers (IARCs); and strengthening of KARI's capacity to coordinate donors. IDA's role
was to be "the donor of last resort", helping in drawing the donors together into a concerted program
and financing essential items not covered by the other donors.
4.     The program objectives were beyond what could reasonably be expected in a first phase
intervention. With the benefit of hindsight, it may be concluded that greater emphasis should have been
placed on prioritization of the research program and rationalization of the research network before the
development of physical infrastructure, and to setting time-bound targets for institutional progress.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The project was extended by two years to close on June 30, 1995. If fairly evaluated on the
basis of the more realistic "de facio" goals of the first phase, rather than the long-term Program
objectives, the overall impact of NARP I in the domain of Kenyan agricultuial research has been
significant. While the project fell short from fully achieving the (Program) objectives, as judged by the
project's performance relative to the goals stated in the SAR, substantial improvements were achieved
during the first phase of agricultural research development in Kenya, supported under NARP 1. In
1991, KARI produced the first significant research policy statement, which was a first attempt at
identifying priorities, stressing cost effectiveness of programs and farmer orientation as important
criteria. A refinement of priorities on the basis of agro-ecological zones was produced in 1995, together
with definitive strategies for maize, sorghum/millet, wheat and dairy. Significant progress has also
been made in improving the contribution of the Regional Research Centers (RRCs) to the research
system and to supporting extension and on-farm production. The operational procedures developed in
the area of research-extension coordination, are readily replicable and sustainable, and a channel of
funding has been devised to ensure timely release and thereby continuity of fieldwork. The farming
systems approach has been fully institutionalized at the RRCs. The National Research Centers (NRCs)
are also adopting this strategy to ensure the relevance and appropriateness of their program objectives.
While a broad-based range research program is now ready, it remains unimplemented in view of
inadequate financial resources. However, GOK is presently discussing the plan with the EU.
6.     Other key achievements of NARP I included the consolidation of multiple research institutes
into a single quasi-autonomous agency (KARI), initiation of arrangements for private sector
involvement in research on industrial crops (e.g. sugar, cotton, pyrethrum--tea and coffee research are
already supported by the private sector), and strengthening of linkages with extension services and
farmers. Yet other major achievements have been the establishment of essential agricultural research
infrastructure, the training and upgrading of KARI's human resources, the establishment of an
Agricultural Research Fund to finance collaborative research contracts, the rehabilitation of a network
of Research Centers serving specific commodities and agro-climatic zones, and the development of
improved technology for important crops, livestock production and natural resource management, and
strengthened linkages of the National research system with the Consultative Group on International
Agricultural Research (CGIAR) Centers, as well as wvith other regional and national centers. Some
specific examples of the accomplishments of NARP I follow. Significant achievements have been



- 111 -
attained in maize, the primary staple crop. Two hybrids, suitable for the coast and high altitude areas,
have been introduced and now are planted on about 75 percent of the area planted to maize. Average
maize yield has increased from around I ton per hectare to 3.5 tons per hectare since the introduction
of these hybrids. Drought-tolerant and disease-resistant varieties of sorghum, millet, cassava and sweet
potato have been released for the drier areas. One productive field of animal health research promoted
under the project, with ODA support, has been in the immunological control of East Coast Fever
(ECF), a disease which costs Kenya some Ksh7 billion annually in mortalities and lost production.
KARI has also adapted the "zero grazing" system for dairy cattle to local conditions, particularly the
integration of the widely-grown Napier grass, which forms the basis of the system, now widely
practiced by smallholders. With regard to natural resources management, particularly, soil and water
management, KARI has tested several soil conservation and water harvesting techniques and
developed low cost soil fertility maintenance and improvement products and recommendations for
managing acidic soils.
7.    Total project costs at the time of finalizing this report in November 1995, were around KSh5.7
billion (US$152 million equivalent) or 152% in KSh terms (75% in US$ terms) of the estimated cost at
appraisal; disbursement of the IDA Credit was about 107% of the appraisal estimate in US$ terms.
The US$1.1 million undisbursed balance was to be used to reimburse eligible expenditures incurred
before the closing date of June 30, 1995. Total donor financing over the seven years from July 1988
was around US$88 million, or about 90% of the US$98 million, which donors pledged for the planned
five year project period. Govemment expenditure on the project is estimated at around KShl .9 billion
(equivalent to US$106 million), or 120% of the appraisal estimate in KSh, or about 60% of the SAR
projection in US$ terms). Since the GOK financing was mainly for salaries and operating costs, its
contribution increased, in Ksh terms as a result of the project's extension as well as due to the
devaluation of the Kenya shilling.
8.    Implementation was delayed by difficulties in meeting the pre-conditions for credit
effectiveness and initial progress was slow due to changes in ministerial responsibility for KARI, which
was moved between MALDM and the Ministry of Research, Technical Training and Technology
(MNRTTT), three times during 1988-91. The time-lag in transferring KARI's budget to the Ministry in-
charge, created considerable logistical problems. KARI is now under the purview of MIRTTT.
Performance has however generally improved over the project implementation period -- KARI's
unsatisfactory accounting/financial management systems have been restructured and improved,
decentralization of management and implementation of research programs has been initiated in 14
research centers, but late and inadequate release of funds persisted throughout project life. The latter is
a generic problem affecting Bank assisted projects in Kenya, which is being addressed jointly by the
Bank and GOK.
9.    The Bank appropriately identified the need for a project to unify and coordinate the various
donors' efforts and programs in the field of agricultural research. However, preparation assistance and
appraisal using information available at that time, missed an opportunity to rationalize the number of
personnel and research facilities, chose ambitious project objectives which were more consistent with a
long-term program than a first phase intervention/project, and paid inadequate attention to shorter-term
targets. Supervision was adequate and incorporated joint missions with other donors.
10.   The Borrower failed to ensure timely and adequate release of project funds; opening a Special
Account offered little improvement as the account was not readily accessible to KARI. Changes in



- iv -
ministerial responsibility for KARI created difficulties during initial implementation. A Memorandum
of Understanding signed in 1993 between Ministry of Research, Technical Training and Technology
(MRTTT) and MALDM, under which the latter directly funds joint research/extension activities in the
regions, is working well and can be considered a major project achievement.
Summaiy of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
11.   Progress was made towards all (program and project) objectives, though none was achieved
fully -- inevitable, given the greater relevance of the stated objectives to the long term program. Good
progress has however been made in several fields of research, especially in farmer-orientated work of
RRCs, cereal and other food crops as well as horticultural and industrial crops production, animal
health and smallholder dairying and in small ruminants research which produced a dual purpose
(meat/milk) goat which is very suitable for the semi-arid areas. With regard to soil and water
management, KARI has tested several soil conservation and water harvesting techniques and
developed low cost soil fertility maintenance and improvement products and recommendations for
managing acidic soils. In contrast, rangeland research has produced limited applications of direct
benefit to pastoralists. Given adequate financial support and attention to the key outstanding operational
issues, e.g., a research network that is complex and not focused sufficiently; inadequate financial
management and other operational systems, and, an overstaffed KARI, there are sufficient grounds for
optimism that the longer progranm of agricultural research development will be successful in fully
achieving the (program) objectives stated in the SAR. In view of its achievements, NARP I has been a
successful "first slice" project in a longer-term program sequence, aimed at strengthening agricultural
research capacity in Kenya; project outcome is hence deemed satisfactory.
12.   In view of the progress on the preparation of the second-phase project and institutional and
operational reform measures provided therein, the sustainability of NARP I activities will be put on a
more solid footing. Other donors, viz. GON, ODA, USAID, are already embarked on their version of
NARP H. This means that some continuing activity is already assured in fields such as animal health
research and the adaptive research program. Additionally, there is clear evidence of increasingly
efficient use of resources, e.g. research and extension staff sharing resources in terms of offices at the
RRCs and in the use of vehicles. Given adequate funds, the momentum developed in farmer-oriented
research is also likely to persist. In general, sustainability of agricultural research in Kenya depends on
the continuation of the country's transformation to a market-oriented economy and the concomitant
realignment of the roles of the public and private sectors in research. As envisaged under the second
phase project, agricultural research in the public sector will focus on the highest national priorities and
be implemented by a leaner, more efficient institution (KARI), with active private sector participation.
13.   The main lessons leamed from implementation include:
(a)    While it is important to identify up-front the longer-term national Program objectives, it is also
necessary to design and manage the time-slice interventions as phased process projects, with
specific immediate objectives (as subsets of the program goals), achievable over a shorter
initial time horizon;
(b)   In a country as diverse as Kenya, prioritization of commodities and factors of production is
useful if undertaken within a broad agro-climatic framework and after prioritization of the
relative importance of each major production zone;



- v -
(c)    A farming system approach is useful (perhaps essential) in promoting research/extension
liaison and ensuring relevance in research, where there is high variability in resource base and
population pressure;
(d)    Staff rationalization and retrenchment is extremely difficult in countries where public sector
employment is used as a means of social security. The follow-on project now presents an
appropriate opportunity to transform KARI into a leaner, more effective institution;
(e)    A clear memorandum of understanding between the agencies responsible for research
and extension, with arrangements for provision of funds by the recipient extension
agency directly to the RRCs for joint activities, can lead to good cooperation and a
successful outcome; and
(f)    Multi-donor projects need strong coordination from one source within the Govemment. The
recently created Donor Coordination Unit within KARI should strive to encourage donors'
agreement on standard project implementation and management procedures/ arrangements.
Improvement in the process ofjointly determining research priorities with donors should also
be instituted.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1849-KE)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
I .    The National Agricultural Research Program or NARP is a program financed by the
Govemment and several donors to strengthen the research capability of the Kenya Agricultural
Research Institute (KARI). The major objectives of this Program are to: (i) focus on priority
research programs with a significant likelihood of high and early retums to investment; (ii)
develop technologies that contribute to increased productivity, particularly of smallholdings;
(iii) intensify producer participation in research program formulation; and (iv) strengthen
linkages between research and other agricultural services, such as extension, as well as,
between the new agricultural research establishment and other institutions involved in
agricultural research. The first phase project (NARP I) was conceived as covering the initial
five years (capital and all recurrent costs, i.e., a time slice) of a 10-15 year program
2.    It is difficult to equate the stated long-term objectives of the program with the short-
term project activities and financing plan, which concentrated initially on developing the
physical infrastructure, restructuring of KARl's organization and management, and on carrying
out an extensive training program. The defacto objectives of the first program phase were thus
focused on institutional development, as reflected in the project's components. These were: (i)
assistance to restructure Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI) as a semi-autonomous
agency; (ii) development of KARl's management and research capacity through staff training
and extemal expert assistance in selected areas; (iii) support for the execution of adaptive
research programs covering all of Kenya's agro-climatic zones and for equipment and
rehabilitation of the Regional Research Centers; and (iv) assistance to implement critical
nationally coordinated commodity, factor and disciplinary research programs for applied
research, and for the rehabilitation of the National Research Centers from which such programs
were to be managed. The SAR and other Project documents, however, failed to distinguish
between the long-term Program objectives (specified above - para. 1), and the more realistic
goals to be achieved during the first-phase, supported under NARP I. With the benefit of
hindsight, it would have been better if Program objectives had been expressed in terms of
specific targets on a stated time scale, making it clear that a rationalization of the total research
network and a prioritization of research themes was required before commitment was made to
developing physical infrastructure. To some extent this was attempted in the course of NARP I
implementation. Nevertheless, the project attempted to achieve progress on many fronts in the
initial time slice: reorganize KARI, rationalize centers, improve the research priority setting
process, develop coordinated programs, institute farming systems research operationalize links
with extension, etc. These major tasks, together with the substantial civil works program,
proved quite ambitious, and set a tall order for the first-phase initiative -- which ideally should
have focused primarily on building/strengthening the requisite institutional foundations.



- 2 -
3.    The project risks were clearly identified as the effectiveness of new management at
KARI, adequacy of govemment budget releases and identification of, and adherence to,
research priorities. The key risk remaining at project closure relates to the timely availability of
govemment funds -- a serious yet generic and pervasive problem, affecting the performance of
almost the entire Kenya portfolio. Considerable progress has been made in the research priority
setting process, particularly in the involvement of stakeholders in the process.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
4.    Progress was made towards all (program and project) objectives, though none was
achieved fully. This was inevitable, given the general terms in which the objectives were
expressed and their greater relevance to the long term program rather than the first phase
project. Delays in project processing and meeting conditions for project effectiveness
postponed project commencement by over one year to August 1988. Problems encountered in
restructuring KARl, which were compounded by changes in the parent Ministry for
agricultural research were not finally resolved until 1991 (responsibility for KARI was moved
between MALDM and the Ministry of Research, Technical Training and Technology
(MRTTT), three times during 1988-91. The time-lag in transferring KARI's budget to the
Ministry in-charge, created considerable logistical problems. KARI is now under the purview
of MIRTTT). These delays, slow release of GOK funds and problems which arose in KARI's
research management and financial system, impacted research progress. The institution of
smoothly functioning management and administration was resolved only toward the end of the
project; further actions to improve KARI's accounting system are nevertheless still required.
However, if fairly evaluated on the basis of the more realistic "de facto" goals of the first
phase, rather than the ambitious long-term Program objectives, the overall impact of NARP I
in the domain of Kenyan agricultural research has been significant.
5.    In 1991, KARI produced the first significant research policy statement' . The document
represented a first attempt at identifying priorities, stressing cost effectiveness of programs and
farmer orientation as important criteria. Priorities were established on the basis of commodities
and factors of production. A refinement of priorities on the basis of agro-ecological zones was
produced in 1995, together with definitive strategies for maize, sorghum/millet, wheat and
dairy. Overall, the focus on commodity research has been widened to embrace cropping
systems research. Nonetheless, the inquiries conducted on local needs and perspectives have
focused mostly on "felt needs", rather than on the effects of changing conditions (not least
population pressure) and likely development strategies.
6.    Significant progress has been made in improving the contribution of the Regional
Research Centers (RRCs) to the research system and to supporting extension and on-farm
production. Annual work programs have also shown continued improvement. There is now an
understanding of the need to match resources with prioritized programs and to actively involve
extension staff in the process from the start. The focus of the on-farm trials program on
specific production constraints was facilitated and enhanced by the adoption of the farming
approach to research and technology dissemination. The operational procedures developed in
I  Kenya's Agricultural Research Priorities to the Year 2000, KARI, May 1991



- 3 -
the area of research-extension coordination, are readily replicable and sustainable, and a
channel of funding has been devised to ensure timely release and thereby continuity of
fieldwork.
7.     The farming systems approach has been fully institutionalized at the RRCs. The
National Research Centers (NRCs) are also starting to adopt this strategy to ensure the
relevance and appropriateness of their program objectives. This is a welcome development.
However, a fully coordinated research system has yet to be attained. Before this is achieved,
efforts need to he made to further reduce any institutional impediments to interdisciplinary
team-work (e.g., the present commodity-orientation of the majority of KARI headquarters
units), and enhancing research performance through the center network.
8.     The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) envisaged a review of "options ... for more effective
organization of animal health and production research ... at the time, long-term strategic
proposals are finalized and before going ahead with any investment program", and noted that
National Agricultural Research Project (NARP I) represents a historic chance of putting things
right" The mandates and programs of livestock-related research centers have been rationalized
and the research centers have been assigned priority research areas2. While a broad-based
range research program is now ready, it remains unimplemented in view of inadequate
financial resources. However, the proposed plan has been presented to EU, which is being
consulted by GOK with regard to financing the range research program. This, and other issues
highlighted above, are envisaged to be addressed within the context of NARP H.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
9.     The project had nine principal donors, with additional contributions to the research
effort coming from sources external to NARP. Apart from the fact that donor support was not
always forthcoming at the rate anticipated, it was an immensely complex task for KARI to
develop sub-projects and manage contributions from so many sources. Moreover, the inputs
made by International Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR) in advising on
restructuring and prioritization did not fully acknowledge issues of ecological diversity and
population pressure in Kenya. Thus, the methodological deficiencies in KARI's first attempt at
prioritization in research are attributable more to the "state of the art" than to KARI itself
10.    Government's financial commitment to the project was to cover salaries and other
operating costs of research as well as a minor proportion of the capital expenditure, but funding
for research operations was not maintained at effective levels or released on time, which led to
serious financial difficulties that dominated all activities. By the original project closing date at
the end of the fifth year, GOK expenditure was only about 65% of the SAR forecast in KSh
terms, or only about 42% in US$ terms. By end June 1995, GOK expenditure is estimated at
2   KARl's Assistant Director (AD), Animal Production, has produced a useful assessment of present and
future allocations of responsibility in animal production research in June 1993. The AD's paper was an
input to the "Framework for Action on Agricultural Research in East African Region". Prepared in the
context of the establishment of the Association for Strengthening Agricultural Research in Eastern and
Central Africa (ASARECA) of which KARI is a member.



- 4 -
about 120% of the SAR projection in KSh terms, or about 60% in US$ terms. The SAR also
projected that as a result of increased GOK funding as well as utilization of savings from staff
reductions, the proportion of salaries in the total govemment budget contribution would fall
progressively from the 83% that salaries represented of total recurrent costs at project
commencement. In the event, although salaries only accounted for respectively 50% and 75%
in the first two years of the project, the proportion accounted for by salaries has progressively
increased to an average of about 87% of total budget releases in the last three years.
II.   In June 1990, a Special Account was established for the project which should have
helped implementation by providing adequate finances in a timely manner. However, the
Special Account managed by the Treasury, i.e., outside the control of KARI, was largely
ineffective in alleviating KARI's financial exigencies. As a result of delayed availability of
funds - in a period of considerable inflation - the implementation program was disrupted, with
the civil works being particularly severely affected. Inadequate budget releases have also led to
a situation of financial shortages, which KARI is making efforts to resolve.
12.   The extent of the financial problems would have been reduced if KARI had
streamlined operations by reducing the number of research centers and staff. However, it is
recognized that even for a semi-autonomous institution like KARl, it is not easy laying off staff
in Kenya, or in any other country where public service employment serves as a form of social
security. Nevertheless, in the context of NARP II's preparation and appraisal, a practicable
staff retrenchment plan has been approved by KARl's Board with specific staff reduction
targets. Key elements of KARl's plan include the retrenchmetit and redeployment of staff in
accordance with research priorities, and rationalization of its research center network.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
13.   The momentum now evident in farmer-orientated research is likely to be maintained, if
adequate operating budget is provided. However, the Govemment of Kenya (GOK) appears to
have difficulty in funding KARI at its present size. Although several responsibilities have been
divested to the private sector and to the agricultural extension service, the total cost of KARI
for FY95 was still around KSh 1.3 billion (US$27 million), of which about US$1 2 million, or
44%, was met by GOK and around US$15 million, or 56%°, by donors. Salaries accounted for
most of the government contribution - 88% o in FY95. As stated above however, a feasible
staff retrenchment plan has been approved by KARl's Board with specific targets relating to
the number of staff to be retrenched. GOK is presently consulting with bilateral donors
regarding the financing of this plan, and is envisaged to present a time-bound implementation
schedule for the plan, during negotiations for NARP H. In this regard, Govemnment is also
expected to confirm the availability of adequate funding for the follow-on project.
14.   In view of the progress on the preparation of the second-phase project and institutional
and operational reform measures provided therein, the sustainability of NARP I activities will
be put on a more solid footing. Other donors are already embarked on their version of NARP
II; the Government of Netherlands (GON) and Overseas Development Agency (ODA) wvith
new funding and United States Agency for Inteniational Development (USAID) using
undisbursed funds from NARP 1. This means that some continuing activity is already assured
in fields such as animal health research and the adaptive research program. Other fields of



research, e.g. rangeland research where the research to date has produced only limited
applications of direct benefit to pastoralists, are more vulnerable. GOK has however, presented
the Rangelands Research Program to other donors and is discussing further support in this area
with the EU.
15.   In general, sustainability of agricultural research in Kenya depends on the continuation
of the country's transformation to a market-oriented economy and the concomitant realignment
of the roles of the public and private sectors in research. As envisaged under the second phase
project, agricultural research in the public sector will focus on the highest national priorities
and be implemented by a leaner, more efficient institution (KARI). The viability of KARI will
depend on the quality of its management and systems, to be strengthened under the proposed
project, and commitments by Government on financing non-salary operating costs.
Sustainability will also depend on continuing support from donors, on a declining basis. The
essential complement is a growing role for the private sector, such as assuming responsibility
for research on industrial crops, and participation in the joint design and implementation of
research on other commodities (under appropriate cost-sharing arrangements). It is expected
that after another phase, agricultural research could be sustained on the basis of a partnership
between public and private sectors without further donor support. However, the basic premise
is that KARl's operations and organization will be significantly restructured, with much greater
responsibility being assumed by the private sector.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
16.   The project was identified by the Bank in late 1984 and was appraised in July 1987.
The basic justification was that a strengthened research service was necessary in order to
achieve the 3. 5% annual growth in agricultural production needed to keep pace with population
growth. Heavy consultant inputs were mobilized throughout the cycle, and the views of the
donors were also accommodated. The end-result was a rather complex project which sought
short-term benefits at the farm level, while seeking longer-term institutional improvement in the
area of national agricultural research; both objectives were partially achieved.
1 7.   A conscious effort was made to limit covenants, on the assumption that various issues
could be resolved during implementation. In hindsight, it would have been desirable to ensure a
rationalization and prioritization of research programs and staff prior to investment in new civil
works. However, the conditions that prevailed at the time would seem to indicate that the steps
taken under NARP I were the most appropriate. For example it was felt that had staff
retrenchment and downsizing of research centers been proposed at that time, the establishment
of KARI would have encountered tremendous opposition, and quite possibly KARI would not
have come into existence.
18.    Supervision was regular, and missions were of adequate duration. Some were
undertaken by Bank staff alone, others with input by one or two other donors, and three (in
1989, 1991 and 1993) by a good cross-section of donors. The joint KARI and donor MTR
took place in 1990. Supervision focused particularly on measures to extricate KARI from
increasing financial problems, and was not sufficiently critical on other issues. Overall, the
NARP umbrella proved useful in mobilizing Bank funds to fill some gaps in other donors'
contributions, and in reducing unnecessary duplication in the allocation of resources.



- 6 -
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
19.   The lack of recurrent GOK funding and delays in its delivery had an adverse effect on
the overall implementation of the project; this was particularly disruptive to the planning and
operation of field programs and slowed the utilization of the IDA Credit proceeds. At present,
KARI is dependent on donor funds for meeting operational and capital expenses. Changes in
ministerial responsibility for KARI and its dependent research centers and programs gave rise
to uncertainties and reduced staff morale during the initial stages of the project.
20.   A program of staff reorganization, (including retrenchments), was prepared by
consultants, with the expectation of implementation in 1989. Although, the specific proposals
included therein were not implemented, KARI's staff was reduced by about 1000 through
transfer of responsibilities to the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Development and
Marketing (MALDM) and normal attrition. The design of an intemal accounting system was
completed in 1988 and staff were trained in its operation. However, the trained staff left KAR]
and the system which was found to be operating unsatisfactorily, is now being replaced.
21.   More positive has been the action taken on research-extension liaison. The first
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) - of November 1990, with the institutions involved in
the National Extension Project (NEP II) - was not fully effective, but this was superseded in
September 1993 by a new MOU which places funds provided by MALDM directly under the
control of RRC directors/Research Extension Liaison Officers (RELOs) and district MALDM
staff who are answerable to the relevant provincial heads. The objectives are clearly
enunciated, the respective responsibilities of research and extension officers well set-out and
guidelines are presented covering diagnostic surveys, joint field visits, workshops, on-farm
trials and demonstrations. The effectiveness of this approach is one of the major achievements
of NARP I.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
22.   While the project fell short from fully achieving the (Program) objectives, as judged by
the project's performance relative to the goals stated in the SAR, (as mentioned earlier, the
objectives chosen were both too general and optimistic), substantial improvements were
achieved during the first phase of agricultural research development, supported under NARP
1. The key achievements of NARP I included the consolidation of multiple research institutes
into a single quasi-autonomous agency (the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute--KARI), as
well as the introduction of a process for establishing national research priorities, initiation of
arrangements for private sector involvement in research on industrial crops (e.g. sugar, cotton,
pyrethrum--tea and coffee research are already supported by the private sector), and
strengthening of linkages with extension services and farmers. Other major achievements under
NARP I have been the establishment of essential agricultural research infrastructure, the
training and upgrading of KARl's human resources, the establishment of an Agricultural
Research Fund to finance collaborative research contracts, the rehabilitation of a network of
Research Centers serving specific commodities and agro-climatic zones, and the development
of improved technology for important crops, livestock production and natural resource
management, as well as strengthened linkages of the National research system with the
Consultative Group on Intemational Agricultural Research (CGIAR) Centers, as well as with



other regional and national centers. Greater success was achieved by the project in its
attainment of physical targets of component implementation - in carrying through the civil
works, procurement of field and office equipment, as well as the implementation of the staff
training programs. The evaluations of both the February 1994 and January 1995 supervision
missions, rated the project as fully satisfactory. The supervision missions based their judgments
on whether the project's performance provided a reasonable expectation of reaching its
objectives in the future. Indeed, given adequate financial support and attention to some of the
key operational issues discussed earlier, e.g., a research network that is complex and not
focused sufficiently on development support; inadequate financial management and other
operational systems; and, an overstaffed KARI, there are sufficient grounds for optimism that
the longer p)rogramn of agricultural research development will be successful in fully achieving
the (program) objectives stated in the SAR. In view of its achievements, NARP I has been a
successful "first slice" project in a longer-term program sequence, aimed at strengthening
agricultural research capacity in Kenya, project outcome is hence deemed satisfactory.
23.   KARI is left at project completion with potential to advance further. The research
strategy is beginning to come together, as illustrated by the formulation of well-directed field
trials and demonstration program implemented in 1995. KARI has focused its development
etforts to the third of the country with the best agro-ecological potential and possibly the
greatest absolute concentrations of rural poverty. And as stated earlier, while much remains to
be achieved in terms of research capability and technology development in Kenya, progress
under the individual NARP I components has been considerable.
24.   Subsector Development Program. NARP I supported the first phase of a subsector
developmenit program for agricultural research. It supported priority adaptive research
programs, and concurrently introduced a process for defining national research priorities. It
also supported the strengthening of the institutional and physical infrastructure for research.
Implementation of the project was marked by close cooperation among Govemment agencies,
especially with the extension service, and close coordination of multilateral (EU and IDA) and
bilateral (United States, The Netherlands, Germany, United Kingdom, Japan, etc.) donors.
Research Capability
25.    Research facilities have been much improved through the program of civil works.
The largest single investment has gone into a new headquarters complex at Kabete. This is
nearing completion and will house the substantial headquarters staff. This complex will also
house the liaison scientist of KARI donors who is expected to facilitate coordination and
program implementation. At the same time, more than half of the total capital investment went
to the improvement of facilities at national and regional centers . Except for the RRCs at
Embu and Mtwapa which, respectively, are only 80% and 60% completed, most new and
rehabilitated buildings have been handed over and are now occupied by KARI.
3   As of March 1995, the total headquarters' staff was 337, or about 6% of the total staff strength of KARI
of 5,307 and included 29, or 5%, of the institute's scientists; 68, or 45%, of the administrative support
staff; and 97, or 19%, of the secretarial and clerical staff.



-8 -
26.    Some projected rehabilitation works - principally at Thika and Njoro but including road
repair at Muguga - were not started because remaining funds in the credit were not sufficient.
The laboratory equipment envisaged under the IDA credit was not procured because KARI
decided to defer procurement until the laboratories concerned were completed. However, by
the time the laboratories were completed, the project was coming to a close5 .
27.   Staff training and deployment. Substantive training programs have been completed.
During the project period, the number of research staff with PhDs increased from l 7 to 8 1.
with 22 still carrying out their studies. The number of research staff with MSc degrees
increased from 192 to 360, with 13 still undergoing training. The support of the main
contributors to the training program is shown in Table 5. Although the absence of staff on long-
term training weakened the research effort temporarily, KARI eventually enhanced its
capability in planning and executing its forward program. The disposition of scientists by
research area is fairly well balanced, with 30% in crop production, another 17% in crop
protection, 22% in fields related to livestock production and 31% in other technical services,
including soil and water management and socio-economics. The addition of socio-economists
to research station staff is a welcome development, as also is the appointment of veterinarians
to the establishment of RRCs.
28.    One problem arose in the training in range management funded by the EU. Because
few universities in Europe offer such training, researchers were sent for MSc training at the
University of Nairobi. Unfortunately, delays then arose in evaluating theses and granting
degrees which disadvantaged the scientists concemed in their career development. They are
promoted to Grade M two or three years later than colleagues who have undertaken MSc
training overseas. In all fields, promotion is awarded currently on degree status, rather than on
the delivery of useful research results, which is the core of KARI's mandate. However, as part
of an effort to reform its incentive framework, a performance based appraisal system is being
developed by KARI. This system will ensure that rewards (including promotions) are linked to
performance. The completion and adoption of the performance appraisal system will be a
condition of effectiveness of NARP II.
29.   The network of r esearch stations has been rationalized, with the transfer of research
responsibilities for some commodities to the private sector, though the total size of the network
is not much different now from that listed in the SAR. The main advance has been in the status
and the orientation of RRCs. The farming systems approach is now fully operational (within
funding constraints) at all centers. The international organizations provided substantial
promotional support and the IDA-financed consultant and KARl's AD RRCs have been
effective in translating concepts into field operations. A Farming System (FS) manual has been
produced, and KARI now proposes to establish a Farming Systems Support Unit (FSSU).
This initiative has the support of donors, and TA has been offered by the Netherlands, FAO
and USAID.
30.   Socioeconomics research in KARI has benefited through TA support from USAID,
International Maize & Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT)/Rockefeller and ODA. Some
33 KARI scientists have now been assigned to the program. The socio-economists generally
5   Field and office equipment procured is listed in Annex 3 of the Aide-Menioire



- 9 -
take the lead role in farmers' problem identification and assembling and analyzing data to
support center-based information and management systems. The socioeconomic research
program is commencing ex-ante and ex-post evaluation of research findings and studies of the
impact of research indicated by the extent of adoption of research findings by farmers. Thus,
KARl's capacity for socioeconomic analysis has been strengthened considerably, with
important effects on the priority-setting process, identification of policy issues, development of
the farming systems approach, and the quality of diagnostic surveys.
Technology Development
31.   The outputs of NARP research can be assessed on the basis of commodities and
factors of production, or in relation to production zones. The latter framework is used here
because the relevance of commodities and the needs and the responsiveness of producers differ
considerably from one zone to another. An overview of the research outputs suggests that
signlificant achievements have been attained in maize, the primary staple crop. Two hybrids,
suitable for the coast and high altitude areas, have been introduced and now are planted on
about 75 percent of the area planted to maize. Average maize yield has increased from around
I ton per hectare to 3.5 tons per hectare since the introduction of these hybrids, although
expansion into more marginal areas has masked the impact of the hybrids, to some extent. Ten
new cultivars will soon be released for the lowland coastal, mid-altitude dry and moist, and
highland production environments. Drought-tolerant and disease-resistant varieties of
sorghum, millet, cassava and sweet potato have been released for the drier areas. Several
superior varieties of rice, grain legumes, and wheat have also been released. All these varieties
yield higher than the traditional varieties, due to better disease and insect resistance, and/or
shorter maturity which allow them to escape critical periods of drought. Even in a field such as
animal health research, benefits to farmers and pastoralists tend to be zone-specific. One
productive field of research promoted under the project, with ODA support, has been in the
inmmunological control of East Coast Fever (ECF), a disease which costs Kenya some
Ksh7 billion annually in mortalities and lost production. The main beneficiaries of
immunological control will be smallholders who are using dairy animals with no naturally
acquired immunity and pastoralists who seasonally bring their cattle into infected areas.
Immunization will eventually benefit all livestock owners in the ECF zones. The work on
animal helminith and viral diseases, within KARI is of relevance to the drier areas. In both
cases, the benefits are zone-specific.
32.   Highland Farming Areas. Cereal production has progressed reasonably
satisfactorily. The national centers at Njoro (wheat) and Kitale (maize) have a long and
distinguished record for breeding of high-potential varieties. The new regional mandate has
already led to a redirection of breeding policies. Farmers have been found to be reluctant to
accept the increased fertilizer application rates which are required to release the potential. A
rethinking of breeding strategy to optimize profitability, rather than to simply maximize yield,
is now being accepted.
33.   Mixed farming has been aided by work at the Kakamega, Kisii and Embu RRCs.
Njoro, Kitale and Katuman also have an enhanced regional role. Research programs are well
identified and the research/extension linkage, is firmly established. Several crop releases have
achieved high acceptability rates, e.g. in finger millet, beans, groundnuts, soya bean, maize,



- 10-
cassava and sweet potato; new cultural practices for bananas are widely used, and some
farmers are adopting forage crops such as Napier grass selections and Stylosanthes. These
varieties and practices developed under NARP provide an excellent example of
farmer/extension contributions in defining priority requirements.
34.   Coastal Agricultural Belt. Mtwapa RRC has been active in crop research, but the
most notable progress there has been in smallholder dairying under the KARIJ1LCA
collaborative research agreement. Although the latter did not fall financially under NARP, it
represents the type of extemal research linkage which NARP sought to encourage.
Dual-purpose goats, produced with USAID support at Naivasha, are also being field-tested
with farmers at the coast, while the immunological approach to the control of ECF (the product
of research at Muguga, supported by ODA) has been field-tested with satisfactory results on
about 1,000 cattle at the coast in a program involving veterinarians in private practice. As
stated above, immunization will eventually benefit all livestock owners in the ECF zones.
3 5.   Dryland Farming Areas: Crop research has focused on sorghum, pigeon peas,
cowpeas, sweet potato, millet, maize, oil crops and fruit and vegetable crops, exploiting the
technologies developed largely at Katumani. The program has resulted in the identification of
improved varieties of sorghum, groundnuts, sweet potato, cowpeas, pigeonpeas, maize and
selected horticultural crops. These crops are now being actively extended from bothl the
Perkerra RRC and Katumani.
36.   Livestock Research. With regard to livestock, KARI adapted the "zero grazing"
system for dairy cattle to local conditions, particularly the integration of the widely-grown
Napier grass, which forms the basis of the system, now widely practiced by smallholders. An
increase of 400,000 dairy cattle was recorded from 1987 to 1991. KARI has developed
effective methods of immunizing cattle against East Coast Fever, and these are now ready for
widespread dissemination. Significant progress has been made in the development of a dual-
purpose goat for meat and milk production. A multiplication program for these goats is being
developed with the MALDM. Katumani has been working with dual-purpose goats ex-
Naivasha and from there small groups of goats have been distributed as far as Maasailand.
Both Katumani and the National Range Research Center (NRCC) at Kiboko now see
themselves as having a responsibility in technology development for the Maasai areas of
southern Kenya. Naivasha is also involved directly, not just as the source of dual-purpose
goats but as the home of the purebred Sahiwal stud, a cattle breed of interest mainly to farmers
and ranchers in dryland farming areas and in the less-intensively farmed parts of Coast
Province.
37.   Northern Arid Rangelands. The northem half of the country has very limited
cropping potential (except locally on mountains or where minor irrigation is possible) and the
population comprises almost exclusively mobile pastoralists. The area is served principally by
the National Arid Lands Research Center (NALRC) at Marsabit, and to a lesser extent bv
Garissa RRC and the NRRC, Kiboko.
38.   Progress in rangeland research has been generally limited. Neither NALRC nor
NRRC, though in receipt of substantial infrastructural development and some technical
assistance during NARP from EU, have produced results of wide or direct benefit to



- 11 -
pastoralists. Both centers have relinquished some of their former research sites or land area,
and are now seeking to reassess their future programs, but the field of livestock and range
research requires greater focus and coordination.
39.    With regard to natural r esources management, particularly, soil and water
management, KARI has tested several soil conservation and water harvesting techniques and
developed low cost soil fertility maintenance and improvement products and recommendations
for managing acidic soils. KARI has determined fertilizer response (nitrogen, phosphorus,
potassium, and farmyard manure) under a variety of local conditions and generated a series of
recommendations for extension. KARI also provides important analytical and advisory
services on soil and plant management, fertilizer quality, and animal feed. The Fertilizer Use
Recommendation Project (FURP) implemented for several years by researchers in farmers'
fields at 71 sites in 31 districts has established a solid base to predict crop responses to NPK
and farmyard manure, and to develop useful extension recommendations. In the Arid and
Semi-Arid Lands (ASAL), different soil and water management practices and their effect on
agricultural production were investigated; soil "pitting" and "tied" ridges were found to be
effective for water conservation and are being adopted in several areas. Research on the long-
term impact of land-use systems in important agro-ecological zones established the
effectiveness of several low-cost sustainable soil fertility management strategies.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
40.    NARP I was seen as the initial time slice of a fifteen-year development program.
Follow-up assistance by IDA is envisaged through a second-phase project, whose preparation
is now virtually complete. Bilateral assistance is planned to continue and Govemment is also
expected to confirm the availability of adequate funding for the follow-on project. Donors and
the private sector are expected to contribute some US$ I 10 million (of which the IDA Credit
accounts for some US$ 40 million), towards the costs of NARP H; GOK's share is envisaged
to be equivalent to over US$ 80 million. Detailed arrangements would be agreed for the
amount and timing of Govemment support, particularly for non-salary operating costs, to
ensure that agricultural research in the public sector is well on the road to sustainability. The
private sector would contribute through assumption of responsibility for research on industrial
crops over the project period and through cost-sharing arrangements for other research.
41.    Over the seven year implementation period of NARP, salary expenditures increased
almost ten-fold from around KSh53 million in 1988/89 to around KSh522 million in 1994/956.
GOK has continued to meet the increased salary bill, but has been unable to provide adequate
funds to cover other research operating costs. The future of KARI as a viable cost-effective
entity, therefore depends to a large extent on streamlining its management structure and
staffing. As described above, a substantive retrenchment operation has now been prepared; its
timely implementation will be essential for the release of vital funding for field operations
which are now becoming effective.
6   In the early years of the project, the increase in salary bill was largely due to increase in KARI staff as
research facilities came under its control. In the later years, higher cost is due to pay increases.



- 12 -
42.   If NARP II proceeds with the donor support already committed, then growth is likely to
emanate from the areas now being supported by the Netherlands, USAID and ODA,
supplemented by whatever is forthcoming from the EU (under discussion) and the intemational
research centers. That formulation would provide quite wide coverage, albeit with limited
inputs directed to the drier half of the country.
43.   In addition to the financial inputs envisaged under NARP II, early emphasis will be
given to the re-prioritization and reorganization of research and not just to retrenchment and the
fine-tuning of KARl's management system. In September 1995, KARI completed an internal
review and identified the key or priority areas within its programs for food-crops (maize,
sorghum, millet, wheat), dairy and soil and water research. This rigorous review and
prioritization exercise will be repeated by KARI every 2 years. In the re-prioritization of
research, further attention needs to be given to the requirements of pastoral areas; however, the
EU is presently being consulted by GOK with regard to financing the range research program
developed by KARI. KARl's idea of a planning workshop is to be commended, though starting
perhaps with a small working group drawn from KARI and the Range Management Division
of MALDM, with a few outside participants. The same approach might be extended to cover
all aspects of livestock production and crop-livestock integration, with a view to formulating
research strategies/organizational structures for each major production zone.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
(a)    Projects of this type cannot realistically be designed on a five-year time-scale
with the intent of achieving overly ambitious longer-term program targets;
while it is important to identify up-front the longer-term program objectives, it
is also necessary to design and manage the time-slice interventions as phased
process projects, with specific immediate objectives (as subsets of the program
goals), achievable over a shorter initial time horizon. With the benefit of
hindsight, it may be concluded that greater emphasis should have been placed
on prioritization of the research program and rationalization of the research
network before the development of physical infrastructure, and in setting time-
bound targets for institutional progress, under NARP 1.
(b)   In a country as diverse as Kenya, prioritization of commodities and factors of
production is useful if undertaken within a broad agro-climatic framework and
subsequent to prioritization of the relative importance of each major
production zone.
(c)    A farming system approach is useful (perhaps essential) in promoting
research/extension liaison and ensuring relevance in research, where there is
high variability in resource base and population pressure.
(d)    Staff rationalization and retrenchment is extremely difficult in countries where
public sector employment is used as a means of social security. In the case of
KARI, the opportunity to effect a retrenchment program was not possible
during the initial phase following the establishment of KARI. The follow-on
project now presents an appropriate opportunity to transform KARI into a



- 13 -
leaner, more effective institution, through reduction in non-essential support
staff, redeploymenm of scientists and enhancement of its human resources.
(e)    An unambiguous memorandum of understanding between the agencies
responsible for research and extension, with arrangements for provision of
funds by the recipient extension agency direct to the regional research center
for joint activities, can lead to good cooperation and a successful outcome.
(f)    The project experience shows that technical7 inputs by the International
Agricultural Research Centers in the design and implementation of research
programs and in the technical evaluation of project impact and economic
benefits are likely to be critical in achieving full benefit from project
investments.
(g)    Multi-donor projects need strong coordination from one source, within the
Government. The current system whereby donors support elements of crop,
livestock or factor research, require strong coordination by KARL. The recently
created Donor Coordination Unit within KARI should strive to encourage
donors' agreement on standard financial management, accounting and
procurement procedures. Improvement in the process of jointly determining
research priorities with donors should be instituted.
As distinct from planning.



- 14 -
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives          Substantial      Partial    Negligible   Not Applicable
Macro policies                         5            E                            R't
Sector policies                        LI             ]                          LI
Financial objectives                   LI           EII           LI]            FT]
Institutional development               I            [              I            L
Physical objectives                                LE              LI            EL
Poverty reduction                      LI            LI            LI            ITI]
Gender issues                         EI             LI            LI            IT]
Other social objectives               ELI              I          L]             I  ]
Environmental objectives               LI                          L             LI
Public sector management               LI           P]             LI            L I
Private sector development             L                           L             LI
Other (research prioritization)       EP]            LI            LI            LI
B. Project sustainability             Likely       Unlikely     Uncertain
C. Bank perfornance                satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                                    L
Preparation assistance              L             L            El
Appraisal                           L             L            E
Supervision                         LI           El             LI



- 15 -
D. Borrower performance           satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                       'L
Implementation                   [D           iE            LII
Covenant compliance                                           I EC  C
Operation (if applicable)          DPI EII
Highly                                       Highly
E. Assessment of outcome         satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactor    unsatisfactory
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Credit title               Purpose                Year of approval              Status
Preceding operations
I Cr. 1387-KE             National Agricultural               1983                    Completed
Extension
2. Cr. 1758-KE            Animal Health Services              1987                    Completed
Following operations
1. Cr. 2062-KE            Coffee II                           1990                    Ongoing
2. Cr. 2199-KF            Second National                     1991                     Ongoing
Agricultural Extension



- 16 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle            T     Date planned     |        Date actual/
I       latest estimate
Identification (Executive Proiect Summary)                                            6/84
Preparation (completion date)                               9/85                      8/86
Appraisal                                                   12/85                     2/87
Negotiations                                                1/87                      7/87
Board presentation                                          2/87                      10/87
Signing                                                                               5/88
EtYectiveness                                               7/87                      8/88
Midtemi reviewv                                             9/90                      6/90
Project completion                                          6/93                      6/95
Credit closing                                              6/93                      6/95
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY88   FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92   FY93  FY94   FY95
Appraisal estimate              1.0      4.2      8.7     13.7    17.7    19.6        -         l
Actual                            -     0.1       1.6      2.7      7.5    11.4   14.6   20.92
Actual as % of estimate          0        3        19       20       43      58      74     10
Date of final disbursemente
Final disbursement yet to be made. At November 27, 1995, the undisbursed balance of the credit was
equivalent to US$ 1.1 1 million, which is expected to be virtually completely disbursed by the end of the
calendar y'ear, following resolution of certain disbursement issues.



- 17 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Key implementation indicators in SAR/
President's Reporta'                Estimated                                     Actual
Civil Works (millions of KSh)
1. Headquarters building                          22.33                                       135.44
2. National Research Centres Buildings            58.52                                        90.61
3. Regional Research Centres Buildings            270.56                                      208.75
Total                                          351.41                                      434.80
urniture &  Equipment (millions of
KSh)
1. Headquarters                                    9.80                                       14.79l
2. National Research Centres                      104.68                                       4     I97
3. Regional Research Centres                       22.34                                      22.89 bl
. Regional Research Centres                                                                  83.29 `'
Total                                            141.82                                      125.94
Training -
I. BSc.                                             125                                         22
2. MSc./PhD.                                       269                                          267
Except for some projections of training requirements, neither the SAR nor the President's Report provide key indicators, other than as cost estimates.
Because of the deficiencies in KART's accounting system. it is only possible to give some information for cumulative expenditure in KSh.
Fumiture only.
Equipment for all locations.
The SAR suggested that allowing for staff tumover, the number of BSc. requiring further training to MSc. or high level degree over a five year project
period would be about 300. The Project Agreement (Schedule 2, Part B. para.7) was more specific and stated that KARI would anrange training to MScl
level for about 300 staffand to PhD. level for about 60 staff Details of training carried out by the project are as follows:
Sponsor                                           Short          BSc.         MSc.    PhD.   Total  Completed               Not Yet
Term  *'         b/            b'                                       Completed
CIDA                                                       0              1         58        25      84             78               6
JSAID                                                     4             0          32        28      64             50              14
O1DA                                                      18              4         21        14      57              55              2
Netherlands                                                9             13          9         6      37             32               5
IARCs                                                     19              2         15          1     37             37
EU                                                       8              1          19         1    29               29              Q
Others                                                   30               1         27        11      69             61               8
Total                                                    88             22        181         861  377              342              35
Scientific training for less than six months
BSc./MSc. or equivalent degree.



- 18-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No key indications for project operation were defined in the SAR or the President's Report. A
Plan of Action for the project is presern.ted in Annex Im of the SAR, which lists target dates for aspects
covering the following:
A. Effectiveness Conditions.
B. Proposed Preparation and Design.
C. KARI Organisation and Management.
D Training.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation, Reporting, Supervision and Reviews.
F. Construction and Equipment.
In general, all the activities listed in the Plan of Action were accomplished by the project,
although in a number of cases later than originally projected. One exception has been the lack of
development of a satisfactory accounting system, despite project investments in technical assistance,
computer consultancy, software and training for this purpose.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                  Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined    Status       Impact of study
1. Financial management    Design of revised accounting systems and         Completed   System never
system                 implementation of adequate programming, budgeting             operated
and accounting procedures including separate                 satisfactorily and is
accounts for headquarters, progranmme and station            being replaced
expenditures
2. KARI staffing           Review of KARI staffing and recommendations for  Completed   Envisaged to be
reorganisation including reduction in staff numbers         implemented under
NARP 11



- 19 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)        Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local    Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign costs    Total
costs      costs                costs
Item
1. KARI organisation and management system             16.5         19.6    36.1    n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
2. Regional Research Centres                            16.8         5.1    21.9    n.a.          n.a.          n.a.
3. National Research Centres                           93.5         30.4   123.9    n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
TOTAL Baseline                                      126.8         55.1   181.9    n.a.          n.a.          n.a.
Physical Contingencies                                  6.3          2.8      9.1    n.a.         n.a.          n.a.
Price Contingencies                                      8.9         3.9    12.8    n.a.          n.a.          n.a.
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                   142.0         61.8   203.8    n.a.          n.a.          151.55 l
El As at June 30. 1995 for GOK and co-financiers other than ]DA: ]DA disbursements data as of November 27, 1995. The records available do not allow
any split to be made between local and foreign costs.
Total project cost is based on the following estimated expenditures:
US$ million                        %
Csovernrnent or Kenya                                               63.62                          42
SAID                                                              22.54                           15
IDA                                                                 20.92                           14
t1J                                                                 15.91                           11l
ODA                                                                 10.91                           7
GON                                                                  9.22                           6
)ther Donors (Mission Estimate)                                     8.43                           5
Total                                                           151.55                          100
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                  ActualAatest estimate (US$M)
Local        Foreign        Total            Local          Foreign         Total
costs         costs                          costs            costs
Source
IDA                                    n.a.          n.a.               19.6        n.a.             n.a.             20.9 -
Cofinancing institutions               n.a.           n.a.              78.5         n.a.            n.a.               67.0
Domestic contribution                  n.a.          n.a.              105.7        n.a.             n.a.               63.6
TOTAL                               142.0          61.8             203.8         n.a.             n.a.            151.55
Final disbursement yet to be made. At November 27, 1995, the undisbursed balance ofthe credit was equivalent to US$1.11 million,
which is expected to be virtually completely disbursed by the end of the calendar year, following resolution of certain disbursement issues.



- 20 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was calculated at appraisal. KARI has set up a socio-
economic research programme which is to undertake ex-ante and ex-post evaluation of research as well as
studies of the extent of adoption of research findings by farmers. While these can be expected to yield
useful information in the future, as yet no results are available to provide a reasonable basis for any
economic analysis. Even when such results do become available, there will continue to be the problem of
the extent to which individual research findings have been the result of investments made during the
project period and how much may be due to assignment of resources pre-project, research being,
typically, a long terrn proposition.



- 21 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original   Revised fulfilment
Agreement            Covenant Present fulfilment        date            Description of
Section    type    status    date                            covenant          Comments
DCA          3. 01 (a) 4        CP                                    Bor-rower to provide  Government's
necessary funds,   difficultv in
facilities, services and releasing sufficient
other resources    counterpart funds
due to drought
emergencies and
other problems
continued virtually
throughout project
implementation.
DCA          3.02     3         C                                     Procurement of goods
and services under
Schedule 1.
DCA          3.04     5         CD                                    Project             Due dates for
implementation     revisions needed to
according to "Plan of be adhered to.
Action", updated
regularly
DCA          3.05     9         C                                     Quinquennial reviews Regular
of KARI's research   Government/Joint-
activities.        Donor reviews.
DCA          3.06     5         CD                                    Improved            The 1990
research/extension    Memorandum of
linkages           Understanding
(MOU) did not
prove effective but
the revised MOU of
1993 has led to
satisfactory
linkages.



- 22 -
DCA            4.01     1          CP                                       KARI to maintain      Set up by O&M
(a, 1)                                                       adequate records      consultants.
However, the systern
has not worked
satisfactorilv and is
being replaced.
DCA            4.02      1         C                                         Retain financial
(a,2)                                                        records at least one
year after Audit Report
DCA            4.01     1          C                                        Elnable Association's
(a,3)                                                        representatives to
examine financial
records
DCA            4.01      1         CD                                        Have records
(b,l)                                                        including Special
Account audited.
DCA            4.01      1         CD                                        Furnish Project Audit 1992/93 audited
(b,2)                                                        Report no later than 9 accounts submitted
months after fiscal    1993/94 accounts
year.                with the Auditor
(ieneral
(Corporations).
DCA            4.01      1         C                                         Furnish other
(b,3)                                                        information as
reasonably requested
roj. Agr.     3.01     5          C                                        KARI to operate with  Significant progress
sound administrative, achieved; ftrther
financial and research improvement
practices            required in some
areas.
roj Agr.      4.02 (b)  I         CP       12/31/89                        KARl to introduce    Further upgradilng
adequate             required.
programming,
budgeting accounting
procedures
Proj. Agr.     Prt. A    5         C        12131/88                        Appointment of key
Sch.2          2-4                                                          scientific and
administrative KARI
staff
Proj. Agr.     Prt. A    9         CP                                       Establishment of      Further staff trainin
Sch.2          4(a)                                                         Research Management required
and Information
System (RMIS)
roj. Agr.     Prt. A    9         CP       9/30/88                         Introduction of report. Further in-service
Sch.2          4(b)                                                         formats/guidelines for staff training
research staff       required
roj. Agr. Sch.2 Prt. A    9       CP                                       Timely completion of
4(c)                                                         progress reports



- 23 -
Proj. Agr.    Prt. A    9        C        12/31/88                       Establishment of
Sch.2         4(d)                                                       Editing Committee
rot. Agr.    Prt. B    5        C       6/30/88                         Establishment of co-
Sch.2         1-5                                                        ordinated
programiues.
Specialist Conmuittees
and Centrc
Committees
roj. Agr.    Prt. B6  5         CFP      12/3 1/88                      Establishment of'    Needs furtler
Sch.2                                                                    M&E systems         strengthenintg
roj. Agr.    Prt. B7  5         C                                       Submission of
Sch.2                                                                    uptdated manpower
training programmines
rol. Agr.    Prt. BX   5        C                                       Research/extension
Sch.2                                                                   linkages
= Covenant complied with; CD = Covenant complied -with after delay
CP = Complied with partially: NC = Not complied with.
= Accounts/audits: 2 = Financial performrance/revenue generatioln from beneficiaries.
3 = Flow and utilisation ol'project funids: 4 = Counterpart funding, 5.= Managemenit aspcets.
.= Environmental covenants: 7.= Involuntarv resettlemenit; 8.= Indigenous people.
9.= Monitoring, review and reporting



- 24 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title               |       Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. OP 12.20 Special Accounts                             E3ank statements for the Special Account (SA) and requests
for replenishment of the SA were not submitted regularly.
The SA was in the Central Bank and controlled by the
Treasury-, it proved to be largely ineffective in meeting its
purpose of providing funds to YARI in a tiinely manner to
cover project expenditures.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage ol)                     Planned                 Revised                   Actual
prolect cycle           __I
Weeks        US$         Weeks       US$        Weeks          US$
I'reparation to appraisal            n.a.         n.a.        n a.        n.a.          122.2       n.a.
Appraisal                            n.a.         n.a.        n.a         n.a.          131.8       n.a.
Negotiations through Board           n.a.         n.a         n. a        n.a.           16.1       n.a.
approval
Supervision                          n.a.         n.a.        n.a.        n.a.        300.2a'       n.a.
Completion                           n.a.         n.a.        n.a.        n.a.          14.0<       n.a.
T(OAL                               n.a.         n.a.        n.a.        n.a.         :584.3       n.a.
a Encluding an esuimated 15 weeks for the final supervision mission.
S E.stimate.



- 25 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Number                  Specialised             Implemen-  Development
Stage of            Month/         of           Days in   staff skills                tation         objectives          Types of
project cycle       year           persons    field         represented-              status                           problems-'
Identification          6/M4            4           15      A.A  ,R                      _               _
Preparation             9/84            3           21      A,M.AF                       _               _
Pre-Appraisal            5/86           5           20      A,AI,R,L,E
Pre-Appraisal           10/86           5           15      A,AE R,E,F
Appraisal               2/87            9           15      A,Al,Ex,R,F,RE
Supervision In          3/88            4           14      A,Ex,AE,R                    S                                 F FM
Supervision 2           9/88            1           10      Ex
Supervision 3           3/89            5           20      A,Ex,F.P                     S                S                F,M
Supervision 4            1/90           3           21      A,T,P                        S                S               F,M,P
Supervision 5           11/90           5           10      A,R,F,P
Supervision 6           6/91            4           21      A,P,F                        S                S                F,M
Supervision 7           11/91           10          21      A,L.T,R,Ex,F,P               S               S                 F,M
Supervision 8           2/93            10          1]      A,L,R,F,B,FS,                S               S                  F P
Ex,F,P
Supervision 9           2/94            6           24      A,Ex,SC.F,P                  S               S                  F,1J
Supervision 10          1/95            3           21      A,F,P                        S               S                 FP
Supervision 11/        7/95            5           1i      A,F,P                        S               S                   P P
ICR
A - agriculturist                                     F =Financial
AF = agricultural economist                           M = Management
F   biotechnology                                     P = Procurement
Ex  extension
E   economist                                  '      In addition to the supervision missions a mid-term evaluation of the project
F  financial                                          was undertaken in June 1990
FS - farming systems
L   livestock
P = procurement
R   rescarch
RE = research equipment
SC  soil conservation
T   training specialist






Appendix A
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr.1849-KE)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    World Bank mission comprising Messrs. E. Quisumbing, agriculturist and mission
leader, J. Claude Fayd'Herbe, senior financial management specialist, J. Kampen, principal
agriculturist, J. Nyaga, financial analyst, and M. Mbungu, procurement specialist, carried out a
final supervision mission of the First National Agricultural Research Project (NARP I) on July
10-21, 1995. The mission was joined by a team from the FAO/CP led by Mr. J. Weatherhogg,
economist, and comprising Messrs. J. Macartney, agronomist. D. Pratt, livestock specialist,
and L. Petersen, monitoring and evaluation specialist, which will prepare the project's
Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
2.    The mission visited Regional Research Centers (RRCs) at Njoro, Kisii, Kakamega,
Embu and Perkerra and National Research Centers (NRCs) at Katumani, Kitale, Kiboko,
Naivasha and Muguga. Meetings were held with officials of the Kenya Agricultural Research
Institute (KARI), Ministry of Research Technical Training and Technology (MRTTT), and
wvith representatives of other donors involved in funding NARP I, i.e., European Union (EU),
USAID, Government of the Netherlands (GON), FAO and the ODA. The mission also met
with the Auditor General Corporations, and officials of the External Resources Department of
the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Development and Marketing
(MOALDM). The mission expresses its appreciation for the assistance provided by Messrs.
R. L. Odupoy, D. Wachira, R. Kiome, I. Weindaba, J. Matata, H. Cheruiyot, N. Murugu and
Mrs. A. Abate for arranging the mission's itinerary and in facilitating the work of the mission.
3.    This aide memoire, which is subject to confirmation by the World Bank's management,
summarizes the mission's findings and recommendations. It was discussed in a wrap up
meeting chaired by Mr. R L. Odupoy, representing the Director of KARI and attended by
representatives of donors. A more comprehensive report on the accomplishments of NARP I
will be included in the ICR which is being prepared separately.
HIGHLIGHTS OF MISSION FINDtNGS
Project Design
4.    NARP's objectives were to: (i) focus on priority research programs with a significant
likelihood of high and early returns to investments; (ii) develop technologies that contribute to
increased productivity, particularly of smallholdings; (iii) intensify producer participation in
research programme formulation; and (iv) strengthen linkages between research and other
agricultural services, such as extension as well as between the new agricultural research
establishment and other institutions involved in agricultural research, in particular universities,
private enterprise and international organizations. The idea of such a project was well chosen.
In addition to these objectives the project also included the two areas of strengthening research






KENYA: National Agricultural Research Project   29
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
institutions and improving the degree of cooperation and coordination of the various
intemational donors for agricultural research. Both of these were important not only for
agricultural research, but for the whole development of the agricultural sub-sector. However,
despite these appropriate aims and objectives the project proved to be unduly optimistic
regarding how much could be achieved over a five year (subsequently extended to seven year)
implementation period, particularly GOK's ability to release adequate finance to cover non-
salary operating costs.
Implementation
5.    Project commencement and credit effectiveness were delayed as a result of the longer
time taken than foreseen in meeting conditions for credit effectiveness and project processing.
Late and inadequate budget releases continued to adversely affect the project during the whole
of the implementation period, disrupting both research and infrastructure programs. Donor
financing has also often been significantly slower than planned, due to various factors including
time consuming procedures in tendering and other requirements in order to achieve the release
of the funds committed.
6.    Difficulties were also caused by the uncertainty over whether the MOALDM or
MRTTT would have responsibility for KARI in the early years of the project, inadequately
developed research strategies and fragmentation of research programs, and the fact that large
numbers of KARI's scientific staff were sent away for training during the implementation
period" . Other problems included little standardization between donors regarding their
requirements in project preparation and processing, supply of equipment and technical
assistance, and lack of an adequate program budgeting and accounting system.
7.    The performance of GOK was generally reasonably satisfactory although in retrospect,
the Govemment missed the opportunity during the project period to streamline KARI and cut
costs by reducing the number of research centers and non-essential support staff. On the
positive side GOK has shown some persistence in trying to improve coordination between the
donor agencies and has been active in arranging for successful cooperation between KARI and
MOALDM extension staff
8.    IDA performance has been generally adequate in project supervision but might have
played a greater role in coordinating the programs of the other donor agencies within the
overall NARP umbrella and could have been more searching in their review of agricultural
research strategies and proposals. Relationships between GOK, IDA and the other donors
were good and appear to have become closer during the project period.
About 400 staff members have been trained during implementation, of which 250 master's degrees or
doctorates. This may be compared with a staff strength of 540 scientists in September 1994.



KENYA: National Agricultural Research Project    30
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
Finance and Audits
9.    The status of the FDA Credit as well as the amount to be paid for eligible expenditures
incurred as of the project's closing date of June 30, 1995 are given as Annex 1. The amount of
SDR2.159 million remains undisbursed, although it is expected that applications for
reimbursements for expenditures incurred before the credit closing date should result in all but
about SDR200,000 of the credit being utilized. KARl would submit applications for
reimbursement for goods delivered and services rendered prior to the project's closing date, by
October 3 1, 1995. FDA has started to recover the amount advanced to the project's special
account and the balance remaining as of June 30, 1995 is US$680.211.38. KARI was
reminded to fully document this balance as soon as possible.
10.   A clean audit report for the 1992/93 Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) has been
submitted to IDA. The 1993/94 SOEs have been submitted to the Auditor General -
Corporations (AGC) for audit, and the AGC informed the mission that his office will start the
audit by July 24, 1995. It is expected that it will be completed within a 2 week period. The
1993/94 project accounts would be submitted for audit by August 15, and the 1994/95 project
accounts and SOE by September 1 5.
11.    Financial management in KARI has not performed as well as required and measures
are being undertaken to rectify it. Some of the measures which have been taken include the
reorganization of the finance, accounting and internal units and authorization of higher
expenditure ceilings for center directors. Procedures for more efficient and timely utilization of
research center incomes are under review.
12.    Putting in place an effective and streamlined financial management system for KARI is
a major focus of NARP 11. The main features of the new system are the decentralization of
financial operations to the research centers supported by a computerized integrated financial
management system which will allow the monitoring of research program budget execution at
each center. Center accountants training in the system is on-going through funding from the
NARP 11 Project Preparation Facility (PPF). Ten pilot centers will start using the new
program budgeting system by September and ten more before December 31, 1995. The
impact of the system on research operations Will largely depend upon KARI and GOK's ability
to identify well in advance stable annual budget funding sources and make them available to
the centers in a timely manner.
Project Accomplishments
13.   Civil Works and Equipment Procur ement. IDA financing of civil works was
envisaged to be construction of a KARI Headquarters Building and rehabilitation of Research
Center buildings, estimated to cost US$1.60 million and US$5.02 million, respectively. In
1988, the civil works component was reviewed and IDA agreed that the IDA-financed civil
works would include:
(a)    construction of the KARI Headquarters building;



KENYA: National Agricultural Research Project    31
Appendix A: Nlission's Aidc-Nenioire
(b)    construction/rehabilitation of Regional Research Centers at. Embu, Mtwapa,
Perkerra, Kisii and Kakamega,
(c)    construction of the Naivasha research center building; to house offices and
laboratories,
(d)    rehabilitation of research centers at Thika, Kitale, Kabete, Nsjoro. and Muguga;
and
(e)    cost of civil works enginleering consultants.
The EU also financed major building rehabilitation of the national research centers at Kabete,
Marsabit. Katumani and Kiboko.
14.    Annex 2 provides a list of civil wor-ks completed. Except for the regional research
centers at Embu and Mtwapa, which are only 80% and 60% completed, respectively, all
programmed rehabilitation and constructioni works of regional research centers were fully
completed. With the exception of the KARl Headquarters building which is still awaiting
electrical connections, all other buildings have been handed over and are occupied by KAR1.
Rehabilitation of laboratories at Thika and offices at Njoro, and repair of roads at Muguga and
the water supply system at Njoro were not started because remaining funids in the Credit were
not sufficient.
15.    The field and office equipment that have been procured are listed in Annex 3. The
laboratory equipment to be provided under the IDA Credit was not procured because KARI
decided to procure these equipment when the laboratories would be completed. By the time
the laboratories were completed, the project was comililng to a close.
16.   Training. The traininig program for the MSc and PhD degrees was successfully
implemented durinig NARP 1. During the project period, the number of research staff with
PhDs increased from 17 to 81 vwith 22 still carrying out their studies. The number of research
staff with MSc degrees increased from 192 to 360 with 13 still on training. Under NARP 1, 88
research staff received short-term scientific training and 21 staff members received a first
degree. The majority of the training was provided through C[DA. USAlD and ODA. A more
detailed report on the postgraduate training and short-ternm skills upgradinig proelam supported
under NARP I would be provided in the ICR.
17.    Research/Extensioin/Far mer Linkage. The mission was very impressed to witness
research and extension actually working closely with farmers in identifying constraints, and in
developing and implementing the adaptive research programs of the RRCs. A lot of the credit
can be attributed to the MOU between the MOALDM aid MRTTT which spelled out the
working relationships of the researchers and extension staff, and provided modest ftnds
particularly for jointly implementing diagnostic surveys, on-farm trials, field days, and for
participating in monthly workshops, programming meetings and training sessions. At Kisii,
MOALDM has shared a 4-WD vehicle with the RRC allowing them to work with more



KENYA: National Agricultural Research l'roject  32
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
districts, highlighting the close collaboration between research and extension. At Kakamega,
extension staff were working with researchers in preparing the station for the field day the
following week. Researchers were briefing the extension staff on the new technologies being
demonstrated; extension staff in turn will explain these technologies to the farmers. In both
Kisii and Kakamega, the extension liaison officers of the MOALDM are for all intents and
purposes also staff of those RRCs. Farmers are tlOW actively involved in the formulation of the
adaptive trials program of the RRCs and in reviewing the results at the end of the growing
season.
18.   The mission was also impressed by the effectiveness of the linkage now evident
between the national programs at the NRCs and adaptive trials programs of the RRCs. It was
gratifying to note that RRC scientists involved in the adaptive research program have
developed confidence and have realized the importance of the linkage to their own role. They
have also gained the respect of the NRC scientists who realize the contributions the RRC
scientists can make to the national programs. In Kitale, the national maize research team is
meeting with the RRC researchers to make the program more responsive to farmers'
preferences, as ascertained by the joint research-extension diagnostic surveys. Farmers prefer
maize varieties which may not be as high yielding but would provide higher incomes when
supplied with the moderate amounts of fertilizer that the farmers can afford. WVhile it has taken
time to develop this collaboration has taken considerable time and effort, the payoff is starting
to be realized.
19.    Farming Systems Approach to Research and Development. The farming systems
approach is now fully institutionalized at the RRCs. Many NRCs are starting to adopt this
strategy to ensure the relevance and appropriateness of their programs objectives. The KARl-
AD for RRCs, with the assistance of consultants provided through IDA and SIDA funding, has
been instrumental in promoting the wide acceptance of the FSA. A Farming Systems Manual
has been produced to standardize the approach and methodology for the design,
implementation and analysis of results of the adaptive research program of the RRCs.
20.   Agricultural Research Fund. The arrangements included in the project for the
Agricultural Research Fund (ARF) financed by USAID and the Adaptive Research Grant
(ARG) financed by IDA appear to have worked well and provide a good mechanism for
funding individual agricultural research projects. Other donors are now adopting the same
model.
21.    Adaptive Research. IDA support during NARP I focused on the operationalization of
the regional research centers. The mission noted the significant efforts of various donors,
particularly the Netherlands, USAID, European Union, ODA, and IDA in promoting the
acceptance of the farming systems approach (FSA) as the basic strategy of implementing the
RRCs' adaptive trials program. Collaboration of RRCs with farmers and extension staff in
defining the research agenda of the regions and in implementing the research programs in
farmers' fields has been institutionalized. The main actions that have led to this achievement
were: (i) the Memorandum of Understanding signed by MOALDM and MRTTT and the funds



KENYA: National Agricultural Research Project    33
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
made available by MOALDM to support key joint activities, and (ii) the provision of adaptive
research funds by IDA in a timely manner.
22.    With the establishment of the RRC at Perkerra, research on crop/livestock production
systems of semi-arid lands was expanded. Crop research focused on sorghum, millet, maize,
oilcrops and fruit and vegetable crops. The program is based on exploiting the technologies
developed largely at Katumani.
23.   In the field of highland cereal production, the national centers at Njoro (wheat) and
Kitale (maize) have a long and distinguished record for breeding of high potential varieties.
Their additional regional mandate has already made an important positive contribution to a
redirection of breeding objectives. The discussion with farmers and extension services have
shown the low acceptability rates of recently released high potential hybrids (particularly
maize). Whilst high yield levels are attained with high input technology and cultural
management, farmers are reluctant to accept the increased fertilizer application rates which are
required to achieve the maximum yield potential. A rethinking of breeding strategy to optimize
profitability rather than maximize yield is now being made to produce the varieties that are
acceptable to farmers. This redirection of research strategy and objectives through
farmer/extension/research participation and collaboration is a very encouraging direct result of
project intervention.
24.    Mixed farming in high potential areas has also benefited. The performance of the
Kakamega and Kisii RRCs under NARP I is particularly encouraging. Research programs
have been well identified anid the research/extension linkage, which started in l991, is now
firmly established. Quantifiable responses and acceptance rates are now becoming available.
As an example, soyabean production can now be promoted for commercial exploitation using
the varieties that have been identified. Increased potential for cassava production has resulted
in the emergence of village processing units which were also promoted by the cassava research
project.
25.    Considerable success has also been obtained in livestock research. A dual purpose
(meat and milk) goat has been developed and now is being multiplied and distributed.
Improved forage crops have been identified for zero grazing dairy production schemes.
Significant progress has also been made in the immunological control of East Coast Fever in
cattle and in developing a new vaccine against Contagious Caprine Pleuropnuemonia in goats.
26.   The natural resource management sector has also benefited from NARP 1. A
comprehensive soils map of Kenya has been prepared. The Fertilizer Use and
Recommendation Program has developed the appropriate fertilizer recommendations for
various soil types which have helped farmers determine optimum levels for obtaining highest
returns. Soil and water conservation techniques using hedgerows, tied-ridges and alley
cropping have been developed and are being demonstrated in the semi-arid areas in
combination with drought tolerant crops like sorghum, millet and simsim.
27.    Six examples of research successes as listed by KARJ are briefly described in Annex 4.



KRENYA: National Agricultural Rcsearch 1'rojpct  34
Appendix A  Mission's Aide-Mdecnirc
CONCLUSIONS
Project Results
28.    Since in the case of most KARI centers the buildings have only just been completed
and staff only recently returned from training it is clearly too early to see the benefits of
widespread research findings. Probably, the two greatest achievements to date have been the
forging of muchl better links between research, extension and farmers, helped by the September
1993 Memorandum of Understaniding (MOU) between MRTTT and MOALDM, and the
adoption of a farming system approach to agricultural research which emphasized farmers'
participation in particular aspects adaptive research design and implementation T hese changes
are both impressive and exciting and open the way for research to have a significant impact on
farmers production and living standards. Linked to these two changes has also been a shift
towards greater emphasis on socio-economic aspects and more focus on the development of
specific technologies that farmers have identified. The close collaboration between
researchers, farmers and extension workers have already had a significant influence in
redefining the research thrust of the national maize research program to respond to farmers'
requirements.
29.    On the negative side, the project has only partially obtained the objectives.
optimistically set out in the SAR, and has not achieved adequate streamlining of KARI.
Certainly the project has resUlted in consolidation of public supporled agricultural research
agencies under one management (KARI). Also over the last five years there has been some
reduction in total staff numbers from around 6,200 in 1990 to about 5,300 currently, through
normal attrition and a policy of non-replacemiient of retiring staff However, there has been little
change in the nuLimber of stations managed and staff numbers remain too high. Some further
loss of staff is expected to result from formation of the Kenya Plant Health and Lnspection
Services (KEPHIS) which will require the transfer of about 250 staff from KARI and the
possible handover of the National Sugar Research programme to the Kenya Sugar Authority.
More could also have been achieved in prioritization of research by zones and in developing
appropriate research strategies in support of pastoral development.
Lessons Learned
30.    Other PCRK'ICR have shown that in the case of multi-donor financing of a project, one
of the more successful arrangement was for one donor to be assigned overall responsibility for
the project and for the co-financing donors to simply provide their contribution as required.
Apparently such an arrangement is not that easy for an agricultural research project where
donors have strong preferences (or limitations) regarding the type of research they able to
finance. In NARP 1, the donors and KARI have shown remarkable flexibility and most donors
have been able to focus on the research areas with which they felt comfortable. However,
more effort is still needed to harmonize the project planning and budgeting process, financial
and accounting procedures, disbursement procedures, and provision of equipment and
technical assistance to minimize confusion and the administrative burden on KARI.



KENYA: National Agricultural Research Project      3 5
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
31.    The project implementation experience also shows that for a project with such
fundamental but general and long term objectives, careful structuring of more immediate
objectives is required if satisfactory progress is to be achieved. A further important lesson is
that for a successful agricultural research project adequate and dependable financing is
essential. Intermittent, erratic financing would severely disrupt the research programs and
sharply curtail the flow of research results to the extension service and to farmers. A more
comprehensive treatment of lessons leamed will be included in the ICR.
Sustainability
32.    The national agricultural research program is at present in a very vulnerable situation.
T he main capital of KARI is its cadre of trained scientists. This has recently been much
strengthened, augmented and motivated by the training programs financed as part of the
project. Unless adequate operating budget is provided to allow these staff to work there is a
very significant risk that they will become dissatisfied and leave KARI, so that the institution
might find itself retrogressing to the same position it was in when NARP I started in 1988 - if
not worse.
3 3.    Under NARP I, Government budget releases were less than actual operating costs and
KARI survived by cutting down on activities and by incurring debt. This situation cannot be
allowed to continue since it would adversely affect KARl's research operations. KARI's
outstanding debts, now estimated at around KSh7O million, should be redeemed by the
Government to put KARI on a sound financial footing. Failure to do so would result in the
possible demise of KARI. On its part, KARI must retrench non-essential staff and streamline
its network of research centers, maintaining only those that are most essential and which it can
effectively operate with the limited budget that the Govemment is able to provide. Steps are
already being taken by KARI to involve the private sector in research in several commodities
(sugar, pyrethrum, horticulture, etc.) and to transfer plant quarantine services to KEPHIS of the
MOALDM.



KENYA: National Agricultural Research Project
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
Annex I
KENYA
National Agricultural Research Project (Cr.1849-KE)
Financial Statement as at July 1, 1995
Category                      Description                       Undisbursed         Disbursed Amount
Amount
Fund -A       Citibank N.Y.                                    (595,155.03)        595,155.0
I-A           95T Civil Works P'l'A                            703,299.84          1,542,434 1
2-A           95T PT.13 Civil Works                            (114,209.67)        7.237,209.6
1-13          1001/701. PT.A Veh. Plant & Equipmcnt            287,094.10          614.95.9
2-B           1001O/701,-Veh. Plant &I Equip. - Pi            569.8576 f4         459,142.3
I-C          90% Non-Salary ()perating Costs                   635,454.43          0.0
I-C-1        Non-Salary ()per. Cost-l'[ A-90"O'                0.00                629,664.3
I -C-2       Non-Salary (.)per.Cost-PI.A-5()°                  0.00                49,881.2
I-C-3        Non-Salarn ()per.Cosl-PT.A--25'( 0(0                                  0.(
ID           TRG/Seminar/WI ISI IPS & I'A P. 3 100%)"(         2)09,971 22         70,029.6
2-C           90'-,,'l'Non-Salary) Operating Costs             485.276.11          45(0,211.8
2-C-1         Non-Salar\( Oper. Cost-PT.13-90(%                                    802,5 12.0
2-C-2         Non-Salary i)per.Cost-PT.13-70()°                0.00(               0.(
2-C-3         Non-Salary ( )per.Cost-P'''-50X>                 U 0.0               0.(
2-D)          Adaptive Research Grants 1'T.13 100%             47,670.97           452,329 0
2-E          'TR(i/SerninarfWKS1I1'S & 'A-P'T.B- I 00'1%T      (69,946.09)         351,946.0
3             Refinancinig P435-KE                             (0.46)              85,266.4
Total                                            2,159,313.06        13,340,686.94



KENYA: National AgTicultural Research t'Toject
Appendix A. Mission's Aide-Mncmoire
Annex 2
KENYA
National Agricultural Research Project (Cr.1849-KE)
Civil Works Component
Estimated
Item                                   Status        Construction Cost
(KSh Million)
I     KAIl I IQ Iuilding                                         95/ completed           125.44
2.    Muguga Rehabilitation troofs. water and elCectricit)       completed                 36 05
3.    Muguga Intemral Roads                                      designs ready
4     Njoro Office and laboraltor block                          completed                 28 35
S.    N joro Wate r svstcm rehabilitation                        designs ready              -
6.    NAI. Oflice 13lock                                         completed                  7.00
7     NAI, Water svstenm rehabilitation                          comiipleted                3.00
8.    Kitale Workshop                                            completed                  8.0(
9.    Kitale ()flice Block Rehiabilitation                       comlipleted                3.(0
10(   Thika NRRC                                                 designs ready              -
II    Naivasha NMC                                               comlpleted               43.56
12    Embu RRC                                                   8(0%!/ completed         40.20
13    Mtwapa R-RC                                                60%(° completed          30.2 0
14.   Kishi RRC                                                  completed                32.65
15    Kakamega RRC                                               compieted                40.53
16.   Perkerra RRC                                               completed                36.82
Total                                                                              434.80



Annex 3
KENYA
National Agricultural Research Project (Cr.1849-KE)
Furniture and Equipment Procured
Item                                    Estimated Cost
_                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(KSh million)
Furniture
- KARI Headquarters                                14.79
- Kakamega                                         4.44
- Mtwapa                                           3.68
- Naivasha                                         4.65
- PerkerTa                                         3.53 3
- Kitale                                           0.32
-Kisii                                             4.10
- Embu                                             4.31
-Njoro                                             2.83
Typewnrters                                        0.44
Farm tractors, implements and other equipment      52.95
Water pumps (3)                                    2.30
PABX (4 centers)                                   12.72
(US$224.488)
PABX (5 centers)                                   8.95
(DM2 16,790)
Fax Machines                                       2.40
Computers                                          3.53
Total                                              125.94
38



Annex 4
Six Examples of Agticultuaal Research Advances Listed by KARI
34.   The following are a few examples of research achievements.
(a)   In cereal and other food crops research. K.AR's maize and breeding
programme, inherited from the scientific research division of the MOALDM,
has been one of the most successful programmes in the region. Recent efforts
have produced varieties which are resistant to the dangerous Maize Streak
Virus. The high yielding hybrid H626 for the highlands and the drought
resistant Makueni Composite are among recently released varieties. Ten new
improved varities for low altitude coastal dry and humid, mid and high altitude
are in pre-release stage and will be available during the NARP 11 period. The
sorghum and millet programme has also released several varieties over the
period of NARP 1. The recently (I 993) released KARli MTAMA-I has gained
high popularity in the Rift Valley. Eastern and Western provinces of Kenya.
Generally almost every commodity research programme of KARI has
developed a few varieties over the last ten years KARI provides breeders
seeds of all cereal, grain legume and other food crops, as well as clean planting
material of root and tuber crops to commercial producers.
(b)    The horticultural and industrial crops research has ensured availability of clean
and suitable planting materials of flowers, vegetables, fruits and cotton to
farmers and commercial plantinig material produces. The programnme on
provision of clean materials of gladiolus and lilies cannot cope with the
demand.
(c)   In soil and water management., KARI has developed district-wise fertilizer
recommendations based on economilical vields. These recommendations are
being validated in conjunction with Fertilizer Extension Project (FEP) of
MOALDM throughout the countrY. The institute has developed one of the
most comprehensive electronic soil-terrain database coupled with the
Geographical Information System to give suitabilities for specific land use
systems The soil and water maniagement research projects have tested several
soil conservation and water harvesting techniques which are now being tested
on-farm. Low cost soil fertility maintenance and improvernent products such
as cofiina, and farmyard manure, and recommenidationis for managing acid soils
have been developed.
(d)   In animal health, KARI has developed and tested a technology for
immunization of cattle against the East Cost Fever. Improved methods of
diagnosing mild strains of rinderpest virus have also been developed, leading to
an early detection and treatment of the disease. A recombinant vaccine against
the rinderpest and lumpy skin diseases is being tested
39



(e)   In animal production packages on agronomy, processing and conservation of
fodder as well as feeding methods have ben developed and disseminated.
Improved breeding cattle, including pedigree sires, have been released to
farmers or contributed to the gene pool at the bull stud of the central artificial
insemination service. Packages on improved calf feeding methods have also
been developed and are being introduced to farmers.
(f)    KARI has institutionalized socio-economics research, which is now
spearheading ex-ante and ex-post impact assessment, policy analysis in
conjunction with commodity and factor research to ensure that the technologies
developed are not only of high scientific standard but also appropriate for the
target farmers.
40



MAP SECTION






K                                           ~~~~~~~~KENYA
I *~~ ~~(  \                       NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH  PROJECT
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ELEVATION AND RAINFALL
'N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETHI 0                                                  6 
K                                                           C   26S46     600&
4           V.                                   -                                                    -
7.            K              ETHiOPIA                             *s-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    <"-A'  I
b,*. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~.
R-N                                                        "''4 
5l.00620
t         Ldo-'w20
B-d.-,    N                          t                                                               /
'--,Al,('                 *1                                                                                SOMAL
1'1.1,A_111A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N>                      690'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BS
UGANDA  /f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ~ ~
Scegoma~~






KENYA
S U D A N                ~ 7            n;;                                                                      EY
, .                   \   \ .,                        .             NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
~~ N          N  N  N          ~~ETHIOPIA/
/~~~~~~V
1~~ j -                                                                                    ..                /                            /
F     r
¾  '       ' /  -                              "k/                                    ,       j  /
t~~~~~~~~~~                               A /   f    r  O5               l                                           I
I t          V                                                                       /A    I  f    V
u  G  A  N  D  A  JP->                                                            (                                                wl 
> 1  grS<'             -   /                                <            ¢'                     i ~~~~~~~~~SOMALIA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r   li, ej° J1bsw
J~~~~~(                                                                  MaS')- ,sab"I'd'q-'
F    A    S         FS   P\'S N,/\q;tSA
-  .                               A    / =       F    V         N                                      \
'   \X>_3      NKrbNS                       C    g    A    S    , -;         *-          ns*t_ 0 
"~~\ I                                     '.    /                       r                                               SOM.#ALI
Selecled C.,h C,, A-.
Wh. Colln                             . ollool cpzio                 \                 S       _                  V        :              ,    -_nMe  .
Whrol ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (3 Prc  op                                                                      /1s1 ~   l    -9l el.,   . 
I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                             I
/^/2s\ -zn                              -rmr                                  Mcdt,7             -.^7b  =nkti I> /Qa c
Li~~~~~   M.l ..  . bu. d.15.......  - ,tt\'MA 
0n                                          '!wMls- oz.poes\,,  
e o ;e. *r ^ e 11 ~~~T A  N  Z  A  N  I A t,   .u   
.    -                                                                                                   1 m sa  n'4°                                   1..r.ZM.l 






S U D A N                  ..                                                                     EY
rz  1, i   \s                    .  t NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
,;            / rl              j                         ~~~~~~~AGROCLIMATIC ZONES
/ 51 , ] /! 1 1l \ ~~~~~E                                           T   H    I        O p        I    A.   
e-         T UR KA A l A            |,Xa                                                                             
t1  | s                             X           -    A       i     s    ./            ~~~~~~~~~MA NDI'RA , 
\    , .-    ,.    f                   ~~~~~MA RSA B/ T                     f                                     /
z                     V A L L E Y J                          E A S T) R Nt                                       
%, >  eJrxovssx    (  <            )             ,  '\             Nxp~~~~N \~    R T H         i2
3   .           ;              /~~~~Al  SAMgUk(-' sv> ,n  f
<   X    RIFT4>/ zAAREPCXk? E A$S)TtE R N   | R//iR 0A   T E R/
t  \.s   . - |    C        0 \9~AC A O                                                    1 
Ps ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ V lsOr                                                                                   GAR /r8. \    C O / 15 /5A          2
--    Sacndry Rods        ?        X          /   D O          %       4         g/  \                                y G,,4
U  sIH    ono            )        |5T_s     N           2\                 4                                           /= d d X
S  '7        r"       i   lsar f1l1x5     r    rso                                                                                  w  d  X  r  n
-    -IA loo A nludre     i    qeoa    c   o                                                                                                 u  n
V--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<                                 \u ;             J    :         2      ~     t 1  Mldn             ~     1 ~ t
ZOtIE ./Eq CLlMArEc DE519~~NArlNARCttRtPIEIA l./  _-lRll4
PI  -   -d( , S0  S.Y_doSv ,              r._/                                                                                        epIA~
S 1      d.S R°. Ad,d  Cf .d0,,o                                                  ,                 A     /          
R,- -I eqo,                               eYl                                            F  ,,(?v'8A<                             KNA
O, 50 B-d--             CS-, 7--Konff 40  ¢RAt> l.o 
r. 0  D10MlP*'   I             p-   '  ".  INA',>r
_   3-                                 3'                                      B-                    1                13- t_B-d81.-  ,






S UD AN                     *2KENYA
~~  (I    \           ~~~~NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH  PROJECT
MANDATE AREAS FOR REGIONAL RE-SEARCH CENTERS AND
-  -~~~         LOCATION OF MAIN RESEARCH CENTERS AND INSTITUTES
X                                                                                      -~~~~~~T
/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~
(AIII~~8oyO  ~            F  I  H  I  0  P         A
H6A6A  E~g,,o.. ~    L   E   Y(01 
4 R            T                                                                          "5
14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
NATIONAL RESEARCH CE14TERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Re.oo .,,, e,f'
'0   -            MOM&4S~~~A A  '   ',To.
I T"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KAO                                     RIIRS            ,o od
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--50d, od
1.7~~~61l~         0     3     6     0N001                                                oIod 
0,1,R.-ch,o C-0
:A                                                                                                      Rg,.-~~~~~~~6  "- ~   - - I  l t--o, Coo-









IMAGING
Report No:      15154
Type: ICR



